ILORIN – Cherubim and Seraphim First Pishon Handball Academy of Kwara have been tipped to be world beaters in Sweden by outgoing Kwara State Commissioner of Police, AIG Paul Odama. He made this remark at the Handball court of the Kwara State Stadium where he was hosted to a novelty match which marks part of the send-forth package the teams organised in his honour after bagging new promotion as Assistant Inspector General of Police. Team Paul Odama defeated Team Bolakale Magaji with 11 to 10 goals at the outdoor handball court of Kwara State Stadium on Thursday. AIG Odama, a former national team handball player, has been one of the team’s few supporters buying them jerseys and other equipment for training. “With what I have seen of these teams, I can assure you that these boys and girls are world-beaters. “Handball, over the years, has changed. In our days, it used to be about brute force. “These days it is more of technicalities and sleekness which I see in these players,” Odama remarked. The Handball teams will be leaving the country for Sweden on Sunday for the 2023 Partille Cup, Gothenburg, Sweden, a big tournament where they hope to come back with honours. POLL The handball competition in Sweden is an annual championship which the teams’ pundits say will give needed exposure to the young players. C&S First Pishon won the 2022 National U12 and U15 Handball championship in Sokoto state under coach Emeka Joseph Nnamani, Chief Coach, the National Under 18 handball team and a sergeant with the Nigerian Army. Also speaking on the team and AIG Odama, Moni Makanjuola, board member, Kwara State Sports Commission, KSC, and member of Handball Association Kwara, thanked the policeman saying that the team wouldn’t have achieved much without his help. “We are immensely grateful to you because we wouldn’t have achieved this much if you were not part of our story,” she said. Mallam Bola Mogaji, Kwara State Sports Commission, who had to cut short his activities at the Ilorin Durbar, also spoke glowingly of the outgoing CP and handball team. “We can only pray for success in your next endeavor as AIG. “But if precedence is anything to go by since you served in Kwara like the new IGP and also play handball, I can assure you that you will be our future IGP,” he said.