LAGOS  – Lafarge Africa Plc has launched the Concrete Ideas Policy Blueprint, an analysis of insights and ideas discussed by stakeholders in the construction, infrastructure and housing industries during the first five editions of Concrete Ideas, Lafarge’s thought-leadership series. The Policy Blueprint was written by Dr. Ayo Teriba, leading Nigerian economist and CEO of Economic Associates. The Concrete Ideas leadership series was created by the leading building solutions company to serve as a veritable platform for deliberation on issues, policies, and developments shaping Nigeria’s construction, infrastructure, and housing sectors. Through Concrete Ideas, Lafarge Africa has over two years assembled thought leaders from the public and private sectors to deliberate on policies to promote investment and best practice in the construction and allied sectors. The platform has generated dissected global best practices, while showcasing the best ideas in transforming them into solutions that could sustainably solve housing, infrastructure, and environmental challenges in Nigeria and other African economies. Leveraging its over 150 years of experience in the building materials and infrastructure space in over 70 countries, Lafarge invites international experts from within the Holcim network to share valuable insights. The Policy Blueprint is an economist’s analysis of the insights and recommendations of investors, academics and policy experts from the real estate, finance, infrastructure and housing sectors. Speaking at the launch of the blueprint in Lagos recently, Khaled El Dokani, Country CEO, Lafarge Africa Plc, said: “We are taking a more direct approach to increasing investment in infrastructure and housing by working with the government, professional associations, public policy experts and the broader private sector to find enabling policy solutions.” “We are grateful to all the experts and industry leaders who have actively participated and led critical policy deliberations during the last five editions of Concrete Ideas. With their inputs, we have been able to create this succinct and coherent Policy Blueprint. I hope that governments at all levels and the industry find this very useful.” Speaking further, Dokani said: “We know that we owe a great deal to the people who have been part of these events since the beginning – the experts, public officials, professional associations and the broader private sector.