According to reports, Arsenal have ‘verbally agreed’ deals with Ajax and West Ham that will see them sign Jurrien Timber and Declan Rice. The Gunners are not messing around this summer as they are moving quickly to acquire their main targets. Ahead of their return to the Champions League, Arsenal are looking to strengthen in various positions, but West Ham’s Rice is understood to be their top target. Arsenal turned their attention to Rice after they had bids rejected for Brighton’s Moises Caicedo during the January transfer window. The London outfit have already had a couple of bids for Rice rejected this summer and Man City have now joined the race to sign the England international. West Ham are understood to be demanding around £100m for their prized asset, and it was claimed earlier this week that Rice ‘favours’ a move to Arsenal. As for Timber, he has emerged as a key defensive target for Arsenal after he was pursued by Man Utd last summer. It has recently been reported that Ajax value him at £50m. Football Insider are reporting that ‘Arsenal have verbally agreed personal terms with Rice and Timber’. POLL The Gunners are closing in on a deal for the Ajax defender, 22, as talks to continue today. Timber has accepted Arsenal’s contract offer and is very keen to make the move. ‘Arsenal also have a “verbal agreement”, sources say, in place with Rice but Man City’s late hijack has thrown their deal up in the air. ‘West Ham have rejected Arsenal’s bids and City are now in talks to sign Rice. ‘On 13 June, Football Insider revealed that Mikel Arteta’s side have agreed terms with the England international in a deal worth £100million-plus. The initial bid of £92m includes around £8m worth of add-ons, taking the total deal to over the £100m mark. ‘Arteta is a huge fan of the 24-year-old and sees him as a future club and international captain.’ Arsenal are also working on signing Kai Havertz from Chelsea. A deal has been ‘agreed in principle’ and Fabrizio Romano has told Caught Offside that Arteta has been ‘really important’ in discussions for the Germany international. ‘I cannot understate this – Mikel Arteta has been really, really important in Arsenal’s deal to sign Kai Havertz from Chelsea. ‘The German is set to be unveiled as a new player sometime next week and Arteta is delighted this is going to happen. The Spaniard did everything he could to convince Havertz that a move to Arsenal was best for him, and the player agreed. ‘Havertz believes that playing for Arteta and Arsenal was the best project, not just in England, but throughout the whole of Europe. Havertz thinks Arteta’s style, ideas and plans will only help make him a better player. ‘Also, interestingly, a lot of Arsenal’s players have been messaging Havertz – their off-field connection already looks really, really good. This is a really exciting time for Arsenal and their fans.’