AWKA – Anambra State Commissioner for Transportm Mrs. Patricia Ig­webuike, has saids the state will harness more Internally Gener­ated Revenue (IGR) from water transport as a viable alternative to other forms of transportation. The commissioner, who stated this during an exclusive inter­view with our correspondent, noted that Anambra has about eight local government areas that live in the riverine areas and that water transport would be a veri­table means to connect them to the larger part of the state. She said at the moment, locals in the coastal areas use the basic canoes to ferry people and occa­sionally speed boats are used too to taxi people across the river. But, the state government, ac­cording to her, is currently con­ducting feasibility study in the coastal areas of Ihiala, Ogbaru, Anambra West, Anambra East, Ayamelum, Awka-North and some others to determine the type of water craft to establish in those areas for modern water transportation. The commissioner also ex­plained that in establishing wa­ter transportation in the coastal areas, the issue of dredging will come in handy to determine the depth of the rivers, adding that government is considering places like Otuocha, Nzam, Ogwuikpele and some others to build jetties which people can use to embark on their journeys. Mrs. Igwebuike further ex­plained that the value water transportation would add to the economy, especially when the ru­dimentary infrastructures are in place, cannot be overemphasised. She said water transportation would open up riverine local gov­ernments for tourism and busi­nesses, thereby adding to the IGR of the state. Again, she said water trans­portation would help decongest the roads as commuters would now find water as a viable means of transportation especially for people carrying loads. POLL The commissioner disclosed that there is a serious plan to in­ject more life into the Transport Company of Anambra State (TRACAS) to make it in tandem with the 21st century means of transportation.