LAGOS – The operatives of the Delta State Police Com­mand have said they arrested two suspected armed robbers who terrorised some communities in the state. The operatives said that they also recovered one pump action rifle, two locally made guns and cartridges from mem­bers of the gang. Bright Edafe, Police Public Relations Officer, Delta State Command, disclosed in a state­ment made available to Daily Independent. Edafe, a Deputy Superinten­dent of Police (DSP), said that on June 25, 2023, at about 8.30 p.m., the Divisional Police Offi­cer (DPO), Sapele division, CSP Harrison Nwabuisi, received a distress call from a victim (name withheld), that as he alighted from his car, a sus­pected armed robber attacked him with a gun, cut his gold chain valued N700,000:00 from his neck and took to his heels. He said that sequel to this, the DPO immediately alert­ed the patrol team deployed around the axis. “They swung into action and arrested the suspect named Lucky Sunday, a 25-year-old man from Otumara village in Jesse area of the state. He disclosed that one cut-to-size double barrel locally made pistol, three live cartridges, one torch light phone, and the sto­len gold chain were recovered from the suspect, adding that investigation was on-going. The PPRO further disclosed that in an earlier development, “on the same date at about 1523hrs, while police operatives from Sapele division were on visibility patrol around Sapele and environs, they heard some suspected cultists chanting ‘ARO MATE’. “The policemen swiftly moved to the area where the suspects on sighting the police took to their heels, leav­ing behind a victim they held hostage with the intention to murder. POLL “The victim was rescued unhurt and reunited with his family, and one pump action gun was recovered. Investiga­tion is ongoing.” On June 26, 2023, at about 1.35 a.m., the Police image mak­er revealed that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Agbor division, CSP Idris Haruna, received a distress call of an on-going armed robbery oper­ation along Uromi Junction, Agbor. He said that the DPO promptly responded, led op­eratives of the division to the scene where the hoodlums, “on sighting the police took to their heels and escaped into a nearby bush, abandoning one cut-to-size locally fabricated gun, one expanded cartridge. “The victims (names with­held) aged 41 years and 36yrs, both of Agbor Community were rescued unhurt. “They stated that they were attacked on their way from the Agbor-Obior area towards Uromi Junction, Agbor. “Exhibit in custody, inves­tigation has commenced and effort is on to arrest the fleeing suspects,” Edafe noted.