LAGOS – Betway, a leading online and gaming brand in Nigeria, has announced the launch of its groundbreaking digital casino promotion, Scratch and Win. The promotion offers customers an unprecedented opportunity to win incredible rewards while showcasing the brand’s diverse casino products. Starting on 19 June and running until 31 July 2023, Scratch & Win will take the nation by storm, providing customers with an unrivaled gaming experience. As the first-ever digital scratch card promotion of its kind in Nigeria, Betway is raising the bar by introducing an immersive and engaging platform that goes beyond traditional betting offerings. By strategically launching during the off-season, right after the conclusion of all major league soccer tournaments for the 22/23 season, Betway aims to capture the attention of both avid sports fans and casual gamers. According to the company, this strategic timing will drive product consumption, customer acquisition, and retention, reinforcing the company’s position as a frontrunner in the Nigerian market. According to Dotun Adepegba, Marketing Manager at Betway Nigeria, participating in the Scratch & Win promo is simple and exciting, “New and existing customers can opt in and play any of Betway’s thrilling casino games, including a wide variety of slots, table games, and crash games. As customers place bets, they unlock scratch cards, giving them the chance to win enticing prizes. The more bets placed, the more scratch cards are unlocked, significantly increasing the chances of winning,” he stated. He continued, “Customers can even unlock multiple scratch cards per day, all the way up to 10. The unused cards will expire at 11:59 pm every night, so customers must make absolutely sure they take advantage of all their chances to win big”. POLL The Scratch & Win promotion boasts an impressive total value of ₦75 million in prizes, comprising a dynamic mix of rewards that will captivate participants. He said that lucky winners stand the chance to win cash prizes, sports or casino bonuses, and a range of highly desirable physical items such as smartphones, smart watches, shopping vouchers, and fast-food vouchers, adding that with such a diverse prize pool, Scratch & Win offers something for everyone. “We are extremely excited to introduce Scratch & Win, an unparalleled online promotion that will add something new to the gaming landscape in Nigeria,” said Otunba Kunle Olamuyiwa, Chief Operations Officer at Betway Nigeria, adding, “This promotion not only allows us to reward our valued customers but also showcases the breadth of our non-sports product offerings. We encourage both our loyal patrons and new customers to opt-in, seize the opportunity, and stand a chance to win a share of the remarkable ₦75 million in the Scratch & Win promotion.”