ABUJA – The Joint Task – 10th Assembly, the campaign organization of the Tajudeen Abbas/Benjamin Kaku joint Speakership ticket has said that Nigerians should discountenance claim in some quarters that President Bola Ahmed Tinubu was not aware of APC’s adoption of its candidate, Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas PhD. The group which is made up of the 8 political parties that won seats in the incoming 10th Assembly also said disclosed in a statement on Sunday that two major aspirants in the Speakership race, Hon. Muktar Betara Aliyu from Borno and Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdifrom Plateau have stepped down for Tajudeen Abbas. The statement reads:“It has come to the attention of the Joint Task – 10th Assembly that some aspirants for the Speakership of the 10th House of Representatives claimed that the President/Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency Bola Ahmed Tinubu, never mentioned the name of Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas as his preferred candidate for Speaker, but that the President only said he aligned with the position of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) on zoning arrangement. “It is pertinent to mention that the so-called G7 no longer exists as key members of the forum such as Rt. Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa, Rt. Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara, Rt. Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi, Rt. Hon. Makki Yalleman and Rt. Hon. Raheem Tunji Olawuyi, among others, have since dropped their speakership ambitions and declared support for the Abbas/Kalu ticket. It is worth noting that Betara and Gagdi announced that they stepped down for Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas today, Sunday, June 11, 2023, after a meeting with President Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Vice President Kashim Shettima. “As of Sunday, June 11, Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas (PhD) has secured the endorsement of the overwhelming majority of members-elect across the eight political parties in the six geopolitical zones, and he is ready to compete on the floor of the House and take the mantle of leadership of the 10th House come Tuesday, June 13, 2023. “For the record, the APC NWC announced on Monday, May 8, 2023 that it consulted with the President before reaching that resolution. Below is the excerpts of the APC NWC’s announcement: “The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) met today, Monday, May 8, 2023 to consider reports of consultations and meetings held with the President-Elect, His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, other party leaders, and stakeholders on zoning arrangement for 10th National Assembly leadership positions. “The zoning arrangement reported to the NWC is as follows: POLL SENATE: “HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES “Therefore, it is preposterous to claim that President Bola Ahmed Tinubu was not aware of the adoption of Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas as Speaker. We urge the public, especially the media, to disregard such claims.