…Emphasizes Highly Skilled Manpower Development BENIN – Dr. Zacharia Yaduma, Director General, Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria (FRIN), has called on the Management of Federal College of Forest Resources Management (FCFRM), Fugar, Edo State, to be committed to fulfilling the mandate of the college to develop a highly skilled and professional human resource that would help solve forestry challenges in the country. Yaduma made the call during the maiden matriculation ceremony of the first set of students of the college held at the main campus in Fugar, Etsako Central Local Government Area of Edo State on Monday. According to the DG, the College of Forestry is established to develop highly skilled and professional human resources and empower the students in advancing innovations and solving formidable forestry challenges. “Therefore, the college should be committed to fulfilling its responsibility, being a leading college to make forestry education strategically practical, dynamic, modern and meaningful to the students as well as the society”, he said. Yaduma however enjoined the pioneer students to be of good conduct and project the image of the college. “I wish to warmly congratulate the matriculating students and state that this ceremony marks your formal admission into your chosen programme. “You are all privileged to be in this great citadel of learning as pioneer students, and as such, you should make adequate use of this opportunity to map out success of your future. POLL “Embrace the opportunites that lie ahead, for within these hallowed walls, you will shape your destiny and no doubt the sky will be your starting point and not your limit,” the DG said. He also commended the management and staff of the college for ensuring good start up for the institution and thanked the host community for given the college a conducive environment to operate. In his remark, the provost of the college, Dr. Benson Osikabor said the students should consider themselves privileged to gain admission into the college. Osikabor urged the students to be of good conduct through out their academic sojourn in the college. The Facilitator of the college, Former Lawmaker representing Etsako Federal Constitutencies, Hon. Johnson Oghuma promised further assistance to move the school forward. Highpoint of the ceremony was the presentation of congratulatory letters to the Federal Ministry of Environment and Oghuma by the Fugar Progressives Union for their contributions to the establishment of the school in Fugar. The Federal College of Forest Resources Management Fugar, Edo was established in 2018 with the mandate to produce middle manpower.