ABUJA  – Recently launched construction of Maitama II District’s final engineering, design, and infrastructure works, according to the Federal Capital Territory Administration, will gulp no less than N184 billion if words by former Minister, FCT, Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello, are anything to go by. The ex-minister made the pronouncement few days before expiration of his tenure on Monday, adding that if finished, will allow the Federal Capital City to expand in order to accommodate Abuja’s growing population. The minister, who was represented by Mr. Olusade Adesola, the Permanent Secretary of the FCT Administration, stated that the engineering infrastructure project signals the end of the administration’s plan to develop the territory. He said the Maitama II District, which covers 780 hectares of land mass on the hills of Maple, will have presidential resort as one of the features to be accommodated. Bello , however, noted that the administration is conscious of its responsibility to the residents of FCT, for the continuous provision of the requisite engineering infrastructure necessary for the growth of residential, commercial and social services. He acknowledged the keen interest of the National Assembly in supporting the administration in all stages that led to the approval and award of the contract. “We are committed to ensuring sustainable funding of the project from our internally generated revenue and other sources” Earlier in his remarks, the Executive Secretary Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), Shehu Ahmed hinted that the contract was awarded to Messrs Dantata & Sawoe Nig. Ltd at the contract sum ot N184,366,505,342.50 with a completion period of 48 months. POLL This, he said was in addition to the numerous other achievements already recorded within the period of the outgoing Minister since he took over the mantle of leadership of the FCTA. According to him, “The District planned to be mixed development with provision for a Presidential resort amongst others. “It is bounded to the North by Mpape, to the South by Gurku District and the Army Barracks, to the West by Maitama Extension District and to the East by FCT/Nasarawa State boarder. “In line with the provisions of the Abuja Master Plan, infrastructure development of the city is being developed progressively to meet-up with the rate of expansion of the City as well as availability of funds. “The scope of work for the Development of Maitama II District mainly includes: Site Clearance and Earthworks Road Works Storm Water Drainage System Cuverts of various sizes Confirmatory Site Tests Waste Water Drainage System, Water Distribution Network Power Supply and Street Lighting Conduits for Telecommunication” Meanwhile, the Managing Director, Dantata & Sawoe Mr Udo Heidschuster after receiving letter of handling over the site to his company from Executive Secretary FCDA, he urged the community to corporate with the company to fast track its completion. Heidschuster assured FCT Administration of delivering the work in time with the expected quality.