LOKOJA – The candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Alhaji Muritala Yakubu Ajaka, this afternoon escaped assassination by the whiskers when his motorcade was attacked by gunmen personally led by the Governor of Kogi State Alhaji Yahaya Bello. In a statement signed by Faruk Adejo Audu, Director of Communications, Muritala Yakubu Organisation and made available to newsmen on Saturday in Lokoja, said, Muritala Ajaka only survived by the power of God. According to the statement, Alhaji Ajaka and some vehicles accompanying him were approaching Lokoja in the vicinity of the ram market at about 3 pm when two power bikes and Toyota Hilux overtook his car and forced it to a stop. This assault was heralded by a Mercedes Benz Limousine with Bello’s official crest accompanied by an open pick up- loaded with masked and hooded men bearing AK 47 Assault Rifles. The men jumped down and began shooting at Ajaka’s car and all other cars in the motorcade. They shot for over 5 minutes at Ajaka’s bulletproof car unprovoked. All this while Bello’s car was parked a few meters in front and was used to barricade the road while the gunmen had a field day. When they ceased, Ajaka’s car, a Lexus SUV though bulletproof was totally damaged and demobilized. The statement alleged that among the gunmen who attacked Muritala Yakubu is one Friday Makama, a former member of the House of Assembly who was recently appointed Director General for Fireams Recovery by Mr Bello. POLL Also identified among the hoodlums accompanying the governor was one Bashir Gegu the commissioner for Solid Minerals who has had a gross reputation for thuggery. “Mr Ajaka who was on his way to keep an appointment with the Mai Geri, a first-class traditional ruler of Lokoja and The Attah Igala in Idah decided to abort the journey and return to Abuja after conferring with the Commander of the Lokoja Naval Base. “This again is another low score by Mr Yahaya Bello in the exercise of crude power and brute force. “Bello is on record to have unleashed guns and gunmen on several citizens in the course of his Eight years draconian rule. Several persons have been killed by his hoodlums during electioneering while others are missing. “Ajaka until recently was a member of the APC who was forced out of the governorship nomination by Mr Yahaya Bello who used minions and proxies to obtain an injunction from a Lokoja High Court restraining him from participating in the primaries. “The brute action today is obviously a continuation of Bello’s desperation to stop Yakubu from continuing in the election. “We appeal to the new President of the Federal Republic, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to demonstrate that his administration will not permit the brigandage of the last eight years which has led to the deaths of thousands of Nigeria. “Election is still five months away, but if Mr Bello does not get a strong signal that violence would not be allowed in the new administration several of our citizens will be killed by his thugs and gunmen before the polls.”