LOKOJA – The North Central Youth Coalition NCYC has commended President Ahmed Bola Tinubu for his early steps in addressing the ills of the country since assumption of office. The group described the subsidy removal as one in the right direction, which could check corruption and ensure that the masses get the desired dividends of democracy. In a Press briefing held on Sunday in Lokoja by Adekunke Amos and Olakunle Olarenwaju Dare , president and Secretary respectively, praised the President for the appointment made thus far, saying it is in line with the Federal Character principle of fairness and Justice,that has restored peace and stability to the country. The President explained that the appointment of Sen. George Akume as Secretary to the Government of the federation SGF, is a round peg in a round hole. He however cautioned the SGF to be cautious of fifth columnists, who have hijacked the essence and purpose of the reception organised for him by Barrister Aisha Gana . He accused Mrs Ginika Florence Tor of collaborating with others to hijack the dinner held last Saturday to celebrate the appointment of Secretary to Government of the Federation, George Akume as unfortunate. The group said the brilliantly conceived idea to celebrate the well deserved appointment of Sen. George Akume as the Secretary to the government of the federation that was widely welcomed took a twist, with Madam Ginika seen to be the one who ended up championing and hijacking the entire show. Adekunke Amos disclosed that majority of those who attended the reception were members of the PDP and Labour Party supporters, said the SGF should be cautious of mischief makers who may want to reap where they did not sow. POLL According to him, “We wish to place on record that 70% of the people at the event were against the election of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and wondered why such was allowed, if not for efforts to play to the gallery. “There were 2% of people of North Central Region at the Dinner with 2% from North West, 1% of North East indigenes, 1% of South West, 3% of South South, leaving the South East with 89% of people who brought nothing to the table during the election.” “We therefore urge the Secretary to the Government of the Federation to be careful so as not to be mislead, insisting that as a seasoned administrator, with track records of accomplishments, so much is desired. “Without overstating the obvious, the SGF is a man widely loved and respected personality in the society, and a pride to the APC in North Central Nigeria. “We however advise the SGF to remain vigilant and to be focused on rewarding the people who sincerely worked for the Party during the last election so that they can be encouraged to continue to work for the ruling party. While expressing optimism that the Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu is a new dawn for Nigeria, he expressed confidence in the ability of the SGF to serve as the engine room of the administration, having shown in time past that he has a magic wand.