A few days after Governor Caleb Mutfwang’s inauguration as the Governor of Plateau State, Mutfwang has embarked on- on the spot assessment of communities recently attacked by suspected Fulani bandits in Mangu and Riyom Local Government Areas of Plateau State. The visit came after his first Security Council Meeting of the Governor with Security Chiefs in the state, took him to the palace of the Mishkaham Mwaghavul, Da. John Putmang Hirse and the IDPs camps at Dawo Primary School and Teacher’s House Mangu. Mutfwang told his kinsmen that he was aware of the difficulties the Internally Displaced Persons were going through and assured them that necessary measures are being taken to not only bring succour to them but ensure their early return to their homes. Barr. Mutfwang who was coming home for the first time after his Inauguration as Executive Governor of Plateau State raised pertinent questions over the mysterious attacks that claimed dozens of lives and properties worth millions of naira. He wondered why the attacks were coming at this period, and who must have brought the attackers. He urged community leaders to expose those who are working to cause disaffection in the Mangu Local Government Area which has a history of peaceful coexistence. POLL “I have asked God to strengthen my own heart. It was after the inauguration on Monday that we had our Security Council Meeting on Tuesday, and we agreed that we needed to come in immediately to show solidarity with our people and encourage them that all hope is not lost. “This magnitude of madness and carnage has never happened in Mangu Local Government Area before. There has been isolated and sporadic incidences and you begin to ask why and why now. But we have come to encourage you as leaders of our people to know that God is on the throne. “What has happened is a terrible setback and depressing; that these people that we have lost in a very callous manner with several others that their death will not be in vain. We should be encouraged that by the grace of God, help is on our way.” Barr. Mutfwang applauded the security agencies for the efforts they have put in to secure the people and said he would be working closely with them to end insecurity in the land. “It is in moments like these that we come together as a people and forget our differences and fight the enemy that is coming from outside. Lets us use this period to make things right, and avoid unnecessary bickering. “By the grace of God from next week, we are setting up a Standing Committee that will look after the welfare and well being of all Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) on the Plateau. We are also reaching out to Organizations to come to the aid of our people. The welfare of our people will not be left unattended to. “This is a farming season, we are also trying to see how we can procure some fertilizer that we will be able to distribute to our famers at a discounted rate. You should continue to pray for us and by the grace of God, we will change things for the better”, he stated. Barr. Mutfwang who spoke earlier in Riyom Local Government Area, assured the people that the time to secure the land and the people has come. He said government will revive “Operation Rainbow” and incorporate vigilante groups and hunters into the existing federal security architecture to provide effective community policing where early warning signals and other security intelligence would be provided for swift action. Barr. Mutfwang was accompanied on the visit by the Deputy Governor, Hon. Mrs. Josephine Piyo, Heads of Security Agencies in the state, Secretary to Government of the State (SGS), Arch. Samuel N. Jatau, Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice designate, Barr. Philemon Dafi, Executive Private Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Moses Nwan mni among several PDP stalwarts