Olisa Agbakoba SAN and a former President Nigeri­an Bar Associa­tion (NBA), has urged Pres­ident Bola Tinubu to unite Nigerians by meeting with the leaders of sub-nation­alities across the country. Agbakoba, who spoke on Arise TV on Wednesday, not­ed that unless Tinubu does that there won’t be mean­ingful progress in the coun­try because the country is more divided now than ever before. He said, “The country is so divided that nothing can happen without President Tinubu making a big attempt to unite Nigerians. I will sug­gest that he calls a meeting of sub-nationalities of Nigeria, Afenifere, Ohanaeze, Arewa, PANDEF, Middle Belt, etcet­era. “I talk about these groups because these people have a very strong hold on their eth­nic sub-nationalities. If that happens and it is successful, that will afford him (Tinubu) the platform to unleash some big programmes. He added, “I mentioned the leaders of sub-national entities in Nigeria because they control culture and eth­nic validity; look at Edwin Clark in Niger Delta; look at Arewa, look at Ohanaeze and look at Afenifere. If Tinubu uses them, he can calm the situation because that is what will make him have conversation to deliver good governance.” The SAN also advised that the leader of Indigenous Peo­ple of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, be released for the sake of unity. “There is no reason to de­tain Nnamdi Kanu. It is just heating up the polity. I will say that whatever it is, draw a line on the ground and say, Nnamdi Kanu, so long as you are doing what you are doing within the constitution, you are expressing a desire for Biafra, not causing trouble, go ahead. “I am an Igbo man, I don’t support it, so, what makes people think that Nnamd Kanu’s fight for Biafra will necessarily resonate but it is because the government used the wrong method by putting him in prison, and it has be­come an issue. I will be the first to say Nnamdi Kanu you are pardoned, all charges are dropped. That will lower the temperature that we speak about,” he stated.