The Lagos traffic bedlam had been described as the worst nightmare of its residents and the common headache of the wealthy, the rich, the poor, government and foreign officials. Its negative toll on businesses has been underestimated, especially when the ripple effects it has on livelihoods, marriages, health of individuals, time loss and other effects are empirically computed. There is no doubt that traffic gridlocks are bad for business, commercial activities, the economy and the general well-being of the citizenry. Shockingly two major causative factors of traffic gridlocks in Lagos are roadside garages operated by commercial Transport operators cum haphazard parkings by private vehicle owners and street trading on major road junctions. These are common features at Oshodi, Yaba, Mushin, Ketu Ikorodu Ikeja, Obalende, Mile 2/Apapa/Tin Can/Port areas, Agege, Iyana Ipaja, Ikotun, to mention few places within the metropolis. These activities narrows road networks leading to traffic bottlenecks around the places where the illegal activities are being carried on impeding traffic flow with spiralling effect on traffic flow to and fro. There is, however, a divergence of opinions on what should be the response of the State government to street trading, in particular. Some are of the view that the government should not enforce a ban on street trading on the account that it is an integral part of African custom and tradition. POLL Alhaji Alaran Musiliu, a member of the outlawed NURTW, and a former executive member of the Union at Ajah park, said the issue of roadside garages will persist unless there is a political will on the part of the government to do the needful. Explaining further, Musiliu said, “If you research well into most of the roadside or street garages and where such tradings are carried out, you will find some common landmark features like; markets, shopping centres, filling stations or major road junctions around these garages. “These landmark places are viable for conversion into mini garages that could suffice in evacuating the commercial transport operators and traders from off the roadside, but most of these structures and landmark places are owned by some powerful individuals in the society, in government and political circles who will not allow the needful to be done, leaving the violators without any option than to use the roadside.” Musiliu said. This distasteful practice is now a common sight across the state with its attendant harsh and depressing implications on commuters and pedestrian movements. Roads have suddenly become excessively narrowed as a result of vehicles parked resulting in the safety of commuters and pedestrians being seriously compromised. A research finding reveals that no fewer than 10 vehicles vies for parking spaces every 10 seconds at every street in the state, leaving the streets clogged with motor vehicles, with many being parked at the roadside, or on the walkways, while others had to make do with double parking, blocking on-coming vehicles leading to traffic jams especially at the peak hours. In a quest to stem or reduce the number of roadside garages illegally operating on its roads, the State government established a number of agencies with mandates to create the needed awareness, sensitisations and enforcements on the public, especially violators who will be brought to book, serving as deterrent to others. Most of these agencies have devised several means of executing their mandates, but it remains to be seen how effective their efforts have being in the light of mounting traffic gridlocks faced by Lagosians every day. The Lagos State Environmental and Special Offenses (Enforcement) Unit (Taskforce) The Agency as part of its responsibilities to enforce traffic rules and regulations across the metropolis and ensuring that environmental degradation is brought down to the barest minimum. According to CSP. Shola Jejeloye, who spoke through Abuduraheem Gbadeyan, the Agency’s Public Relations Officer, said it carries out periodic enforcements and apprehension of offenders found carrying out activities that go against regulations regulating traffic and environmental activities in the State. Gbadeyan ascribed the achievements and sustainability of the Agency’s activities to the leadership, tact and dedication of the Chairman of the Agency, who is a seasoned professional who has mastered the craft of policing through decades of hard work in various units/divisions of the Nigeria Police across the Federation. “The Agency’s commitment to ensuring sanity is attained and maintained in all areas under our scope of work cannot be overemphasised as seen in the ground breaking successes we achieved under his leadership since 2020. “The Agency’s zero tolerance for corruption, indicriminate roadside parking provoked several enforcement exercises carried out with utmost professionalism and objectivity in various locations of the State over the years. “We as an Agency of Government which is not unaware that large percentage of where commercial drivers are picking passengers at unapproved bus-stops, stopping and picking passengers indiscriminately.” He said. Gbadeyan revealed further that the Agency embarked on various operations and sensitisation exercises at various park/garages across the state to drive home the idea of a safer and habitable environment for every Lagosian. Areas covered are Oshodi car park, Iyana-Ipaja garage, Ketu Garage, Oworoshoki Lay-by and other places. Explaining that not all of the excercises were enforcement based, due to their firm believe in dialogue with the stakeholders involved before resorting to strict enforcement after non-compliance. He said, “Sometimes in October, 2022 we carried out a sensitisation excercise at Oshodi Market and Iyana Ipaja garage, where we mobilised officers and men on a peace campaign to educate and inform road side traders, motorists on the dangers associated with displaying their wares on the road kerbs and parking of vehicles by the road side. “We ensured also that drivers were not left out, addressing them on the need to obey traffic rules and desist from driving against traffic (one-way) to prevent loss of lives.” He reitrated. Gbadeyan recalled a special stakeholders meetings held between the Iyalaje of Oshodi Market Union, Alhaja Abibat Ajasa, with other representatives and CSP Shola Jejeloye in March and October 2022, where he disclosed the stance of the Lagos State Government against street trading and display of wares along the kerb and walk ways impeding free vehicular movement along the roads. According to him, Jejeloye appealed to Iyalaje and stakeholders present to warn their members to desist from doing so or have their goods confiscated and the offenders prosecuted. On the 23rd of May 2023, according to Gbadeyan, the Lagos State Taskforce carried out an enforcement exercise not just on the Roads but on the Rail tracks in the State where traders display their wares on the tracks thereby risking their lives and that of other passengers who are on the train. Indeed it is a non stop excercise ensuring that sanity is entrenched at all costs. He however said the Lagos State Taskforce is an Agency that enforces with a human face as evidently demonstated in the giving of notices before striking, ensuring due notices are provided. Violators of traffic rules, environmental degraders, illegal motor park operators, street traders and pollutants all have different levels of punishments meted down on them according to the provisions of the law, some of which vary from fines to jail term ranging from 3 to 6 months, he said. As an enforcement Agency, the Job of the Lagos State Taskforce is to enforce and arrest offenders who are then taken to the mobile court to be tried by the Magistrate, knowing fully well that the end of every enforcement ends in the court of law. Enumerating the successes of the Agency, Gbadeyan recounted among others the following; Clearing up of illegal garages, Shanties & road side kiosks along Lekki Coastal Road in April 2023 Clearing of illegal motor parks,Shanties at Maroko, Lekki Clearing of Shanties, okada parks at Whitesand, Lekki. Clearing of illegal motor parks at Ijora Under Bridge. Sensitization and enlightenment exercises at Oshodi car park, Ooworoshoki lay-by, Iyana-ipaja garage, Ketu/Tipper Garage. Clearing of Oshodi Road and arrest of street traders. Clearing of Railway tracks along Oshodi and Ikeja Along. The Lagos State Taskforce has carried out series of operations to ensure that street trading and similar vices are completely stamped out and it will not rest on its oars until the State achieves the status of free flow of traffic, a safe serene and habitable environment for all, Gbadeyan said. Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) According to Lukman Ajayi, Head, Public Affairs Unit LAGESC, who spoke on behalf of CP Gbemisola Akinpelu, the Agency’s Corps Marshall, “The Lagos Environmental Sanitation Corps popularly known as KAI is empowered by law to rid the State of environmental offences such as street trading, hawking on pedestrian bridges, lay-bys, setbacks, medians, kerbs and atop drainages in the State. “We also promote a Cleaner and hygienic environment in the Lagos by constant monitoring of the environment in line with global best practices using enforcement techniques whilst ensuring residences are in possession of valid waste contracts, thereby enforcing in partnership with LAWMA and the courts that defaulters pay as at when due.” Ajayi explained. With regards to roadside garages and the underlying relationship with street trading, Ajayi explained that Operatives of LAGESC are stationed at different operational beats, especially at traffic choke points to sensitise transport unions as a means of stakeholders engagement, educating them on what the law says. “It is imperative to note that when the situation is being monitored and voluntary compliance is not achieved, enforcement would be embarked upon and goods seized from these recalcitrant roadside traders are confiscated by the State. “Everyday, our Special Squad dislodges roadside traders around the State, especially those hindering the free flow of human and vehicular movement traffic. On the method of enforcement deployed by his Agency to ensure compliance and freeing the State from this menace, Ajayi responded by saying that enforcement is always a last resort due to the fact that human face must be applied through advocacy on the ills and risk associated with roadside trading. “Monitoring is also a form of enforcement, because the Agency’s intelligence team gather intel on the activities of roadside traders around the State for research, analysis and recommendations. “When it is discovered that these traders are not willing to shift ground, enforcement is applied to displace those who are reclacitrant impeding free flow of human and vehicular movement.” He recounted that when there was a plethora of complaints from motorists plying the Oyingbo area of the State, that the axis is usually blocked against traffic flow especially at wee hours of the morning, a rescue team was deployed there and today it has become a thing of the past. Ajayi equally gave the operational schedules of his men for sustainability, explaining that the operatives are always at their operational beats from Monday to Sunday, stressing it is a daily operation, whilst cleared areas remain sustained to forestall breakdown of law and order. In respect to punishments meted to violators to serve as deterrent, he said, defaulters and violators are always apprehended and arraigned after voluntary compliance sought through advocacy falls on deaf ears.