The Chairman of the Police Service Commis­sion (PSC), Dr. Solomon Arase, former Inspector General of Police, has promised to look into the status of quali­fied lawyers serving in the Nige­ria Police Force and appearing in courts with the ranks of cor­porals, sergeants and inspectors. He also said the cases of oth­er junior police officers who ac­quired additional certificates in other disciplines while in service will also receive the attention of the commission. Arase noted that this will give the officers the required self-con­fidence to perform better. He spoke in Abuja when he received in audience the leader­ship of the Unity Bar (Nigerian Bar Association Abuja branch). Bar. Afam Okeke, chairman of the association, who led the delegation, had complained that lawyers who came into the police as junior officers but improved their qualifications are currently appearing and defending cases in courts for the Nigeria Police Force but still wearing junior ranks. The PSC Chairman told the delegation that the commission may decide to send these catego­ries of police lawyers and other junior police officers with addi­tional qualifications on a short service training after which they would be properly placed as officers. He said the Nigeria Police need the services of more law­yers stressing that the commis­sion will come out with a deci­sion that will leave all parties in a win-win situation. Arase used the opportunity of the courtesy visit to call on the Nigerian Bar Association to advise practising lawyers to stop criminalising civil matters. POLL “It is wrong and should be dis­couraged, civil matters should be treated as civil matters and arbi­tration should serve the parties and the society better,” he noted. “We should avoid wasting time in criminalising civil matters and sending them to the police when it can be better handled outside of the police,” he added. Dr. Arase called for a robust legal system in Nigeria that inspires the citizens to seek re­dress and justice. He noted that Offenders must be arrested and prosecuted to restore confidence in the system. He informed his visitors that the commission is setting up a Compliance Monitoring Unit to ensure the Police Complaints Re­sponse Units promptly attend to public complaints. The new unit, he said, will be directly under his supervision for effectiveness and efficiency. The commission, according to him, will henceforth ensure that it prevents a system that does not attend to public com­plaints. Arase also spoke of the com­mission’s desire to collaborate with the Nigerian Bar Associa­tion and organise some training programmes on human rights so as to expose its staff lawyers to a better appreciation of its duties.