LAGOS  – The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said that ongoing fibre connectivity across the state’s 18 local government areas as well as other digital infrastructure development projects in the state would improve access to quality healthcare services and positively impact the state’s education sector. The state government has, in the past six years, sustained reforms and programmes to guarantee the right physical and digital infrastructure to drive sustainable growth and development in the state, leveraging technology. The fibre connectivity project is aimed at bolstering the government’s efforts at expanding its digital space and strengthening the commerce potential of all Edo local councils, thereby improving the livelihoods of the people and reducing rural-urban drift. The government recently introduced 24-hour free Wi-Fi service in various Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and other public places within the Benin metropolis to provide unlimited internet access to workers and other members of the public, in the wake of the three-day weekly work schedule for civil and public servants as part of efforts to cushion the effect of the fuel subsidy removal by the federal government. The free Wi-Fi service is being expanded to other local government areas in the state in line with its drive for digital economy. Speaking to journalists in Benin City, Obaseki reinstated his administration’s commitment to leveraging technology for improved delivery of quality services to Edo people. He said: “We are building a solid digital backbone for Edo people as this is a project that the future of Edo State would rest on. “We are connecting fibres across every local government area to ensure connectivity and promote digital services as I would be the last governor to work on files manually. All the local government offices are linked as the project is going to link all our schools. Our students don’t need to buy books because, with their digital devices, they can assess their books.” POLL Obaseki added that “all our primary health care centers would link to enable us to improve our patients’ record, increase telemedicine service, job and training center services as we would deliver services to our people at their place of residence.”