Concerned about the low level of micro pension penetration to the targeted audience, the pension fund operators have been charged to innovate products design that meets the specific needs of the informal sector operators, noting that the market is no longer one size fits all. At the Open Day Forum organised by the pension fund operators association of Nigeria over the weekend, stakeholders unanimously agreed that low awareness and education of the scheme, and unappealing mono product currently in the marketplace are factors militating against the success of the scheme, four years down the line. The scheme which was conceived in 2018 and inaugurated in 2019 has been moving at a very low speed with only 97,591 registered subscribers and a total contribution of over N435.607 million (N435,607,515.14). While Total Contingent Withdrawals stood at N30,243,070.69, Conversion from Informal to Formal – N6,511,555.69 (587 RSAs), As of March 2023, as against the 40million subscribers projected by 2024, according to PenCom’s document. Some key features of the plan include the ease of entry with minimal documentation requirements, the flexibility of contributions (amount and frequency) with provisions for the withdrawal of a portion for unforeseen emergencies as well as the opportunity to convert from an informal to a mandatory plan upon securing formal employment. The MPP is targeted at members of the various trades groups which include fashion designers, mechanics, cooperative societies, hairdressers, commercial vehicle operators and related market associations as well as professionals in private practices, etc. Noting the loopholes in the implementation of the scheme from inception, panelists drawn from key segments of the pension administration space, the Efina, Pension Central as well as Nigerian Bureau of System Settlement (NIBSS), observed that poor deployment of technology to drive the process, inadequate sensitisation of the public as well as low awareness creation of the benefits of the scheme and of course unappealing product offerings are factors working against its success. They, at this juncture, tasked the pension fund operators to, as a matter of urgency, begin to think the right product offerings that meet the need of the sector, going forward. Speaking at the event, Mr Paul Oluikpe, Head of the Financial Inclusion department of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) noted that recruitment of more Nigerians especially those in the informal sector into the micro pension basket represents a sure way of including more Nigerians into the financial systems in view of the multiplier effects of the scheme. POLL Oluikpe who spoke to the event virtually from Abuja noted that it was for good reasons that CBN has adopted the pension sector as a critical arm of its financial inclusion drive. “An average Nigerian must have one form of the pension scheme or the order; formal or informal. Micropension has been helping us to include more Nigerians in the financial safety net. The seven per cent penetration level of pension in Nigeria as opposed to the 40 per cent projection is an indication of the huge potential in the sector and this must be harnessed. The micro pension can be made a big deal in Nigeria”, he said. Oluikpe further challenged pension fund operators to be more creative in the area of product designs to introduce products that hold multiple benefits to serve as an anchor in attracting more into embracing the scheme stressing that the era of one size fits all in consumer engagement is gone. “We have to sufficiently target specific segments of the society with varying needs meaning that operators must remain innovative and creative with services and products. We need to rethink our old ways”, he insisted. Mr. Dauda Ahmed, Head, Micro Pension Department, National Pension Commission (PenCom) in his presentation said that efforts are being made to institutionalize some incentives which will help in attracting more of the informal sector to embrace the micro pension project whose sole aim is to ensure that those in the informal sector have pension arrangements which will cater for their old age as opposed to the current situation where the elderly do not have any form of retirement scheme except for those who retire from the formal sector. According to him, efforts of the pension fund operators are beginning to yield results as more of the artisans are now subscribing to the micro pension programme. He revealed that a total of 95,450 people have registered in the micro pension as of the end of April this year with a total managed assets of N435.6 trillion.