According to Football.London, Tottenham Hotspur are interested in acquiring the services of Conor Gallagher. The 23-year-old midfielder is likely to part ways with the Blues in the summer, and Spurs are keen on winning the race for his services. Gallagher has been a part of the Chelsea setup since his childhood days. The 23-year-old came into the limelight during his impressive loan spell at Crystal Palace back in the day. Post that, he was promoted to the Blues’ first team. But things have not gone according to plan for the England international. While he might have featured in 45 matches and was on the pitch for over 2,000 minutes, the Chelsea midfielder has not been at his best. Gallagher did show some consistency towards the end of the season under Frank Lampard. But, it looks like he does not have a future under new manager Mauricio Pochettino. The 23-year-old is surplus to requirements and despite having a contract that runs until the summer of 2025. And he is expected to be on his way out in the summer. Newcastle United are one of the clubs closely monitoring the Chelsea midfielder. The Magpies have qualified for Champions League football next season and are looking to strengthen their squad. They want to sign multiple midfielders to bolster their squad, and Gallagher is one of their targets. While Newcastle United are keen on having the England international in their ranks, they will face tough competition from Tottenham Hotspur. Spurs’ new manager Ange Postecoglou is expected to make quite a few changes to the existing squad. The North London club are expected to transition from Antonio Conte’s pragmatic approach to an attacking style of football. Postecoglou prefers playing attacking football with two attack-minded midfielders in the centre of the park. He is expected to offload multiple players and add quite a few new ones to find the perfect balance before heading into next season. As far as the midfield is concerned, Gallagher and James Maddison are his two targets. With Chelsea ready to offload players to balance things out in terms of their squad size, Tottenham have a great opportunity to land him at the club. But, it won’t be that easy given the interest from Newcastle United.