FC Barcelona have seemingly identified their long-term successor to Robert Lewandowski in the Brazilian starlet Vitor Roque. The Catalan club will be looking to tie him down in this summer transfer window before other European sides join in the hunt for him, and his price goes too high. According to Mundo Deportivo, FC Barcelona will definitely sign Vitor Roque this summer. However, it is unclear whether the Brazilian will don the Barcelona shirt from the start of the next season or later. This is because while the club is intent on buying the player this season, their wage bill and ability to execute their feasibility plan will determine whether they can get the player registered with La Liga this summer. For this summer, signing a number 9 is not too high on Barcelona’s and Xavi’s list of priorities. The club’s top priority for this summer is to get a replacement for Sergio Busquets, then another attacking midfielder to complement Lewandowski, then a winger in case Ferran Torres or Ansu Fati leaves, and then a natural right-back. In such a scenario, the club hierarchy is preparing for two possible options. Firstly, if the club is able to comply with its feasibility plan presented to La Liga and has space in its wage bill after completing their priority deals, they will get Roque registered in this window. On the other hand, if the club does not have enough space to incorporate the Brazilian in their wage structure this season, the Catalans will still buy the player but keep him on loan at his current club, Athletico Paranaense, till the winter transfer window. Such an option is also more favorable to the Brazilian club, as they would get to retain the services of their star forward for the final stages of the Copa Libertadores. Roque’s current coach, Luiz Felipe Scolari, also disclosed such a wish to retain the player till the end of the year in his interview with Globoesporte, as reported by Mundo Deportivo. Further details on the deal provided by the publication claim that Barcelona will pay €35 million plus €10 million in add-ons for the player. The player himself will get wages of around €3 million per year and will be looking to gradually relieve Robert Lewandowski, who will turn 35 years old in August, of his duties with the Catalan club.