While the air transport recovery trajectory continues post- COVID-19 and with the headwinds arising from other geopolitical-related devel­opments, it is critical for the air transport ecosystem stakehold­ers put their weight behind con­certed actions for air transport business to thrive and contrib­ute to the continent’s sustainable rapid development. It is timely to redefine the nar­rative of Africa’s air transport industry to that of interconnect­edness, affordability, profitabili­ty, efficiency, and sustainability. This was the impetus of the much-awaited Convention, held under the theme “Changing the African Aviation Narrative”. The Convention was held at the Ethiopian Skylight Hotel in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, recently under the patronage of the Gov­ernment of the Federal Republic of Ethiopia and was graced by two Ethiopian Ministers – Her Excellency NasiseChali, Ethi­opia Minister of Tourism and His Excellency Dr. Alemu Sime, Ethiopia Minister of Transport and Logistics- who was the Guest of Honor. Speaking at the convention on the importance to change the future of our industry with transformative ideas and ac­tions, Mr. AbdérahmaneBerthé emphasized that African Air­lines face many challenges that the industry needs to contem­plate and find lasting solutions with serious consideration. “Critical among the challeng­es facing our industry is sus­tainability. Only 10% of African citizens can afford air transport, meaning there is a huge room for growth. Reducing the cost of operation, cooperation among airlines, partnerships, and con­solidation are part of AFRAA’s initiatives and advocacy to make air transport affordable for Af­ricans.” He said. The main objective of the Convention was to con­vene stakeholders to dialogue and deliberate on subject matters to pave the way for the air trans­port industry’s development and change the narrative of African Aviation. This CConvention also aimed at establishing lasting interactions and partnerships among aviation players and air­lines in the aviation value chain for win-win relationships that will benefit African aviation. A total of 31 African airlines attended the conference, out of which 14 were represented at the CEO level. The event was at­tended by 455 participants from 42 countries. Aviation ecosystem stake­holders at the Convention de­liberated on the following key subjects that were lined up in the programme including roadmap to fast-Track the Implementation of SAATM Enhancing Cargo Operations, E-Commerce Net­works, and Logistics,Keeping Track of Abuja Safety Targets for Africa How to Remarket Aviation Training the Next-Gen Aviation professionals for the Sustainability of Africa’s Air Transport IndustryAccelerating Intra-Africa Tourism for Sus­tainable Growth Digitalization: Enhancing the Digital Customer POLL The event was sponsored by Ethiopian Airlines and Collins Aerospace. A total of 130 high school students from 10 schools in Ethiopia benefited from the initiative, which is aimed at supporting youth development in aviation.