Maize farmers in Lagos state under the National Program for Food Security (NPFS), have been empowered with new maize seeds variety to plant for this season and fertilizer to help boost their productivity. The farmers who gathered at the Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority office in Oko Oba Agege to receive the input were first enlightened on the new seed variety and the need for them to plant according to specifications. Olayinka Akeredolu, State Coordinator, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development while speaking during the presentation said that the seed is high yielding and disease resistant. She said that it was observed that some communities have poor nutrition and that they are not eating right after a survey was conducted. “This is why the Federal Government decided to start from the production, if we plant what is required then people will be able to eat balance diet. “So, as a way of assisting people is equipping the farmers with the necessary things they need for their farming business, to plant good seed and fertilizer to boost the nutrient of the soil and with good rain we are hopeful that we will have abundant harvest,” she said. Tawakaltu Kosoko, Programme Manager, Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority (LSADA) while speaking said that the objective of the National Program for Food Security (NPFS) is to improve the food security through livelihood enhancement. She said one of the major challenges of crop farmers has been the rising cost of inputs majorly fertilizer and access to improved high yielding and certified seeds. POLL “It is therefore, hoped that these input which will be given to farmers at no cost today, will go a long way to addressing the problem of food insecurity and improving the livelihood of our farmers. “We also enlightened the farmers that the seed is not just any seed, it is not a grain that one can consume it has been treated, it is certified seed we have enlightened them not to consume it or sell it She stated that LSADA which is the agency of Lagos State Ministry of Agriculture will also ensure that farmers make use of the best technology available through its extension agents to increasing farmers’ productivity. Dr. Bukola Sadiku, Head of Crop Department LSADA, while speaking with Daily Independent said that government is empowering the farmers with maize and fertilizer, stating that maize is one of the major crops in Lagos state. She said that the variety given to the farmers is Suwan-1- SR which is high yielding, pest resistant, good for consumption and that with low management farmers can get more yield.