As part of its major focal points, the Ikeja Viva L’Amour Lions Club carried out its Environ­mental Sanitation Activity for the month of June at the Alex Williams Memorial Methodists Church (AWMMC), Ogba. The 2023 June Environmental Sanitation Activity was a three-in-one activity which includes fumigation of the internal and external premises of AWMMC situated in a shopping complex; donation of cleaning tools and disposal of piled up refuse within the shopping complex. Yewande Akapo, president, Ikeja Viva L’Amour Lions Club, explained that ensuring a safe and clean environment is one of the focal areas of Lions Club International. According to her, the prima­ry purpose of having a clean and safe environment is basi­cally for a safe public health and prevention of different kinds of diseases. “You can imagine the heap of garbage piled up here. That is enough to spread all manner of diseases because refuse attracts flies, insects, cockroaches and ro­dents which is the major carrier of lassa fever virus. “That is why the fumigator had to drop some rat poisons at strategic areas within the complex to kill and keep away rodents. “Both the interior and exteri­or of the church was fumigated because we can have dust mites which though do not spread dis­eases, but their faeces trigger al­lergies and skin irritation. “So also, mildew and molds can cause skin irritation and affect breathing. That is why we had to fumigate inside the church building too.” POLL Akapo noted that AWMMC was chosen for the sanitation activity because according to the Minister-in-Charge of the church, since its establishment some 10 years ago, the compound has not been fumigated. “We have fumigated as well as assisted in disposing of the re­fuse inside the shopping complex which houses the church. Also, we are donating some cleaning tools to the church to be used in keeping the church and the envi­ronment clean and preserved. We have been going to other church­es too. We decided to come here because it is one of their greatest needs.” While commending mem­bers of the club on behalf of the church for their sacrifice, love, kindness and support over the years, Reverend Benjamin Jim­my admitted that AWMMC isn’t the only church that Lions Club has been reaching out to. “We receive this with joy and pray that God will continue to strengthen you in good health as well as bless you financially. As you have determined to help the society and people around, God will continue to strengthen you.” In her vote of thanks, Roseline Ashade, the Activity Chairper­son for the month of June com­mended the Minister in charge of AWMMC, Ogba for the warm reception as well as the commit­ment of the members of Ikeja Viva L’Amour Lions Club.