In a show of appreciation, the vice Chairman of the Aquatics Association of Oyo State, Dr Kazeem Akande has hosted the athletes that represented the state during the last National Sports Festival held in Asaba Delta State to a mini reception. The event which was held at Easy -Prevarsity Educational Conference room, Poly Road, Ibadan, the Oyo state capital on Thursday also witnessed the formal inauguration of new members into the Association while the immediate past President of the association, Architect Muyiwa Ige was also investiture as a life Patron of the association. While addressing the athletes, Dr. Akande commended the contingents that represented Oyo State in the swimming event at the last National Sports Festival for winning two gold medals, one silver medal and four bronze medals despite not being able to get satisfactory preparation prior to the event. While the vice chairman seeks collaboration of the members for the development of the game in the state and federal level. He however pledged to use his influence and wide contacts to the benefit of the Aquatics Association, especially in the area of the provision of facilities (swimming pool) which seems to be one of the major challenges affecting the game He said “As we are inaugurating new executives of the Oyo state Acquatic Association (Swimming) Association will be one of the leading game in the state. This inauguration is meant to look forward to ways of bringing more development to the growth of the game. A director from the Oyo State Sports Council, Kehinde Ojelowo, who represented the leadership of the OSSC in his remarks, thanked all the executives of the association for their good efforts in complimenting the government in the area of sports development. While he also commended the Oyo state governor, Seyi Makinde ‘s contribution to the Acquatic game in the state . POLL Also speaking at the event, Life Patron of the association, Arch Muyiwa Ige, explained that there is need for a sustainable practice for the growth of the game. Adding that government cannot do it all alone but needed the help of other stakeholders for the development of the game . He noted that swimming needs a lot of support and a good facilities to practice. Ige , however implore the Oyo State sports Council and the Oyo Acquatic Association to work together in a bid to bring more development to the game in the state . Speaking with newsmen shortly after the event, the an assistant director who doubles as the Head of Coaches in the Oyo State Sports Council, Adeyinka Olotu was also full of gratitude to the vice chairman Of the asso for his genuine interest in the development of aquatics sports and continuous support for swimmers which he demonstrated again with the reception for the athletes and officials. Other members inaugurated into the board of Aquatics Association during the event include: Mrs. Risikat Ebeloku the second vice Chairperson and a Deputy Chief Registrar, Mr. Mustapha, Mrs. Adedoyin Aminat, Mr. Tijani, Mr. Joel Amojo and Mr. Dare Akande.