LAGOS – Senator Shehu Sani who represented Kaduna Central at the Senate has said that the G5 led by former Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, in collaboration with the All Progressives Congress (APC) are plotting to foist a stooge as the minority leader of the10th Senate. Sani while speaking in an interview on Monday said, “What the ruling party is trying to do is to see how they can foist a minority leader that will be in sync with their programmes and policies and also the agenda of the National Assembly and by so doing prevent the opposition from playing its role. They want a stooge, or someone who is not going to be hostile to them. “But what is actually going on in the National Assembly today and the politics of the minority leadership is that the major opposition, which is the PDP, has factions, the G5 faction and the mainstream party. “What the G5 is trying to do is to help have a minority leader that will play the card of the ruling party. If you have a minority leader who is an agent of the ruling party, you will have a stooge. “He is going to synchronize and be another rubber-stamp minority leader. In earnest the minority leader is supposed to be someone who stands for the opposition will form an alternative representative in the parliament and the one that will represent and perform the agenda of his party. They are trying to prevent the opposition from playing its role and doing that in due process means having a minority leader that will synchronize with the ruling party. On what the PDP can do to stop that, Sani said, “PDP hasn’t taken serious action against its members that betray or subverted its own course in the 2023 elections. They opted for the part of reconciliation but what is very clear is that the faction that broke away from the PDP to form the G5 is determined to work 100 percent in line with the ruling party, and there is no way that you can call yourself an opposition if the people you are appointing in the position of leadership are simply the agents or stooges of the ruling party. POLL “The former Governor who is a member of the G5, all he is trying to do, I believe is to have a minority leader that he anoints, which will give him the relevance in terms of his engagements with the ruling party. “I believe that the ruling party has enough membership to be able to get most of its programmes, motions and bills too, but it is natural that it will need an opposition that will work together with it but not to the point that you have an opposition that will be a rubber stamp. “The danger is that the opposition will disappear once you have a minority leader who is there simply to work for the ruling party. “The main opposition PDP has to be careful about this because if it allows those who work with the G5 to be the minority leader, they have simply surrendered for the next four years the role that they ought to have played in the National Assembly,” Sani said.