Premium Times Books, the book publishing arm of the Premium Times Group, has released a new book titled: ‘Cyber Politics: Social Media, Social Demography and Voting Behaviour in Nigeria.’ The book, written by Omoniyi Ibietan, officially made its way to physical and online bookshops on Monday in a unique alignment with the symbolic rituals of June 12, Nigeria’s Democracy Day. The book with 460 pages spread over 12 chapters, gives expression to a critical phase within the distinct trajectory of Nigerian democracy through its elections. Like June 12, which created a watershed in the country as Nigerians sought to rupture the yoke of military rule through the ballot, this book engages with another national turning point moment, as the nascent digital culture involving internet use, and particularly the social media, converges with the articulation of voter choice, ultimately impacting Nigeria’s electoral fortunes in the process. Nigeria’s 2015 presidential election is utilised as the sounding board from which analyses that offer great insights into the future of voting behaviour in the country are made in this new title that is both skillful in its rendition and ground-cutting in its intellectual approach. In an introduction, he wrote for the book, Dapo Olorunyomi, the Chief Executive Officer of the Premium Times Group, said: “The universe of this new book is intriguing in its exploration of the digital effect on elections.” He also pointed out how Ibietan’s work demonstrated “clearly that social media systems do enrich electoral democracy by expanding access to registration, participation, voting and organising at a scale we have never contemplated.” Also, in his foreword to the book, Umar Danbatta, a Professor and Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, noted that the author situated the historical context of Nigerian politics and democracy. POLL Danbatta described the book as a compelling narrative, a scholar’s guide and companion on the various political communication themes it interprets. “It is difficult to put down this work once you are drawn by its alluring and free-flowing prose and incisive analysis,” he added. Besides, Frank Nweke II, former Minister of Information and Communication in Nigeria, stated that the book represented an uncommon body of work by an intellectual visionary. He emphasised that the extrapolation of the lessons and recommendations of the book would find perfect expression in other climes beyond the 2015 Nigerian general elections scenario. “Dr Ibietan for this remarkable work, and…recommend(s) this book for practitioners and academics in the fields of strategic communications, new technologies, and social change,” he added. The author of the new book, Ibietan, holds a doctorate in Political Communication from North-West University in South Africa, and earlier degrees in Communication Arts from the Universities of Uyo and Ibadan. With a career spanning journalism and stints in civil society and academia, he is presently a directorate cadre staff in the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), where he heads the media relations management unit. Over the past two decades, Ibietan has researched deeply into the emergent interface between communication studies and psephology, which explains his richly nuanced understanding and far sight into the issues involved.