INNOCENT OWEH; JUSTUS ADEJUMOH ABUJA / LAGOS  – A prominent mobile telecom­munication company, Airtel Ni­geria, has reacted to the recent decision of President Ahmed Bola Tinubu to float the naira, saying it holds a prospect of re­flating the Nigerian economy in no distant time. Speaking to newsmen after he led a delegation of Airtel’s top management to the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday, Chair­man, Airtel Worldwide, Mr. Sunil Bharti Mittal, described the ac­tion as capable of unleashing for­eign investments in the country. Mittal was accompanied on the visit by Dr. Segun Ogun­sanya, Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Nigeria, to the State House, where he expressed commitment to offer services in Nigeria, just as he lauded the president for making foreign ex­change easier to access. He said the lack of easy access to foreign exchange hitherto ex­perienced by investors had ham­pered the company from import­ing critical equipment needed for its operation in the country. According to him, the world­wide market has applauded naira devaluation and investors are now ready to come into the country. While noting that Airtel had made just under $4 billion invest­ment since coming into Nigeria, he disclosed the company’s plan to roll out its 5G services, even as he revealed that it would be making an additional invest­ment of $700 million in the next two years. Mittal stated: “We’re already investing about $400 million a year, which has been going on for the last many years. That will of course continue. That is business as usual. POLL “On top of that, to roll out the 5G and more fibre into the ground and data centres will re­quire more $700 million to get to that outcome. “So, while there is no exact number I can give you, all I can tell you is $400 million is what we generally invest every year. “With 5G, the investment is only going to go up for the next two or three years, before it comes back to the same $350, $450 million a year. “We have invested just under $4 billion since the time we have come into Nigeria.” While stating that Nigeria is key in Africa, he also noted the role of the country as an econom­ic power house in the continent. He said without Nigeria, Afri­can strategy will not work. Mittal said he requested the meeting with the president in order to talk about Airtel and In­dia, adding that he was touched by the speed and clarity of mind that the president has exhibited within a short time. “We have given a standing ovation to the floating of the naira,” he said, adding that he saw a president that was deeply committed to removing poverty in the country. Airtel Nigeria Launches 5G, Rolls Out Services In Four Cities Meanwhile, Airtel Nigeria has formally launched its 5G mobile network on Monday. This unveiling which was held at Eko Hotels & Suites, Lagos, is expected to intensify competition within the Nigeri­an telecoms market, attract new customers and improve Airtel’s market share. Speaking at the launch, Carl Cruz, the Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Nigeria, promised that the network will democratise 5G service offerings in Nigeria. With Airtel’s 5G launch, Nige­ria now has three licensees that have launched the service. In addition, Airtel is prom­ising its subscribers will enjoy super-fast data services and rede­fined services in other sectors of the economy including telemedi­cine, agriculture and others. Also speaking on the cover­age of the innovative service, Femi Oshinlaja, Chief Commer­cial Officer at Airtel Nigeria, said 5G services will be available in four major cities of Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, Lagos, Ogun and Rivers states, adding that services would be extended to other parts of the country sub­sequently. “Our routers are quite af­fordable, and you can get it for N30,000, so far you recharge it every month. But if you don’t recharge it, we may withdraw the device. Another privilege our customers will be enjoying is the fact that you don’t need to upgrade your 4G SIM card to enjoy the 5G service. All they need to do is to have compatible phones and devices. It’s unlike the upgrade from 3G to 4G,” Os­hinlaja explained. The introduction of Airtel’s 5G network is expected to support ­ the Nigerian authorities’ ambitions for digital transformation by accelerating broadband adoption. ­ Besides the socio-economic benefits of 5G services, it is ex­pected that the latest telecom technology will be ubiquitous in the country. The 5G network launch will also assist the Feder­al Government to achieve its 70% broadband internet penetration target by 2025. According to the latest data from the Nigerian Communica­tions Commission (NCC), Airtel currently holds 27.01 percent of the national mobile subscriber base. Airtel’s entry into the 5G space marks its venture into the ultra-broadband segment, which has been predominantly domi­nated by MTN since its launch of the latest-generation technology in September 2022. Additionally, Mafab Commu­nications has been providing 5G services since January of the same year. In January, Airtel announced the acquisition of a 5G spectrum and additional spectrum for its 4G network, with a total invest­ment of $316.7 million. This licence acquisition increases the number of 5G licences in Nigeria to three. In 2021, MTN Nigeria and Mafab Nigeria Communications Lim­ited secured the two available 100 MHz TDD slots of the 3.5 GHz band.