Ex-Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State has been having a running battle with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on issues concerning corruption. Recently, his successor, Dauda Lawal accused him of keeping state government vehicles and property in his possession after leaving office. He asked the police to retrieve them. The High Court later ordered the police to return the vehicles to the former Governor. To clarify some of the allegations, the former Commissioner for Information in Zamfara State, Ibrahim Dosara in this interview speaks about the controversies, why there is no infringement on the part of Matawalle. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: We were told that Matawalle made away with statevehiclesandontheorderofthestateGovernor, Dauda Lawal, the vehicles were asked to be retrieved, and we were now told that the police command in Zamfara was asked to return the vehicles on the order of the federal High Court. Also, itisnottruethatEFCCdeclaredhim wanted. What really happened? Governance in Zamfara State under Matawalle has done very well to the best of our ability. We tried as much as possible. Within 100 days of his office there was disquiet in terms of attacks, killings and kidnapping of people. It was maintained until when outside and inside collaborators sabotaged the efforts of the Governor. What happened was a political intricacy which led to losing of election by Matawalle, including vendetta that came after Matawalle from the opposition. Everybody knows that at the end of the tenure you have certain parting gifts. You also do what is called a severance allowance to the people. When the current Governor came on board he declared that Matawella took away 17 government vehicles. This is not true. Thereafter the government declared that the former Governor should return the vehicle, without any official letter of communication with the former Governor. He just discovered that the police broke into his house and carted away all the vehicles he had. In fact about 53 vehicles were removed from his house. They said that 17 vehicles were removed from the government and now they took away about 53 vehicles. So, you can imagine the kind of leadership that is coming on board. If at all the former Governor has done anything wrong, we expect the incoming Governor to take the matter to court. So, that it will be addressed according to the law, as provided in the constitution of the federal Republic of Nigeria. Many of us were given personal official vehicles, after which we bought the cars through auction. We bought and paid for the vehicles and now they were seized by the current government. Most of the Commissioners and government officials who worked with Matawella had their vehicles seized, including mine. There has never been justice in this way and following that the former Governor approached the court which addressed the matter and that was what led to asking the security that were involved in taking away the vehicles to return them. The court has done justice and the vehicles are now returned to his offices. But vehicles seized from individuals, former Commissioners have not been returned. We are hoping that the government of Dauda Lawal will return them. So we can continue to make use of them in the interest of justice and fairness. We served the state for four years as commissioners and we are entitled to certain benefits. There is no way the current government will say no to that. Whoever served the government for a certain period needs to have a kind of benefit that he will always remember that he has served the government and will continue to give support to the government that is in charge. It is not to say, you must return everything. It is not done anywhere. A Governor who led a state for four years and barely two weeks after he left office, you broke into his house and took away all his vehicles and other personal effects. It is wrong. We expect Governor Dauda Lawal to face the challenges of the state which is insecure. After we left office the security issue became something else. There are so many attacks, so many killings, kidnappings. We hope that he can focus his attention on that. Whatever issue he has with the former Governor should be addressed in court, which is the right thing to do. On the issue of EFCC… We have heard and read online that Matawalle has been declared wanted. I will say it is fake news. At the end of the day, the EFCC came out and reacted to that story, that it has not declared him wanted. For clarification, you said that the cars taken from his house were cars that he purchased for sale? What I said was that the current Governor said that the former Governor took away 17 vehicles, but during evacuation 53 vehicles were taken away from his house. Even before he became a Governor of Zamfara State, Matawalle was a car dealer, even in the United States. So, as somebody that has a lot of cars in his house, they are not to be seen as government vehicles. Some of the vehicles also were those donated to him by friends as allies. Areyousayingthatallthe53carsbelongtohim because he was also a car dealer? POLL Some of the cars are those for his company and some were donated to him during the campaigns. He was the coordinator in charge of the north-west for Tinubu campaign, and a lot of friends, well-wishers/allies donated some cars to him, which was why there were many vehicles in his house. He also mentioned that beyond the cars there were other state properties in his possession, is it true and if it is true why does he keep state properties in his possession? You see, in any state, you can make an inquiry, when a governor is going, he has certain vehicles that he should be allowed to go with. It is done everywhere. Which is why the policy says you make changes to some of the vehicles annually for the governors. So, those were the vehicles the former governor took away. When the present governor came on board he said that those vehicles should be returned. I don’t see that happening. When former Governor Matawalle took over from Governor Abdulaziz Yari, he also had such arrangements. There was nowhere Matawalle asked Yari to return the vehicles that were entitled to him. You said that they were vehicles used for campaigns, why were they not branded? They were branded vehicles. Including the SUVs that we saw? No Matawalle has been having a running battle with the EFCC, in some of the investigations carriedoutsofar, talkingabouthowsomeofthe Commissioners were converting the dollars into naira. The officials talked about the humongous amount of money converted into dollars. When the allegation came out, Matawalle said that the suspended EFCC boss, Bawa, requested for a 2million dollars bribe, where is the proof? When we reach that bridge we will cross it. You mean he (Matawalle) has proof? Of course, yes. Governor Dauda Lawal has declared publicly that when he got into office he met a completely empty treasury, that your principal only left debt and liabilities. He also said that on the records, Zamfara State, bought vehicles in excess of N2 billion for Ministries, Departments and agencies (MDAs), and that those vehicles cannot be found anywhere in government premises in Zamfara State and that it was on the basis of that he ordered that the vehicles be traced and retrieved, is it true? We don’t do handovers on social media. We have provided the records. The vehicles that were bought were given to security agencies to help them in their operations, and we had wanted the current governor to invite the former governor, he is ready to come. It is not for him to go on social media and start castigating him. The security agencies are aware that vehicles were given to them. We did it in a colourful ceremony. The issue that vehicles were taken away is not true. What about the issue of empty treasury that the governor alleged? On the issue of funds, everybody knows Zamfara State has no IGR base. We generate nothing more than N300 million every month as Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). The state allocation from the federal government is mostly going into debt servicing because we inherited huge liabilities. The money is being deducted from source. The little money that was coming to Matawalle was used to pay salaries. We had to borrow money to make up for our salaries every month. There is no way somebody can say that the government has left an empty treasury, and that money has been squandered. It is not true. People can go and see what we did. All the money that we received and spent can be seen on record. There is no controversy in this case On the N70 billion Matawalle is being investigated for by the EFCC, and the counter statement that the reason he was targeted by EFCC was because he refused to give bribe to the suspended EFCC chairman? An allegation can be proven in the court of law and what Matawalle was saying is that if he is being alleged to have taken public funds let them go to court. Let the court investigate and find out what really happened. We are not saying that we are above the law but we want the law to take its course. You cannot just go to social media and judge somebody. It has to go through legal processes to determine it is wrong or right.