Rt. Rev. Funso Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), is the Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, Lagos Mainland Diocese. Bishop Awe is also the Vice Chairman, Civil Consciousness Global Initiative (CCGI), a body of leaders that advocate for truth and righteousness in governance. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the current issues in the polity. Excerpt: The National Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) recently warned Nigerians to be mindful of their utterances, saying that no religion should be seen as being superior to the others. How do you see this warning by NIREC? Nigeria is a secular society. Our constitution made provisions for the freedom of religion. So, as individuals, one can choose what faith one will belong to. In this context, NIREC is right. There is no superiority of one religion over the other. But, Nigerian politicians have always used the sentiment of religion to curry favour from practitioners of different religions. It was so apparent in the last election. So, religious leaders should be very wary of their utterances so that they will ot influence their followers with utterances that will tear the country apart. There is the fear that the 10th Assembly, like the 9th National Assembly may end up being a rubber stamp to the Executive going by the way President Bola Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership influenced the leaders’ emergence. What is your take on this? Definitely, I have always said that the constitution of the country, the way it is structured, gives so much power to the president. If the president chooses to exercise this power, he will have control over the other arms of the government, the legislature and the judiciary; this is because he who pays the piper actually dictates the tune. That was what played out in the election of the Principal Officers of the National Assembly, the Senate and the House of Representatives. Every legislator wants favour from the presidency, from the party and even from the principal officers themselves. That is why in the House of Representatives, they made it an open voting in such a way that the emerging Speaker knows who voted for him and those who voted against him. The party also knows who voted according to its instructions. The Presidency also knows who voted according to instructions. If they did not vote according to instructions, you are already marked. I see this as arm-twisting. If that is the case, you will discover that like the 9th Assembly, and the previous Assemblies, the 10 National Assembly will still be a rubber stamp of what the Executive wants. How do you see the appointments made so far By President Tinubu? I think it is normal. Every president will come in with his own boys and people they can work with, people they believe can serve their purpose. The only difference between Tinubu and Buhari’s appointment is the speed the changes are being made. In the Buhari administration, by this time in the life of the administration, Buhari was still thinking of what to do. But, in Tinubu’s case, he seems to have understood what he wants to do and who he will use to do what he wants to do, probably because he has a better understanding of the political terrain. I am also thinking that it will not take him time to come out with his ministerial list. Therefore, having suspended the appointees to boards of parastatals and government agencies, he will fill these vacancies in a record time, unlike the Buhari administration. Would you say the retirement of the former Service Chiefs and the appointment of new ones was necessary considering the nation’s investment in the training of the Generals? POLL The military has its traditions. Those traditions are there. When you appoint a junior officer to head the military, everyone that seniors him will automatically go into retirement. I think in a situation like that, the presidency should always take into consideration what we call senioris piorre (meaning that seniority is given priority). Thus appointments are according to seniority. It has always been that we have a lot of Nigerian Generals who are out of job. Most of them find their way back into politics. Those retired now will join the queue of retired young officers. It does not happen in her countries where there are Generals who are well experienced and vast. This is a general trend in Africa. Those days, we used to have coups by junior officers, the senior officers were killed or retired. It is a general tradition in the military. But, the president has his own preference. But, I also think his appointments have the necessary national spread. Would you say the new National Security Adviser Nuhu Ribadu, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) will enjoy the cooperation of the new Service Chiefs being from the police? The National Security Adviser reports to the Commander-In-Chief. The president is the Commander-In-Chief. As the Commander-In-Chief, he is the Chairman of the various Military Councils. So, if he details his National Security Adviser to act in that capacity for him, the various military chiefs are already trained to respect constitutional authority. I don’t think they will have a problem working with anybody that represents the Commander-In-Chief. After all, they respect the president who is a civilian. What should the Federal Government do to ameliorate the effects of the removal of the oil subsidy which has already led to high cost of goods and services? The oil subsidy removal coming at this time is an unfortunate situation because Nigerians are already groaning under the high inflation rate they have been grappling with before. Added to that is an increase in inflation without an increase in income. What we have is dwindling income and unemployment. Oil subsidy removal is biting hard on Nigerians who are trying to survive. The government should try to put in place policies that will bring down the high cost of essential commodities, food and transport cost. When various economists come together, they can bring out policies that can make things favourable to the people. We can have a Price Control Board or Consumer Protection Agency to make this happen. A reduction in taxation will also help in this light. The government should not be talking of an increase in tariff for electricity and in telecommunication at this time they just removed oil subsidy. Government has to look at all these critically and know that the common man is suffering. What would you say is the direction of President Tinubu’s economic policies? Would you say you understand the path he is going? Policy wise, I think Tinubu just jumped on the ground and started doing those things the past regimes failed to do. I think we should sit and watch what happens in the next six months. That is when we can give him a fair appraisal. Jonathan wanted to remove subsidy but they did not allow him…(Cuts in) If Jonathan had had the courage to reduce the subsidy that time, nothing would have happened. He lacked the courage to do it. Heaven would not have fallen and nothing would have happened if Jonathan had had the courage to do it then. Tinubu has indicated that he intends to have Special Advisers. Are they not too many for him considering the state of the economy and the fact that apart from ministers, he will also have Senior Special Assistants to support him, the Vice President and other top officials? The 20 Special Advisers are normal. How many did Buhari appoint? These are just for his take off. Even before Buhari left, the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission had allegedly increased the salaries and allowances of political office holders by 114%. (But the presidency has denied this), we spend too much money on overhead. People are calling for reduction of salaries of political office holders including legislators and they are increasing their own, when that of the masses has been static. Peter Obi has condemned the action and civil society organisations have threatened to go to court over the action. We have always said that what the legislators earn are too much. No one is talking to those ministers. If they have removed subsidies and are telling people to tighten their belt and make sacrifices, they too should tighten their own belt and make sacrifices too. We should all bear the pains of the subsidy removal. How do you see the fate of the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Godwin Emefiele and the EFFCC Chairman, Bawa? Like the fate of several others before them, they will be detained for a while and then released and no one will hear about them again. But their fate will be a test for the Tinubu administration. If it was the previous administration, it would have been said that after a while they would be left s in the case of Magu. The last concluded case we know was the case of Dariye and Afolabi during the Obasanjo regime. What is your take on the demolition of structures put in place by the former Kano State governor by the new governor? Government is supposed to be a continuum. It should not be a forum for vindictive actions. I think the new Kano governor should tread softly How do you see the defection of members of the Imo PDP State Working Committee and their defection to the APC few months to the governorship election? I think the PDP in Imo is already making the same mistakes they made at the national level that cost them the presidency. I think APC is on its way to retain power in Imo, except the Labour Party gave them the run for their money. LP is becoming a major opposition in the South East. The G5 Governors broke the rank of PDP. Obi moved from PDP to LP. These cost PDP the Presidency if there are defections and PDP is losing members, it may cost them the governorship election in Imo, especially when they are fighting against the incumbent. What advice do you have for Nigerians and the new administration? To Nigerians, let us take life easy. We have been bearing it in the last eight years. Let us give this regime a chance and watch it for the next six months. It will afford us the opportunity to see what direction the government is going. For the new government, they should consider the suffering of the masses and enact people-oriented programmes that will make life easier for the people.