LAGOS –  The operatives of the Delta State Police Command said they have arrested a suspected armed robber and recovered two locally fabricated guns. Bright Edafe, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Command confirmed in a statement made available to Daily Independent. Edafe, a Deputy Superintendent of Police  (DSP), said  on June  5, 2023 at about 5.40 pm,  operatives of  Agbor Division while on anti-crime patrol along Baleke Street, Iregua Agbor,  sighted a motorcycle with three passengers, carrying a bag. He said that  on sighting the police, two of the passengers who later gave their names as Collins Anthony (male),aged 34,  and Stephen Goddey, 30-old man, both residents of Agbor Community jumped out of the motorcycle and took to flight. The Police, he added went after them, and arrested them. “During search, one  locally fabricated cut to size pistol  and one live cartridge were recovered from the duo. “Preliminary investigations revealed that the suspects belong to a criminal syndicate terrorizing Agbor Community and its Environs. Investigation is ongoing.” In another development, he said on June 5, 2023,  at about 12.30pm, policemen attached to Mosogar division while on routine patrol,  intercepted one Moses Musa a  27-yr-old man,  Kelin (male) and Isah (make) along Mosogar/Oghara express way. “The suspects on sighting the patrol team fled into a nearby bush. POLL “One of the suspect named Moses Musa  was arrested with a locally made pistol and a live cartridge while the other two suspects escaped into the bush. “Suspect confessed that he is from Kogi State, and that the three of them specialized in POS robbery and he has been identified by a victim whose motorcycle was recently snatched at gun point along Oghara/Mosogar Bridge. “The suspect is in custody, and investigation is ongoing.” Commissioner of Police,  Delat State Command,    Wale Abass has commended officers and men of the command for their continuous effort in curbing crime and other vices in the state. He  assured resident that the tempo will be sustained.