Barr Moses Segba, Director General of the Delta Political Frontier, a political pressure group established for mobilization of support for the victory of all PDP candidates in the 2023 general elections, has felicitated with the Governor of Delta State, His Excellency, Rt Hon Sheriff Francis Oborevwori on his successful inauguration as 5th elected Governor of Delta state. The PDP chieftain and Warri-based legal practitioner, in a statement he personally signed, expressed great joy with his victory at the polls and eventual swearing-in, noting that despite all the travails and landmines planted on his path to government house, he survives all his adversaries and triumph eventually to provide a smooth path for the implementation of the MORE agenda of his administration. Barr Segba also thanked Deltans for their resolute support for the PDP in the last elections, expressing the confidence that the people will not regret their choice dully expressed through the ballot in electing Rt Hon Oborevwori as their new governor. He expressed deep appreciation for the amazing support and total mobilization of Deltans by His Excellency, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa for the MORE agenda, ‘’without which, victory would have been impossible. He staked so much for the project and succeeded. While we must continue to thank God for his innumerable blessings and favour while the struggles lasted, we cannot fail to appreciate the former Governor Okowa for his support in diverse ways’’, Barr Segba said. He also commended the gallantry and solidarity of members of the Delta Political Frontier across the state in mobilizing support for the new governor ahead of the polls, stressing that he was glad to have delivered all the units in his community for all PDP candidates from top to bottom. Barr Segba also appreciated the sportsmanship of Chief Great Ovedje Ogboru and Chief Goodnews Agbi in accepting the victory of Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori without any fuse, calling on Senator Ovie Omo-Agege to toll the same line and allow peace reign for all round development of the state. ‘’A fellow Urhobo man from Delta central has won. It would be the height of gallantry and statesmanship for Senator Ovie Omo-Agege to end all court cases and accept the victory of Oborevwori so as to save huge money that may be sank in avoidable litigations whereas, only one person can occupy the seat at the same time. Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori has won, Omo-Agege should let go and close ranks with the Ukodo of Okpe Kingdom in the interest of the progress, peace and development of our dear state’’, Barr Segba added.