DOTUN OMISAKIN The proposed $12 billion Bayelsa State Recovery Fund estimated by the State Oil And Commission Commission (BSOEC) has been described as inadequate. The Bayelsa State Oil And Commission Commission on May 16, 2023 released a report on the state of the communities affected by oil exploration and also set recommendations. In the report titled “ENVIRONMENTAL GENOCIDE: The Human and Environmental Cost of Big Oil in Bayelsa, Nigeria” by BSOEC, it stated that $12 billion was recovered into the Bayelsa Oil Recovery Fund. But, in response to the report by BSOEC, a coalition of Ijaw Interest group and other critical stakeholders in the environmental sector, condemned the $12 Billion, saying that the proposed recovery fund was inadequate. Speaking on behalf on the groups, the Secretary, Ijaw Elders Forum, IEF, Lagos branch, Efiye Bribena said due to the impact of the environmental genocide in Bayelsa state, the proposed recovery fund was underestimated. “We consider the BSOEC’s recommendation of $12 billion for the Bayelsa State Recovery Fund to be grossly underestimated, in cognizance of the cumulative length, volumes and impacts of the petroleum sector’s environmental genocide in Bayelsa. The estimate must be carefully reviewed for adequacy by the State Government and key parties,” he said. He, however, commended BSOEC for the report, saying that it was a step in the right direction to halt the destruction of the ecosystem in the state owing to the damage by oil exploration. POLL He also implored the state government to expedit action on the implementation of its recommendations in the report, adding that it will show a commitment to achieve the intended objectives. “This Coalition of Ijaw interest groups and other key stakeholders have no doubt that the burden of making this happen is primarily upon the Bayelsa State Government. “The state government must now move with the required sense of urgency, mindful that stakeholders in the state will consider the vigour, speed and resourcefulness with which the government responds to the recommendations of this report,” he said. The groups, according to him advised the federal, state government and other stakeholders to: “Immediately promulgate a Niger Delta-wide Environmental Remediation Programme and impose stern sanctions within the State’s power, including revocation of rights of way and land leases over operational sites of repeated or egregious environmental breaches. “Commit to dedicating 5-10% of Bayelsa State’s revenues to invest as part of the Environmental Recovery Fund proposed in the BSOEC Report, to redress its contributory responsibility for the pollution plague by reason of the state government’s failure in acting within its powers all these years to stop the scourge and safeguard its communities, environment and people.”