AKURE – The 10th Ondo State House of Assembly was inaugurated on Saturday and Olamide Oladiji (Ondo East) was elected and affirmed as the Speaker of the new Assembly. Oladiji is a second-term lawmaker in the Assembly and a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) which has the majority of members of the Assembly. There are 22 members of APC in the new Assemble, while the remaining four are from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Abayomi Akinruntan(Ilaje 1), who is a third-time lawmaker, was elected and affirmed as the deputy speaker of the Assembly. Oluwole Ogunmolasuyi(Owo 1) was elected and affirmed as the Majority Leader of the Assembly, while Princess Tosin Ogunlowo-Ajirotutu(Idanre), a first-time lawmaker, was elected and affirmed as the Deputy Majority Leader. Olajide Oguntodu(Akure South I) of PDP was elected and affirmed as the Minority Leader of the Assembly. Meanwhile, the intrigues and plot to unseat the Deputy Governor Lucky Aiyedatiwa continued as the earlier plan to appoint Ogunmolasuyi, from Owo constituency I was dropped before dawn. This didn’t go down well with the second-term lawmaker as he could not hide his displeasure by frowning at people who attempted to congratulate him on his new appointment as Majority Leader. POLL A competent source in APC confirmed on condition of anonymity that the power brokers who were after the deputy governor had planned to install Ogunmolasuyi as the speaker so that he help railroad the plot to unseat the deputy governor through the Assembly. He disclosed that the group he described as Owo Mafia dropped the idea because of the brewing outcry against a speaker from the same constituency as the governor. The source said: “Honourable Ogunmolasuyi was earlier penciled down to take over the 10th Assembly today, but feelers forced the Owo Mafia to drop the idea. “The Assembly would have been set on fire today if they had continued with the plan to install the Owo lawmaker because some leaders of our party had protested that the speaker can’t be an Owo man when the governor is from Owo. “What the mafia is after is to unseat the deputy governor so that another Owo man could be nominated and appointed as a replacement. “They are afraid that in case of any eventuality, putting into consideration the health status of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, the slot of Owo will not be completed by someone else from another Senatorial District.” PDP and Social Democratic Party have called for the disclosure of the whereabouts and current health status of the governor. Stephen Adewale, state Chairman of SDP, said “Because Governor Akeredolu’s position is that of a trustee, he is required, as the governor of Ondo State, to inform the residents of Ondo State accurately about his present medical conditions. “Ensuring full access to his medical data would also assist and prevent instances and situations where the governor’s health is the daily subject of speculative interpretations, embarrassing commentary, incomplete, vague, and erroneous reports.” State Publicity Secretary, Ondo PDP, .Kennedy Ikantu Peretei in a statement on Saturday said the whereabouts of the governor shouldn’t be a secret. In a statement made available to newsmen, Peretei said: “On the eve of the inauguration of 10th Ondo State House of Assembly, there were reports of an ‘Owo cabal’ led by Akeredolu’s heir apparent, Babajide, mobilising Members-elect to make a legislator from Owo Speaker, as a fall back position to retain the leadership of the state in Owo, in the event of the worst happening, after impeaching the incumbent Deputy Governor. “These speculations almost put the state on edge until this morning when the Ondo State House of Assembly retained the present power structure of Speakership of the Assembly in Ondo Central Senatorial District. “If Akeredolu’s handlers had done the needful, the state would have been spared the unnecessary anxiety. “As mortals, any human being can fall sick. Whether in public office or private life. Rotimi Akeredolu is employed by the people of Ondo State and maintained with taxpayers’ money. So, it is criminal and a great disservice to keep mum over his health status and his whereabouts. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Ondo State Chapter, demands that those hiding the governor should tell the people where he is to save the state from speculation.” The scheming for unseating the deputy became thick on Thursday when the ploy to impeach the speaker of the 9th Assembly, Bamidele Oleyelogun became obvious. Moreover, another source that crave anonymity expressed fear about the state of health of the governor on grounds of the desperation to remove the deputy governor. He said: “The sudden desperation to unseat the deputy governor calls for suspicion that maybe some was fishy about the health condition of the governor. “Although the deputy governor has been rendered inconsequential and couldn’t function even when the governor handed over to him to act as the governor of the state.“He didn’t sign any document till the governor returned from his vacation. He was not allowed to function as an acting governor by the cabal from Owo. “No doubt the deputy governor is a brilliant man and a successful businessman. The cabal has a reason to be afraid of him because if given an opportunity, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu would prefer having him as the candidate of the party in the forthcoming governorship election in the state. “But the way they are keeping the state of health of the governor secret gives one concern that they may not disclose timely if any eventuality happens.” As the 10th Assembly has been inaugurated and adjourned to July 17, 2023, the waiting game continues with all eyes on the deputy governor.