A former Chairman, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), and immediate past Secretary, Transportation Secretariat Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Abdullahi Candido has called on the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) and the six Area Councilshas hinted that synergy is the only way to achieve desirable sustainable development and improve the lives of the people in FCT. Candido gave this hint while speaking during a sendforth organized for him in Abuja by staff of the Secretariat over the weekend. He opined that having tested both sides of the coin, as AMAC Chairman and Secretary, he could attest to the fact that building of synergy was the panacea for peaceful working relationship between the two tiers of government in the nation’s capital. The former Secretary also appealed to the FCT Administration to work with the Area Councils for better results, noting that he used to pick quarrels when he was Chairman, but when he joined the FCTA, he realized that only synergy and collaboration could help, and not fights. According to him: “Having tested the two sides of the coin, I have resolved to be an advocate of synergy. There is no need fighting and the people suffering the consequences “I have come to the realization that the two sides (FCTA and Area Councils) must agree to work together. Conflict resolution is the way to go. FCTA should work together with the Council’s -the two working together will yield higher results. I don’t see any reason for the fight”. It would be recalled that Candido had served as AMAC Chairman for two tenures, during which time, he remained a torn in the flesh of the ex-FCT Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello and the entire FCTA over statutory rights of the Councils, especially AMAC, particularly relating to collection of revenues. The public and indeed, Candido as he confessed, was however, shocked when he was appointed Secretary, Transportation Secretariat, replacing Zakari Angulu who resigned the office to contest for FCT Senate on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last general elections. POLL “When I was called by the former FCT Minister, I was wondering what again I had committed. I was shocked when he invited me to join the FCT Administration”, Candido recalled. Well wishers at the event heaped ecomium on the former Secretary and hailed him for being a goal-getter and for achieving so much within a short period he was Secretary. The Hakimi of Idu, Ishak Ibrahim said Candido remained the best performing AMAC Chairman since creation. He prayed God to take him to higher grounds. Acting Director, Administration and Finance, Transportation Secretariat, Mrs. Racheal Didam thanked Candido for giving the staff the latitude to operate and encouraging to record many achievements. She said that the former Secretary was a motivator who was friendly yet firm and always had his eyes on attainment of every goal he set. Highlight of the event was the presentation of several gift items to past staff of the Secretariat.