LAGOS  – Stakeholders in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) have restated the value of the Fifth Generation (5G) services, especially on the positive use of the internet to ease connectivity. They also noted that 5G technology has enhanced capabilities that will provide superior communications services for the socio-economic development of Nigeria and facilitate the attainment of a national digital economy. Speakers at the 2023 Nigeria DigitalSENSE Forum (NDSF) on Internet Governance for Development (IG4D) with the theme “5G Data Governance, Safety and Security in Nigeria,” organised by ITRealms Media Group, made these assertions. Leading expert speakers at the forum in his keynote, the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta said that data is critical to the digital economy, and assured that NCC is building robust legal frameworks for data governance. “As we embrace the transformative potential of 5G, we must also prioritize safety concerns,” he asserted. Danbatta, who was represented by the Head of New Media, NCC, Dr. Chidi Diugwu, said that the amount and speed of data generated using 5G technology are unprecedented and beckoned citizens to embrace it and use it to the fullest. As such, he pointed out the need to always prioritize consumer privacy, transparency and ethical data use. Maintaining that by cultivating trust and handling data responsibly, would unlock the full potential of 5G technology and promote innovation in Nigeria. “To ensure the security and protection of networks and consumers, the Nigerian Communications Act mandates its licensees to prevent their network facilities or services from being used in, or with, the commission of any offence under any law in operation in Nigeria. In this regard, licensees are required to assist the Commission and other Law Enforcement Agencies in preventing crime in Nigeria,” he said. POLL The chairman of the 2023 Nigeria DigitalSENSE Forum (NDSF) and President, of the Computer Society of Nigeria (NCS), Prof. Simon Adesina Sodiya, said the internet is a global connection of networks, that provides an opportunity for people to share information to connect. “Apart from criminal activities, we should not forget that our children are in schools and have been allowed to use the internet. They should use it for something meaningful that will develop their life positively and not negatively. For instance, I have seen a father who said he found his 12-year-old child watching porn videos,” he said. What the government needed to do, according to Prof. Sodiya, is to educate parents on how to provide the internet for their children. Advising that parents should block some aspects of the internet that might endanger the life of their children. The Business Development Executive, Wizzhub Technology Limited, Mr. Uzor Francis, said he educated participants on the benefits of 5G, such as speed carrying capacity, how integral benefits and inter-connectivity of the devices that the internet offers, as 5G enables most of these things. About the challenges of 5G, especially on security, Uzor said that will require enlightened participants on some of the measures, urging Nigerians to mitigate the challenges they may face while using 5G mobile services. “It is important that 5G goes round not only to the cities but also in the villages so that everybody has access to it, to enhance connectivity for communications through the internet,” he said.