LAGOS  – The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), has called on the Federal Government to institutionalise wage policy machinery for manufacturers and other investors that could automatically adjust wages or hedge it against inflation as done in other climes to boost the productivity potential of investors in the private sector NECA’s Director-General, Mr. Adewale-Smatt Oyerinde, made the call in charts with Daily Independent while reacting to the plights of investors, the largest employers of labour, in the nation’s economy. He said: “It is pertinent to note that a realistic wage policy, whether minimum or living wage should be fundamentally based on sustainable enterprises, productivity and economic development. “Thus, beyond the anticipated national minimum wage negotiation, creating an environment that ensures enterprise sustainability will not only promote regular and seamless wage adjustments, it will also ensure an upscale in the general standard of living of Nigerians. “Government must put in place and institutionalize wage policy machinery that could automatically adjust wages or hedge it against inflation as done in other climes, “ he said. Oyerinde noted that the current National Minimum Wage (NMW) of N30,000 came into effect in 2019 after a structured negotiation by the NMW Committee. The committee, he said, comprised of NECA, the Nigeria Labour Congress, the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria, and the government, in line with the International Labour Organisation Convention 131 – the Minimum Wage Fixing Convention. He said that the recommendation of the committee was approved by the government and signed into law. POLL “Statutorily, the current minimum wage is due for a review, thus, it is expected that the machinery for setting a new NMW, effective 2024, should be put in place to commence its assignment, as urgently as possible. “We state most responsibly, that as the government puts in place the machinery for the NMW negotiation, concurrent and urgent efforts should be made to stabilise the economy by refocusing the fiscal and monetary policies to be pro-growth. “Also, address the challenge of the multiplicity of taxes and levies; deal with strangulating regulations that appear to stifle productive activities rather than promote them; address the increasing inflation rate. “Decisively deal with government’s revenue challenge and the generally inhospitable business environment,“ he said.