ENUGU – Sequel to the declaration of the Executive Governor of Enugu State, Dr. Barr. Peter Ndubuisi Mbah, putting an end to the illegal Sit-at-home order in the State, the Commissioner of Police, CP Ahmed Ammani, has ordered Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers, Commanders of PMF Squadron Bases, other Tactical and Operational Units of the Command, to deploy personnel and all the operational and intelligence resources at their disposal to actualize the declaration, by ensuring maximum public security and safety of citizens and property in the State on the hitherto illegal Sit-at-home days. In a statement made available to Journalists in Enugu on Saturday, DSP Daniel Ndukwe,state Police Public Relations Officer further directs them to ensure that the strategies already devised to reverse the ugly trend are implemented to the letter, warning that lapses on their parts shall not be tolerated. The Commissioner noted that innocent and law-abiding citizens of the State deserve to go about their lawful businesses without fear of harassment or physical threats by unscrupulous and subversive criminal elements, enforcing the illegal Sit-at-home order. He tasked the Supervisory Officers and personnel under them to live up to expectations, by ensuring that every part of the State is visibly patrolled and necessary policing actions taken to forestall possible adverse activities of the undesirable criminal elements. CP Ammani reiterates that the operations to end the illegal Sit-at-home order will be jointly executed by the Police, the Military, and other Security Agencies in the State. He therefore warned unrepentant and subversive criminal elements, known to have in recent times murdered fellow brothers and sisters, destroyed their property and disrupted the social and economic well-being of their people without conscience, in the name of enforcing the inconceivable illegal Sit-at-home order, to turn over a new leaf, as the Security Forces shall not spare any person or individuals found wanting. The CP, therefore, enjoined citizens of the State to cooperate with the Police and the Joint Security Forces, while remaining law-abiding and vigilant as they fully begin to go about their lawful businesses on Mondays, like every other work day. He urges them to promptly report criminals and their activities on such days and beyond to the nearest Police Station or call the Command’s emergency hotlines on: 08032003702, 08075380883, 08086671202 or 08098880172 for necessary policing actions.