WARRI – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been called upon to tap into the music and sports industry with a view to create meaningful means of livelihood for the nations teeming unemployed youths. This call was made by Mr. Chinedu Okoro, Chief Executive Officer, Icon Music Records, in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Warri, Delta State, he said that Nigerian youth are talented in music and sports adding that if the government under President Tinubu focusses on the two industries by means of training, retraining and provision of state of the art facilities put in place and made accessible to interested youths, it would lead to improved Gross Domestic Product(GDP).. He said that the aforementioned industries should be well funded as they should be used for empowering the youths thereby reducing unemployment in the country. Responding to a question on removal of petroleum subsidy, Mr. Chinedu said that the removal of subsidy was the right thing to do but the timing of the announcement and implementation during the President’s inauguration caused panic across the country that made owners of petrol stations to hike the pump prices of Premim Motor S pirit(Petro) thereby affecting transportation prices in the country. He disclosed that Icon Music Records has been a dream of his, since 2005 when the idea was conceived, adding, “today, it is birthed as an international record label licensed to deliver on and promotion of young artists from across the African continent.” Mr. Okoro added, “the label is dynamic, set up to dish out back to back hits from some of the best artists in the industry, irrespective of genres.” The Chief Executive Officer of Icon Music Record Label spoke further, “Icon Music Records is registered in the UK as well as Nigeria. We pay attention to the fact that we are a multi ethnic society, culturally competent to power music enjoyed from our rich and melodious culture. Music as universal tool has created so much entertainment to people all over from all facet of life and our record label has been structured to be a part of discovering that through music, a lot can be achieved with the youths and music.” He said that the record label currently has some amazing and gifted artists under it , adding, “we are proud to have them and more in subsequent time. We are here to give that opportunity to as many as are willing and ready to take advantage of the golden chance to take over the world through music.”