AKURE – There was tension in Ondo State House of Assembly on Friday as some members of the Assembly plotted to impeach the outgoing Speaker of the Assembly, Bamidele Oleyelo­gun. Policemen who were armed to the teeth were seen in large numbers cordoning off vehic­ular and human movement from the Assembly. Journalists and some per­sons were allowed in after thor­ough scrutiny. The 9th Assembly was to hold its valedictory seating which marked the expiration of the Assembly. Shortly after the policemen had taken over the Assembly premises, a purported letter of resignation of the speaker appeared on the social media. But the speaker, Oleyelo­gun, has denied resigning as the speaker of the outgoing Assembly. He ascribed the purported resignation letter to the mach­ination of a certain cabal plot­ting to cause chaos in the state. He said: “The purported resignation is no doubt the figment of the imagination of the peddlers of such heinous act as l did not contemplate or discussed such move with any member of the Assembly or family members. POLL “Let me tell members of the public that the purported letter of resignation did not emanate from me as it was forged by purveyors of such letter. “The Clerk of the House, Mr. Benjamin Jaiyeola (ESQ) has informed me that he did not re­ceive any letter of resignation which has given credence to the fact that the faceless writer is not informed of the process through which such weighty exercise can take. “I have not informed the Ex­ecutive Arm of Government of such resignation and I urge my honourable colleagues, staffers of the House of As­sembly, and members of my constituency to disregard the letter in its entirety and also urge the security agencies to investigate this false and ma­licious letter that has emanat­ed from the enemies who are working against the existing peace in the state.” A competent source in the Assembly, who craved anonymity, revealed that the impeachment of the speaker, Oleyelogun, was the first phase of the plot. He said the main target is the state Deputy Governor Lucky Aiyedatiwa, who is currently the acting governor of the state. According to the source, Oleyelogun was penciled down for impeachment because he’s a loyalist of the deputy gover­nor and would not allow the impeachment of the deputy governor to sail through. The source said: “It’s true that the Assembly wanted to impeach Oleyelogun as the speaker despite the short min­utes to the expiration of tenure of office. “Oleyelogun appeared on the plot because he had ob­structed every plot to impeach the deputy governor. He’s too loyal to him.” A chieftain of All Progres­sives Congress (APC) in the state, who craved anonymity disclosed that the outgoing lawmakers who wanted to re­move the speaker were work­ing for a strong governorship aspirant whose name he didn’t mention. He said the deputy gover­nor needed to be removed from office so that he won’t be able to use his office to influence na­tional leaders of the party and the president to get the party’s governorship ticket. “The governorship election in Ondo State is approaching and the deputy governor has shown interest. If he remains in office, he will use the office to perpetuate himself in office. “We all know that the Gover­nor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu is currently indis­posed and Aiyedatiwa may continue to govern the state in acting capacity till the party’s primary. “If this should happen, that will present him an opportu­nity to meet President Tinubu and national executive of our party to get the governorship ticket through the back door.” A competent security source revealed to Saturday IN­DEPENDENT that the infor­mation on the gang up against the deputy governor filtered in on Thursday night and Police was put on red alert. “They just wanted to pun­ish the speaker for frustrating all strategies to impeach the deputy governor. “But the deputy governor may need to brace up and be a step ahead of those plotting his impeachment as the members of 10th Assembly would surely inherit the plot.” The chieftain of APC noted that the escape of Oleyelogun was not the end of the plot, but rather an end of a phase. He said: “The 10th Assem­bly that would be inaugurated tomorrow (Saturday) would inherit and implement the re­maining phases of the ploy to remove the deputy governor. “Aiyedatiwa may not likely escape the other stages of this plot because there are so many people interested in the gover­norship ticket. “Let’s just keep our fingers crossed and watch how things will unfold.”