The Kogi State Police Command has announced the revocation of an earlier pardon granted a notorious criminal known as Kabar Bala alias Okwo. The revocation was made known to journalists by Akeem Yusuf, the Kogi State  Commissioner of Police at a press conference on Thursday while intimating the media on the current security situation. Below is the full text of the press briefing detailing the catalog of atrocious activities of the murderous gang leader, now neutralised by the concerted effort of the gallant joint security personnel of the state: Today, Thursday 22nd June 2023, I invited you here to appraise you with the current security situations in the State. Consequent to the decision reached at the State security meeting on the upsurge of criminal activities in the State. It would be recalled that the Kogi State Government in October 2018 granted a pardon in the prerogative of mercy as part of rehabilitation to one notorious gang leader named KABIR BALA alias (OKWO) in Ejule, Ofu LGA. However, the said Kabir Bala remained an unrepentant criminal with lots of atrocities traced to him which includes; dealing in illegal arms, Kidnappings and killings in the State. Several cases had been traced to him such as: POLL ii.Attack on Elisha Aya, Pastor and founder of Kingdom Faith Assembly Ejule on 18 March, 2022 who later paid N1 million naira to Bala as levy for establishing a Church. iii.Invasion of Egane Fulani settlement, burning 213, huts, rustled 122 cows on 25 December, 2022. IV.Assault on the Lord’s Chosen Church, Ejule on 29 January 2023 for disturbing his Hotel with their Service, during which Joy Abuh, a worshipper sustained gunshot injury on her left hand. V.He was also responsible for seven (7) Kidnappings along Itobe-Anyigba highway from 5th to 28th May 2023.Based on the above facts, the decision reached at the ‘State Security Council meeting held on 20th June 2023, that; a. The state pardon granted to Kabir Bala in 2018 be revoked immediately. b. Security agencies must go after Kabir Bala and arrest him immediately for prosecution. c. All known agents of Kabir Bala in criminal activities must be apprehended to face the law. d. All illegal arms in the possession of criminals in that area should be recovered for peace of the State. e. Joint Operations should be set up comprising the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Navy, Nigeria Police, DSS, Civil Defence to go after Kabir Bala and his gang to arrest them and recover the arms in their possessionToday, 22nd June 2023, at about 0430hrs in pursuit of the above, the Kabir Bala and his gang members on sighting the Joint Security team opened fire on them and started shooting sporadically. The team engaged the hoodlums; the said Kabir Bala was neutralized in the process while other members of his gang escaped with varying degrees of injuries,Items recovered from his premises include;i.One (1) AK 47 Rifle with three(3) fully loaded magazinesSix (6) locally fabricated weaponsill.Two (2) Phones and Charms Finally, I wish to reiterate that, the ongoing onslaught against criminal activities will be sustained to ensure the safety of lives and properties in the State. Thank You and God Bless.