LAGOS – MTN Nigeria Communica­tions Plc, has been com­mended for its contribu­tions towards fostering gender equality in the workplace. This recognition was conferred at the Nigeria2Equal Gender Leader Awards in Victoria Island, Lagos on Thursday, June 15, 2023. Organised by the Nigerian Ex­change (NGX) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) the Gen­der Leader Awards salute leading performers in the arena of gender equality. MTN Nigeria emerged as the star performer of the evening, claiming the coveted Outstanding Gender Leader Award, and establishing it­self as the top-performing performed company across all categories. The company also won Family-Friendly Workplace Excellence, Gender Equal­ity Champion and Company Leader­ship Gender Diversity Awards. These recognitions were based on MTN’s stellar performance, bench­marked against criteria set in in the IFC’s Gender Equality in Nigeria’s Private Sector report. Karl Toriola, MTN Nigeria’s Chief Executive Officer, expressed delight at the recognitions, stating, “Gender equality sits at the heart of our identity and organisational culture. “Our mission at MTN Nigeria is to build not only a successful busi­ness but an inclusive one. This award underscores our belief that diversity is our strength. “We believe that a diverse work­force catalyses innovation and fuels our passion for driving change and enabling growth. Together, we are shaping a future where gender equal­ity is not an aspiration, but a reality.” POLL Adding to this, Chief Human Re­sources Officer, MTN Nigeria, Esther Akinnukawe noted, “At MTN Nige­ria, we understand that an empow­ered woman means an empowered community and, ultimately, a more prosperous nation. That’s why we don’t merely create policies to foster gender equality; we ingrain them into our cultural DNA. “We believe in nurturing an en­vironment where potential is rec­ognised and rewarded, irrespective of gender. This award reminds us that our dedication to gender equality makes a difference, and it motivates us to do even more for the betterment of our society.” Ms. Dahlia Khalifa, IFC’s Regional Director for Central Africa, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone, while speaking about the Gender Leader Awards, said: “As we celebrate the accomplishments of these organiza­tions who have shown outstanding leadership in closing the gender gaps within their own organizations, we acknowledge the power of collabora­tion and the transformative impact that specific, measurable, and time-bound commitments can have on achieving gender parity in Nigeria’s private sector. IFC remains resolute in our commitment to sustain the mo­mentum and scale up our efforts for a more gender-balanced, prosperous future.”