MAKURDI – The Benue State Governor, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia has nullified the appointments of all civil servants that were engaged by the administration of the immediate past Governor of the state, Samuel Ortom from May 2022 to May 2023. He also ordered that the appointment of civil servants that were appointed as Permanent Secretaries from January, 2023 to date be reverted forthwith. But in a quick reaction to the directives by the Governor, the Benue State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) condemned the decision taken by the State Governor, describing it as unlawful, insensitive and callous. In a statement signed by Sir Kula Tersoo, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Alia and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Wednesday, the Governor also nullified all postings and transfers made by the previous administration from October 2022 to date. According to the statement, “All recent appointments into the State Civil Service made by the outgone administration from May 2022 to date are hereby nullified with immediate effect. “All those who have retired but are yet to vacate their offices or duty post either because of extension or contract appointment are to proceed on retirement forthwith. “All Civil Servants due for retirement but are yet to tender their letters of retirement or notice of retirement should do so forthwith and proceed on retirement immediately. “All Civil Servants and or persons appointed Permanent Secretaries from the month of January 2023 to date should revert to their previous positions forthwith. POLL “All the postings and transfers made in the state civil service from October 2022, to date are hereby nullified. The affected staff should revert to their former ranks, or stations or offices with immediate effect”, the statement read. But in it’s reaction, the PDP expressed “strong condemnation of the directive issued by the state Governor, Hyacinth Alia, to the effect that some categories of the Benue State Civil Service have been sacked from their jobs.” Speaking at a press conference held at the PDP secretariat in Makurdi on Wednesday, Acting Chairman of the party, Isaac Mffo said, “But of particular concern to us as the leading opposition in the state is the directive that “All recent appointments into the State Civil Service made by the outgone administration from May 2022 to date are hereby nullified with immediate effect”. “PDP condemns in no uncertain terms this directive as unlawful, insensitive and callous. “The affected civil servants were given lawful appointments into the state civil service having fulfilled all statutory requirements and until this directive were entitled to all the rights, privileges and protections guaranteed them under the labour laws of the state. “This is to say that loss of such rights, privileges and protections cannot be at the whim of anyone, no matter how highly placed, including the governor, but can only be for reasons prescribed under same laws, which do not include the action taken by Governor Alia.” Mffo further stated that “The insensitivity in the Benue State Governor’s action becomes more glaring when viewed against the backdrop of the untold hardship which Nigerians were subjected to under the recently expired Buhari regime in the forms of catastrophic economic mismanagement and such insecurity as directly threatened the country’s sovereignty. “Governor Alia, being a direct offshoot of the cruel and visionless Buhari regime, should be threading cautiously as Governor of Benue State so as not to aggravate the pains and sufferings inflicted on the people of the state by that regime. “Perhaps the Governor need to be reminded that to the eleventh hour of his tenure, out-gone President, Muhammadu Buhari made appointments into the federal civil service which President Tinubu has inherited and is working with. “PDP observes sadly that by this latest sack order Governor Alia has continued by the wrong footing of his administration so far, by executing weighty actions without following due process of consultations and interactive engagements needed to input into those actions necessary public content and connect as should obtain in a participatory democracy such as ours. “One of such wrong steps was the administration’s inauguration last Saturday of a security outfit owned by one Aliyu Tershaku which is commanded and staffed by men of Fulani ethnic stock, yet given the mandate to return farmers displaced by Fulani herdsmen back to their ancestral lands. “We condemn all the misguided, arbitrary and unpopular actions so far taken by Governor Hyacinth Alia and we call on all who mean well for Benue State to do same. This arbitrary sack order on Benue civil servants and those issued earlier to heads of Agencies and Parastatals in the state only opens the gateway to possible litigations which will not be in the interest of the administration and the state at large. “Governor Alia should, therefore, without delay rescind the sack order he has issued to the thousands of civil servants in the state, as to do so will be to save his administration and the state as a whole the ill wind which the action is bound to generate which will surely do no one any good”, Mffo warned.