ABUJA – The Delta state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has revealed how the former Deputy President of the Senate and governorship candidate of the party in the state, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege worked against President Bola Ahmed Tinubu during the presidential election. The state chapter of the party urged the President to investigate and also order a restructure of the Delta State APC in preparation for the 2027 general elections. The party has also raised alarm over the threat to the lives of its State Chairman, Hon Isaac Ulebor, State Secretary, Inana Micheal, Dr Cairo Ojougboh and other members of the state executive. Reacting to the advert publication of June 22, 2023, in one of the National Dailies, the state chapter of the party, in a statement by its Secretary, Inana Michael, Delta North Chairman, Engr. Tom Onah, Delta South Chairman, Nelson Ogharamidiki and Delta Central Chairman, Michael Orunefe respectively, noted that Ojougboh is being castigated because of his boldness to speak the truth. Quoting Plato to buttress the person of Ojougboh, the party executive said, “No one is more hated than he who speaks the truth.” They said: “We, therefore, understand the reason Omo-Agege’s desire is to roast Dr Cairo Ojougboh, who will always speak the truth to power in whatever endeavour God bestows on him. “In our open letter to His Excellency President Ahmed Bola Tinubu, we asked Mr. President to invite the security agencies to investigate those issues we raised in and out. This was because we are sure of what we are saying. Meanwhile, in the paid advert newspaper response, Omo-Agege and his group could not summon the courage to address the issues raised.” Responding to four of the issues raised in the publication, the state chapter of the party led by Ulebor, insisted that Omo-Agege worked against the APC and Tinubu during the presidential election. POLL The state chapter of the party said: “It is common knowledge in the whole of Delta State, that Ovie Omo-Agege worked against APC and President Tinubu during the Presidential elections. Omo-Agege, Peter Obi and the Obedient movement went into alliance to support Peter Obi for the Presidential election and support Omo-Agege for the Governorship. “There were billboards and banners of him and the Labour Party candidate all over the State. One such was in the kwele- Asaba road, with the pictures of Obi/Datti for President, Omo-Agege/Osenabi for Governor and Deputy Governor. “The funds meant to prosecute the Presidential elections were not distributed until after the Presidential elections. The few persons who received monies were instructed to keep the monies for the Governorship elections.” Speaking on the membership of the suspended Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele as APC member, the state chapter alleged that Emefiele receive APC membership card right inside his office at the CBN headquarters in Abuja delivered by Ovie Omo-Agege himself. They said that Omo-Agege personally handpicked the Delta State delegate to the National Convention, adding that the so-called Delta Exco paraded by Omo-Agege never even paid for and filled forms to contest for the party offices they occupy. “We are using this opportunity to challenge the Party National Headquarters to show Nigerians proof of filled forms and payments by them with which they paid for forms as required by the Party’s constitution. Mr. President is submissively invited to look into the above and order a restructure of Delta State APC in preparation for the 2027 general elections,” the state chapter said. On threat to lives of the members, the state chapter said, “we notify the general public and security agencies that our State Chairman, Hon Isaac Ulebor, State secretary Inana Micheal, Delta North Chairman Engr Tom Onah, Delta South Chairman Nelson Ogharamidiki, Delta Central Chairman Micheal Oruado, and Dr. Cairo Ojougboh continue to receive threat calls. We, therefore, appeal for security agencies to provide us with the necessary security. “The only offence of Dr. Cairo Ojougboh is that he refused to cooperate with Omo-Agege to betray President Ahmed Bola Tinubu, GCFR.” They challenged Omo-Agege to tell Nigerians how Tinubu failed when he was the Deputy President of the Senate, adding, “let Omo-Agege tell Nigerians how the same APC that got over 30% in the 2019 Presidential elections in Delta State, couldn’t even manage to garner 25% during the 2023 Presidential elections when the State has a DSP, who hijacked the entire party structure.”