ISEGHE AJAYI It is a good thing to invest your money lying fallow in the bank with no significant multiplier effect regardless of the period because it is more profitable if the money is invested appropriately. There are several investment schemes out there that are very tempting because of the outrageous interest given but, in the end, leave their victims stranded and devastated. That is why it is very crucial to be cautious of investments that are enticing to avoid being duped. Every right-thinking individual has the ambition to achieve especially in the area of their financial life and as such set realistic financial goals for the year which could be either short or long-term depending on the choice of the person. Also, they set instruments to reach these goals which actually are the best way to grow one’s money rather than putting it in the bank, attracting inconsequential interest at the end of the month. There is no doubt that investing in a harsh economy can be very challenging and can simply be possible if one has a stable source of income coupled with self-determination, discipline and financial prudence. It is very correct that having good investments is essential to one’s financial prospects, particularly during retirement age, but wrong investments can wreck one’s financial goal because it is very easy to lose an entire savings in a twinkle of an eye if one falls prey to wrong investments. POLL Hence, the need to be very watchful and do not allow your emotions to overwhelm you especially if you do not have a clue about that investment. That is why it is imperative to be familiar with the business terrain and mingle with people that are prudent and knowledgeable in your area of interest before putting your finances. It is critical to know that you do not need to rely only on your knowledge and experience when making investment decisions as it does not work that way! Human behaviours are our worst enemy and we often know what we should be doing but tend to react to market fluctuations in an emotional way or ignore red flags. Those types of behaviours result in added tension and usually cause you to lose money in the long run. The under-listed strategy can help you to be very cautious of the investments you dabble into to avoid financial heartache: Must Be Knowledgeable When you put your money into a business you know nothing about, you are bound to suffer a great financial loss! Do you know that the ability to make an effective business decision depends on your level of literacy? Having financial knowledge about a product or business will certainly improve your awareness and stop you from making investment blunders that could be disastrous to your financial goals. Besides, a lack of financial literacy has penalties such as poor investment decisions and the recurrence of earlier investment errors. Do Not Follow The Crowd If your investment decisions are based on the latest trend in the market without doing proper research, it means that you are following the crowd and you are bound to fall into investment error. Do not let your decisions be influenced by your peers especially in the area of investment you are not sure enough as a large number of people only hear about an investment when it has already performed creditably. You must also have it at the back of your mind that a product or business suitable for your associates or friends may not be appropriate for you. So, avoid making the mistake of investing in the market trend but instead focus on your suitability with the investments. Lack Of Diversification Hurling all of your money into one investment or similar investments is just asking for trouble. Instead, you should consider having a variety of investments such as real estate, bonds, and debt instruments. It is important to take an unbiased approach to investing and consider the tax implications and fees as part of the overall picture as ignoring this could be a big drawback on your investment returns over time. Shun Puzzling Investments Investment that keeps you confused especially if you do not understand how it works should be shunned. Mind you, when you lack understanding or knowledge of a particular investment, you are prone to make bad decisions or mistakes. That is why it is expedient for you to ask questions or take a bow if you are confronted with investments, you do not understand or are not familiar with. Do Not Put All Your Eggs In One Basket It is important you do not put all your money in the same type of investment to avoid misfortune if there is a business failure. Anybody who counsels such does not have your interest at heart and as such should be avoided. Seek Professional Help You need professional help especially if you are not acquainted with an investment, you are interested in. That you do not understand or have knowledge of time of investment is no big deal as there are professionals ready to help you with your investment and counsel you with the best decisions that would make the most of your profit on investment. Do Not Time The Market No one can envisage market conditions at any given moment , but several people think they have the inside measure. Putting your money in an investment all at once thinking it would only go up can be a risky idea. It would do you good not to make the mistake of trying to time the market and focus on having a plan for making regular contributions. Do you know that making those contributions consistent means that no matter what the market is doing, you would be buying more stocks and building your portfolio irrespective of the situation? For example, assuming there is a recession and your investment falls in value, making regular contributions signifies that you would end up purchasing more shares at a lower price. More so, making automatic contributions reduces market risk and helps you to build your investments over time. Must Have A Plan When you fail to plan for your financial future, there is no way you will be able to determine how much risk you are eager to take with your investments. Besides, having a plan or roadmap helps you to attain a good financial future. With this, you can figure out your long-term goals through the aid of a financial expert who certainly would offer suggestions on how to invest. It is, however, imperative to make a plan on how you are going to invest your money and try as much as possible to stick to it. On no account must your investment be based on rumours, future calculations or expectations of market directions to avoid financial pain.