Alhaji Muritala Ajaka, the Kogi State gubernatorial candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in this interview speaks about undemocratic activities of the state government ahead of the governorship election and why the Federal Government should wade into the political issues in the state. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What can you say about the accusation that you attempted an attack on the Governor’s convoy? When I saw the Governor’s convoy I tried to tell my people to give way. I put a call across to the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of the Governor, he is a personal friend. I told him that he should have let us know that the governor was passing that way, at least he had my number. If you saw a crowd you ought to look for the leaders of the crowd. He should have called to say that the governor was coming behind. You were alleged to have blocked the governor’s convoy……. No, it’s not true. I didn’t do that. It was shocking to me when I saw the motor bikes of the governor’s convoy. The next thing I saw were gunshots on my car bonnet. I had to pack so that the governor could pass. The Governor packed his car and they started shooting. I had to call his CSO because I know him very well. I called him and asked what was happening? Did you take cover in the bush when the shooting was going on? No, I was in my car. I put a call across to him because I know them very well. We were together before now. You said that they shot at your bonnet, so it must be a bulletproof car…. POLL Yes, it is. After shooting at the bonnet, they also shot straight to the windscreen. I was saved yesterday (Saturday) because the car was bulletproof. The intention of the man who shot at my car was to kill. It is like the politics of acrimony in Kogi State is high on the table, why? That is their pattern any time that it is election season, it is their pattern. They always run after the strongest candidate. So, it is not new. Especially with SDP candidate…. Yes, the SDP candidate suffered that fate in 2019. Even in 2023, a colleague too wrote that her stronghold was allegedly dug up by the government of Kogi State. That is their trademark in Kogi. Have you reported the case to the police? Yes, immediately it happened I called on the Commissioner of Police to inform him, because during my coming the police was duly notified and the Department of State Services (DSS) was also duly notified. Did you have security escorts? Yes, I had security escorts. The intention was to provoke my police escort into action. I told them not to fire a single shot. It is unfortunate that we have this kind of a thing in our state. Every election season, we always see things like this and it is caused by the government. Like I said, it is high time that the federal government looked into this case because you cannot intimidate the people into submission. Democracy is about choice, everybody should be allowed to express his or her self. People should choose among the multitude of candidates but in the case of Kogi State, the Governor wants to force everybody into submission, which is not possible. The issue is that the state is built on tripod, West, East and Central. The Governor comes from the Central. It is expected that after eight years, either the West or the East takes over to balance the power equation in the state, but instead of that, the Governor wants his brother from the same ward as his successor. It provoked a lot of people in the  state. He wants to force all of us to buy into that arrangement. As it is now, the state is in crisis and the sooner the federal government comes in the better. How can I attack a sitting Governor? Even bandits don’t do that, not to talk of a civilian like me. Before now I have written a petition on this subject matter. I was the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC). They forged the signature of my ward chairman and alleged that I have been suspended. They took me to the state High Court. On the eve of the party primary, the state High Court gave an interim order affirming my purported suspension and disqualified me from participating in the primary. As a national officer of the party, because I was a member of the National Working Committee (NWC), the only way to participate in the election was to go to another party. Are you scared? Not at all. Do you intend to continue? Yes, I will continue. It is my right and I will see to the end. I believe very strongly that I have the people and I am the man to beat. He has the instrument of the state, how do you know that you are the man to beat? Democracy is about the people. He is using the instrument of state to suppress the citizens. Of course when he approached the people he knew that the people were bound to react. I hope that the Federal Government through its intelligence network will look into this matter by calling the government to order.