IBADAN  – The governorship election petition tribunal sitting in Oyo State on Monday heard the applications of the Al­lied Peoples Movement (APM) which is challeng­ing the victory of Gover­nor Seyi Makinde in the March 18, 2023 election and his party, the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP). The party is challenging the victory on the ground of non-compliance with the pro­visions of the Electoral Act by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The three-man Panel comprising: Justices Ejiro Emudainohwu (Chairman), Baraka Wali and I.S. Galad­ima, having listened to the arguments of counsel to the first respondent (INEC), the second respondent (PDP) and the third respondent (Oluseyi Makinde), with regard to the pre-hearing session submis­sions, adjourned till 3.00 p.m to give its report. The APM as Petitioner, rep­resented by Egwuaba Reuben, whose brief was held yester­day by M.0. Owolabi is chal­lenging the victory of Gover­nor Makinde on the ground that: “The election was invalid by reason of corrupt practic­es or substantial non-compli­ance with the provisions of the Electoral Act. And that the second respondent was not duly elected by a majori­ty of lawful votes cast at the election”. The party, therefore, urged the tribunal to declare “APM winner of the election”. It could be recalled that the PDP won the March 18, 2023 election with 563,756 votes while the APM polled 303 votes. The APM, however, did not list its gubernatorial can­didate in the state (Adeniran Adeyemi Oluaseye) as part of the petitioners, and he with the party’s State Chairman (Otunba Peter Fagbemi), and other executive members, have dissociated themselves from the petition. At the hearing on Monday, Dr. A. O. Ajana (SAN) and K. G. Duru appeared for the INEC; Isiaka Abiola Olagunju (SAN) with Ogunkunle Abi­ola and Oluwasesan Dada represented the PDP; while Otunba Kunle Kalejaye (SAN) with Oladipo Olasope (SAN) with S.S. Akinyele appeared for Governor Makinde. POLL In his Motion on Notice dated 10th June and filed on 11th June, 2023, Dr. Ajana said the INEC counsel used some vexatious expressions in his Written Address particularly paragraphs 2.6 and 2.7 where he said that the 1st respondent in his reply was “Being unrea­sonable and brought the appli­cation in an attempt to waste the time of the court”, noting “The court has its language and that such abusive words should not be indulged”.