Smallholder women farmers under the aegis of the Small Scale Women Farmers Organization in Nigeria (SWOFON), have cried out that they are not getting enough support to encourage women practicing agriculture. Bosede Toyin-Anifowose, Kwara state coordinator for SWOFON, who spoke on behalf of the women farmers during a stakeholders’ interactive forum organised by Center for Community Empowerment and Poverty Eradication (CCEPE) on the state’s agricultural sector in Ilorin, said women farmers needed to be empowered. She alleged that politicians hijacked most of the little grants apportioned to women farmers in the state, stating that most fertilisers and other benefits meant for SWOFON are mostly hijacked by politicians, depriving her members’ access to their rights. She said that they lack government support to improve and boost their productivity, stressing that SWOFON needed inputs, land, and other resources to support their efforts. She noted further that the women farmers have been neglected and all attention has been on men farmers, adding that the women farmers need more support from the government to boost their morals. “We have been neglected. All attention has been on men farmers. We need more support from the government to boost our morals. We need land for cluster farming, we need agricultural inputs. Speaking further she said that the women farmers deserve an interest free loan to support their agricultural business, while challenging the government to give them grants to boost their productivity and see how the women will exceed government’s expectations. “We deserve an interest-free loan to support our agricultural business. Give us grants and see how we will exceed your expectations. We have what it takes to produce enough food to feed Kwarans and the nation,” she said. POLL She, however, advised the government not to merge farmers’ grants with politicians’ grants, saying that farmers were being cheated. Abdurrahman Akindele-Ayuba, Executive Director, Center for Community Empowerment and Poverty Eradication (CCEPE), said that the interactive forum was organized for agricultural stakeholders to engage and interact on a way forward for farmers in the state. He also said that the programme was designed to get support for small scale women farmers, and also to know the policies, programmes and intervention of the government for women farmers in the state. “As farmers, the government owes us some responsibilities to ensure that we live a good life and also to ensure we succeed in the trade we have chosen. “We have one coordinator each present here today, a representative from the 16 Local governments in Kwara. They are selected to take the message to their people,” he said. Ayuba, who is also the Coordinator of Scale Up Public Investment in Agriculture (SUPIA), said that the aim is to set a joint agenda to take their complaints to the government. He added that through the Action Aid Initiative, they were able to support women farmers across the state. Alhaja Medinat Idris, the Director Kwara State Ministry of Women Affairs encouraged the women farmers to revive the mini-market display strategy at the Ministry of Women’s Affairs as it had been done in the past. She advised SWOFON to write a letter through the Head of Service to request for monthly display of their farm produce to members of the public. “Be practical in your approach. Display your farm produce monthly at the Ministry premises and win the government’s attention. They will feel your impact and support whatever project you crave for,” she said. Yakub Abdulwahab, a representative of the Kwara state Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, commended the effort of the NGO to ensure women farmers were given the recognition they deserved. He assured that the Ministry of Agriculture would continue to support SWOFON in the state. Funmilayo Lawal, a coordinator of Ilorin East local government, also advised the government to provide good roads to help them move their farm produce to the market, while also calling for more funding and agric incentives to improve their output.