Amb. Iruoma Ofortube, is the Founder/Executive Director of Thyroid Awareness and Support Initiative (TASI), a non-profit and non-governmental organization in Nige­ria, in a chat with Daily Independent, said that the organization was borne out of a terrible experience she had, being a thy­roid survivor after battling and surviving thyroid disease. According to her, with near death ex­periences for six years, she got inspired through a divine calling to leverage on the traumatic experience she passed through to rescue others who may be passing through the same experience and are hopelessly prone to death due to lack of awareness or poor accessibility of proper HealthCare. She said since inception about five years ago, her organization has been in the forefront of advocating and promoting thyroid health awareness, disseminating information and sensitising the general public on the dangers and risks associated with thyroid disorders. According to her, thyroid disease is rated the second most common endocrine disease after diabetes, it is also a gender specific disease that is found more preva­lent in females than male. “Empirical research shows that one out of every four women will develop thyroid disorders, research has also proven that thyroid diseases are under reported in Af­rica due to misdiagnoses, consequently, 60% of the victims are walking the street undiagnosed and ignorant of their debili­tating health conditions, yet significant at­tention has not been channeled to thyroid health awareness by Government across boards and other relevant stakeholders like other popular public healthcare issues like cancer and HIV/AIDS. “TASI also functions as specialist inter­vention NGO by assisting patients affect­ed with thyroid disease, directing them to the right channel to access proper profes­sional and medical treatment, this is in line with our commitment to achieving the United Nations Sustainable Devel­opment goals, mainstreaming on SDG#3 (Good health and well being) and SDG#10 (Reduced Inequalities) and as part of our organizational goals to provide support and medical intervention across the urban rural and urban community because ev­eryone deserves good health regardless of your financial status and societal position, hence we bridge the gap. Ofortube , however, noted that in her organisation’s commitment to achieve its core organizational goals that is focused on providing support for people suffering from different types of thyroid disease, the free surgical outreach was launched in 2019 to provide support for the indigents who have different types of thyroid and other elated surgical intervention, and cannot afford the usual surgical bills. She noted that this program was done in collaboration with other healthcare of­ficials who are passionate about saving lives without demanding a pound of flesh. POLL “In the past three years we have been collaborating with Medibam Medical cen­ter among other teams of doctors with Dr Adebambo Bankole, a surgical Consultant as the medical Team lead. Speaking further she said about 180 beneficiaries have benefitted from the or­ganization’s free and subsidized surgeries, stressing that the free surgical outreach has a record 80 beneficiaries out of the number. “In this 2023 surgical outreach, we re­corded 40 successful surgeries with 40 beneficiaries, no casualties recorded. This year’s Surgical outreach was held in Lagos but had beneficiaries that came across the country. “This surgical outreach was funded with funds and support from individ­ual donors, corporate Organisations, and philanthropists mostly through our “Adopt A Patient Scheme.” Some of the beneficiaries while sharing their experience appreciated the Founder of the organization in giving them a rea­son to smile again. Some of them who have been with the disease for over 10 years could not hide their joy after a successful surgery cour­tesy of TASI, while speaking with Dai­ly Independent on what they have been through, the stigmatization, the names they have been tagged in their various communities among others. They said when the thyroid was still on them, it disfigured them and that they cannot smile or laugh as it is even very difficult for them to talk at times, but that now that the surgery has been done, they are free and beautiful. Dr Adebambo Bankole, while speaking said he is happy that a lot of success sto­ries have been recorded. He said in the past goiter has been prev­alent in Ondo, Ekiti, Edo, part of Delta and Kogi and that those areas are called goiter belt because goiter was common in those areas. He said they used to have the common­est type of goiter, which is endemic goiter, because they are deficient in iodine, as there is not enough iodine in their water and salt. Adebambo stated that there is now a re­duction due to the policy of inclusion of iodine in every production of what people consume like palm oil, salt among others. “Most of the goiters we have these days especially in the patients we operated on had what we called sporadic goiter, it just occurred without saying this is the cause, most of the patients who had it said no­body had it around them, though it can be hereditary. Fransisca Adewale, one of the bene­ficiaries said she got to know about the organization through her church platform and that ever since she met the group it has been a wonderful experience for her and that God has used TASI to remove her reproach of a very long time. “I have visited LASUTH several times but to no avail. I have spent time and mon­ey there; I did one test for 75,000 at the end of the day I could not be operated upon and after a long time I decided to sit back at home. But since I know TASI, and with the necessary test the surgery was done successfully. I spent about 150,000 for the surgery but it is much more than that in other places, TASI even allowed us to pay the money in installments. In LASUTH, I have spent over 300,000 for the test alone,” she said. George Gloria, another beneficiary, said meeting the organization was a wonder­ful experience, that it is something she is grateful to God for and will forever be grateful for. “From the very first time I met them it has been a wonderful experience through the time of the surgery. I say a very big thank you to them. I met them through a sister and after meeting them the rest is history. “The experience with the surgery was good, the support was there, they encour­aged me all through the time, even till I got to the theater, I was rest assured that it would go on smoothly and it was. “In terms of the cost I can say it is noth­ing compared to what I got from them and to what others are charging, I can say I did it free”. Ofortube, thereby stated that TASI was established to advocate as the voice of the population of people suffering to help es­calate and communicate the sufferings of people affected with thyroid disease, and advocate for government’s involvement in giving support to thyroid patients. On some of the challenges she said that governments across boards and other rel­evant stakeholders in Africa have not re­ally given significant attention to thyroid disorder by prioritizing the awareness of good thyroid health like other pub­lic health conditions such as HIV, AIDS, Cancer, Tuberculosis among others which attract a lot of attentions both from gov­ernment and international organizations. Another major challenge according to her is the paucity of funds. “One of our organizational goals is to drive thyroid awareness to both rural and urban areas, most importantly rural communities where thyroid disorders are more prevalent. She also said both diagnostic and ther­apeutic facilities for thyroid disorders are lacking in Nigeria and Africa at large, adding that cases of thyroid disorders are under-reported due to lack of awareness. “In the absence of government and cor­porate bodies giving their CSR support, many victims are dying in silence and ignorance.” She called for a need for policy push to prioritize Thyroid Disorders as one of the primary health issues, that there is also dire need of provision of diagnostic facil­ities and training of medical specialists on the treatment modalities of thyroid disorders in the public facilities across the nation.