Nigeria has operated a monolithic economy for too long and is at a stage where it needs as much as possible to generate revenue and diversify its economic base. A member of the Nigerian National Advisory Board for Impact Investing, Dr. Yemi Cardoso, made the observation while speaking as a guest lecturer at the Fourth Arthur Mbanefo Lecture held at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) recently. In the lecture titled, “Impact Investing -The Way Of The Future In Nigeria,” Cardoso described the topic as apt in the sense that one of the key problems that Nigerians have been struggling with is the issue of revenue and revenue diversification. The guest lecturer said that the impact investing management ecosystem as a means of revenue generation is still developing in Nigeria, adding that there are a lot of people looking for where they can invest. He urged Nigerians to take advantage of the readily available entity of impact investing to generate revenue as well as diversify from Nigeria’s monolithic economy. According to Cardoso, “The lecture today was basically focused on impact investing, the future for Nigeria because we can see that around the world, impact investing today is estimated to contribute over 1 trillion Dollars in activities worldwide. “Impact investing in terms of management in Nigeria is still developing,” he added. While calling for an enabling environment for impact investing, Cardoso said, “If the right ecosystem is put in place and the right things are done, many people will come into the environment and will want to invest. POLL “If there is no conducive environment for impact investing, people cannot come to invest because they don’t see enough of the transactions. “When people who are in the right position come to take advantage of impact investing, as a result of which there is more supply and investments, then there are investable transactions.” He called for greater awareness from Nigerians on what is going on in the area of impact investing to enable them to generate more revenue, adding, “There are many out there who don’t know that this market is there. They have to get awareness and start taking advantage of it.” He also called for a regulatory framework that will make it easy for those who want to come in to invest, do things, and over time get their money back. Cardoso said, “That regulatory framework has to be more enabling; where there’s seriousness by those who will utilise this money. Many times, it’s not so much intentional unseriousness but that set very high standards and there has to be a way of bringing those particular entities to world-class standards. “Once they are of world-class standards, then the investments will come,” he added.