The presence of HRM Ogiame Atuwatse 111, Olu of Warri as well as his wife, Olori at the 10th annual charitable gala nite of Ugbajo Itsekiri United Kingdom is a boost. This was disclosed by Mr. Mejebi Eyewuoma, President, Ugbajo Itsekiri, United Kingdom at the Palace of the Olu of Warri during a courtesy call on HRM Atuwatse 111, he said that the presence of the revered monarch would boost their charitable works in Iwere nation. Mr. Eyewuoma disclosed that the group, Ugbajo Itsekiri, United Kingdom is the only Itsekiri Non-Profitable Organization that is Incorporated by the United Kingdom Charity Commission focussed on promoting healthcare and education in Itsekiri rural communities. According to Mr. Eyewuoma, “one of our core projects is our Eye Cataract Project where we give support to our people back home. We are happy doing this project because of the testimonies and encouragement we are receiving from our people.” Mr. Eyewuoma stated further that their major motive of inviting the Warri Monarch to their forthcoming event was the king’s passion in promoting education and development in the Itsekiri nation which was evident in his recent visits to some parts of the world. The President of Ugbajo Itsekiri, United Kingdom further disclosed that the charitable gala nite slated for Saturday, July 29, 2023, at Rent Civic Centre, Wembley, London has a theme, “The Role Of Diaspora Community In Strategic Health And Education In Rural Communities”. He expressed his appreciation to the Olu for granting them an audience adding that their charitable works across Itsekiri communities speak volumes as they have been using the group to put smiles on the faces of their fellow Itsekiri brothers and sisters back home. He added, “Your Royal presence at our 10th annual Charitable Gala nite would give us a boost as well as encouragement to do more for our people back home.” POLL Responding, the Olu of Warri, who spoke through the Ologbotsere of Warri Kingdom, Chief Oma Eyewuoma charged members of Ugbajo Itsekiri, United Kingdom to continue in their charitable works to better the lives of Itsekiri people, he assured them of his presence at the Gala and Charitable nite. 