CHIBUIKE CHUKWU Despite the gloom in some parts of the country following the declaration of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the winner of the February presidential elections, some Nigerians were happy on May 29 that the inauguration finally came and was peaceful despite threats of disruption from some quarters. However, President Bola Tinubu, while delivering his inaugural speech re-echoed one of his campaign promises, announcing his plan to ensure a complete phasing off of the controversial fuel subsidy which has become a subject of intense debate in Nigeria since the issue gained prominence in 2012 when former President Goodluck Jonathan attempted to phase it out. Even the current President and his predecessor, former President Muhammad Buhari, played the ostrich in 2012 and pretended they never knew the underlying fraud behind subsidy payment, thus, they, alongside prominent rights activists, locked down the country and eventually forced the then Federal Government to reverse the removal. Realising the fraud inherent in fuel subsidy, Buhari tried albeit failed to also remove the subsidy and, later almost at the twilight of his regime, pegged the removal from July after capturing the subsidy payment in the present budget that would elapse in June, a budget President Tinubu inherited and quickly pronounced the ending to subsidy regime from then. The pronouncement has almost locked down the country through gridlocks at fuel stations, with pockets of demonstrations already reported. There is no doubt that fuel subsidy is a kind of organised economic crime that has continually enriched the wealthy and it has severally been described as a huge scam perpetrated by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Limited and their subsidiaries. For instance, the House of Representatives, last year, alleged that more than $10 billion worth of the nation’s crude had been stolen via fraudulent fuel subsidy claims by the NNPC and other industry stakeholders. POLL The lower parliament, it would be recalled, constituted an ad-hoc committee to investigate the petroleum products subsidy regime between 2017 and 2021 by the NNPC Limited. That followed the adoption of a motion by Sergius Ogun on the floor of the House where he said he was informed that as of 2002, the NNPC purchased crude oil at international market prices, which stood at 445,000 barrels per day. Among other arguments, Mr Ogun claimed that as at then, the transferred pump price per litre, used by the NNPC in relation to PPMC, was under-quoted as N123-N128 instead of N162-N165. He said that the fraudulent under-reporting of N37-N39 per litre, translated into more than N70 billion a month, or N840 billion naira a year. Ogun expressed worry that the consumption rate of petrol was 40 million to 45million litres per day, adding that the NNPC used 65 million to 100 million litres per day. According to him, the subsidy regime has been used by the NNPC and other critical stakeholders to subvert the nation’s crude oil revenue to more than $10 billion. Ogun said that records showed that as of 2021, over $7 billion of 120 million barrels was diverted. Corroborating the fraud inherent in the subsidy regime, former Central Bank (CBN) Governor, Muhammad Sanusi, said that most of the numbers from the country’s importation of petrol are “phantom”, stressing that “a lot of the petroleum subsidy being paid is from phantom fuel that never came into this country”. “The only reason it makes sense is that there are a number of people who control the levers of power, who are making billions and billions of dollars out of this scam that is called fuel subsidy. “Otherwise, there is no reason for governments to continue, when the argument is clear that the damage to the economy is clear. “We have this scheme called the subsidy, which is really a scam, and practically everything that comes in, goes right back out — to import petroleum products and pay subsidies on those products. I’m not saying subsidies, themselves, are bad but look at the numbers,” he was quoted to have said by The Cable. President Bola Tinubu also emphasised on the effects of subsidy removal, saying it only favours the rich, promising to re-channel the money to productive ventures for the masses. “Recently I was asked about fuel subsidy removal, and I said I will ensure we end the wastage and re-channel the money to the people who truly need it. “This is one position that almost all the candidates are united about. We all agreed that the subsidy regime is abused and it favours the rich more than the poor. It has to go.” The scam called subsidy has continued to gulp the lean resources of the country and under former President Buhari, the scourge continually saw increase. For example, before the revelation by the Reps, Buhari had written to the lower chamber of the National Assembly, demanding the adjustment to the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to accommodate the projected N4 trillion for petroleum subsidy in that year (last year). The president, in the letter read by the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, sought an increment of $11 to the oil benchmark to accommodate subsidy consumption and other expenses. The then president said N442.72 billion was earmarked for fuel subsidy in the 2022 budget (January-June), but that because of the hike in the price of crude oil, Nigeria was paying more for PMS subsidy, therefore, the country would require an additional N3.557 trillion for subsidy. It was a demand that irked not only the lower chamber of the National Assembly but the whole of Nigerians who also saw a huge fraud in the subsidy, more so when the money spent in the scam could actually fix some, if not all the moribund refineries in the land, and that was in line with their clamour and demonstration that trailed the 2012 pronouncement by Jonathan on subsidy removal. In a nutshell, in the seven years of Buhari’s administration, the Federal Government spent about a whopping N3.64 trillion of fuel subsidy between 2015 and 2021, according to a report by the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG). In the report published early last year, it disclosed that the Federal Government spent the sum on fuel subsidies between 2015 and 2021. The report also stated that the amount spent by the government on payment for petrol subsidy grew from N307 billion in 2015, to N1.77 trillion in 2021. This represented a 477 percent increase within seven years. Meanwhile, the implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), which stipulated the removal of petrol subsidy, was initially meant to commence in February 2022, but it was later shifted to July 2022. However, due to pressure and threat of protest by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC), subsidy removal was deferred by 18 months. Thus, the NESG noted in a report that many of the challenges encountered in 2022, would become amplified in 2023 and have an adverse impact on business productivity and citizens’ welfare if the Federal Government failed to initiate critical reforms that would achieve a paradigm shift in governance and policy design in Nigeria. The report, as obtained by our correspondent, read: “From the government fiscal position, between 2015 and 2021, Nigeria has spent a cumulative sum of N3.64 trillion on fuel subsidies, rising from N307 billion in 2015 to N1.77 trillion in 2021 – representing a whopping increase of 477 percent. “However, with the current rebound in the crude oil price, the burden of fuel subsidy cost will increase. On the other hand, the private sector argued that without a fair pricing system that comes with deregulation, expected inflows of investments would be hard to achieve; meanwhile, the average citizens considered the inflationary pressure that would come with subsidy removal and the impacts on the cost of living and welfare.” Laoye Jaiyeola, the CEO of NESG, stated in the report that, “the year 2022 presents opportunities to initialise critical reforms to achieve a paradigm shift in governance and policy design in Nigeria. “If we miss these opportunities for critical reforms, many of the challenges encountered in 2021 and 2022 will become amplified the following year, leading to an adverse impact on business productivity and citizens’ welfare.” From all intent, it’s obvious that the removal of fuel subsidy is timely; no wonder the three leading presidential candidates in the last election, Tinubu, Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) and Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) made subsidy removal their cardinal campaign trajectory. However, DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered from a source within the All Progressives Congress (APC) that President Tinubu could have acted to impress on Nigerians to accept his mandate and desire to match his campaign promises with actions. “They are setting traps for him and I hope he doesn’t fall inside it because the current budget still captures subsidy; starting this with the removal of petrol subsidy will definitely pitch his administration against the organised labour and Nigerians in general. I know there are opinions from here and there but he should be mindful that some of them may be a trap for him to call inside,” said an APC stalwart in Lagos State who spoke on anonymity, saying Tinubu should recuse himself from those who may want to advise him to start with immediately with the subsidy issue. “He should dialogue, engage and look at phased removal starting from July otherwise he will start an early battle that may affect all other things and that won’t give him time to provide democratic dividends to Nigerians,” the Abia State-born politician resident in Lagos admitted. According to analysts, allowing or removing fuel subsidy also presents a huge challenge to the new administration. For instance, according to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, the Buhari regime spent 96 percent of all revenue to service debt and at the same time borrowed to meet salary and pension commitments; thus and allowing subsidy will mean continuing in that direction while removing it will mean increase in the price of fuel and attendant high cost of living. As of today, petrol sells at about N600 per liter in a number of filling stations and transportation fares have almost tripled, making life very hard for ordinary Nigerians.