ISAAC ASABOR When in November 2021 the leadership of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), partnered to address multiple potential dubious conducts of certain money lenders, otherwise known as loan sharks, not few Nigerians might have thought that the collaboration would not yield fruit as they saw it as an exercise in rhetoric. However, contrary to their pessimistic attitude to the partnership, it has in no distant time begun to yield results, particularly from the side of FCCPC as it is unrelentingly pursuing its constitutional mandates as enshrined in Sections 17(a), (e), (g), (h), (i), (m), (s), (x), (y), (z); 123; 124; 127; 129; 130 of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act (FCCPA), 2018. If there is a commission that is strongly resolute in fulfilling its statutory mandate, and in that light readily been deploying several regulatory tools to monitor and modify the behavior of service providers and manufacturers, it is unarguably the FCCPC under the leadership of Mr. Babatunde Irukera as the Executive Vice-Chairman/Chief Executive Officer. Against the foregoing backdrop, it is expedient to recall that according to the foregoing mandates that the commission, last year, carried out an operation led by Irukera, which raided at least seven digital loan companies, derogatorily known as “Loan Sharks” operating in Ikeja, Lagos, for a “possible violation” of consumer rights. The operation was carried out in response to several complaints of malpractice on the part of the lenders. The top violations held against digital loan companies are the unethical manner of offering short-term loans to help subscribers meet urgent needs but resorting to unprofessional measures of harassment, cyberbullying, and breach of data privacy of their customers who may have defaulted in loan repayment. Companies swooped on in the raid cut across GoCash, Okash, EasyCredit, Kashkash, Speedy Choice, and Easy Moni, which are all under the management of a conglomerate known as Blue Ridge, and which operates on the third floor of a four-storied building in Opebi area of Ikeja, Lagos. Ostensibly to disabuse the minds of the workers of the loan companies that their employers were not unjustifiably slammed, Irukera during the operation told them of the purpose of the raid and their rights. POLL Soko Loan, another lending company, which at the time under reference operated in another location in the area with over 150 employees, and some of its employees protested the seizure of their equipment. As gathered, the operations were carried out by the FCCPC, Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), and the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). Against the foregoing backdrop, the commission has sustained its move to sanitise the sector as it has in the penultimate week recommenced the registration of Digital Money Lenders (DMLS) under the inter-agency Joint Task Force’s Limited Interim Regulatory/Registration Framework and Guidelines for Digital Lending 2022. The latest move as conveyed in a statement issued by Irukera reads: “According to Sections 17(a), (e), and (g), (h). (1), (m), (s), (x), (y), 18(3); 123; 124; 127; 129 and 130 of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act, 2018 (FCCPA). “Friday, June 9, 2023: On August 18, 2022, the Federal Competition & Consumer Protection Commission (Commission) as part of the Joint Regulatory and Enforcement Task Force (JRETF) introduced a Limited Interim Regulatory/Registration Framework and Guidelines for Digital Lending, 2022 (Guidelines 2022 or “Guidelines”), as well as an associated registration process/platform. “For already existing Digital Money Lenders (DMLS), the Guidelines mandated completion of the registration process by November 14, 2022, in order to remain in business and retain privileges of services by providers such as Google Play store and payment systems or gateways. On December 6, 2022, the Commission extended that deadline to January 31, 2023; and subsequently to March 27, 2023. “Since acceptance and processing of registration closed, the Commission has continued to be inundated with requests for registration, approval, or clearance by both then existing platforms that failed to timely comply with the mandatory deadlines, and new businesses seeking to commence operations. “Accordingly, while the JRETF continues the work of developing a more robust, comprehensive, and enduring digital lending regulatory framework, the Commission will resume receiving and approving eligible DML applications (new and previously inexistent businesses) and requests (including those already received and pending) under, and in accordance with the Guidelines and existing process. “With respect to businesses that existed, and or were taken down by the Google Play store, or ceased transaction processing or termination services by payment systems or gateways, the Commission will only consider and process such applications (whether currently received and pending before the commission or otherwise) upon a statement of justification that sufficiently articulates an acceptable reason or justification for failing to conclude or complete the registration before the expiration of the previously set deadline. “In addition, these applications (whether already received and pending, or otherwise) shall be subject to a late processing fee. This fee should be paid through the Remita platform under the Approval Fee section. “Financial institutions that are licensees, and subject to the regulatory oversight of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) are exempt and may obtain the required approval by a written request seeking a waiver by demonstrating such exemption, including evidence of licensure by the CBN. “The commission and JRETF continue to monitor the market and enforce the law with respect to digital lending. While violations still exist, the Commission notes a substantial reduction in practices that violate consumer privacy, and constitute harassment and unacceptable unconventional loan repayment/recovery strategies, as well as unexplained charges associated with loans. “The commission welcomes continued consumer vigilance in reporting incidents of infringement for appropriate regulatory responses”. The latest move by FCCPC has no doubt continued to attract applauses, particularly for the commission’s pragmatic intervention. Hendrix Iweka, a Lagos-based analyst in his view, said, “In as much as I can say that not all money lenders are operating illegally, I will continue to commend the commission. Though, with the infiltration of dubious ones among them into the system, it will be difficult for the commission to separate the wheat from the chaffs. That notwithstanding, the effort of the commission, particularly under Irukera is commendable. In his reaction, another respondent, Edwin Omodia said, “Loan companies in Nigeria not only send threatening messages but also use customers’ social media contacts to harass them. To me, that unprofessional way of recovering a loan is not healthy for the financial sector of the economy”. Akin Owolabi, a stakeholder said, “As more and more people contact FCCPC regarding scam losses and increasingly large losses, most people have been thinking about the need for the commission to do something. Fortunately, the leadership of the commission is practically doing something in its bid to clean up that subsector of the financial sector of the economy. I think the effort of the commission is commendable”. Nath Iwereibon, a businessman, said, “Before now, the focus of effort from regulators and industry to scam losses is to issue warnings. The raid carried out by FCCPC in collaboration with other stakeholders on unprofessional money lenders is a departure from the past, and it is admirable. I believe if this hardheaded effort is sustained it will reduce this “Shame-the-consumer” approach of recovering loans by shark borrowers. There is clear evidence that shows that loan sharks are increasing, and increasing substantially with each passing day. Jones Ediaghe, a financial analyst who was also reacting to the raids carried out on loan sharks by FCCPC and others, said, “A just and effective marketplace requires proper regulation and fair practices by the businesses who participate. So, what the commission is doing is in the right direction as it will lead to a better way of recovering loans taken from these questionable lenders. As it seems, FCCPC is more than ever before striving to engender a sane marketplace for consumers and give them a voice”.