Dr. Aderemi Olusegun, a Lagos-based industrialist and international safety expert is the Regional President, Occupational, Safety and Health Association (OSHA-UK) Nigeria region. The Atayero of Aramoko-Ekiti Kingdom recently celebrated his birth anniversary where he spoke about some burning national issues. YAQOUB POPOOLA brings the excerpts. To what extent do you think the Tinubu Presidency will deliver on its campaign promises? This is about the first time in our own lifetime we would have a true democrat becoming the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the person of President Bola Tinubu. All our agitations, aspirations as far as democracy and dividends is concerned, this is the time we would have it, because all democrats are known for giving back dividends of democracy that’s how it’s happening in a lot of places where there is democrat and I want to believe that Nigeria will not be an exception. We are on the right path, there is no doubt that our country is a developing country. The democratic government we have had in the past tried their best, now, this true democrat will give us what we want as far as democracy is concerned. As a direct descendant of Oduduwa, I believe that we would get what we want, this is our time! How would you rate Tinubu’s Presidency’s decisions in the last few weeks into his administration? Talking about the actions the present government has taken, I want to believe that the actions are in the right direction. As far as fuel subsidy is concerned, the removal of fuel subsidy is not the handiwork of this present government. The fuel subsidy has been removed by the last administration, just patching it for relief. Of course, it was made public that by the end of June, there won’t be a fuel subsidy, knowing full well that by May 29 they are gone. The present government has actually leveraged on that path to make the pronouncement on the day of the inauguration. Subsidy is a fraud that has been identified, it has been known for a very long time, because of the perpetrators, the high powerful people behind it. They were not able to control it, it ought to have been controlled at the right time. Do you think the introduction of subsidy is justified in the first place? The subsidy wasn’t intentional to be a fraud, but somehow along the line, it became a total fraud. Any responsible government would have just turned it around, there are different ways of subsidising. It is a way of cushioning the effect of hardship on people. Food, transport also can be subsidised. There are some societies where citizens don’t even pay for transport, that is on subsidy. In some societies, the cost of transportation is reduced drastically because the government decided to subsidise it. But we concentrate our own subsidy on petroleum alone, making it unreasonable. There are other ways it can be addressed. The important thing now is for government to cushion the effect of hardship on masses, such as provision of good roads by government, subsidised means of transportation and of course minimum wage is outdated. That amount of money is not sustainable. POLL Some Nigerians have begun to cast doubt on the Students Bill accented to by President Tinubu. What is your take on this? Whichever way you look at it, education is number one just as safety is important. If the government is talking about giving loan to people to go and study, it is a right step in the right direction. It will reduce social vices in the country. When people are educated, they will be able to project, and when they are able to project, they will be able to progress and when there is progress, there would be sanity in all ramifications. It is only those that are not educated, that are looking for other means of survival. Student loans will give a lot of families opportunity to send their children/wards to schools, there won’t be complain that I cannot go to school because I don’t have money. Government is here to help now to become a better person in the society and these are the handiwork of a democrat. In the past, we have had a lot of government and they never thought about that. It is a welcome development and would help the society. You are celebrating your birth anniversary. How has been the journey so far? I thank God for the opportunity so far and for giving me good life. When I say good life, it’s not about luxury of life. I’m talking about God’s protection and the opportunity to know what is right and where I belong. For the past three years, I have made up my mind that since I belong to this community, everything about me is about this community. I will be celebrating my birthday in this community. I pray to Almighty God to give me the opportunity to celebrate many more years.