LAGOS – Barrister Okey-Joe Onuakalusi, the lawmaker representing Oshoi/Isolo constituency 2 at the green chamber of the National Assembly (NASS) has said that he will partner the government of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State for the development of the constituency. The lawmaker, who got to NASS on the platform of the Labour Party (LP) told Daily Independent that he wouldn’t hesitate to reach out to Lagos State government and partner with it, stressing that political differences won’t be a barrier to delivering the dividend of democracy to the citizens. Speaking further the lawmaker said, “Once you are elected to serve, you’re no longer in partisan politics. All we need is governance and governance has to work. Even though we are coming from different political parties, the most important thing is what constituency projects you are bringing to your constituents. “After the inauguration, we had a discussion with the Governor of Lagos State and I told him that we are ready for a strategic partnership that will promote Lagos State even though we are from different political parties. “Whatever programme that we want to push from Abuja which will be for the common interest of Lagosians, I’m available to do it. We won’t compromise our position as Labour Party legislators. On his plan to fulfill his campaign promises, he said, “I have mapped out roads for construction and rehabilitation. If you go to my constituency, we commissioned eight roads in December last year, done by individuals. “The ones in the Okota axis were individually built as well. Those that fall under category B of the roads, I will take them to the state governor and tell him, “These are the roads that need your attention. All the roads built in the Greenfield estate were done by the landlords. All the roads built in Canal estate were done by the landlords. At the back of Century hotel, all the roads constructed there were done by the landlords. He added, “We also have some bad roads in the Ejigbo area of my constituency. We will list the roads that need attention, and the drainages as well. I will forward them to the Governor. I won’t say that I won’t approach him for infrastructure development because he is from a different political party,” he said.