PORT HARCOURT – A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Rivers State has called on the former Governor, Nyesom Wike to dump the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, for the APC. Leader of the APC in Rivers State, Chief Tony Okocha who made the plea in Port Harcourt, the state capital, said APC needs the value of the former Governor and appealed to him to come over and lead the party. Okocha said that some of those who did not work for the emergence of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu in Rivers State are now sending their CVs and claiming entitlements for the new administration. “I want to use this opportunity to tell the world that as much as i am not against anybody benefiting from the system I am against anything that anybody will go and get the person that want to get such thing should not base it on lies on what he didn’t do. “At the point we are now this persons should be playing secondary roles and not primary role. We are told that they have begin to assembly CVs from there supporters and promising them that they have the connection that they are Tinubu’s son and first daughter that they have the capacity to make them take the position that is due Rivers State and we are here to tell the world that it’s against natural laws natural laws are the only thing that is fixed”. Okocha at a press conference in Port Harcourt said “Many of us risked our lives and stake our necks over the elections in Rivers State our wives would have been widows, our children would have been fatherless because of the election. “We also want to rekindled and emphasis the fact leadership is as old as creation that in the leadership of the Tinubu’s family in Rivers State that we are pleased 100% with you  His Excellence Nyesom Wike as our leader in Rivers State because he who pays the piper detects the tune. “When it was difficult when even the national could not oblige us funds for the national rally when some group of persons made it impossible for money to move for the campaign in the State but Wike made it possible to fund our agents in the 6868 polling units in the State and do some background works and thereafter make it possible for us to win the election. POLL “As a demand because we won election, Rivers State is one of the States that delivered Tinubu outrightly and even in south South it’s in Rivers State that Tinubu won outrightly so we have the right of entitlement. “Our demand is that nobody should rob Peter to pay Paul. Our own share of the butty should be given to us it should be handed over to be handed over to governor Wike. “We are confident that as soon as the bootie gets to him he knows those who worked for Tinubu and it should get to us. It’s only natural that that’s how it should go”. He said as a party, there will be election in the next couple of months or years. There will be another election in Nigeria. Truly, APC in Rivers State is bleeding. It does appear to us that the leadership of PDP in Nigeria do not appreciate, understand the pidegree of of Wike. “It does appear to us that PDP does not know what they have in Wike and we are calling on Wike to come over to APC and lead us”.