LAGOS  – For some time now, Christians and church ministers and workers of various levels seem to have lost interest in the Divine Commission. The Divine Commission means an official appointment to accomplish certain tasks and missions for and on behalf of the Divine Creator, God. In Christianity, the Great of Divine Commission is the instruction of the resurrected Jesus Christ to His disciples to spread the gospel to all the nations of the world. It would be recalled that the Lord Jesus said in Matthew 28: 19- 20. Mark 16: 15-16: “Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptising them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world.” Thus Christians are commanded to spread the gospel to the utmost part of the world. The act of doing this is evangelism. However, with the advent of mega churches in Nigerian cities and migration of people to urban centres, churches now seem to concentrate their evangelistic efforts on cities, where they reap ‘mega money’, to the neglect of the rural areas. Almost all the churches now hardly send their mission teams to the nation’s villages for soul winning. Sadly, churches in the rural areas are left unkempt, with the community pastors almost starving. No church is really an exception in this as their city branches boom, while the ones in rural areas lack. This is as Christians bump into each other in city streets and markets while sharing tracts or going about with megaphones, as open crusades and outreaches are the other of the day in towns. Thus, with rural evangelism dying and no longer in the agenda of churches, the questions in the minds of concerned observers are: Why is it so? What are the challenges? How can it be revived? Pastor Victor Mathew is of the Prophetic Prayer Ministry, Ikeja, Lagos. He is currently the Vice Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Ikeja chapter, as well as the State Secretary, Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG), the political arm of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) in Lagos State. POLL He agreed that rural evangelism is dying, a trend he attributed several factors. He said: “Firstly, there is a high rural urban migration. More people are relocating to the cities. Secondly, most churches are not setting up ministries in the villages, but truth be told, they are not lucrative financially which is wrong anyway. “Thirdly, some communities do resist both metaphorically and spiritually any attempt of missionary efforts within their environment. They continue to hold onto their ancient and traditional beliefs which the churches have come to challenge.” He also identified certain cases where people go to church, but refuse to forgo their traditions and customs. He also stated that some pastors and missionaries reject rural postings, which they misconstrue as punishment. On how rural evangelism could be revived, Pastor Mathew stated: “Our Lord and Master made it very clear in His valedictory message and assignment to His disciples then and to us now to make disciples of all nations, including our rural communities. “Secondly, the evangelists, whose core mandate is soul winning, must go into the hinterlands to preach the gospel. “The Mega churches should open their branches in the villages and provide the necessary infrastructures for the pastors there to work with, in short, give them a good life. I believe with the above and many others, rural evangelism will be revived.” On his own, Rev. Dr. Frank Freds Nwosu, President, Elim-Africa Mission Inc., in his impute, stated that rural evangelism died with authentic Christian churching. Rev. Nwosu explained: “When the authentic Christian church was engaged in the work of salvation and redemption, evangelising the poor rural folks was of prime importance. With today’s commercialised religious organisations engrossed in the attempts to optimise their cumbersome facilities, who cares whether people in the rural areas are saved? Who really wants to convert the poor and bring them in to become burdens and liabilities in the mega church, whose plenty of bills must be paid? “Rural evangelism died because religious leaders greedily changed their focus from the spiritual to the mundane, from soul-salvation to economic improvement of both themselves and their target audiences. “Rural evangelism died because churches borrowed monies from financial institutions to build impressive worship places, buy cumbersome equipment and got entrapped by the repayment plan that requires the endless help of moneybags, only available in the cities.” He continued: “The challenges of rural evangelists – for those who are still loving and sincere in the spiritual task – include the denigration and despicable treatment they face from city religious organisations. Clergymen in the city have this kind of body language, carriage and mien which deliver subtle subliminal messages like, ‘How can you say you’re serving God, and there’s no improvement in your personal economy? Or, why have you remained in the rural area, if you really know your onions? Are you sure you are efficient? I’m yet to see God’s grace in your looks…’” On how rural evangelism could be revived, Rev Nwosu maintained that “The sorry position of thinking that city pastors are better than rural evangelists had always been there. For instance, even during the lifetime of Jesus Christ, his own brothers asked him to ‘Go to Jerusalem and show yourself to your disciples…’ because no one who does things like these remains in the rural area, and hopes to get known’. “So, no. Rural evangelism cannot be revived. The infallible Scriptures warn us instead that ‘Deceivers shall wax worse and worse…’ Just think this through: If Jesus, God’s own son (and God in his own right) could fall into the trap and even die in Jerusalem as a city minister, what is the guarantee that the end is in sight? “You may wish to know that the dream of every village pastor today is to hit the city as soon as possible, and not to keep struggling to prove himself as a village champion.” On if the development is good, Rev Nwosu said: “The principles of ‘good’ and ‘right’ require further critical analysis. What is good may not after all be right. And what is right may not ultimately be good for the larger human family. “For instance, the city pastors are able to reach a larger collection of people who need guidance, but the rural evangelist can only reach a handful, no matter the scope of his grace and spiritual gifting. “However, I have attempted to find an Appian way out of this sorry pass, in my well-researched book, ‘Seven Healthy Habits Of A Growing Church’, now available online at www.frankfreds.com.ng.” In his contribution, Rev. Dr. Andrews O. Okhirebhu, the Senior Pastor, Wordhedge International Assembly and Senior Lecturer, Royal Light Institute of Biblical Studies (RLIBS), Lagos, noted that ‘Evangelism’ is a word used for the biblical acts and obligation of preaching, teaching and simple conducts to make known the core Christian beliefs, faith and practice with the aim of enlightening every man on the need for God and reconciliation with Him by the forgiveness of sins through accepting the person of Jesus Christ, only by which any man can have eternal life as being redeemed, saved and sanctified with Christ’s spirit and life. He stressed that evangelism entails spreading the Good News of the Kingdom of God. Rev Okhirebhu stressed: “Evangelism is the duty and mandate of every Christian to do it. It is to ALL men. It is everywhere (rural and urban).” He rhetorically asked: “Why was rural evangelism abandoned for only city or urban evangelism only.” According to him, “Many do not have the full understanding of the command for souls winning and reconciliation to God.” He also identified ministers’ craze for financial and material gains; quest for popularity and undue competition; ministers’ insensitivity to demonic attacks against the Church as well as lack of adequate support for the few rural evangelists. Rev. Okhirebhu stressed: “Of course, this portends a very dangerous trend over the years against the scriptural mandate of reaching out to all men in every place on earth with the gospel of Salvation, and of the Kingdom of Jesus Christ.” Apostle Dr. Success Kanayo Uchime, President Missions Outreach, a renowned missionary, on his own, stated: “It is a fact that most Nigerian churches are not interested in embarking on rural evangelism and missions. The reason is not far-fetched. It is simply because to most of them, the project is not ‘lucrative’ in terms of the monetary gains that are supposed to come with it, which is in terms of tithes and offerings. “The quest to win souls is gone in some churches. The value is now placed on prosperity – making wealth. No pastor or church ordinarily will desire to go to such places where members will make demands on them, which is one the trend in rural evangelism. They would rather want to go to places where they will make a lot of money. That is why they would rather stay in the urban or developed cities. “The financial reward is high in the cities than rural areas, and that is simply the motivating factor of most churches; not soul winning anymore, which is the heartbeat of our Master Jesus Christ.’ He stressed: “The Bible talks about Jesus: ‘Then Jesus went around teaching from village to village’ (Mark 6:6). Our Lord Jesus, while ministering in major cities, also took out time to preach in villages (rural communities). He never abandoned them because much profit was not coming from there, but rather He was motivated by winning the lost. “People in the rural areas do not have much opportunity to hear the gospel as they are supposed to, while in the cities, people hear it severally. This trend needs to change if the church must make an impact before the Master comes back. “To change this trend, churches need to start training rural evangelists and/or encourage those who have dedicated themselves for such mission enterprises. This they can do by raising funds to sponsor such evangelists and missionaries. Doing this will enable the gospel to be preached in the uttermost parts of the world before the return of Jesus Christ.”