ABUJA – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has released final list of can­didates for the off-cycle gover­norship elections scheduled for Bayelsa, Imo and Kogi states on November 11, 2023. The commission approved the final list at its regular meet­ing on Tuesday in Abuja, say­ing the decision is in line with the provision of Section 32(1) of the Electoral Act 2022 which requires the publication of the list not later than 150 days to election day. A statement by Festus Okoye, INEC National Com­missioner in charge of Infor­mation and Voter Education, said the final list has been uploaded to the commission’s website and social media plat­forms. “Same will be published in our state and local government offices in the affected states on Thursday 8th June 2023 ahead of the statutory deadline of 9th June 2023.” Accordingly, he noted that the list shows that all 18 polit­ical parties are fielding candi­dates in Kogi State, 17 in Imo State and 16 in Bayelsa State. “The list also shows that two political parties are fielding female candidates in Bayelsa State, one in Kogi State and none in Imo State. “The commission wishes to remind political parties and candidates that in line with timetable and schedule of ac­tivities for the three elections, campaign in public officially commences on Wednesday 14th June 2023 in line with Sec­tion 94(1) of the Electoral Act 2022 and ends on 9th November 2023 i.e. 24 hours prior to elec­tion day”. The commission, however, expressed regrets over last week’s ugly incident in Kogi State involving the convoys of two political actors in Kogi State resulting in the destruc­tion of vehicles and other prop­erties ahead of the commence­ment of campaign. POLL “We urge parties and candi­dates to conduct their political activities with civility and de­corum as peaceful electioneer­ing heralds a peaceful election. Political parties and candidates have a responsibility to de-es­calate tension ahead of the elections,” the commission pleaded.