Governor Caleb Mufwang of Plateau State, in this interview, regrets the wanton killings in his state, saying that what’s happening in the state is not farmers/herders crisis but a clear genocide from attackers. He speaks on other issues concerning security in the state, why he cannot arm villagers to defend themselves, why the former Inspector General of Police (IGP) shut down some local government secretariats, among other issues. CHIBUIKE CHUKWU brings the excerpts Plateau State has become a killing field recently; what are your thoughts as the new state governor A month before my inauguration, things began to escalate. Right after my inauguration, things have deteriorated to a large extent. If you notice the renewed insurgency is concentrated on where I come from and where my deputy comes from, you begin to imagine whether it is a response to our emergence as governor and deputy governor because that is the interpretation people are giving to it. Whatever it is, a lot of criminality has come into play and what we are seeing is a clear genocide; what we are seeing is a deliberated and orchestrated plan to wipe out numbers of people. I want to thank the security forces because to a large extent they have done a lot, but I want to say that they can still do more with the right kind of empathy, with the right kind of mobilization, they can do a lot better. Of course the tradition is that this is the farmers/herders clash but that is not the reality. Again this is a situation whereby people are sleeping in their villages and in the night they are attacked. The question needs to be asked which we are asking; who are the people behind these attacks, where are they coming from, who signed for them and who are the ring leaders behind this insurgency? There is a lot of intelligence coming up which we are putting at the disposal of the security agencies and we are confident that with the change of guard of security arrangements in the country, I believe that we will be able to get some mileage in putting this ugly phase behind us. Before your emergence and subsequent swearing in as the governor, what were some early warnings of insurgency at your disposal and how did you treat such? The early warning signs include some intelligence that was coming. The interesting thing is that we had notice of some of these attacks before they occurred and what we would normally do in such a situation was to turn them over to the security agencies. Again we have a lot of ungoverned spaces because there are lots of farm lands that are lying fallow and we have a lot of mountainous areas and you will agree with me that it is difficult for security agencies to cover all those areas at once. But when we turn over the intelligence reports to them, sometimes due to operational reasons, they may come a little bit late, they may come in inadequate, they may come in ill-prepared and therefore it may be challenging but I can tell you that some of the field officers have done a lot within the constraints of the facilities available to them to curb some of these tendencies, if not it could have been worse. In the light of the escalation of killings, do you consider constituting a local outfit to help keep the place at peace? The situation is very worrisome because when people have gone to their beds to sleep, they would attack. Certainly there is no grazing at night and so you begin to wonder why these people will suddenly come and attack the villagers. Again a lot of the villagers on the Plateau have lived in peace with the people that have come to settle among them, so they (villagers) never thought of carrying arms; I can assure you that there is no farmer on the Plateau that has thought of carrying AK47 to the farm, so they (attackers) came in and attack them while they are ill-prepared against such insurgency. So it would be surprising if those villagers would not think of how to defend themselves. But as a state government, we cannot involve in arming the villagers to defend themselves, we can only involve in helping the operational capacity of the security agencies to improve on their efforts. Therefore we are trying to see how we can provide better facilities,good working tools for the military, the police, the Civil Defence and the official Plateau State security outfit. We will see how we can retool them, how to re-energise them so that they would be able to carry out their functions creditably, particularly the function of intelligence gathering which is key to nipping these incidences in the bud, but then we are hopeful that the body language of Mr. President in changing the security architecture will help us to be able to deal with these criminals so that they would know their end has come. In the interim, what are the stopgap measures you have in place to reduce the criminality in Plateau State? POLL Broadly speaking we have only two options at our disposal – the kinetic and non-kinetic options. Of course I dwell largely on the kinetic option which the military high command is looking at and I want to believe that the new leadership of the military will deploy the right tools for this assignment. And we are also looking at the non-kinetic dimension which is engagement with critical stakeholders: we will be doing a lot of that in the coming days. We are engaging at various levels with community leaders to build bridges, restore understanding so that no part of the communities is vulnerable because of misunderstanding. For me as governor, I said it before I was sworn in and during my inaugurals speech and I will continue to say it that I am governor for all; I am going to prioritize the welfare and security of everyone and we have to understand that what we are dealing with is a challenge of high magnitude that is beyond religion or tribe. As long as Plateau State is de-marketed, all traders are affected irrespective of their religion, irrespective of their ethnic inclination, so we must see this as a collective duty to fight to preserve Plateau State. Leaders must rise up, all strata of leadership in every community must stand up so that we will be able to build bridges and restore understanding. And this is what we are trying to facilitate as a government so that we can have a common offer against these insurgents. Last week, the outgone IGP, Alkali closed some of the local government secretariats in Plateau State supposedly because of the insurgencies; was it truly because of the attacks? The closure has nothing to do with the insurgency. It was because of some misinformation and miscommunication that made the IGP give that order. That misinformation we tried to correct and we did correct it before the IGP stepped aside. But now we want to make sure that with the new leadership in place, they get the right picture. There is no crisis in any local government headquarters in Plateau State, except what happened in Mangu a few days ago which was a local problem that had nothing to do with the local government secretariat. The order by the IGP was ill-timed, it was ill-advised and that is why we are trying to put things in proper perspective so that the new IGP will understand that that order rather escalated the situation rather than deescalate it and I am glad to inform those who care to know that when the incident broke out in Mangu, it was the local government administration which even though has been locked down rose to the occasion and controlled the situation and today we have very significant and relative peace within Mangu metropolis where that crisis erupted; that was a local issue we are dealing with separately and I believe that in the coming days the police hierarchy is going to see the need to reopen those secretariats because the local governments are critical in dealing with these insurgents and we cannot afford to have them closed at this point in time because they are the ones very close to the people. We will be engaging police high command in this regard to ensure that the order is reversed. It was also gathered that the state House of Assembly was closed by the police; does that have some political computation? It has nothing to do with the top police hierarchy in Abuja but you know sometimes the leadership here tries to get involved in politics. So we are calling on the IG to instruct his men on ground to always give the right information, remain neutral and apolitical whenever political issues arise. Before I came in there were issues with the state House of Assembly with court orders and instructions. There was an attempt to shut down the House of Assembly and even after I was sworn in, there was an attempt to shut down the House which I strongly advised against and I am glad that the police listened to our advice and allowed the Assembly to function. We will continue to ask the police to remain neutral in political issues because even if there are political disagreements, the court of law is there to address that. Steps mustn’t be taken to ensure partisanship by the police. Some of the police deployed to guard these local government secretariats can help in this insurgency, so I dearly call on the IGP to reverse this order because it is uncalled for, it is unnecessary and unhelpful. Therefore whatever information he got from his men is totally misleading. For the overall interest of the situation at hand, it is good to have the local government functional. 