Former Minority Whip, Federal House of Representatives, Dr. Samson Osagie, Tuesday said Nigerians must be ready to make sacrifices and chew the bitter of subsidy removal once and for all to end the pain of government paying subsidy on petrol. He said after full deregulation President Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s administration must be ready to demonstrate transparency and accountability to ensure the gains are felt by all Nigerians Osagie, a lecturer at the National Institute of Legislative and Democratic Studies and a Political Economist noted that it is unacceptable that the blackmail by those who had continued to benefit from the subsidy scam must stop. He added that former President Goodluck Jonathan was right when he made the bold step to end subsidy in 2012 but was shut down due to crass ignorance and politics. The former federal lawmaker in a paper he titled, “ The Fuel Subsidy Conundrum: The Illegality and Blackmail” insisted that it is absolutely needless for anybody to argue that the federal government should continue with the illegality at the expense of the already pauperized populace. “The discovery that the oil subsidy regime is not sustainable has been longstanding and successive governments have attempted to dare the consequences without success. Of remarkable significance was January 1st, 2012, when President Goodluck Jonathan courageously announced fuel subsidy removal but was resisted by Labor, the Civil Societies, opposition political parties, and even the National Assembly. “Indeed, it was the reason the House of Representatives called off its Christmas and new year recess and convened a sitting on Sunday, 8th January 2012, the very first time such could happen in the history of democratic Nigeria. “As a member of the House of Representatives then, let me confess that the resistance to President Jonathan’s bold attempt was borne out of crass ignorance and politics. With the benefits of hindsight, I can say President Jonathan’s administration was right and we were All wrong. POLL “No responsible government that desires progress for its country and citizen will tolerate ad infinitum and there is an abundance of evidence that Nigerians including all the political parties and their Presidential candidates in the last elections have accepted this. So, no one can or should play politics about the bogus consumer of our collective patrimony called fuel subsidy. “Come to look at it: have subsidy payments by the government improved the living conditions of Nigerians for the past decades? Are Nigerians going to be better off with the government continuing with subsidy payments? Or what impact will continued payments of subsidies to a few marketers and importers of petroleum products have on the overall economic well-being of our nation and its beleaguered citizens? “I also recommend that upon full deregulation, the government should subsidize social services like education, and health care and invest hugely in infrastructures. This will alleviate the pains of the astronomic increase in the prices of goods and services that the citizens are currently experiencing”.