Nigeria is said to be divided along ethnic and religious lines when it comes to politics. In this interview with Chief Edwin Clark, leader of the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), the elder statesman says it is possible for Muslims and Christians to work together for the development of the country. He said that the North and South should be equal partners. He commended the election of the leadership of the National Assembly (NASS) on Tuesday, which produced Senator Godswill Akpabio as the Senate President and Hon. Tajudeen Abass as the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The Ijaw leader also berated the governors of the Niger Delta states for increasing poverty and lack of development in the region. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: You were quoted to have said that it would be good to have a South-South man as Senate President and also to have a Christian as Senate President, what is your reaction to the election of Akpabio as the Senate President? I am not a pessimist. I always want to believe that the right thing should be done in Nigeria. Nigeria is a secular nation, even though the last government, led by Buhari refused to accept it. They scored themselves 100 percent and nobody believed them. We believe that we must build up a country and whoever becomes the President, people will believe in him. The South and the North should be equal partners. Of the109 senators, 55 are Muslims and 54 are Christians. How will Christians be relegated to the background? No. For what happened yesterday, I congratulate the 109 Senators. I was a Senate too. They conducted themselves very well. The competition that took place, even though Abdulaziz Yari was not qualified. It showed that Nigerians understand themselves. I congratulate all of them. I congratulate the new President of the Senate. Nobody thought that he would win. He came to me and I prayed for him. I am 96 years old and I knew that God would hear my prayer. I congratulate him and even his opponent, Yari who was able to mustered 46 votes. I commend the way he embraced the man who defeated him. The same goes to the House of Representatives where they opening showed who they voted for. I congratulate all of them and I pray that the Almighty God keeps them together, to think about the interest of Nigeria first before themselves. I want to appeal to the 10th Assembly to reduce the poverty in the country. People are suffering in Nigeria. The number of cars that Mr. President uses have not reduced, the number of cars that the Governors use, the number of cars that the Senate President uses have not reduced. They have to be reduced to show that something is wrong, the economy is down. This reminds me of 2014 when we had the National Conference. At the end of the conference we made 600 recommendations. My good friend Prof. Jibrin Aminu from Adamawa State came to me and said that a new Nigeria has been born. We went to His Excellency the Lamido of Adamawa who has earlier threatened when the debate was very hot that those of you who are arguing why a part of Adamawa State is in Cameroon. At the end of the conference Jibrin Aminu took me to him and I said “Your Excellency, we are very happy for what has happened today. You won’t go back to Cameroon again” and we laughed. We took a group of photograph. Those who sat by me, Gambo Jimeta, former Inspector General of Police (IGP), Dr. Bello who was former Defence Minister and others and we embraced ourselves. What happened yesterday (Tuesday) showed that Muslims and Christians can run this country in partnership. We should not recognize religion but religion and ethnicity have come to play in the forefront of Nigerian politics. Yet they deny it and yet they practice it. That was the bane of the last government. When Akpabio visited, you talked about some things that you would like done in the Niger Delta and also during President Tinubu campaigns he made some promises to the Niger Delta people, as a Niger Delta leader what are you expecting from this government under President Bola Tinubu and of course under the newly elected Senate President in terms of development? As a forthright man, I don’t mix up things. You know very well that the tribunals are still holding and in that case we are waiting for judgment from the tribunal, and if possible from the Supreme Court of Nigeria. It is too early for me to comment on President Tinubu’s administration. But as to what Akpabio said. Yes, the Niger Delta people produce almost all the oil in this country. We are now strangers in our own home. We are poorer now than what our forefathers were. When our forefathers were around, they were wealthy traders. You think of King Jaja of Opobo, you think of Nana Olomu of Itsekiri, even my own great grandfather. The European intelligence reports say that my great grandfather has a compound as big as that of the Oba of Benin. He had a glass house for European guests. But today everything has gone down. Our schools are not well equipped. We don’t have proper development in our area. Series of enquiries have been set up, General Ogbomudia’s Report, and General Popola’s Report in 1998. Where are they? Nothing has happened and we are suffering. To tell you how bad it is. I have to travel to Daura if I want to benefit from the oil that is found in my backyard. What a shame. We have no light, we have no water. We are fishermen. Today fishes are dying in our rivers. They are floating all over the place. We now eat ice fish in our Niger Delta. It is an abomination. There are no roads. Look at the East/West Road. I took it up with Akpabio, the new President of the Senate when he came to visit me. He told me that N75 billion that was given to him by Buhari to finish the road was later taken from him, when people like the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, and others like Timipre Sylva, they are always fighting among themselves. They went to Buhari and told him that the job should be handed over to the Minister of Works. Mr. President asked him to hand over the money to the Minister of Works. People are blaming him that he embezzled N75 billion. These are some of the problems that we are facing. The East/West has been under construction for over 12 years now, and nothing has happened. Yet the Minister of Transport was building railways to Maladi in Niger and forgot his own area, the Rivers State. He should show what he did for Rivers State. We are suffering. I believe that Akpabio was a good governor in Akwa Ibom State, so he should be able to do something. Was it because of the suffering of the Niger Delta that made you write the letter to Okowa because people worked for that 13 percent derivation, you will also speak about then Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) where Akpabo was the Minster of Niger Delta Affairs and a lot of work wasn’t done for the Niger Delta people? The 13 percent derivation was something that was raised at the Constituent Assembly, chaired by the former Justice of the Supreme Court. People like Late General Shehu Yar Adua and others felt that there was need to compensate the people that produce the oil and we were around lobbying and the 13 percent was granted under section 1622 of the constitution which provided for at least 13 percent of the federation account to be given to the oil producing communities for their development. If that money was proper spent our boys will not be agitating. There will be no more militancy in the creeks. We have been facing the federal government and not the governors who have been stealing the money. 2014 National confab we asked for increase to 25 percent to 50 percent after five years. They told us that they would give us 18 percent but that we should go home and see what our governors were doing with the 13 percent. That is why we decided to ask the governors what they are doing with the money. I remember that in 2015 New Niger Avengers gave a warning to the federal government that they would attack oil pipelines if the derivation money is not used in developing their area. I intervened and appealed to them that I would talk to the governors. The Managing Director, Makinde and his Deputy came to see me in Abuja in 2017 that they couldn’t pay their staff. They could not pay the contractors and their properties are being ceased by the bank. They used their properties as collaterals for the loans. I sent a message to the then Governor Okowa, to make some money available to Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC). Section 14 of the DESOPADEC law which Governor Ibori enacted in 2006 said that 50 percent should be given to DESOPADEC. The question many of us asked was what will happen to the remaining 50 percent. Recently the former Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike revealed in one of his press conferences that certain amount of money was paid to them by President Buhari under the 13 percent derivation and that Delta State got over N250 billion. That annoyed Okowa and he criticised Wike for interfering in their matter. So, I wrote a letter to Okowa to account for the money that he has been collecting. He answered and said that they spent N5 billion in paying pensioners in Delta State. How does that come under 13 percent? Are they oil producing pensioners? He is spending the money in building university in his own village. I engaged a lawyer who went to obtain a certified true copy of all the amount that they paid since 2007. I got a letter from the Accountant General’s office. He stated all what every oil producing state was paid. The one paid to Delta State amounted to N1 trillion, while about N766 billion was received under Okowa. The balance was paid to Okowa. Oil was coming easily, and prices were high. Instead of paying the 50 percent provided by his own law, the DESOPADEC law section 14. He held the money dishing out in instalments and approving every contract the DESOPADEC wanted. So, I told him to give me an account. I wrote him a second letter which I have already copied the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Governors are now wealthier than their states. He got a bank and kept our money in the two years old bank. I don’t know whether they call it Premium Bank. The Managing Director is one Emefiele from the same town with Okowa. Okowa’s brother, Monday Okowa who was a staff in Zenith bank is there now. This man has 18 companies and I mentioned them to him. They have been paying the 13 percent into this account. It is not even accounted for in his annual budget. We founded Delta State. I am a stakeholder, the oldest stakeholder. I cannot keep quiet. We cannot be criticizing the federal government every time for taking our money when those at home who receive the money refuse to account for the receipts. Their monthly allocations are higher than every other state, in addition to the 13 percent derivation. The premium Bank that you referred to, it is on record that Ifeanyi Okowa has vindicated himself and every member of his family as none of them is a shareholder in that bank… POLL He is not saying the truth. I have told you that was why when he wanted a loan of N150 billion from a number of banks, of which Zenith bank was to be the leader, he later changed it, and advised that Premium bank should lead. Zenith bank withdrew. As I told you earlier, his brother who was working in Zenith bank, is now a General Manager in Premium bank. This Emefiele from his place is the managing director of Premium bank. Premium bank, a two years old bank facilitated that loan arrangement. Who are the shareholders of that bank? How much money do they have? I know the share capital of that bank. I know those who formed it. It is a small bank started from Port Harcourt. I know the history of that bank. When Ifeanyi Okowa wanted to be running mate to Atiku Abubakar, you opposed him and said that he would sabotage Southern Nigeria, and you are raising a lot of queries about his direct involvement in appropriation of the 13 percent derivation money, why? Let me tell why the whole of Southern Nigeria regard Okowa as a traitor. He is a betrayer. Okowa volunteered to host a meeting of the seventeen Governors of the South. He provided accommodation for every one of them. He provided the secretariat. They drafted the communique to abide by it. It was given to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State to read. He read it. They all went to Lagos to confirm it. They also went o Enugu to confirm it. Not knowing that the same Okowa was spending our money on Atiku. I asked the delegates to the primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who did they vote for? Did they vote for Wike? Did they vote for Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom? He deceived his colleagues, who agreed they would have a President from the South. He betrayed them. All the Governors know about that. He is a man who is very ambitious, quiet, giving a wrong impression about himself. That he is a very good man. He is a very crafty man. That is why the Southern Nigeria and the Middle Belt Forum which I lead had an agreement. Ayo Adebanjo is there, representing Afenifere, Iwuanyanwu is there as the leader of Ohanaeze, Dr. Pogu is there as the leader of Middle Belt and late Dan Suliaman. We all took a decision that we will never support Atiku of the PDP and that nobody from the South should be a running mate to any northerner at that time. He violated it. He was very happy. He went about claiming that he was an Igbo man. So, if an Igbo man does not get President, he would get Vice President.