ISEGHE AJAYI There is no doubt that the present state of the economy has plunged majority of the populace into financial misery owing to the high standard of living. Meeting the basic needs of life especially for the common folks has become a herculean task. The situation has seen so many people all in a bid to survive making frantic efforts to multiply their earnings by delving into various kinds of investments regardless of whether they are familiar with it or not. But, the sensible ones ensure that they are conversant with the business terrain before they invest their hard earned money to avoid being trapped financially. While those not opportune to invest their earnings appropriately either due to wrong associates or lack of knowledge of the business may be swindled and later regret their actions. But then, if you allow the financial flaws or errors made in the past to get the better part of you, it will be difficult to make headway in your financial life but when you make up your mind to learn from your financial errors and work on your flaws, you will surely experience finance peace of mind and freedom. It is quite true that several people have one way erroneously made wrong financial decisions or investments that affected them adversely. But some of them were not hell bent on not advancing their financial life because of that error or bad investment. POLL Rather they confronted their financial fears, worked on their flaws and are making progress in their respective field of interests. If you actually crave for financial freedom irrespective of the unpleasant state of the economy, there is need to try as much as possible to work on your financial flaws which could be reckless spending, lack of financial set goals and planning to forge ahead in your financial future life. Do you know that the willpower to unravel the root cause of your poor financial state or crisis will help you to overcome the problem and make headway with your finances? Hence, the need to live within your sources of income to avoid pointless financial burdens upon yourself through debts accumulation. Depending on debts to survive is not a good way of life and will never guarantee you that financial liberty and peace of mind you are really craving for particularly if you are unable to meet the deadline of payment. That is why it will really do you good to have a set financial target and if you are finding it difficult to achieve it due to the current economic hardship, you can restrategise, think outside the box especially in the area of enhancing your financial life. There are various forms of financial difficulties experienced by individuals. For some, it could be their inability to adhere to their budgetary plans but there may be other financial issues they are contending with and as such has led to severe financial snags. But, if you really desire to work on your financial issue, you need to confront your financial fear that is limiting you by having a firm grip on your earnings and manage it appropriately. The under listed tips if properly adhered to will help to aid you to work on your financial flaws Do Not Exceed Your Spending Plan It is important you create a budget for proper tracking of your expenses and if peradventure, you do not have one, it is not too late! The best way to create and stick to your budget is to take a cursory look at what you consume in each category each month and make that your basic budget. Also, when you are building your budget, you want money allocated to each category to have a place to go so as not to have any left over when you are through. This signifies that money you put into savings is earmarked as one of the expenses on your budget. Your ability to spend within you budget will help you to rectify past financial mistakes. Track/ Analyse Your Expenses Writing down your budget is the easiest part of budgeting but following it and making adjustments where necessary so as not to exceed it is the most onerous task. But then, the actual work and victory come when you start to track your expenses and modify it as necessary. You can also use budget software tracking as long as you keep up with checking your daily transactions. You may also switch to the envelope system of budgeting if you are not convenient with the software tracking. Besides, it is mainly a cash-only budget where you pay cash for your categories such as groceries and entertainment. The way the envelope system functions is that at the start of a new month, you will put the money you have budgeted for each items or category in an envelope and when you run out of cash, you stop spending. By that, you are adhering strictly to your budget. Discuss Your Budget This is crucial for married couples if they truly want to succeed financially. They will need to discuss on a regular basis about the budget, money that goes out and comes in, and who is spending what and where. The budgeting software will be better for them to use because it can be easily updated especially when shopping. More so, it can stop you from reckless spending even when you are on separate shops. Shun Impulse Buying Most people have problem with their spending habits such they have areas where they constantly overspend. For you to be fruitful when budgeting there is need to resolve the leaks in your spending. If you are finding it difficult to shun impulse buying, ensure you go out with someone who is prudent in spending to help halt your spending when you have reached your limit. It is also advisable not to take your credit card especially when you go shopping. Create A Debt Payment Plan Since too much debt limits your spending habits or what you can do with your money, there is need to create a debt payment plan if you really want to make ends meet in life. Besides, this plan will enable you to put the extra money you have on your debts in order to pay it off in good time. The way it works is to start by listing your debts in the order of the smallest to the highest. And once you have paid off the first debt, you will use the money you were paying towards it and add it to the payments on the second debt. ust continue rolling the amount over until you have cleared all outstanding debts. You also need to work very hard to make extra money to pay all your debts as this would enable you to have financial peace of mind. Stay Out Of Debt Make up your mind to stay out of debt especially if you desire to experience financial freedom. There is no point to fix your financial problems if you continually go into debt each month. A budget is very vital to all facets of your financial success especially if firmly stick to. Spend Wisely The belief that achieving your financial set goals is not actually realistic because you simply do not have enough money which can keep you from dealing with your financial problems is not true. It is possible to actualise your financial goals if you try to focus on making the best of your income by spending prudently. Be Honest To Yourself One way to resolve financial problems is by being honest to yourself. Leaning on your relationships can also help keep you on track.Every single tough task becomes easier with the support of friends and family. So, it is imperative you share your goals for there is no one better to hold you liable and remind you of what you are labouring for than those you love, trust and reverence.