The Federal Government has denied media reports of a purported 114 percent salary increment for the President, governors, judges and other political office holders. Recall that some media platforms (DAILY INDEPENDENT not included) had published a story purportedly quoting the Chairman of the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission, RMAFC, Muhammad Shehu, to the effect that the salaries of politicians, judicial and public office holders would be increased by 114 per cent. In statement issued through the Special Adviser to the President on Special Duties, Communications & Strategy, Dele Alake, via the official Twitter handle of Dada Olusegun, Special Adviser on Digital Media to President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Federal Government debunked the report, describing it as “fake news, as the President has not “approved any salary increase, and no such proposal has been brought before him for consideration.” The statement reads thus: NO PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL FOR SALARY INCREASE FOR POLITICAL OFFICE HOLDERS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS We have followed with consternation the viral story of the purported 114% increase in the salary of the President, Vice President, elected Federal and State political office holders and judicial officers. We state without any equivocation that President Bola Tinubu has not approved any salary increase, and no such proposal has been brought before him for consideration. While we recognise that it is within the constitutional remit of Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission to propose and fix salaries and allowances of political office holders and Judicial Officers, such can not come to effect until it has equally been considered and approved by the President. POLL It is important to note that RMAFC, through its Public Relations Manager, has responded to this fake story being circulated and has already set the record straight. However, that this unfounded story gained prominence on social media and in a section of mainstream media, again, brings to the fore the danger fake news poses to the society and our national well-being. The misinformation was, obviously, contrived to create ill-will for the new administration, slow down the upward momentum and massive goodwill the Tinubu-led administration is currently enjoying among Nigerians as a result of its fast paced, dynamic and progressive policies. It is important to reiterate to journalists, media managers, and members of the public that stories on government activities and policy issues that do not emanate from approved official communication channels should be ignored. Media practitioners are enjoined to, at all times, cross-check their stories to ensure accurate reportage, which is the hallmark of responsible journalism.