…Urges Calm, Celebration Of Eid-El-Kabir In Peace …Osun Speaker Condemns Attack On Governor OSOGBO – Governor Ademola Adeleke has ap­pealed for calm soon after he escaped an assassination attempt at the Osog­bo Eid praying ground. The governor, in a statement by his spokesperson, Mallam Olawale Rash­eed, thanked God for preserving him and his team, directing law enforce­ment agents to arrest culprits behind the incident. “My good people of Osun, I appeal for calm and urge us to continue to celebrate the Sallah festival in peace. I am safe by the special grace of God”, the statement quoted the governor as saying. “I have directed security agencies to arrest those be­hind the incident and get them to face the wrath of the law. The Commissioner of Police has been directed to arrest those involved no matter how highly placed.” The state government had meanwhile condemned the or­chestrated attacks on the gov­ernor by stalwarts of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the praying ground. It would be recalled of an earlier security alert on an evil plot to destabilise the peace and stability of Osun State. POLL The government, particu­larly notes with shock and sur­prise, the role played by former Senator Ajibola Bashiru, who took over the space reserved for the governor at the prayer ground. All efforts to get the for­mer senator to vacate the space proved abortive. PDP members, who agitated for respect for the office of the governor were beaten up. It was a scene of chaos by the time the governor arrived for the prayer. The government was even more shocked that thugs armed to the teeth were spotted all over the praying ground with security information that they were imported to eliminate the governor and key government functionaries. The governor who arrived at the venue hoping to observe the Eid prayers was practical­ly surrounded by armed thugs, prompting security men to fer­ry the governor into his jeep. For the second time, the governor attempted to enter the praying field but the encir­clement by armed thugs was already visible. It was at that point that the governor had to leave the praying ground. There was confusion at the Osogbo Eid praying ground when seats reserved for Gover­nor Ademola Adeleke and his entourage were occupied by former Senator Ajibola Bashir and some religious leaders. It was gathered that there was no prior information on the arrival of governor at the scene but the sudden arrival of the governor at the venue caused stir in the town. The immediate past spokes­person for the Senate, Ajibola Basiru, had arrived at the pray­ing ground located at Oke-Baale area in Osogbo and allegedly sat at the position reserved for the governor. When Governor Adeleke ar­rived the venue some minutes after, it was learnt that efforts at making Basiru leave the front space for Adeleke proved abortive. The situation became ran­corous as some Muslim leaders intervened to douse the tension so that the prayer for the Eid-el- Kabir would commence. Efforts to make Basiru leave the sitting space didn’t yield positive results as the senator remained in his space. It was further gathered that Governor Adeleke and his en­tourage left the praying ground angry and couldn’t participate in the prayer. When the governor came with his team, they asked Sen­ator Basiru to leave the space but he refused. “Some Muslim leaders who were at the scene including Chief Tunde Badmus further appealed to Governor Adeleke not to leave angrily. They tried again to ask Senator Basiru to leave so that the governor wouldn’t sit in the back row, but he remained adamant. “After this, Governor Adeleke and his people went away angrily and there was confusion all over until mo­ments later when tension was doused and proper praying commenced.” Osun Speaker Condemns Attack On Gov Adeleke Meanwhile, the Speaker of the Osun State House of As­sembly, Rt. Hon. Adewale Egbe­dun, has condemned the violent attack on Governor Ademola Adeleke by political thugs on the Osogbo Eid praying ground. He described the attack as barbaric and despicable, call­ing on security agents to go af­ter the perpetrators and those behind them. The speaker in a statement signed by Olamide Tiamiyu, Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker, who was on the entou­rage of the governor when the attack occurred, said Governor Adeleke and his team escaped the evil plan of the assailants due to the gallantry of the gov­ernor’s security details and the grace of God. He warned that launching a violent attack against a sub-na­tional leader is a crime that comes with heavy punishment under our law, declaring that an attack on Governor Adeleke is an attack on the people of the state. “What happened on the Eid praying ground today was terri­fying and disturbing. Never did I ever contemplate that anyone will be so audacious to the point of attacking a sitting governor on a ground considered for the worship of Allah. “The attack on Governor Adeleke, who happens to be the leader of this state, is an over­reach, and I strongly condemn it in its totality. “Elections have been won and lost for more than three months now, and so I expect the loser to go back to the drawing board and learn from the de­feat. Going all out against the governor is by extension an attack on the entirety of Osun people, who he’s leading, and this I want to warn will not be tolerated at all. “Trying to exert the pain of losing, which today’s attack clearly represents, is a big mis­calculation and will continue to stand as an albatross in your subsequent political journey. “In this light, I demand an immediate investigation into the incident and consequently, the apprehension of everyone involved in this failed attempt to hurt an elected leader of the peo­ple”, the statement concluded.