ABUJA – Two non-governmental organisations, Trustfield Empowerment Initiative (TTAI), and Centre For Public Accountability (CPA), on Friday, withdrew corruption petitions against the immediate past Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of North East Development Commission (NEDC), Mohammed Alkali, following the discovery of the truth. The two groups also apologised to Alkali over their unfounded allegations. This was contained in their separate letters dated June 8, 2023 and presented to newsmen during a media conference in Abuja. It would be recalled that the groups in a letter dated 2nd of May, 2023 preferred corruption allegation and misappropriation of N246 billion against former NEDC Managing Director, Mohammed Alkali. The letter by Trustfield Empowerment Initiative, TTAI and signed by one Charles Oriasoti for the Trustees reads: “Withdrawal of The Letter, Re-Notice of Our Intention to Commence Legal Action Against Mohammed Alkali’ addressed to Mohammed Alkali.” The letter reads: “After an extensive investigation and having been satisfied with the available information within our disposal, we hereby withdraw our letter by Aniwtie Ituen Law Practice of Plot 430 Ahmadu Bello Way, Mabushi, Abuja, entitled “Re: Notice of Intention To Commence Legal Action Against Mohammed Alkali and dated March 13th, 2023. “We were desirous of instituting an action with a view to unravelling the allegations of mismanagement of about N246.19 billion of public funds and issues of corruption, financial misappropriation and impropriety as well as abuse of office but after our investigation, we are satisfied that Mr. Alkali is innocent of all allegations, hence the withdrawal. “Please accept our assurances.” POLL Similarly, the group called Centre For Public Accountability (CPA) wrote a letter dated June 8, 2023, to a media organization, Aljazirah Nigeria Newspaper, Abuja, notifying it of their earlier publication on corruption petition against the immediate past Managing Director, NEDC, Ibrahim Alkali, which were all false and the letter which was signed by Secretary, Centre For Public Accountability (CPA), Emanuel Senuga. The letter entitled:”Withdrawal of Request for Petition Publication and Unreserved Apology To Mohammed Alkali, the Immediate Past Managing Director of NEDC,” reads: “Refer to our letter dated 2nd of May, 2023 wherein we requested for publication of alleged corruption and mis- appropriation of N246billion against former NEDC Managing Director, Mohammed Alkali. “We write after due diligence and further investigation on the said allegation to withdraw the petition and hence the publication should be discontinued. “This is coming on the heels of reports we further got from anti-corruption agencies and after findings carried out by our organisation wherein he was given clean bill of health and that the allegation of mis- appropriation was not correct and he has been cleared long before now. “We hereby use this medium to tender our unreserved apology for wrong allegation against the former NEDC boss and pledge to ensure that such won’t happen again and henceforth will be involved in propagating his good deeds and inputs while he was at helm of affairs of NEDC. The group said the impact that Alkali made during his tenure as the Managing Director of NEDC is undoubtedly visible, adding that his developmental strides across the North East region still resonate. According to the group, “Alkali’s interventions and achievements cut across human, agricultural, infrastructural development. “Some of the projects he initiated, include, the provision of 1000 housing units in Borno State, food provision and distribution to the people of Borno State. “10,000 housing programme -four blocks of well-furnished 2-bedroom detachable flats with verandas and a courtyard in a cluster arrangement in order to resettle families who have been displaced due to terrorism. “Under the Alkali-led NEDC, 500 housing units were built in Yobe, Adamawa, Taraba, Gombe, and Bauchi States apart from the 1000 houses built in Borno State. “He awarded contracts to install solar-powered street lights and boreholes; constructed a police station and a motor park including school buildings. “In order to boost food security among the people, the Alkali-led Commission deemed it fit to empower farmers by providing them with agricultural machinery and equipment, seeds, fertilizers, agrochemicals and extension services logistics vehicles annually under the Integrated Agriculture Programme (IAP). “Also as a passionate and patriotic Nigeria, he was able to lead an empowerment programme in each of the 1,028 wards of the Northeast region, which NEDC empowered women and youth in order to divert their attention from enlisting into Boko Haram sect. “His outstanding performance to add value to millions of lives in the North East region made the leaders and people to call for his second term to serve and continue his great work, as Alkali’s tenure is in the best interest of the country.”