ABUJA – Concerned Citizens for Good Leadership and Sustainable Development Initiative (CCUGLSDi), a non-governmental organization, has stated that the 10th Senate needs an honest, transparent, fair-minded, result-oriented, and competent senate president. The group through the secretary of the organizing committee, Dan’asabe Sulaiman Kakanda, who made this known in Abuja, described Dr. Abubakar Abdulaziz Yari as the only person among other candidates who possesses such attributes to lead the 10th Assembly leadership because he also possesses the acumen and charisma to ensure a united and pro-active senate for Nigerians. Kakadan said that the group whose sole objective is to enlighten the citizenry on the need to have sound leadership and good governance for Nigeria, decided to endorse Yari because of the love they have for Nigerians. The statement reads: “As you are all aware, the 10th Assembly will be inaugurated on Tuesday, June 13, 2023, and in line with the objectives of our organization on the need to achieve effective and efficient leadership and good governance for our dear country Nigeria, we can analyze, assess and deliberate on the competitiveness of all the contenders aspiring for the seat of the Senate President. “From our analysis, we have found that there is no better candidate to steer the realm of affairs of the 10th Assembly other than the distinguished Senator Dr. Abdullaziz Abubakar Yari to ensure that the Nigerian aspiration for good government is achieved. “The organization has found the distinguished senator best fit for the Senate Presidency, because of his loyalty and consistency as an opposition party till date as ruling party. He has stood his feet on the ground for the party through thick and thin, come rain, come shine,” he said. Senator Lawali Hassan Anka representing Zamfara West constituency said what happened during the Dogara, Tambuwal, Saraki era should not be repeated. Also, the national coordinator of the group, Umaru Musa Bodinga, while speaking said the organization has branches in all the 36 states of Nigeria, and Abuja to enlighten the citizens on the need to have reliable and sustainable leadership in our country. POLL “As we are all aware that the politics of the 10th national assembly has commenced for people taken political office for the No.1 seat of the national assembly, we the concerned citizen after going through the credentials’ of the contestants has made a stand. “We have endorsed the most qualified among them, Sen. Abdul’aziz Abubakar Yari, Shatima Zamfara for the seat of the senate president of the federal republic of Nigeria for the 10th assembly. With this golden endorsement, I believe I am speaking the minds of the senators-elect and well-meaning Nigerians,” he said.