The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has explained the reasons for the inability of some institutions to access its portal for the purchase of Direct Entry forms. JAMB spoke when a delegation from the Community Health Practitioners Registration Board of Nigeria (CHPRBN) visited its office in Bwari, Abuja. The Board said it would only grant access to institutions or organisations that complied with guidelines including obtaining necessary approvals from appropriate regulatory agencies and the Federal Ministry of Education to run their various programmes. Earlier, the CHPRBN had complained of the inability of their candidates to process their Direct Entry forms as they were unable to access their profiles on the JAMB portal while those that opted for the UTME route had, as a footnote on their admission letter, the term illegitimate’. The Registrar, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, pointed out that JAMB was saddled with the responsibility of managing accessibility to institutions and candidates and would always uphold that mandate diligently and would only grant access to erring institutions after they had done due diligence and complied with all regulations stipulated by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) and other relevant institutions. According to the Registrar, it has come to the notice of the Board that many institutions flagrantly run programmes and award certificates that were not approved by their regulatory agencies and candidates, who were not qualified, ab initio, for Direct Entry (DE), were enrolled in such programmes to acquire certification for DE thereby circumventing the system. He informed the delegation that consequently upon these observations that many institutions, were noted to have abused the system by running diploma programmes without necessary approvals were removed from the list of institutions on the Board’s platform and denied access to the Board’s portal until they do the right thing. Prof. Oloyede also reminded the CHPRBN delegation of the Federal Government’s circular as issued by the Federal Ministry of Education to all statutory and regulatory agencies prohibiting organisations and institutions that are yet to get approval or proper certification from the ministry to operate. POLL The Registrar, therefore, advised CHPRBN to support the reforms as a key player by doing the right thing at all times by getting necessary approvals from the NBTE to run ND, Higher National Diploma (HND) in Community Health before the commencing the issuance of any certification or licence.