The International Human Rights Art Festival (IHRAF) has announced a call for submissions of creative literary works, including short stories and poems. The Festival focused on the Sudanese conflicts, particularly the ongoing civil war in Sudan. This project, titled ‘Thorns, Tears and Treachery: An Anthology of Short Stories/Poems on the Sudanese Civil War,’ is a collaborative effort between IHRAF Global Headquarters and its African Chapter. According to a press statement by Wole Adedoyin, the national publicity secretary of the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), the main objective of this initiative is to amplify the perspectives and voices of Sudanese and African writers, both within and outside of Sudan, on the crucial issue of the ongoing conflict. Selected works that demonstrate exceptional quality will be published in the anthology, providing a platform for these writers to express their experiences, emotions, and insights. The statement reads: “To be eligible for consideration, submitted works must be original and unpublished. We encourage writers to strive for the highest standards of language and literary excellence, ensuring that their submissions reflect their artistic abilities authentically. Writers whose works are chosen for publication will receive a compensation of $50 each. “While IHRAF will retain the copyright to all selected works, the authors will maintain their rights to their respective pieces. The anthology will be published in hard copies, on the IHRAF website, and on other reputable online platforms, allowing a wide readership to engage with these powerful narratives.” The organisers said the submission should consist of a maximum of three (3) poems or two (2) short stories and must be sent via email as MS Word attachments to submissionsentriesihraf@gmail.com. “Please use Times New Roman font size 12 for formatting. Submissions in the form of screenshots or JPGs will not be considered. Additionally, all submissions must include the author’s brief bio-data and contact details, including address, email, phone number/ WhatsApp number, and any relevant social media handles,” it said. The submission process, which has commenced at the release of this statement, will continue until June 30, 2023. POLL IHRAF is an organisation dedicated to amplifying the voices of the marginalised, safeguarding freedom of expression, and utilising creativity to shed light on human rights and social justice causes worldwide. Their programs bring together exiled artists, activists, artists of all mediums, politicians, government agencies, social leaders, and celebrities to foster creative engagement and facilitate positive change in society.