EKITI  – The Association of Table Water producers has announced the up­ward review of prices of sachet and table water in Ekiti. The association in Ekiti Northern Senatorial District, comprising Ikole, Oye, MOBA, ilejemeje, and Ido Osi Local Gov­ernments area at its meeting held in Oye on Tuesday became inevi­table due to the current economic realities. The chairman of the zone Hon. Bamitale Oguntoyinbo dis­closed that the removal of fuel subsidy had far-reaching impacts on the prices of the items used for water production, stressing that a bag of sachet would now be sold for N250 as against N150-N200. The Chairman clarified that the present price increase of N250 per bag was tentative since the national body of the associa­tion had approved N300 per bag. He also charged members of the public not to hesitate in reporting to the association the activities of unscrupulous ele­ments producing and distribut­ing fake and unhygienic table water to unsuspecting members of the public. He said the price would hence­forth be determined by the price of petrol in each area of opera­tion. Oguntoyinbo, a former chair­man of Oye Local Government assured members of the public of improved water quality. He equally tasked the regu­latory agencies to beam their searchlights on the activities of wholesome activities of some un­approved table water Producers across the state POLL “The new price of N250, per bag which starts Thursday, 22nd of June was part of the resolu­tion of the members of the zone at the end of their meeting, held in Oye Ekiti on Tuesday, at the resident of madam funky pure water., All directors of the water factory present in the meeting, jointly agreed that a bag of water should be sold for N250 only, due to the recent removal of subsidy on petrol which had a negative impact on the cost of transporta­tion and all the materials needed for the production,” Oguntoyinbo said. Hon. Tale Oguntoyinbo, formr chairman Oye LG reiterated the commitment of the zone to work with water supervising agencies like NAFDAC, SON, and the Min­istry of Environment to sanction unauthorised producers.