LAGOS – The race for the Senate minority leadership in the National Assem­bly is set to worsen the already frosty relationship be­tween the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, on one hand and G-5 members of the Integrity Group on the other. While Atiku and the PDP are supporting the former Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambu­wal, the G-5 on the other hand is throwing its weight behind Sena­tor Jarigbe Jarigbe, representing Cross River North. A reliable source disclosed that the jostle for the Senate mi­nority leadership position ap­pears to be generating tension among the opposition senators following moves by vested inter­ests to impose a candidate on the Senate. A source said, “Tambuwal is Atiku’s choice as the PDP Senate leader while Wike is also push­ing for Jarigbe as minority lead­er. Wike is looking for an oppor­tunity to get back at Tambuwal over the presidential election primary elections. “He is still bitter. But the par­ty would not allow him to try the same thing he did during the national elections with the National Assembly.” With 36 senators in the upper chamber, the PDP is expected to take two out of the four minority seats comprising the Senate mi­nority leader, deputy minority leader, minority whip, and dep­uty whip. However, there has been tension in the camp of the PDP since the former Rivers State governor visited the Senate President, Godswill Akpabio, at his office last Thursday for a marathon meeting which ended around 6:30 pm. Sources revealed that the leadership of both the Senate and the House of Represen­tatives are, however, treading carefully on the matter. POLL A source stated, “Having assisted the All Progressives Congress (APC) to win the pres­idential election in Rivers State in February and supported the aspirations of the now elected four presiding officers of the 10th National Assembly, making one of his loyalists a principal of­ficer is his next plan. “He is very serious about the plan and he is getting the re­quired support from the leader­ship of the National Assembly as well as membership of the other minority political parties in both the Senate and the House of Rep­resentatives.” Another lawmaker, who spoke on the condition of ano­nymity, noted that the PDP was intent on enthroning Tambuwal as the Senate minority leader. The lawmaker said, “Senator Tambuwal is the one that the party has chosen as the Senate minority leader. The party at this time needs someone who can play the role of opposition very well and he is experienced having been a former Speaker of the House of Representatives. The party wants a competent person for that position and no doubt, he is one.” Paul Ibe, Media Adviser to Atiku explained reasons the for­mer Vice-President was support­ing the aspiration of the former Sokoto State governor. Ibe said if his principal aligned with the position of his party concerning the Senate mi­nority leader position; the same shouldn’t be misunderstood, stressing that Atiku has always been a party man. Ibeh said, “The position of the minority leader of the Senate should be taken by the biggest opposition party which is the PDP. The PDP will naturally vie for the role in consultation with other opposition party members in the Senate. This is how the mi­nority leader will emerge. “If the party is backing Tam­buwal and Atiku Abubakar happens to support this, there is nothing wrong with that. It is the prerogative of the party to decide who they think can champion the interest of the party in the hallowed chamber. Normally, they will support someone whose competence they can vouch for. “If Atiku and the PDP are on the same page on this, it is merely a coincidence because the former Vice President has always been a party man.” While confirming the stand of his former principal, ex- Chief Press Secretary to erstwhile Gov­ernor of Benue State, Nathanial Ikyur said Samuel Ortom would support Wike’s choice. “Ortom will support Wike and I can tell you that for Wike to identify with Senator Jarigbe that means the man (Jarigbe) is the choice of the G-5. “The group is intact and they make decisions together. All five of them are together. Seyi Makinde, Okezie Ikpeazu, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Ortom, and Wike are together. They resolved to always stand together before, during and after the elections. Nothing has changed even after the elections,” he said.