LAGOS  – The Lagos State Government has said from Saturday, June 24, the Lagos-Ibadan expressway will be diverted as the reconstruction reaches the final stage. However, the government said it has pro­vided alternative routes available for the motoring public. The State Government, in a statement by Engr. Ab­dulhafiz Toriola, Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Min­istry of Transportation said that the traffic diversion was in line with the Federal Gov­ernment advice. The statement quoted Mrs. Olukorede Kesha, the Federal Controller of Works in Lagos State as saying that the exit from the New Garage bus stop on La­gos bound carriageway en-route River Valley Estate, Isheri and Ogunusi Road would be closed to traffic. Kesha also said that all traf­fic from Kara Bridge on Lagos bound carriageway heading to River Valley Estate, Isheri and Ogunusi Road would then be di­verted to the exit immediately af­ter Kara Bridge through Limson Road to connect their respective destinations. The government said that alternatively, motorists could also make use of the U-turn by the Vehicle Inspection Services, (VIS) and the Federal Road Safety Corps, (FRSC) Office at Ojodu to connect the expressway through the Lagos State Public Works Of­fice/BRT bus stop. “This notification further urged motorists to obey traffic signs and the directives of the traffic management authorities personnel to ensure seamless movement within the corridor.” It would be recalled that the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway was commissioned by Gener­al Olusegun Obasanjo in 1978, but built by Murtala Moham­med-Obasanjo Military Admin­istration. A dual carriageway, it stretches from Apapa Port run­ning through Liverpool Street, Oshodi, Oworonsoki off to the old Toll Gate to Ibadan, the capi­tal of Oyo State. The reconstruction of the expressway was flagged off in July 2013 by President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, the then-presi­dent of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, to help reduce the travel time of hundreds of thousands of commuters and international air passengers. The contract for its reconstruction was awarded at the cost of N315 billion. POLL In 2022, the former minister for works and housing, Baba­tunde Fashola assured Nigeri­ans that the 127-kilometer road, which has been undergoing reconstruction in the last nine years would be completed before Christmas. The minister, who spoke on Channels’ TV programme tagged ‘Season of Completion, Commissioning and Impact,’ noted, however, that the expect­ed completion date depended on a lot of variables. The hectic nature of the traf­fic congestion has claimed sever­al lives of those who either live around Mowe-Ibafo axis of Ogun State or commuters traveling to and fro Lagos.