Our Lord Jesus Christ is the Most Compassionate Leader the world has ever known. Friday was the Feast of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus. We celebrated the Merciful Heart of Jesus. Jesus is indeed the most gentle and Humble Leader the world has ever known. In the gospel of Matthew 11:28-29 Jesus invites the rejected and dejected souls, saying, “Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 29 Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.” This is among the most consoling passages in the bible. Child of God our Lord Jesus Christ has come to restore your inner peace! He has come to restore you! When Jesus saw the crowds, In Matthew 9:36—10:8 “He had compassion for them.” Note, as He saw the crowd He did not organize Second collection, Seed sowing or even fund raising as most Men of God usually do. He was not interested in what He will get from the people; Instead, He had compassion on them. That shows that our Lord Jesus Christ is indeed a Compassionate God. He is the Most Loving and Most Caring Leader the world has ever known. Why was He compassionate on the people, “because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd.” This is the worst thing that could happen to the flock. Every flock needs a shepherd. Without the Shepherd the flocks will scatter and they lack direction. The primary role of the Shepherd is to feed the flock. Unfortunately, the flocks in the passage were helpless and dejected like sheep without a shepherd. Then Jesus said to his disciples, “The harvest is plentiful, but the labourers are few;” By laborers, He meant God-fearing leaders. A God-fearing leader must be loving, caring, reachable, approachable and even available. How many religious leaders are approachable and available? Many are called but few are chosen! Jesus knew that it is very difficult to get such leaders and that is why He told His disciples, to “Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest to send out labourers into his harvest.” (Matthew 9:36- 38). We need more vocations and we need to pray for more Christ-like leaders. All hands must be on deck. Jesus called the twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out. and to heal every disease and every infirmity. In the gospel of Mark 16:17-18 our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “These signs will follow those who believe: In My name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new tongues; they will take up serpents; and if they drink anything deadly, it will by no means hurt them; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover.” In the gospel of Matthew 10 after empowering His disciples Jesus sent them out, “Go nowhere among the Gentiles, and enter no town of the Samaritans, but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And preach as you go, saying, ‘The kingdom of heaven is at hand.’ Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers, cast out demons. You received without pay, give without pay.” POLL By telling the disciples to give without pay, Jesus wants them to be Compassionate, loving and caring like Himself. Child of God, as you show mercy to others, God will show you mercy and it shall be well with you in Jesus name!