INNOCENT OWEH; CHIBUZOR EMEJOR ABUJA – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has ap­proved the indefinite suspension from office of Mr. AbdulRasheed Bawa as the Chairman, Economic and Finan­cial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to allow for proper investigation into his conduct while in office. A statement by Willie Bassey, Di­rector, Information, Office of the Sec­retary to the Government of the Fed­eration (SGF), hinged it on weighty allegations of abuse of office levelled against him. It simply stated, “Mr. Bawa has been directed to immediately handover the affairs of his office to the Director, Op­erations in the commission, who will oversee the affairs of the Office of the Chairman of the commission pending the conclusion of the investigation”. Tinubu Signs Nigeria’s Data Protection Bill Into Law Meanwhile, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has assented to the Nigeria Data Protection Bill into law.­ A statement on Wednes­day issued by Babatunde Bamigboye, Head, Legal En­forcement and Regulations in Nigeria Data Protection Commission (NDPC), said the president assented to the bill on June 12, 2023. According to Bamigboye, Nigeria has taken a giant leap forward in the global data race with the assent to Nigeria Data Protection Bill. POLL While applauding the pres­ident for renewing the hope of over 200 million Nigerians in the advancement of privacy rights and other fundamental freedoms both in cyberspace and in analogue transactions, the Nigeria Data Protection Commission National Com­missioner, Dr. Vincent Ola­tunji, equally expressed high optimism on the prospects of Nigeria’s digital economy fol­lowing the emerging regulato­ry dispensation. According to the statement, “The Nigeria Data Protection Bureau, pursuant to the ex­press provisions of the new act, has transmuted into a full-fledged commission and it is mandated to among others: regulate the deployment of technological and organisa­tional measures to enhance personal data protection; foster the development of personal data protection technologies, in accordance with recognised in­ternational best practices and applicable international law; and conduct investigations into any violation of a requirement under the Act.” Other mandates of the NDPB as contained in the provisions of the new Act in­clude to “impose penalties in respect of any violation of the provisions of the Act or subsid­iary legislation made thereof; where necessary, accredit, license, and register suitable persons to provide data protec­tion compliance services; issue regulations, rules, directives and guidance under the Act; and register data controllers and data processors of major importance.” Bamigboye explained that the Act is one of the strategic ways of meeting the campaign promise of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, of creating one million jobs in the digital economic sector. He noted that about 500, 000 jobs are expected to be created through the training of data protection officers and licens­ing of data protection com­pliance organisations to offer services to data controllers and processors. Tinubu Mourns Kwara Boat Mishap Victims, Orders Inves­tigation Again, President Bola Tinubu has expressed sadness over the boat mishap which occurred in Kwara State, and has ordered investigation into the incident. The boat accident, accord­ing to reports, led to the death of over 100 people who were wedding guests at Egbu village in Patigi Local Government Area of the state. “I am deeply saddened by the news of the tragic boat accident that claimed the lives of our people in Kwara State. That the victims were guests at a wedding ceremony made the unfortunate accident more painful. “My heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the families and friends of victims of the tragic mishap. I also sympathise with the government and people of Kwara State over the accident. May all loved ones find com­fort,” the president prayed. While urging the Kwara State government and relevant Federal Government agencies to look into the circumstances surrounding the boat accident, President Tinubu promised that his administration would look into the challenges of in­land water transportation in the country to ensure the matter of safety and operational stan­dards are strictly adhered to. “The Kwara State govern­ment and relevant federal agencies should work togeth­er to unravel the immediate and remote causes of this un­fortunate accident. Immediate relief and necessary assistance should also be provided to the survivors and families of vic­tims,” the president said.