ENUGU  – Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has disowned Okechukwu Isiguzoro who it alleges has been parading himself as the Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo describing him as impostor The was contained in a statement made available to Journalists in Enugu on sunday by Chiedozie Alex Ogbonnia, PhD. National Publicity Secretary Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide. The statement reads “the general public is hereby notified that one Mr. Okechukwu Isiguzoro, who has been parading himself as the Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, is not and has never been the Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. He is both a usurper and an impostor; an interloper who has no authority or mandate to act or speak on behalf of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. “It will be recalled that on January 10, 2021, the General Assembly of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide convened at the Dan Anyiam Stadium, Owerri, overwhelmingly elected Ambassador Okey Emuchay, MFR as the Secretary General of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization.   “It is regrettable and also embarrassing that shortly after the Ohanaeze election, Messrs Chidi Ibeh and Okechukwu Isiguzoro, who never participated in the election declared themselves as President-General and Secretary-General respectively. “The leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide immediately took legal action against these impostors for which reason His Lordship Justice Uchenna Mogbo of the Enugu State High Court in a suit marked E/878/2022 issued an injunction “restraining them from parading themselves as representatives of Ohanaeze Ndigbo”.  Since the above Court Order on March 12, 2023, which is still subsisting, Isiguzoro and his cohorts have continued to impersonate the Office of the Secretary-General. He has also refused to honour several invitations from security operatives to answer to criminal complaints of impersonation and perjury. “Based on the foregoing, the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Engr. Dr. Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, CFR (Ahaejiagamba) notifies the general public to discountenance any publication, press release or remarks emanating from Mr. Okechukwu Isiguzoro or any of his agents as such publication, press release or remark does not in any way represent the position of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. “We also appeal to the media to be circumspect in what they publish about Ohanaeze and to seek clearance from Ohanaeze leadership before going public. We also request any member of the public who may have useful information on the whereabouts of Mr. Okechukwu Isiguzoro to report to the nearest Police Station or to Ohanaeze Ndigbo Secretariat at No. 7 Park Avenue, GRA Enugu. “Finally, we wish to warn that anyone dealing with Mr. Okechukwu Isiguzoro on issues relating to Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide does so at his/her own risk.