ABUA  – A Nigerian telco, Itel Nigeria Ltd. has said that it had identified Nigeria’s educational system as a sector that needed much support from it through corporate social responsibility which is also a way of giving back to the society. The telco organisation disclosed this at the distribution exercise of learning materials to pupils and students at Dagbana School, a suburb of Abuja Municipal Area Council with over 700 bags, sandals, books, and a mobile Library, Recently. Speaking during the distribution, the head of Itel’s Corporate Social Responsibility Unit, Partnerships and Events, Taiwo Ogunpaimo, to mark the 2023 Children’s Day celebration also stated that Itel as a socially responsible brand has put up the Day which is an annual event because children are the champions of tomorrow. Ogunpaimo, noted that: “We have identified that the educational system in Nigeria needs as much support as it can get and Itel has taken that responsibility to give back to the society through education. “Children are people we identify with, this is our way of giving back to society. So, Itel as a socially responsible brand has put up a children’s day CSR for the children to celebrate 2023 Children’s Day with them right here in Abuja. This is not the first time we do CSR, every time every year but Children’s Day is a bit particular because children are the champions of tomorrow. While assuring that the telco will always do its part to always make an impact in making sure that the organisation reduces the number of out-of-school children she further maintained that at least it has put smiles on the faces of over 700 students. “We have put this together for at least 10 million out-of-school children. About 700 of them are happy today and that is because we have given them that opportunity. So, if you and I would do our part the world would be a better place.” While remarking the school head, Abdullahi Karshi, expressed his appreciation for the gesture done on the school as the first in the FCT. POLL Karshi pointed out that “I have no amount of words of appreciation and happiness, most especially since this is the first given in the FCT. I pray that other organisations should emulate Itel and even do better. The organisation is doing well. Society needs to get back from them because society is making them grow by buying their products, they have reached a certain level they are supposed to give back to society.”