The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command, Mr. Idowu Owohunwa, has deco­rated no fewer than 1,362 pro­moted junior police officers at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja. The Commissioner was joined in decorating the officers by some senior officers of the command. The Police High Command on May 30, announced the pro­motion of 31,465 policemen with 24,991 sergeants promot­ed to inspectors, 194 promoted from corporal to sergeant, and 6,280 from constable to corporal respectively. The Police High Command said that the IG effected the pro­motion as part of his manpow­er development policy targeted at elevating deserving police officers on the basis of compe­tence, qualification, and length of service Owohunwa said that Lagos Command had such a large number of officers promoted after his passionate appeal to the IG on the peculiarities of the state. “We are celebrating the IG for considering Lagos State Command’s request for pro­motion to deserving officers. He approved the promotion of 1,363 junior ranking officers for Lagos Command alone “This comprises 1,123 Ser­geants, who will be promoted to Inspectors, 20 Corporals, who will be promoted Sergeants, and 220 Constables, who will be elevated to the rank of Cor­porals. “The IG has not just stopped there, as I am talking now, In­spectors are being interviewed at the Zonal headquarters, On­ikan, in preparatory for their being promoted to the next rank of Assistant Superinten­dent of Police for those that would be found worthy,” he said. POLL Owohunwa noted that in the Force, nothing was appreciated more than the promotion of an officer. “If you deny an officer pro­motion, if you delayed the offi­cer’s promotion, nothing can be more demotivating. So for the IG to appreciate this fact, and for him to also consider Lagos State as part of the key bene­ficiary of this exercise, I wish to on behalf of the Lagos Com­mand appreciate him,” he said. The police boss urged the promoted officers to live up to expectations in their new ranks as they were expected to carry out higher and more danger­ous duties. Owohunwa warned them against corruption, human rights abuse and other unethi­cal conduct, stressing that any­one found wanting would be punished accordingly, includ­ing dismissal where necessary. “You must show responsibil­ity, you must justify your new rank. How do you do this? You must learn first and foremost to detest any act of corruption. “As you are aware, I have made it clear, if you are in­volved in corruption, if you are involved in an act of gross incivility to the members of the public, my understanding is that you are not fit to remain within the police family. “For me, I will process such an officer through the disciplinary procedures and certainly, I will not be a party in keeping you within the sys­tem,” he warned. Speaking on the sideline of the event, Inspector Ajara Isede, attached to the Lagos Police Traffick Division, Ikeja, said the promotion meant a lot to her. Another officer promoted, Zainab Jimoh attached to the Headquarters, said she was happy to be promoted from Constable to Sergeant after serving in such rank for five years Jimoh, while appreciating the IG for her promotion, urged him to make their promotion regular as at and when due.