BENIN  – The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of the National Associa­tion of Academic Technologist (NAAT), the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Asso­ciated Institutions (NASU) and the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Ambrose Alli University, Ek­poma have vowed to resist any attempt by the Special Interven­tion Team (SIT) to blackmail and tarnish the image of the staff of the university. The university’s JAC made the vow in a statement jointly signed by Comrade B. J. Omoi­khoje, Comrade J. N. Nweke, NAAT’s Chairman and Secretary, Comrade C. Odiamehi, Comrade S. Akhimien, Chairman and Sec­retary of NASU and Comrade T.O. Onofua and Comrade E.O. Omokhafe, Chairman and Sec­retary of SSANU respectively while responding to SIT’s interim report to the state government. According to the statement, “JAC is in receipt of a video showing an interim report of the Special Intervention Team (SIT) of Ambrose Alli University, Ek­poma, presented to the executive governor of Edo State and visi­tor to the university, Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki. “The said video clip which has gone viral can best be described as a further attempt to blackmail and tarnish the good image of the ever dedicated staff of Ambrose Alli University and to further hoodwink the governor and en­tire people of Edo State. “We also see this as a means the SIT had adopted since tak­ing over the administration of AAUE, to cover up their antics of putting up with the behavior of termites – that is, eating from the system and destroying the same. “The JAC of NAAT, NASU and SSANU hereby unequivo­cally state that the SIT has done more harm than good to the uni­versity as it has created hitches and unnecessary hiccups in the administration of the University. “On the puerile allegations made by the SIT against the generality of staff of Ambrose Alli University, we wish to place on record that the confederat­ing unions of JAC have never supported sharp practices and impunity, but that due process should be followed in handling issues in the university. “However, we hereby respond to the said report, with these pertinent questions begging for answers, is it all staff of AAUE that are involved in fraudulent acts, because the interim re­port portrays all AAUE staff as fraudulent and JAC will not accept this.” POLL The JAC also wanted to know if it was all staff of AAU that gave approvals that led to fraud in the university, calling on SIT to tell the public those who approved what led to fraud, and also to tell the public the time frame when the said fraud was committed.