LAGOS  – The precarious position of Arik Air has made the airline technically insolvent while its borrowing powers are restricted due to its huge debts, the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) has said. The corporation also accused Sir Johnson Arumemi-Ikhide, the founder of Arik Air, of owing a total debt of N240 billion as at May 31, 2023. These were contained in a statement to the media by SY & T Communications Ltd, the PR Consultants to Receiver Manag­er, Arik Air. AMCON in the statement de­bunked a petition filed on behalf of Arumemi-Ikhide by Femi Fa­lana Chambers, which claimed a criminal intent in respect of the JV financing of certain wet lease aircraft for the airline. AMCON insisted that the JV financing options were innova­tive ways of raising capital for the airline due to restrictions on Arik borrowing powers. It declared that the airline was technically insolvent and being kept alive only by its mag­nanimity and that of the federal aviation agencies. The bad bank also clarified the concerns raised about the teardown of a Boeing 737-700 aircraft registered as 5N-MJI, which had been abandoned and cannibalised in Malta since 2013 by Arik under the then leader­ship of its former owners. The corporation insisted that the decision it took was a profes­sionally one that was beyond eco­nomic repairs (BER) and stood the chance of being sent to the graveyard by authorities of the relevant airport in Malta. POLL According to AMCON, the pre-teardown valuation of the aircraft by McLarens, an aircraft valuation company, valued the airplane at $1.5 million. It said that this was, howev­er, seized by Lufthansa Technik over the airline’s indebtedness incurred pre-receivership. AMCON also alleged that Arumemi-Ikhide had resorted to the use of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to intimidate it and sub­vert court matters. The statement added: “All pa­triotic Nigerians should be deeply concerned by the influence ped­dling of a recalcitrant debtor to in­stigate security agencies against a public-interest receivership. The desperate resort by Sir Arumemi Johnson to all forms of bullying, shake down attempts and other underhand tactics is pitiful. “The tactics have been de­ployed, and are still being de­ployed, in contempt of existing court orders, and in respect of matters that are currently before various courts, and it is worri­some that the EFCC is being sought to be used to overreach the courts which are assize of these matters. This should not be allowed to happen or, to the ex­tent that they have already hap­pened, to continue to happen, as it represents forum shopping in respect of issues already before the relevant courts.” AMCON further debunked the claim that it misappropriated N120 billion in the airline since it took over about six years ago, describing it as a public stunt. It insisted that Omokide Al­aba, the Receiver Manager, had been transparent in his dealings in Arik, stressing that the sales of CRJ 1000 aircraft by AMCON followed the due laws. It declared that these aircraft were never owned by Arik, but were on lease. It clarified that the planes were owned by JEM Leasing Limited and JEM Air Limited (both foreign companies) and fi­nanced by Export Development Canada (EDC). The bad bank explained that the two foreign companies and EDC were the principal actors in the sale of the said aircraft. The statement added: “The receiver manager has no influ­ence in respect of the exercise of mortgage rights by a mortgagee. This has been clearly affirmed by EDC who has unequivocally confirmed, including through diplomatic channels, that it was it and the two foreign compa­nies that sold these assets. The accusations against the receiver manager are therefore, cynical and unfounded.”