Over 200 children are expected to attend the Erico Sports Legacy Foundation Basketball Clinic scheduled to hold in Lagos between June 28 and 29 2023. Registration will officially start on June 28 at Ilupeju Basketball Court, confirmed the organizers. United States of America-based Michael Oluwaseun Eric, who is the son of Late Super Eagles of Nigeria Goalkeeper and Coach Joe Eric (Erico) disclosed this on Tuesday that the Clinic is a rare opportunity for kids to be taught the basics of basketball towards hitting stardom in the nearest future. Erico said they are expecting young basketballers from academies, clubs, schools and elsewhere to storm the Ilupeju Courts in Lagos as the Foundation is ready to produce quality teaching and motivation for kids with potential in the game of basketball. “We have notified Coaches, Teachers and other stakeholders to bring their best basketballers to this 3rd basketball clinic after two earlier ones that were highly successful. We have quality Trainers waiting to teach kids how to properly play basketball and excel in their careers in the nearest future. “It is a unique opportunity from the Erico Sports Legacy Foundation that is aiming to mold players that will play top basketball in the NBA (USA) in the nearest future. Already we have quality goodies and other takeawaysfor the several kids that we are expecting at Ilupeju courts between June 28 and 29 2023,” he said. The gangling professional basketballer who recently turned 35 expressed gratitude to his late Dad Joseph Eric (Erico aka Jogo Bonito) for being a lively, wonderful and disciplined father. “My Dad was clearly a good influence in my life and the entire family is grateful for the excellent values he imbibed in us. We are committed to honoring him even as he is no more with us physically. We also appreciatethe contributions of other stakeholders like Retired Colonel Sam Amedu, Coaches Charles and Chris and others too numerous to mention. POLL “It is our hope that God will complement our effort to discover and develop quality basketballers that would be the pride of Nigeria very soon. It will get beyond Lagos State very soon,” he added.