SYLVESTER ENOGHASE The Leadership of the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) has applauded the policy thrust of the new Administration as articulated by the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, His Excellency, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, during his opening address. The association, reputed to be resilient in the provision of a platform for private sector employers to interact with the government, labour, communities, and other relevant institutions in and outside Nigeria for the purpose of promoting a harmonious business environment that will engender productivity and prosperity for the benefit of all has given the nod to some of the key issues raised that were apropos to the survival of organised businesses and the economy at large. The issues cut across the plan to unify the exchange rates; review of a multiplicity of taxes; its quest towards a higher GDP growth rate as well as improve accessibility and affordability of electricity; investment in infrastructure; establishment of agricultural hubs, even as it is poised to deepen engagement with Organised Private Sector (OPS) and removal of fuel subsidy. Given the foregoing, the association remains hopeful, particularly as it stated in a statement that “However, of greater interest to Organised Businesses is the implementation framework to drive the policies and the level of engagement that will be initiated with the Private Sector. Articulating its take on the perennial issue that is fuel subsidy removal, which it described as “A sordid past” the association called on the newly inaugurated regime to take future-focused action, unarguably to achieve its goals. As gathered from the statement, it said, “Again, we are yet faced with another fuel subsidy removal challenge. A perennial situation that we are now so familiar with. It is quite alarming that while the arguments for the removal of subsidy over the years remained irrefutably compelling, successive Administrations did not demonstrate the political will to do so and save the nation from irresponsible borrowing to fund crass inefficiency and corruption-ridden expenditure. The seeming lack of good governance, which ordinarily would have cushioned the effect of the short-term shock of the subsidy removal has made matters worse. In its support for the provision of palliatives to mitigate the impact of the removal of subsidy, it said while the call for palliatives and other short-term interventions are valid and necessary, however, experiences over the years have shown that short-term solutions such as the provision of mass transit and cash transfers, as proposed with the US$800 million loan among others, are shallow and not sustainable. POLL Against the foregoing, the association made reference to 1999, when several quick-fix efforts such as the sponsored mass transit, SURE-P, and other initiated palliatives in response to fuel price upward adjustment failed, and added that it is now clear that more sustainable interventions that the nation urgently need to cushion the short-term effect of subsidy removal will take a medium to long-term to come into fruition, including the urgent rehabilitation and transparent privatisation of the local Refineries across the country. It noted that “While the President’s announcement during his inaugural speech that the era of fuel subsidy is gone was met with varied reactions from different Stakeholders, the reality remains that the removal is no more sustainable in the face of the nation’s dire financial situation. “The US$ 10 billion (over 4 trillion Naira at the official rate) spent on subsidy in 2022, which is about 25% of the National budget for that year, and the US$7.5 Billion (N3.5trillion) budgeted for the subsidy from January to June 2023 is obviously not sustainable in view of our current revenue and debt challenges. The announcement by the President triggered the hoarding of petroleum products and inflationary pressures with negative consequences such as an increase in transportation fares and the upsurge in prices of goods and services, among others. These pressures will, in the short-term further erode the purchasing power of average Nigerians, increase the input, operating, and production costs for organised businesses, and if not urgently checked, would result in a heightened contraction in domestic production and business activities. As an association that influences government policies, it made its recommendation concerning the removal of fuel subsidy and reaffirmed its call of many years for the total removal of the fuel subsidy, as it has neither served the interest of the average Nigerian nor has it promoted Enterprise sustainability, growth, and competitiveness in the country. It explained that “The subsidy removal could unlock over six trillion naira in revenue annually, which can be channeled into infrastructure development, etc. Reports have shown that less than 3% of Nigerians (the super-rich), benefit from the subsidy regime. Efforts to provide immediate short-term palliatives should be fast-tracked in view of its urgency. In a similar, it urges the complete rehabilitation and transparent Privatisation of existing refineries. Its call, no doubt, was hinged on the fact that the move will boost local production and stated that in the medium term, the government should commence transparent privatisation of the moribund national refineries and encourage the entrance of new investors to encourage competition. In a similar vein, NECA called for public awareness and engagement and explained that government should step up widespread public awareness campaigns to communicate not only the reason for the subsidy removal but also its potential impact and measures to mitigate the short-term negative effects, and noted that citizen’s engagement is paramount. Still from similar nexus, NECA urged the government to implement a more fundamental Intervention and noted that while pay rise for workers across-board and other palliatives seem an immediate response and a low-hanging fruit, a more fundamental and long-term approach should be to create deliberate economic paths toward improving the general standard of living of Nigerians. Ostensibly pointing the way forward, particularly as in the implementation of a more fundamental intervention towards bettering the well-being of the people, it urges the government to also stimulate manufacturing and industrial production and explained that people’s welfare would be better-off through the stimulation of domestic economic activities by facilitating an enabling environment for organised businesses to thrive and create decent and rewarding employment. To achieve the foregoing goal, NECA requested immediate reversal or suspension of the recently approved 2023 Fiscal Policy Measures and Tariff adjustment, which increased tariffs on some products and introduced a Green Tax, among others, saying that the move signifies a major policy inconsistency, that is capable of jeopardising business continuity, discourage investment inflow, reduce local production capacity, encourage smuggling and counterfeiting, which could also result in estimated N3.87 billion annual loss to the economy among many other negative impacts. Still, in the same vein, it calls for the unification of the exchange rate to curtail arbitrage, round-tripping, and speculative activities in the FOREX market, thereby stabilising the economy and promoting transparency and accountability. Not only should the foregoing lingering issues be addressed, NECA also urges the government to support the electricity value chain for significant investment in generation, transmission, and distribution. On its take on the area of taxation, it called on the government to “Initiate Tax Reforms to reduce tax burdens: Review several Taxes and Levies imposed on the Private Sector and collected by the three tiers of government. Initiate immediate Tax adjustments and reforms to reduce the burden on organised businesses and workers, while expanding the tax net. “Promote Energy Efficiency and Alternatives: Encouraging the use of energy-efficient technologies and alternative fuels can help to reduce dependence on petrol. In Brazil, for instance, the promotion of Biofuels as an alternative to petrol has significantly reduced petrol consumption. “Strengthen Public-Private Partnerships: Strengthen Public-Private Partnerships like the ITF-NECA Technical Skills Development Project (TSDP), which has produced over 20,000 trainees in 40 trade areas across the six (6) geopolitical zones of the country in the past 13 years, as a model for job creation and skills development. In its recognition of the activities of the organised labour sector, particularly as its opposition is capable of scuttling government’s efforts, and thus urged that there is a need for swords to be sheathed and reconsideration of the threat of another strike. It explained that the economy is already in tatters with businesses, both in the formal and informal sectors, facing multidimensional challenges. It also appealed that “Further disruption of the ongoing recovery trajectory will not likely hurt Government but do more colossal damage to businesses, workers, and Nigerians in general. The imperative for Social Dialogue cannot be over-emphasized as a veritable and potent means of resolving the knotty issue of fuel subsidy removal”. Ostensibly reiterating the fact that all hands should be on deck, it re-affirmed that in the face of dire fiscal challenges with a politically fragile, socially tensed, and economically austere environment, that the nation must brace up to swallow the bitter pill and wean itself from the cancerous fuel subsidy regime. As gathered from its statement signed by Adewale-Smatt Oyerinde, its Director-General, NECA assured that as a responsible social partner and national development advocate, that it will continue to champion responsible enterprises, encourage fiscal discipline at all tiers of Government, promote decent and productive employment for national growth and continue to offer government constructive and workable policy options to hasten Nigeria’s economic and social renaissance.