Fulfilling the promise of dwell­ing on the ‘transfer window’ for now, a promise I made pen­ultimate Saturday, is becoming a herculean task because of the many breaking news in viral proportion and keeping pace is tantamount to cleans­ing the Augean Stables. If I have to concentrate only on the happenings in the transfer market to­day, what of the Super Eagles Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Si­erra Leone in Monrovia on Sunday? This is a must win match for the Su­per Eagles as a win will ensure Nige­ria’s qualification for Africa’s biggest football trophy next year. Nigeria is placed second in Group A with a point adrift of Guinea on 10 points. A Su­per Eagles win will end third placed Sierra Leone’s hope of qualifying for the African version of the World Cup. Since Sierra Leone wants to reach the tournament, it will be a tough game for the Super Eagles. Still on the domestic scene, it was on Sunday that Enyimba FC dethroned Rivers United as league champions, after winning the Nigeria Professional Football League playoffs to win the league for a record ninth time. It was no surprise that Enyim­ba triumphed, but the biggest shock of the playoff was Bendel Insurance failure to win the league. Insurance, who touted themselves as Benin Arsenal, were tipped to win the league having gone unbeaten in the regular season. But that was not to be as the Benin warlords crumbled drawing three and losing two. To add insult unto injury, Insurance did not even win a continental ticket. On the international scene, former AC Milan FC owner and also former It­aly Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, who died on Monday and interred on Wednesday, left an indelible mark in football with his achievement after turning a struggling side, AC Milan, into one of football most successful clubs. Under his leadership, Milan won five European Cups, as well as eight Italian league titles. In 2017, he sold the club he bought in 1986 to Chi­nese investors for 740m euros (£628m). The ex-Italian PM, who died aged 86, revolutionised AC Milan’s fortunes and leveraged that success into pol­itics. His football legacy was, “if we came second, we got nothing.” It’s not raining, but pours on Italian football. Three of the coun­try clubs lost out in European club finals this season and to worsen a bad situation, Italy lost their Nation­al League semi-final to Spain 2-1 on Thursday. Also on the international scene, tennis star, Serbian Novak Djokovic, won his 23rd Grand Slam with French Open win, eclipsing Rafael Nadal’s 22 Slam record. But what changed my mind from dwelling on the transfer market after the events of last weekend, even with Kylian Mbappe’s informing PSG of not renewing his contract in the sum­mer of 2024, was that the weekend was a weekend of firsts in sports. POLL The first, though, not in order of happenings, was Denver Nuggets win­ning the NBA for the first time in their 47 years of Franchise history. Denver, who were eighth in the pre­season odds to win it the NBA, became the third team outside of the tradition­al powers in the past five years to win the championship. They joined the Toronto Raptors, who won their first title in 2019 and the Milwaukee Bucks, who won their first in 50 years in 2021. Michael Grant, writing on Denver noted, “Denver’s winning the cham­pionship is good for the NBA because it continues a trend that a path to a championship is achievable for any of the 30 teams. You can build a contend­er if you draft smartly and have the right management. “Championships don’t have to be only for the privileged few. The NBA’s inaugural season be­gan in 1947, and since then, the Los Angeles Lakers, Boston Celtics, Gold­en State Warriors, Chicago Bulls, and San Antonio Spurs have combined to win 52 of the 76 titles. Historically, there’s not a lot of parity.” The second of weekend of first in sports is Manchester City winning the Champions League for the first time in their 143 years of existence as a football club. Manchester City, found­ed in 1880 as St. Mark’s (West Gorton), became Ardwick Association Football Club in 1887 and Manchester City in 1894. With nine Premier League wins, seven FA Cup, eight League Cup suc­cesses, six Community Shield titles and a European Cup, City won their first Champions League last Saturday, and the question is how much did it cost them to win the Champions League? It would be difficult, if not impossi­ble; to truly arrive at a specific amount that it cost the club to win the trophy last Saturday because since the arrival of the Abu Dhabi United Group proj­ect, headed by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed in 2008, they’ve invested heavily in all areas of the football club from infrastructure through to big money signings. But it is believed that after 15 years under UAE control Manchester City must have spent about €2,303 million in transfers. However, it should be noted that, The Abu Dhabi United Group proj­ect, has secured its ‘holy grail’ with the triumph at Istanbul. With the win, City became one of a few of European clubs to complete the treble with the UCL win added to their FA Cup and Premier League titles. After Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed purchased the club from Thai busi­nessman Thaksin Shinawatra, the Abu Dhabi United Group, a recruit­ment process kicked off as he spent €115 million in a matter of weeks with Brazilian Robinho the first of what would be many big marquee signings. With the arrival of high profile players such as Pablo Zabaleta, David Silva, Yaya Touré and Vincent Kom­pany, among others, City started to make inroads and in May 2011, the Sky Blues won the FA Cup, their first title since 1976. A year later, and after buying Sergio Agüero from Atlético Madrid, City secured their first league title in 44 years with a dramatic last minute goal from the Argentine se­curing a place in the history books for Agüero. The Eastlands Stadium was re­named the Etihad Stadium as the club spent heavily in developing the area around the stadium creating some of the best facilities in the world for the City Academy. Meanwhile, on the pitch, City se­cured a Premier League and League Cup double under the command of Chilean coach Manuel Pellegrini. In the 2016-17 season, Pep Guardiola ar­rived with expectation heavy on the shoulders of the Catalan coach who saw his side fail to lift any silverware in his first season in Manchester. A spending spree ensued as Sheikh Mansour solved the issue by digging deep to spend €317 million in the most expensive squad rebuilding exercise in the club’s history. Kyle Walker, Bernardo Silva and Ederson were drafted in along with defender Aymeric Laporte who arrived in Jan­uary 2018. Pep Guardiola has been a key factor in City’s success as in the sum­mer of 2021, the then Premier League champions made Jack Grealish the most expensive English player of all time as Aston Villa received almost 117 million euro for his signature. In total, the Abu Dhabi United Group has invested a total of 2,303 million euro in transfers alone ship­ping players from the club’s books for 852 million (euro) with their transfer activity alone since 2008 delivering a net loss of 1,452 million euros.