LAGOS  – The growth of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in any environment cannot be overemphasised as they remain pivotal to the economic prosperity of a nation. These is the crux of a new book titled, “SMEs the Backbone of a Thriving Economy” written by Mr. Michael Okoh, an SME consultant and professional trainer Okoh said he was inspired to write the book as a result of his experience and consistent interaction with SMEs and a desire to bring solutions to some of the critical needs of young entrepreneurs. “My experience in the SME space, as a banker and the zeal to help SMEs grow and achieve their dreams, coupled with the fact that I have tried my hands in some businesses prompted me to write down these practical guides and resources to support these categories of business owners. “This book with all certainty will be very useful for every business owner, entrepreneur, business manager and student and teacher of business related courses in secondary schools and higher institutions,” he said. Speaking further, the author said the book is a comprehensive guide to small and medium-sized enterprises that provides an overview of the current state of SMEs in the world, as well as recommendations for policy development, business strategies, and measures of success. He said: “The book highlights major challenges of SMEs like financing options available, government support programmes and how they can be effectively implemented and strategies to overcome the challenges faced by SMEs. It also looks at how technology can be utilized for the success of SMEs.” Okoh stated that his work is a compendium on how entrepreneurs can start-up, manage and succeed in their chosen endeavours. POLL “The book which has 10 insightful chapters will engage the reader with the nitty-gritty of SMEs and help to understand the linkage between the successful SMEs and a thriving economy. The book will be very useful to every business owner, entrepreneur, business managers and students of business. The book is available in leading bookshops and on Amazon.