KOLA OWOLABI ‘Only three people out of nearly a thousand sales exercised the money back claim. One of them I believe never thought a Nigerian in his right mind will honour the money back promise.’ In this edition we try to wrap up the piece on what can make businesses in a third world country life Nigeria begin to get the result of the developed world in terms of attracting patronage from all over the world. What we are saying is that it is possible to leapfrog, that is jump over from suboptimal performance and experience of business owners in a country like Nigeria to having extraordinary results in terms of ability to command global patronage. We talked about the attraction of the money-back guarantee arrangement that is automatic and given in the developed world and which has helped businesses there enjoy the goodwill that makes people from all over the world comfortable in patronizing what they have to offer. I had used the money back guarantee arrangement here in Nigeria contrary to the counsel of a superior who said that Nigerians would abuse it. I had a wonderful experience with it and it was actually the singular factor that gave me the success I had in that business venture. Let me go into the details. I wanted to bring a new product into the market. It was an information product, a manual to guide entrepreneurs who are looking for how to start and grow their businesses without stress. Although a physical product, it was to be promoted and sold online before physical delivery of the product is made. The model of that business necessitated that prospective buyers will have to pay upfront before we ship the product by courier. To give people the confidence in the arrangement and make them pay before seeing or touching the product, the money back guarantee arrangement came in handy. Prospective buyers were motivated to pay ahead because we told them that after paying and we delivered to them, they had a whole month to ask for their money back if they were not satisfied with what we sent to them. People started to order and were paying and we were shipping to them because they knew they could ask for their money back if the manual did not meet their expectation. The fact that the money back guarantee was to subsist for a whole one month even made the people to be more comfortable with it. Only three people out of nearly a thousand sales exercised the money back claim. One of them I believe never thought a Nigerian in his right mind will honour the money back promise. So just a few minutes after the manual was delivered by the courier service, we received a call from him that he didn’t want it and that he wanted his money back. We asked him for his account details and refunded the whole money he paid without any deductions. POLL One other person who stayed at Enugu State but wanted us to deliver the manual to a Lagos address because he was trying to avoid the higher courier cost of Enugu State delivery, got back to us after the person who collected it in Lagos finally took it to him in Enugu. The Lagos recipient had probably mishandled the manual and was already dirty and defaced when the owner got it. We knew that because by the time we got the manual back it was already dirty. We also promptly paid him his money back without any deductions too. The third person who exercised the claim for his money back gave a very flimsy excuse. He came physically to the office to tell us that he had books and publications that featured most of the information contained in our manual. Without asking him any questions we counted and gave him full refund. Nobody came forward again. I was wondering what if we had not used the money back guarantee. Three returns out of nearly one thousand is not even up to one percent. What motivated us to incorporate the money back guarantee arrangement was a research figure that not more than three percent will ever exercise money back claim. My experience was in Nigeria where I was initially told that everybody will buy our manual to read and later ask for their money back, which never happened. • Kola Owolabi is the Principal Consultant and CEO of David Richard Associates, a company he founded in 1998. He is a Business Plan preparation expert and has been very active in the Business Development landscape in Nigeria in the past 23 years”. He was a leading consultant in many prominent business development projects in Nigeria, i.e., World Bank Growth and Employment Project (GEM) and YOUWIN Connect (Grading of Business Plans of Applicants). He is a Fellow of the Institute of Management Consultants of Nigeria. He can be reached on 08023203198