Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp will be hoping to bolster his squad this summer after a relatively disappointing campaign last term. -ADVERTISEMENT-The Reds finished fifth in the Premier League table and therefore missed out on a place in the Champions League next season, instead having to settle for the Europa League. The Merseyside outfit have been linked with moves for several players in recent weeks, but it now appears that Liverpool could be closing in on their first signing of the summer transfer window. As per Football Insider, the Reds are close to agreeing a deal for Nice midfielder Khephren Thuram. The Frenchman is said to be keen on the idea of a move to Anfield, and Liverpool are working hard to reach an agreement. Thuram, 22, joined Nice from fellow French side Monaco back in 2019 and has since made 138 appearances for his current club. The former France youth international has scored eight goals and provided 11 assists across all competitions during his time with the club, but he looks increasingly likely to depart the Ligue 1 outfit this summer. If a deal is agreed, it would be a huge blow to Newcastle United who have also previously shown interest in the midfielder. POLL The report claims that Liverpool are confident of agreeing a deal for the player, who is contracted to his current club until the summer of 2025. Last season, Thuram made 48 appearances across all competitions for Nice, including 35 Ligue 1 matches. Liverpool boss Klopp will be keen to add midfield reinforcements to his squad this summer, with Naby Keita, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and James Milner all departing this month. Loanee Arthur Melo has also returned to parent club Juventus having made just one appearance for the Reds, leaving Klopp relatively short of options in midfield. The Reds have already signed Alexis Mac Allister from Brighton and Hove Albion, but it appears that the Merseyside club are keen to add at least one more central midfielder to their ranks ahead of the start of the new season.