LAGOS – The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has warned that the plan by the Nigerian Electricity Regulato­ry Commission (NERC) to increase electricity tariff by 40 percent by July 1, 2023, is both insensitive and callous and reflects an organised indifference to the well-being of consumers, especially the poor. Recall that in announcing the tariff increase, NERC had said the current service based tariff (SBT) was benchmarked on an exchange rate of N441/$ and inflation rate of 16.97 percent. It argued that since the value of the naira to the dollar now hovers around N760 and current rate of inflation at 22.45 percent, it was necessary to increase tariff to mitigate operators’ cost of operations. ­ Comrade Joe Ajaero, NLC President, while talking with Daily Independent, said the massive increase of electric­ity tariff is explained away as a response to the over 100 percent increase in the pump price of premium motor spir­it (PMS). He noted that details re­veal a movement in inflation from 16.9 percent to 22.41, threatening to needle 30, and a shift in exchange rate from N441 to N750. He said: “We believe not even these figures are a jus­tification for this reckless proposed tariff increase. “The issue of capacity to pay and quality of service de­livery are not only germane but superior to any rational­isation by market logic. “The service providers in spite of sundry support have not been able to meet the threshold of 5000 mega­watts. POLL “Coupled with this, there have been surreptitious in­creases without notice in violation of statutes. “The inherent risk in the new regime of tariff is that there is no control, implying that by August, consumers will pay new rates. “The other risk is that by the time other products or service-rendering enti­ties come up with their new prices or rates, the ordinary person would have been com­pacted into dust. “We would want to advise apostles of the market who have called NLC all sorts of names to check their con­science. “The rate at which they are going is highly combat­ive and combustible. With contemplation of payment of school fees in tertiary in­stitutions and increases in privately-owned ones in addi­tion to other costs/tariffs on the way, life in Nigeria could truly be Hobbesian”. He specifically said: “The market economies which the market fundamentalists seek to emulate, have in place so­cio-economic safeguards which we do not have. “In light of this, our advice is that this proposed tariff hike should be shelved for our collective safety”. Meanwhile, the Abuja Electricity Distribution Com­pany (AEDC) has appealed to its customers to disregard the planned tariff increase as ap­proval for such an increment had not been received. AEDC management made the appeal in a statement on Monday in Abuja. “Please disregard the cir­culating communication, regarding the review of elec­tricity tariffs. “Be informed that no ap­proval for such increments has been received. We regret any inconvenience.” However, AEDC had earli­er on Sunday in a statement, said there would be an up­ward review of electricity tariffs from July 1. According to the state­ment, the tariff increase is influenced by the fluctuating exchange rate. “Effective July 1, 2023, please be informed that there will be an upward re­view of the electricity tariff influenced by the fluctuating exchange rate. “Under the MYTO 2022 guidelines, the previously set exchange rate of N441/$ may now be revised to ap­proximately N750/$ which will have an impact on the tariffs associated with your electricity consumption. “For customers within bands B and C, with supply hours ranging from 12 to 16 per day, the new base tariff is expected to be N100 per Kilo­watts per hour (KWh). “While Bands A with (20 hours and above) and B (16 to 20 hours) will experience comparatively higher tar­iffs,” it said. In the statement, AEDC encouraged customers with prepaid meters to consid­er purchasing bulk energy units before the end of June as this would allow them to take advantage of the cur­rent rates and make savings before the new tariffs came into effect. AEDC said that for those on post-paid (estimated) bill­ing, a significant increment is imminent in their monthly billing, starting from August. The Mult Year Tariff Or­der (MYTO) is the methodol­ogy for regulating electricity prices. It provided a 15-year tariff path for the Nigerian electric­ity industry with limited ‘mi­nor’ reviews each year in the light of changes in a number of parameters. These included inflation and gas prices and ‘major’ reviews every five years when all of the inputs were reviewed with stakeholders.