ABUJA –  Chief Frank Kokori, a former General Secretary of The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), on Monday, told President Ahmed Bola Tinubu to serve Nigeria, as the people are expecting so much from him. Kokori, who spoke at the June 12 @ 30 World Press Conference, organized by the Coalition of Pro-democracy Groups for a Better Nigeria, noted that Nigerians have suffered enough praying that President Tinubu would take the people out of the mess they found themselves as Nigerians. The Pro-democracy activist also declared that Nigeria was recaptured by the cabal under General Muhammadu Buhari, the immediate past President of Nigeria. Kokori said that for eight years Nigeria was under the stronghold of the cabal with the dividends of democracy which Nigerians hoped for became a mirage. He expressed gratitude to God for sparing his life to witness the time a true Democrat has taken over the leadership of the country. “I remember after the 16 years of the PDP, years of the locust, how do I describe the PDP, the PDP to me, is a conservative party that was supposed to play a liberal capitalism system. But the PDP decided to play an extreme right, chauvinistic, primitive capitalism. And that is where we found ourselves today. But we had so much hope when the legacy party took over. Unfortunately, a man like General Buhari, we remembered him for a short rule as a military dictator. He was a no-nonsense General. “And Nigerians relied so much on him, but at last, Nigeria again was recaptured by the cabal. And for eight years Nigeria was under the stronghold of the cabal with the dividends of democracy which Nigerians hoped for became a mirage. I am happy today that at my age. I have seen a man, my dear comrade and a part of that struggle Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who was in the trenches with us. And I remember when some of us were finally picked up, and locked up, he managed to escape the evil machinations of the military. He escaped into exile and those were the soldiers internationally flying the flag abroad. He recalled that Nigeria was producing enough petroleum products to serve the populace, wondering how it happened that this time the country uses all her foreign exchange to import fuel, describing the development as the greatest humiliation of the country. POLL In his submission, Comrade Awa Bamiji, the National Coordinator of the Coalition of Pro-Democracy Groups for A Better Nigeria, demanded that his coalition be considered for Ministerial posts in President Tinubu administration. Bamiji who specifically demanded to be assigned to the Ministry of Information and Culture said: “if Tinubu Presidency serves as best atonement for June 12 election spirit, allocation of the Ministry of Information and Culture by Tinubu Presidency to the coalition of Pro-democracy Groups for a better Nigeria will be most appropriate”. He said for three Decades running, the Coalition remains the most organized Youth/Civil Society platforms with an intimidating number of affiliate Organisations within and outside Nigeria. The former President of the Ijaw Youth Council, Asari Dokubo said when the June 1993 presidential election was canceled, some of them wanted to go into an arms struggle, but MKO Abiola was not ready for that. “When finally it dawned on us that they were ready to kill him, and after he was arrested, we went to the trenches together with President Bola Tinubu, Pa Enahoro, Dan Suleiman, David Jang, Woke Soyinka, Ndubuisi Kalu and several others.