The Director-General, New Media of Bayelsa State Government, Kola Oredipe, has boasted that Governor Douye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will win the forthcoming November 11 governorship election, insisting that he has no contender. He expressed confidence that the administration of Diri had performed very well to earn a second term in office. Oredipe said the governor within the last three years had carried out vital projects and infrastructures covering roads and bridges, health, education, sports, agriculture, empowerment of women and youths as well as improved security in the state and welfare of workers and pensioners. He stated these during a parley with members of the Federated Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Bayelsa State Council, held at the FCC secretariat in Yenagoa on Monday. While declaring that the governor was sure of securing re-election at the polls, Oredipe said, “I can tell you that if the election is conducted today Governor Douye Diri will win in all the eight local government areas of Bayelsa State, regardless of where the other candidates come from. “The project Bayelsa is very key to him and he feels very strongly about it. He restored peace and order to the state on the assumption of office. Infrastructure wise – remarkable achievements in roads, education, sports, empowerment, and different skills acquisition programmes. He has done so much in all these areas.” The new media boss contended that with accomplishments in big-ticket projects such as the Nembe Unity Bridge, Elebele Bridge, Imiringi Bridge, and ongoing construction works on the Nembe-Brass Road, the Yenagoa-Oporoma Road as well as accreditation of courses for the Bayelsa State College of Education, Sagbama and the Niger Delta University, Diri had deepened development and governance across all parts of the state. He noted further that with the prevailing peace in Bayelsa, more investments in the Blue Economy were underway through the marine endowments of the state and the critical three senatorial roads that would create access to the sea. POLL “Having been a public servant, a teacher, with rich experience in private businessman and politics; as commissioner, deputy chief of staff, principal executive secretary to a governor, House of Reps member and senator, and now governor, it’s not surprising that His Excellency has been able to achieve a lot”, Oredipe added. Responding to questions from the correspondents, he explained that the governor had given directive for the redesign, reconstruction, and rehabilitation of some internal roads with drainages within the Yenagoa metropolis, and work would soon commence to fix them for the benefit of residents.