The Benin Development Union (BeDU) has described Oba of Benin’s rebuking of Clem Agba as wake up call to politicians, saying that it marks a watershed from the era of undue glorification of politicians by Edo traditional rulers at the eve of every general election. BeDU which made the declaration in a statement signed by Dr. Orumwense Aiyudubie, its Secretary General stated, “We received with great delight, the news of the reproach that was meted on the former Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba by the Oba of Benin, as it marks a watershed from the era of undue glorification of politicians by Edo traditional rulers at the eve of every general election”. According to BeDU, “For us, the indictment of ingratitude against Hon. Clem Agba, which was based on the crass lopsidedness of his ministerial intervention during his stint as Minister of State is literally tied to Professor Chinua Achebe’s novel admonition – “those whose palm kernel was cracked by a benevolent spirit, should not forget to be humble”. BeDU also pointed out that Edo State had two ministerial slots under the out-gone Buhari’s administration, largely due to the Oba of Benin’s intervention. “It was only fair that both Ministers (Health, as well as Budget and National Planning) eschew acts of nepotism in the citing of projects across the eighteen Local Government Council of the State, and not for a Minister to see the appointment as a special gift to his senatorial district, at the detriment of the other two districts. “In the count down to the 2024 gubernatorial race, apostles of tribalism, nepotism and clannish aspirants have no chance to clinch any formidable party’s ticket, by the grace of God and the vigilant spirit of Edo masses.. “Edo traditional rulers should emulate the interrogative and fatherly acumen of the Oba of Benin, and refrain from allowing politicians to using their royal palaces for undeserving endorsements or political gratis. “In the march to the election, we seek total restrain from political godfathers, by allowing the process to evolve seamlessly without undue interference, as doing otherwise will provoke the wrath of our youths, who are tied of imposition of candidates. POLL “We call on the leadership of all the political parties to imbibe fairness to all, as any party that does otherwise will be massively rejected by Edo people. “It is noteworthy that penultimate week, we re-interated our endorsement of four distinguished Edo South gubernatorial personalities (Engr. Chris Osa Ogiemwonyi, Osarodion Ogie Esq, Mr. Erhabor Emokpae, and Chief Solomon Iyobosa Edebiri) while urging them to join the governorship race. “Some of the justifications for their endorsement include – compassion for Edo State transformation, detribalization, loyalty to Edo cultural values, as well as astute desire to propping Edo State from a civil service state to a a melting pot for industries. “We wish to appeal to politicians to desist from aiding their social media aides to castigate our Royal fathers for their exemplary frankness in placing them and their stewardship antecedents in where they actually belong. We will not sit idly and allow anyone or group, under any guise to cast aspersion on our revered Royal fathers”, BeDU further declared.