I further made my point by stating that: “It may be recalled that just last year alone, a whopping N6 trillion was budgeted for petrol subsidy and just for the half of this year alone (January to June) three and half (N3.5) trillion was also appropriated as petrol subsidy in budget 2023. “That is a total of nearly N10 trillion sunk into subsidy for petrol in less than two (2) years in a country that the government is borrowing money from banks and relying on ways-and-means (printing the naira) to pay salaries to civil servants”. In trying to consolidate my point, the following submission was made: “In the same category of what I would like to categorize as escapist tactics that reflect political spinelessness of the outgoing administration, is the case of the naira that had been propped up in the past eight (8) years via Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, intervention policy of injecting billions of dollars into the Foreign Exchange, FX, market resulting in trillions of naira being expended to defend the local currency”. Noting that the CBN measures failed to achieve the objective of keeping the naira at par with the United States dollar which was a campaign promise made in 2015 by the outgone administration, I justifiably made the following argument: “Despite, the interventions, government exchange rate or Import and Export, I&E, window which was about N160 to $1 in 2015 had reached N450 to $1 by this time last year and it is currently N460 with the black/parallel market rate hovering around N765 to a dollar. “Going by the rate at which the gap between CBN and black/parallel market rates is closing up since the dollar injection to defend the naira stopped, it appears as if the CBN may be left with no better option than to allow for the two (2) market rates to merge sooner than later”. Continuing, I expressed my convictions about imminent further devaluation of the naira this way: “And should the matter continue to be out of the control of the CBN, since the Nigerian National Petroleum Company, NNPC, currently a limited liability company that is about to be privatized is no more remitting crude oil income to the CBN which in turn is no longer able to intervene in the exchange market by pumping dollars into the system through multiple bureau de change outfits selling dollars to the highest bidders to shore up the value of the naira, our local currency may soon be exchanging at about N1000 to one United States dollar by this year’s end”. Thereafter, I reached the conclusion below which is almost prophetic because that is how it has panned out: “That may be the reality that the new administration under President-elect Tinubu’s watch may have to deal with immediately upon assuming office, especially as the current governor of the apex bank, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, highly stressed and distressed due to the enormity of the burden of managing Nigeria’s complex and complicated financial system has been reported in the media to be planning to go on study leave validating the rumor that he would be quitting his role as the curtain falls on the stage for the current administration”. The narrative was concluded with the following emphatic prediction: “Similarly, after the removal of petrol subsidy which is due next month, it is being predicted that the pump price of the commodity may also spike up to the region of N350-N500 per liter”. POLL Co-incidentally, petrol price is now selling at the N500 benchmark as I had projected. The other event that is bound to also create prickly heat, if not turmoil for Nigerians, following the withdrawal of subsidy for boosting naira exchange rate with foreign currencies, I also predicted that: “The immediate consequence of the anticipated spikes in prices of foreign exchange and petrol that are essential services with high impact effect on the masses would be that the inflation rate in our country that is currently 22.22% (which is a seventeen-year high based on National Bureau of Statistics, NBS, report) could become double of the current level. “And that would spell more misery for the critical masses of Nigerians of which about one hundred and thirty (130m) million of our compatriots are said to be living below poverty line”. Following the above projections, Nigerians should have braced up for the worse in the preliminary stages of Tinubu’s presidency because a lot of rot that is making the economy and by extension our country sick would be aggressively dealt with to give the nation a new lease of life. That is why President Tinubu’s demonstration of boldness by literally taking the bull by horn that was also in tandem with the projection in the referenced article should be commendable. Below is how I had put it: “Given the doom and gloom picture of the economy and country that the incoming president would be inheriting, a faint hearted president-elect would have balked at the enormity of the challenges ahead. “But the incoming President, Asiwaja Bola Ahmed Tinubu also known as the Lion of Bourdilon by his fans and foes alike is not a faint hearted leader”. In my estimation, President Tinubu is bringing stability and certainty to the management of Nigeria and the economy which is needed at this point in time to earn the confidence of potential investors— local and foreigners alike who have been skittish about the uncertainties entrenched by the immediate past administration. As a further evidence of his dynamism suggesting leadership from the front which indicates that he would be more responsive than his predecessor, President Tinubu had also quickly resolved the face-off between the Department of State Services, DSS, and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, when the former laid siege to the Lagos office of the latter in an interagency squabble. It may be recalled that when a similar incident occurred under the watch of the immediate past administration, the confrontation was not promptly deescalated as President Tinubu has done by ordering DSS to immediately vacate EFFC premises that it had forcefully occupied. The new president has also met with the leaders in the other major security arms of government during which he informed them that he would not tolerate their working at cross purposes after offering them all the required support to achieve the goal of securing the country. It is hoped that his marching order would not turn out to be the sort that President Buhari gave and he was not aware that a particular security chief was not where he should have been in compliance with the order of the commander-in-chief, C-in-C, of the armed forces of Nigeria. Contrary to the style of the previous administration, I would imagine that President Tinubu would demand accountability, monitoring and feedback from the respective security chiefs that met with him. Given the scenario above, it should not be such a surprise to followers of political developments in Nigeria that President Tinubu has moved swiftly by making decisions in a manner that is quite the opposite of his predecessor who was often dilly dallying. The assertion above is validated by the fact that after he took the oath of office as the sixteenth (16th) president and commander-in-chief of the armed forces of Nigeria on Monday, May 29, in his inaugural speech, he uttered the words, “Fuel subsidy is gone”, which has had a tumultuous, if not tsunami like effect in the lives of our country men/women. That is a declaration that has sealed the controversy over petrol subsidy in Nigeria and it is a statement that past administrations— military and democratic alike—have dreaded and therefore avoided dealing with like a plague. And it is on record that military heads of state, ranging from Generals Olusegun Obasanjo, Muhammadu Buhari, Ibrahim Babangida to Sanni Abacha have been too lily-livered to remove petrol subsidy, although, they were military and autocratic rulers. Even both ex-Presidents Obasanjo and Buhari as democratically elected presidents had also failed to end petrol subsidy under their watch despite their reputation as strong men. So where they should have been like lions, they have been like kittens. It is amazing how tough army Generals have proven to be unable to make tough political decisions like ending an economic policy that has almost wrecked our country. I have always been intrigued when in movies most villainous men are unable to pull the trigger when children and women would be in harm’s way. I guess that is how God wired them. Otherwise, how can army Generals who have not only gone to war and participated in active battle fields, but have killed enemies in combat and commanded their troops to kill opposing soldiers and even civilian foes in some cases, be afraid to end debilitating policies like petrol pump price subsidy and propping up of the naira against foreign currencies at monumental costs to the nation’s treasury? If it did not happen for real, it could never have been imagined that the no nonsense military dictators could demur from taking decisions such as the removal of petrol subsidy and multiple naira exchange rates with foreign currencies that would have prevented our country from descending into the economic ruins in which it is currently mired. Think of the killing of innocent civilians in Odi in Bayelsa State and Zaki Biam in Benue State on the alleged orders of Olusegun Obasanjo, president, 1999-2007. Also think of the notorious Sergeant Rogers and his killing machine deployed to eliminate civilians resisting military autocracy and advocating return to democratic governance that were mowed down in broad daylight under the watch of army General Sani Abacha (1993-1998). The fearless democracy advocate, Kudirat Abiola, the wife of Chief MKO Abiola of blessed memory who was the acclaimed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election was a victim of military tyranny when she got murdered in cold bold by Sergeant Rogers etal. Also add the fact that members of the defunct National Democratic Coalition, NADECO, including Senator Bola Tinubu (as he was then known) that were hounded into exile by the aforementioned tyrannical military leaders who were toppling governments, both military and democratically elected, but could not summon the courage to ‘topple’ petrol subsidy and multiple FX rates regime that are wreaking more havoc on Nigerians than the allegation of corruption by public officials which was always the excuse for the military to plot coups to topple both democratic and military governments. The foregoing retrospection is to enable readers get a clearer picture of the caliber of men who inspired fear in mortals in their hey days, yet they were unable to make the critical decision to remove petrol subsidy whose negative effects on Nigerian economy and the well-being of the good people of our beloved country can be said to be worse than the effect of COVID -19 pandemic. Clearly, where the ex-soldiers have been dreading and therefore failed spectacularly to make a decision and act boldly, which is perhaps because they are not trained to manage civilians, the brand new president, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has decided without equivocation or hesitancy to tread. Although, the decision to announce the end of petrol pump price regime and imminent convergence of multiple exchange rates regime is bound to be painful initially, which is currently the case, it is generally agreed that it is an inevitable path to the redemption of our country from the self-inflicted wound that has the potentiality and capacity to be fatalistic. That is with respect to the need for petrol subsidy removal as Vice President Kashim Shettima has stated in his recent address on his first day at work: “If we don’t end petrol subsidy it may end the country”. In the light of the above, terminating without further delay the petrol subsidy regime which is metaphorically like a malignant cancer that is close to the terminal stage of killing its victim, hence it had to be removed before it metastasizes, is a decision which all Nigerians must embrace. Obviously, the end of cheap petrol has become a sort of fait accompli as it has been endorsed by practically all Nigerians. The only issue with it is the style that President Tinubu adopted in announcing it which did not gel with some stakeholders, particularly the Nigerian Labour Congress, NLC. That is regardless of the fact that the foundation for the new oil/gas exploration regime had long been laid with the signing of the Petroleum Industry Act, PIA, into law in August 2021 by President Buhari after the legislature passed it in July of the same 2021. The PIA introduced a new regulatory framework that reformed the century old rules guiding the exploration of oil and gas in Nigeria that had been stifling the required growth in the sector simply because the old rules had become as obsolete and fossil as the fossil fuel mined from the soil. An integral and very critical component of the reform intrinsic in the PIA is the definitive end to subsidy payment ostensibly aimed at reducing the pump price of petrol purportedly in the interest of the masses who presumably cannot afford to pay the real cost. But in reality, studies have revealed that petrol subsidy has been benefiting the wealthy more than that the masses that it was targeting. That is because statistics indicate that only about 10% of Nigerians that are car owners are benefiting more from subsidized petrol pump price policy. The assertion above is basically underscored by the fact that in most cases it is the wealthy Nigerians that own fleets of luxury cars with high engine capacities of up to 12 cylinders that are guzzling the cheap petrol who are gaining from petrol subsidy. In advanced societies, high petrol cost discourages ownership of a fleet of vehicles by the rich. That is apart from the fear of the taxation for owing a certain number of cars. Yes, for instance, car ownership is taxed in Germany. Some years ago, I invited a German partner firm involved in waste management to speak at a conference/seminar on effective ways of managing waste in Nigeria that my firm, Inspire Consulting Ltd organized. As readers may be aware, Germany is a leading country in waste management mainly due to the activities of the Green Party which commands significant influence in German politics. While the Germans were visiting, after the event, I decided to take them round to various states across Nigeria to have firsthand knowledge about the situation, also leveraging the attendees as local anchor, try to strike deals in waste management with relevant authorities in various states across the six (6) regions. And my German guests were conveyed in multiple cars between Abuja and adjourning states that we visited. Another set of cars took the visitors and I around from Asaba in Delta State to surrounding states. Unbeknown to me, my guests were discreetly asking the drivers conveying them about who owns the cars. Perhaps they were doing so to confirm the financial capacity of my firm and its ability to be their partner in Nigeria. At the end of their visit, during a dinner party that I hosted in their honor in my home in Lagos, my partners expressed surprise that I had personal cars in Abuja, Lagos and Agbor, Delta State where I hail from.