King Daniel Isong, aka, king model is a coach, an international model, Chief Executive Officer of Dreams Models outfit. In this interview with Tim Okojie Ave, the international modelling icon urges President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to create employment for the teeming youths to divert their attention from crimes to productive engagements aimed at national development through the development of the entertainment industry. Excerpts: Can we know your background? My name is King Daniel Isong, known as Kingmodel. I have been working as model, same time coaching while running modeling agencies. I am also involved in writing stories and movie producing, and acting. It has been my childhood ambition. I studied in different institutions such as Veronica Children School, Saints Luke Grammar School in Lagos, Jimmy International London School and Lourdes University, Sylvania, in Ohio, U.S. I also went to College of Business and Leadership. Before proceeding to full modelling career with tutors, where I specialized in fashion modelling. And I am very aggressive about it. You are believed to be one of Africa’s top model talent hunters, how did it begin? I launched my agency on December 13, 2008, in Sizzlers Auditorium, at Adeola Odeku. That was my beginning, and after I learnt the trade from many individuals in fashion, modelling and entertainment. What has been your achievements since you started? I have achieved a wide range of exposure on social media, on Tv promos with Silverbird TV, newspapers and received awatds from magazines companies, including contract jobs for myself and my models in DREAMS MODELS. Also, I have broken records of training and grooming over 250 upcoming models. Some are based abroad and most of my models have won awards and rankings from competitions with many shows. How would you describe your last event? POLL It was successful and marvelous on the face of individuals who came, and today people are now watching DREAMS MODELS Competition AWARDS NIGHT OUT! What is your take on corporate support for modelling events? Yes, Corporate bodies do turn up and show interest in modeling events, such as Silverbird TV, Shakara Square TV, etc. It is not in doubt that corporate bodies gain more from such events to expand their businesses in our industry with great magnificence to the growth of their products and that is why they should always come to show financial support for our kind of business. What impact did the government of Buhari make on your kind of business? The government of former president Buhari didn’t support our kind of business and he never financed any of my projects, but my projects were financed by people from nowhere, not government. Nevertheless, it would have been nice if the government had shown concern for my organization because Dreams Models is registered by the Corporate Affairs Commission. Against this backdrop, what advice do you have for President Ahmed Bola Tinubu towards supporting your kind of business and entertainment industry? To our new president, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, I urge him to consider the entertainment industry in his policy quest and support us financially to get more job opportunities, especially in the entertainment industry. It will be an avenue to create employment for more than three million youths, thus reducing crime rate in the society while putting the country in the world map by the creative energy of the youths. As industry go global, more people will come into the industry to gain fame, opportunities and contracts. Apart from government coming into the entertainment industry, what advice do you have for the youths in the country? My advice to the youths of Nigeria is to continue to follow the part that will lead them to a better life than crimes by starting their struggling early enough in life in their areas of interest without waiting for government because heaven helps those who help themselves. They must follow their passion of being legends with total commitment, and should start small and keep building on it till they get to the top. Let them keep doing what they know how to do best. One day they will succeed with their dreams and talents.