Comrade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi is a former Lagos State Chairman of the African Action Congress (AAC) and also the party’s former governorship aspirant in Ondo State. Ajayi, a one-time chieftain of the National Conscience Party (NCP), in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the controversy following the removal of petroleum subsidy among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the May 29 inauguration of Bola Tinubu as Nigerian president? Nothing is amazing about the inauguration. The rulers only handed over to the next chief tyrant. What aspects of Tinubu’s inaugural speech impressed you the most? I am not in any way impressed by those packs of lies and ironical invectives. What is your view on the way President Bola Tinubu announced the removal of petroleum subsidy on his inauguration? It was expected that Tinubu would do worse than Buhari. So, it is good that he himself has called for war against the masses publicly so early. It means we all have to gird your loins, and be prepared for the worst. There are petrol queues everywhere now. The marketers are now free to swindle the masses. No more regulations. But, the monopoly will come through Dangote Refinery. Tinubu will sell NNPC and others. It is going to be a long battle against the people. But, I can say the Nigerian masses will defeat Tinubu and all his evil ideas. Just as it is now clear that all the leading candidates are all in agreement to remove subsidies and suffer the masses. What will you say is your party’s stand on the best way to handle the issue of petroleum Subsidy? What would have the AAC government done in this regard bearing in mind the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA)? POLL Our party, the AAC has stated clearly that we would not remove petrol subsidy. We would have instead diverted the subsidy money to fixing the public refineries as well as making sure we would never be subsidising the greed of individual marketers. We would have considered Nigerians first and made sure they did not pay a dime more for fuel! We would have stopped the insanity in the importing of petrol. AAC’s manifesto is clear that we disprove the Petroleum Industrial Act (PIA) because it is a greedy note. We will definitely abolish the same if voted into power. Now that the NNPC and other oil marketers have gone ahead to fix pump prices, what do think the workers and the trade unions represented by the Labour Centres should do? The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) should rally workers to ask for N250,000 to cushion the effects of subsidy withdrawal, while the civil society should also rally for the reversal to the old price. It is the beginning of much oppression to come. Workers will be the one that will suffer the most. The Labour bureaucracy must never allow the FG and Governors to hoodwink them. They should address the workers more than just going to dialogue all the time! What do you think the state and federal governments should do to cushion the effects of the subsidy removal on the masses? I don’t agree with the removal. Let the FG start paying N250,000 to workers and N100,000 to all citizens first. Anything other than that is rubbish. Let no one come to tell us of another rogue scheme like SURE-P or N-POWER. It is all a ruse! Do you see President Tinubu having the political will to turn the nation around going by his Renew Hope mantra and his pronouncements at inauguration? He and his cronies have not turned Lagos around since 1999. That is about 24 years. How would they have the political will to turn Nigeria around? Let us get it clear. Tinubu will only favour his pockets, greed and the oppressors more. What enduring legacies Will you say Buhari left? Buhari left behind legacies of impunity and fascism. What key areas do you think the Tinubu administration should focus on urgently? Tinubu has already declared his focus with the subsidy removal. He is going for the big cake. The oil will be massively exploited and Nigerians made to suffer. What is your take on the emergence of the leadership of the 10th National Assembly? Whoever emerges at the leadership of the National Assembly will still be anti-people. So, I am not interested in them! How do you see the unemployment situation and how it could be curbed? I addressed workers at the Ministry of Labour yesterday (midweek), and I was very clear about the fact that Nigerians need re-industrialisation. We need to get the government fully back to doing business. We must not mind all the lies of Dangote and Otedola, all they want is more trillions into their personal pockets. How can Nigeria be topping the charts of countries with unemployment at 33.3%? Which kind of wickedness is that? How can we have 133 million poor out of 200 million? We need to do away with SAP and other policies of neoliberalism! How is your party picking the pieces after the electoral loss and its plans for the future? The African Action Congress (AAC) is not amazed at the elections. We understand all the waves and illusions. We understand that the whole process is not credible. We understand that the masses are yet to come to terms with the actual causes of our problems. So, we keep mobilizing and organising. We are happy that people are already regretting not voting for our Presidential candidate, Comrade Omoyele Sowore and the other AAC candidates. But, we are sure that our ideas are now the standards. Look at subsidy removal: Obi, Atiku, Kwankwanso, and Tinubu said they would remove same. Their supporters were yelling and happy. But, these supporters were all novices as to what the removal of subsidies would do. But the AAC was correct to stand against the subsidy removal ab initio. So, the whole Nigerians are now regretting not voting Sowore the activist. All the politicians they voted for are all anti-people! The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal rejected live transmission of its proceedings. How did you see the development? The tribunal’s ruling on the matter was archaic and an embarrassment to Nigerians. We all saw the judgment on Ike Ekweremadu was televised. Why is our judiciary afraid of being technologically documented? This is not just a question for the discerning. It is an answer to the impunity in the entire legal system! The issue of the Adamawa Residential Electoral Commissioner (REC) seems to be dying down. What is your take on the issue? It is common knowledge that after crime, Nigerian officials always go on AWOL. Even the president is used to disappearing and reappearing. Things are so abnormal here. But, I know the police know where the Adamawa REC is. They are only just raising the alarm to show that they are helpless. What matters is that the REC was burst. And that will be the victory for the people’s democracy. How do you see the effectiveness of activism in Nigeria as a vehicle for positive change in the country? The history of Nigerian activism has shown that even before the nation’s political independence, Nigerian activists have lived up to their billing. Most of those who came into government at independence worked with labour. Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe and Chief Obafemi Awolowo worked with activists like the late Aminu Kano and Michael Imoudu and others. It could be said that the activists laid the foundation for and built Nigerian politics, including political leadership of women. Activists became stronger after independence. Activists championed anti-military and anti-war movements. Activists also helped to fight the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) by 1980. Ironically, 30 years after SAP, Nigeria is suffering the effect of SAP. It would have been great if activists are in power. But, the structures that emerged after the civil war were fizzled away, like the National Union of the Nigerian Students (NUNS), now National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS). There are efforts to kill the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). There is undue romance of activists with the current government. Such activists are found in Bola Tinubu, Adams Oshiomhole and Rauf Aregbesola camps. However, activism has risen up again after the All Progressives Congress (APC) took over power. The old vanguard cannot continue as they are now with different groups.