P/HARCOURT – Ex-agitators from the nine states of the Niger Delta region have pleaded with the newly appointed National Security Adviser (NSA), Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, to retain the Interim Administrator of Presidential Am­nesty Programme (PAP), Maj.-Gen. Barry Ndiomu (retd). The ex-agitators, under the Coali­tion of Ex-Agitators of Niger Delta (CEND), who passed a vote of confi­dence in Ndiomu, told Ribadu that they were comfortable with the way and manner the interim administra­tor had piloted the affairs of PAP. Speaking in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Thursday, chairman and co­ordinator of CEND, Gershom Mpaka Gbobo, congratulated Ribadu on his appointment and said Ndiomu’s mag­ic wand was needed for the existing peace to continue in the region. Gbobo noted that Ndiomu since as­sumption of office had sanitised the PAP and rid it of corruption. He said: “General Ndiomu (retd) as the amnesty boss has introduced life-changing and sustainable pro­grammes for ex-agitators. “For instance, the introduction of cooperatives by Ndiomu was de­signed to wean ex-agitators of depen­dence on N65,000 monthly stipends and make them entrepreneurs, em­ployers of labour and contributors to the economy of the Niger Delta region and peace and the growth of Nigeria”. Gbobo noted that Ndiomu success­fully blocked all the financial leakages in PAP and stopped all corrupt prac­tices, especially multiple payments of stipends to individuals with multiple accounts linked to their BVN. “The recent attacks on Ndiomu launched by those who had hitherto turned the PAP to a cash cow or per­sonal automated teller machine are the real enemies of the Niger Delta. These are portfolio contractors and corrupt ex-agitators affected by the Ndiomu’s reforms and initiatives. POLL “The coalition of ex-agitators of Niger Delta has full confidence in the Ndiomu-led administration. We have moved a vote of confidence in him be­cause he has done well as the Interim administrator. All his initiatives are designed to sustain the peace in the Niger Delta.”