Another concept that helped to ease the burden of transportation and logistics back in the days was the resort to odd and even number days for vehicles to be on the streets of major cities in the country. Although, the odd and even number vehicles special days for plying the roads encouraged the ownership of more than one car, but it reduced vehicular traffic. My point is that the incumbent government should similarly engage in out-of-the -box ideas to triumph over the challenges thrown up by the withdrawal of petrol subsidy. Again, in Lagos State, Wale Tinubu’s Oando is already on the verge of rolling out, Compressed Natural Gas, CNG, powered buses for mass transit. That is evidence of private sector involvement. There is no reason other major entrepreneurs around the country should not replicate similar initiatives in their respective zones and states. But for the above listed schemes to be successful, government must first of all make funding available through loans on the platforms of microfinance banks that have done well in on-lending to small and medium scale entrepreneurs which is quite distinct from the discredited Trader Moni and similar gambits applied by the immediate past administration. With car loans that would enable more Nigerians own cars put in place, indigenous auto makers such as Innoson Motors and Automobile Assembly plants could boost the number of cars coming out of their production lines, which means more jobs for Nigerians, improved Gross National Product, GNP, and Gross Domestic Product, GDP, which would be good for the economy and the country as a whole. One is not unaware of the mess which the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, made of the cabotage loans promoting ship ownership by Nigerians or via the empowerment of entrepreneurs in the maritime sector at single digit interest rate loans from Bank of Industry, BoI. So, I expect that in establishing the new paradigm, care would be taken to eliminate the factors that hindered similar gestures of government. POLL Obviously, my proposition is not to borrow hook-line-and-sinker but the advocacy is for us to borrow for production activities which usually have catalytic effect on the economy and by extension the nation as a whole. In the meantime, I do not align with Chief Executive Officer/CEO of NNPC Ltd, Malam Mele Kyari’s postulation that following petrol subsidy withdrawal, he expects the volume of PMS used on a daily basis by motorists to be reduced by 30%. That is because in my estimation, it would drop by as much as a minimum of 50%. And the reason for the anticipated drastic reduction is attributable to two (2) factors: (a) end of smuggling of petrol out of Nigeria and (b) a crash in the number of people driving cars in Nigeria. While the latter is already evidenced by the dramatic disappearance of queues in petrol stations after the announcement of the dramatic price hike that tripled the cost by NNPC which is the monopolist in petrol importation, the former is validated by the threat of motorists in our neighboring countries— Cameroon, Benin Republic, Niger Republic etc that cost of transportation to commuters would go up in their country since they no longer have access to cheap petrol smuggled out of Nigeria. The excuse for making NNPC the sole importer of petrol in 2017 or thereabouts was due to the unfortunate incidents of petrol importers and marketers getting involved in all manners of sharp practices ranging from importation of adulterated petrol and falsification of import documents to claim subsidy whereas the products never got shipped to Nigeria, how much more arrive Nigeria. But has the decision to make NNPC a monopolist paid off well for our country? I would say: not at all. The underpinning reason for my thumping down NNPC monopoly is because importation of adulterated petrol still goes on unabated. In fact, I was a victim when I recently filled up the tank of my car at Admiralty Road, Lekki, Lagos station of former Forte Oil, currently branded Ardova. As I was driving by the station, there was a petrol tanker discharging its products into the storage tank of the petrol station. So, I stopped by to make a purchase. After filling up my tank, my car barely managed to drive across the Lekki Bridge into Ikoyi on my way home because of the adulterated fuel which almost wrecked the engine of my car. To cut the story short, by the time the foul fuel was discharged from the tank of my car, it had practically damaged my fuel pump. Going by the narrative above, if the reason for granting NNPC Ltd monopoly right to be the sole importer of petrol into Nigeria was to prevent adulterated petrol from finding its way into our shores, the unfortunate incident with the purchase that I made is a glaring evidence that ending the system of democracy in the business of importing PMS and replacing it with the autocracy of NNPC as sole importer failed to achieve its objective by not sanitizing the system. So, rather than solve the problem, NNPC tyranny was foisted on motorists as the petroleum behemoth has had a choke hold also known as monopoly. By the way, the National Assembly, NASS, and Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission, RMAFC, are already questioning the opacity and sole power to generate and spend oil money resulting in NNPCL not remitting funds from the sale of crude oil into the federation account and instead slamming the Federal Government of a N2.8 trillion unsettled payment for petrol subsidy that it claims to have applied on its behalf although subsidy was discontinued in May instead of end of June as provided in the Petroleum Industry Act, PIA. Based on my sordid experience of being a victim of adulterated petrol purchase and I guess that of many other Nigerians that have been victims of also being sold ‘bad fuel’, weeding out other importers has been proven to be a futile effort, simply because it did not solve the problem of petrol adulteration. Instead, it came with its attendant negative effect on the economy, particularly lack of transparency in the process of importing and distributing PMS. And the reason Nigerians did not know for a fact the volume of petrol used by motorists in Nigeria is because rather than measure the quantity distributed to the numerous petrol stations across Nigeria by recording the volume and actual retail stations dispensing PMS to motorists, it is the number of trucks that are loaded from the depots that are recorded without capturing where the products were discharged. As such, the quantity allocated to the various petrol stations across the country: region by region, state by state, city to city and dealer to dealer has remained opaque and unknown. Such lack of transparency suggests that NNPCL is complicit in the obfuscation of the actual volume of petrol imported into Nigeria. And it clearly indicates that somebody somewhere is taking Nigerians for a ride. It is believed that the somebody somewhere may be located in NNPC which has since 2017 been determining how much is applied in petrol subsidy from the sales of our crude oil. The Ministry of Finance, Customs and Immigration services as well as Nigerian Navy and other relevant security agencies must be involved. For the petrol subsidy removal initiative to yield the much sought benefits, it is about time the Augean stable is cleaned up. The nebulous process that allows NNPC to exclusively sell our crude oil and purchase refined petrol for the nation with the proceeds hoping that the income from the sales of crude would surpass the cost of importing refined products is to say the least efficient and vulnerable to manipulation. Based on what the CEO of NNPC, Mele Kyari has told Nigerians, the Federal Government owes NNPC N2.4 trillion after netting off the amount that it applied in importing petrol in its behalf. With NNPC collecting and spending Nigeria’s oil revenue, God knows the dimension of graft that is probably being perpetrated in the behemoth to the detriment of the masses. That is why it is quite welcoming that the National Assembly, NASS, and Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission, RMAFC, have called for a probe into how the sale of crude oil and purchase of petrol exclusively by NNPC has been carried out since the Ministry of Finance and CBN got taken out of the equation with the NNPC being a sort of sole administrator of our nation’s oil/gas assets and revenue. Amongst other benefits, what the recent petrol subsidy removal has engendered is that exclusive importation of petrol by NNPC is about to be over. And that is especially with Dangote refinery coming on stream and hopefully in the coming months (may be years) when the four (4) government owned ones in Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna with combined capacity of 450,000 barrels, currently undergoing turn around maintenance (TAM) come on stream. When and if that happens, Nigeria may have capacity to produce up to 1.1m barrels of petroleum products daily. With the barriers lifted, there is also likely to be an influx, if not an avalanche of investors into petrol refining business as the business becomes more attractive for investors. In that regard, I suspect that the plethora of business men/women granted licence for modular refineries in the past decade and who have been unable to roll out the refineries due to the government subsidy on petrol that distorted pricing, would be motivated to venture into the business. As a result, employment opportunities for our youths in the Niger Delta would be boosted and at the same time, with increased production activities, the Gross Domestic Product, GDP, of the oil/gas producing regions would also be boosted. Currently, only a few modular refineries have been activated in the past half a decade or so. They are Walter Smith Refinery in the Imo State, Niger Delta Refinery in Rivers State and Edo Refinery in Edo State producing between one to five (1-5) thousand liters of petroleum products a day. There are several others in the pipeline that would soon start going on stream. When the modular refineries in various stages of completion come on stream in the nearest future, our country may be able to introduce another 100,000 liters of petroleum products into the market through the combined efforts of multiple refineries in the next 24 months because it takes a minimum of 18 months to set up a modular refinery. Of course, all these are theoretical projections and may not become realities as it is very unlikely that the refurbished refineries would be able to produce to capacity. Given the huge opportunity that the involvement of entrepreneurs of medium scale category, particularly investors in modular refineries would open up, one wonders why it took so long for Nigeria to cross the Rubicon into a nirvana of sorts which is a situation whereby we would be producing what we consume with excess left over to export. As the suspended (currently detained in the custody of the security agency) CBN governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, recently revealed, our country spends about $26 billion importing petroleum products and fertilizer. That is massive hemorrhage and the leakage would be plugged by the announcement of subsidy by President Tinubu. Imagine if our leaders had concentrated all our energy and resources into refining our crude oil that at some point in time had hit over two (2) million barrels a day mark? Instead of the estimated ten billion dollars that experts believe we earn from crude oil export annually, we would be earning at least one hundred billion dollars annually based on the belief that refined petrol products attract up to ten (10) times more than the price of crude oil in the international market. It sounds and appears farfetched and theoretical right, but it is a realistic and practical projection based on available facts. In fact, had our country’s leaders done the needful as the millennials like to put it, and as President Tinubu just did by ending subsidy, our NNPC Ltd could have been like Saudi Arabia’s Aramco that refines some of that country’s crude before exporting same as refined products and like Qatar Gas Company which processes natural gas into the finished products that is in high demand in Europe and most parts of the world. Fittingly, the Sovereign Wealth Funds, SWF, strength of both Saudi Arabia and Qatar, Norway, Sweden etc reflect how well they have managed their natural resources, while our nearly empty treasury, paltry SWF and debt overhang in excess of N77 trillion tell the tale of the recklessness of our past leaders who have been sustaining petrol pump price subsidy since about 1977 after squandering our wealth in hosting Festival of Black Art and Culture, FESTAC, that resulted in massive hatred and envy from the Western world leading to their sabotaging of our country via a malicious crash in international oil price that has been the origin of the crash of our economy in addition to the profligacy and corruption that have literally left our country in ruination. It is on top of that malfeasance that the immediate past administration built upon by fostering multiple naira exchange rates that also encouraged arbitrage and the hemorrhaging of our country’s treasury. It reminds me of the lavishness of Venezuelan, a neighbor of the United States of America, USA, and a major crude oil and gas producer, but a socialist country tied to the apron strings of the nation of Cuba, which when it was under the rulership of the late Fidel Castro (a close ally of communist Russia when it was under the former strong man leader of the country, Hugo Chavez) was behaving more or less like Santa Claus with its petroleum products to its neighbors in the region and the Caribbean. As we are all aware, Venezuela is best known for being a poster child of what has come to be known as Oil Curse. Unlike Venezuela, its other neighbor in South America, Brazil, another oil rich country is doing well with Petrobras. But owing to the welfarist policies of Venezuela via its association with socialist Cuba that is figuratively joined in the hips to Russia, there was suboptimal management, if not outright mismanagement of its oil/gas resource. That is what earned it the unenviable reputation of a country suffering from oil curse. Nigerian leaders appear to have been toeing a similar path like Venezuela over the past years, hence our oil/gas industry kept tottering on the brinks of collapse before President Tinubu’s tsunamis pronouncement on May 29 turned the tide that promises to usher into the hydrocarbon sector and indeed the economy a flood of investments into the hitherto constricted industry. Although, the unshackling of the petroleum sector has taken too long in coming, as the conventional wisdom goes, it is better late than never. Who knows, maybe one day soon, Land Use Act that has been a constraint to business and industry may equally be reviewed to unleash the true and hidden value of land in the hinterland which presently, the owners cannot use as collateral to acquire and secure loans that would enable them pursue their entrepreneurial dreams in the way and manner that land owners in the metropolitan areas do. Following the success achieved after opening up the oil/gas sector, perhaps government would be encouraged to also open up the archaic Land Use Act for review and thus unleash the dead capital which the land in our hinterland has been.