AWKA – Contrary to insinuations in some quarters that Ihiala Local Government Secretariat is still in rubbles after being razed down by daredevil gunmen in January this year, the Transition Committee Chairman Hon. Kingsley Obi, has said that such were lies from the pit of hell. Obi who said those peddling such lies were enemies of Soludo’s government, described the peddlers as idiots, saying Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo has responded proactively to the rebuilding of the headquarters complex and that the reconstruction is on the verge of completion. The TC chairman who spoke with our correspondent said about 14 structures were completely destroyed inside Ihiala Local Government headquarters but that the state government didn’t abandon it to its fate instead it intervened promptly to ameliorate the situation. Obi said even when they were persuaded to relocate to Ekwusigo Local Government Headquarters to operate from there, he declined and instead decided to run affairs of the local government under trees inside the council secretariat. He said, “Ihiala Local Government Secretariat was attacked on January 12, 2023 by hoodlums and about 14 buildings were burnt down completely. But today we are almost rounding off reconstruction of the local government secretariat. Hopefully in the next two months everything will return to normalcy again. “People are just saying nonsense and trying to blackmail government for no justifiable reasons. They asked us to go to Ekwusigo, I said no; I will not do that instead I prefer to stay under the trees to make sure government intervened promptly. I know if I go to Ekwusigo, they will not attend to us early enough. “So the governor intervened quickly and things are going on well. About 14 buildings were destroyed and we started reconstruction works around March. We are progressing rapidly. POLL “It is enemies of Soludo’s government that said Ihiala Local Government Secretariat is still in rubbles. I repeat about 14 buildings were destroyed and we are working day and night to finish the reconstruction. The workers are living inside the secretariat just to ensure that they get it done. About 20 men are working there 24 hours including Sundays just to make sure that they finish the reconstruction within the stipulated time. “As far as am concerned, Soludo gave Ihiala Local Government more rapid response than any other place. Remember that Nnewi-South Council Secretariat got burnt about two and half years ago and they are still on it. “Ihiala Local Government Headquarters got burnt January 2nd and we commenced reconstruction works March ending and today we are rounding off. The pictures of the reconstruction works are there for everyone to see.”