The Federal Government has called on individuals and organizations to join hands with the nation in the fight against the sub­stance abuse scourge, in order to create a drug free state. President Bola Tinubu made the call June on 26 at the MTN Anti-Substance Abuse stakeholders conference held in commemoration of the World Drug Day in Abuja. Tinubu, represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, George Akume, said, “I implore ev­eryone, from the religious leaders to traditional leaders, educational institutions, opin­ion leaders, civil society lead­ers, well-meaning Nigerians to join hands with the govern­ment in fighting this scourge. We must come together to cre­ate a drug free nation where individuals can thrive and reach their full potential.” Tinubu added, “It is cru­cial we educate ourselves and others on the dangers of drug abuse and the need to stop stigma and discrimination. We must empower our youths with the knowledge and skills they need to make informed decisions about their lives and provide them the resources they need to avoid falling vic­tims to drug abuse. We must also support those struggling with drug addictions and pro­vide them with treatments and necessary support they need to overcome their ad­diction. We stand together to reaffirm our commitment to combating drug abuse and illicit drug usage.” The President assured that the administration is commit­ted to the principle of people first, in the context of drug prevention and treatment. He said, “I implore every­one to double their efforts to combat drug abuse in the country. We appreciate and acknowledge the local and international agencies, es­pecially the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, for their support and cooper­ation. Special mention is the notable achievement of the NDLEA officers and men, for the freshness injected into our drug control effort and show of rare sense of purpose. I hereby reiterate this admin­istration’s support to NDLEA in the sustenance of drug con­trol efforts and their patriotic effort to keep the country safe.” In his response, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, National Drug Law Enforce­ment Agency (NDLEA); Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa, said, “NDLEA remains com­mitted to the fight against sub­stance abuse and illicit drug trafficking. We have intensi­fied our operations, expand­ed our intelligence networks and collaborated with local and international partners to dismantle drug cartels, seize illicit drugs and bring the per­petrators to justice.