LAGOS – The Director General of Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), Mr. Wale-Smatt Oyerinde ,has stated that the 2nd annual employers’ summit of the association would allow Nigeria to take advantage of the rising income elasticity of demand that derives from growing income in the world economy. Oyeride, told newsmen that the annual summit with theme: “Trade and Non-Oil Exports: Changing the Narratives” scheduled for 10th and 11th July 2023, was created to bridge the gap in organised businesses advocacy in Nigeria. According to the NECA’s Director General, following the first edition, the annual summit it is growing to become the foremost advocacy platform that would aggressively spur transiting into non-oil export and exportable service activities for organised businesses in Nigeria. He noted that the first edition of the Summit that proved to be a huge success was held from 20th – 21st June, 2023 at Transcorp Hotel, Abuja with theme: Enthroning the Private Sector as Engine of National Development”. He said: “We are out to show more concern that for over five decades, the Nigerian economy has predominantly depended on Crude Oil sales, accounting for over 80% of the country’s revenue and foreign exchange earnings, albeit, with slight contribution to its GDP growth. “Due to the vulnerability of the oil sector, any external shock with potential to affect the production capacity of the nation always has significant effect on the economy. “Export trade is generally considered as a veritable instrument for sustainable economic growth. “It normally facilitates improved foreign exchange earnings, strengthens the balance of payments, encourages the development of export-oriented industries in the manufacturing sector, increases the profitability of firms, creates jobs and increases government revenue through taxes, levies, and tariffs. All of these, in the medium and long term cumulatively accelerate economic growth”. POLL Oyerinde specifically said: “Historically, the Nigerian economy was buoyant during the pre- and post-independence years because of huge earnings from non-oil export like cocoa, cotton, groundnut, palm oil. “The economy was so strong that it financed an appreciable number of capital projects without any recourse to borrowing, and the export market of the country was reasonably developed. “Notwithstanding the gains and huge potential of export-trade, it has been faced with the challenge of non-diversification of the content of export trade. “ It must be averred that improving the share of non-oil goods in Nigerian export is an important objective of Nigeria’s industrial policy. “Efforts at encouraging more sophisticated, value-added products should target the regional market as much as targeting domestic market. “It is, therefore, imperative that the country should articulate a definite roadmap in order to diversify the economy towards non-traditional tradable goods and services, beyond mineral and agricultural base products in sustaining the value-addition components. “This will not only guarantee long term economic stability, it will also ensure sustained job creation and Foreign Exchange generation. “We want to appreciate our partners and sponsors. We note the support by the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, the Nigeria Export Promotion Council, sponsors and partners that time will fail us to mention and others. “We call on other patriotic organizations and individuals to join us in the task of facilitating our nation’s economic renaissance. The event is free, but subject to registration. “Our Nation is facing tough choices and to move forward, we have to face those tough choices. We call on the Federal Government to lend its support to this Summit and demonstrate its true commitment to national development”.