LAGOS – As Nigerians expect the massive deployment of services by Mobile Virtual Network Operation (NVNOs) across the country, stakeholders in the industry have expressed optimism that sub-sector would further raise the bar of the benefits which subscribers currently enjoy. Speaking at a recent conference or­ganised by WTL in conjunction with Mobile Virtual Network Operators with the theme- ‘From Vision To real­ity: Accelerating MVNO Launch and Growth’ at Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel in Lagos, various speakers reit­erated the readiness of the operators to make themselves relevant by the uncommon roles they would be play­ing in the telecom ecosystem in spite of the existing services being provid­ed by the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) which are: MTN, Glo, Airtel and 9mobile. Satya Mekala, the Chief Executive Officier and Co-Founder, WTL, said there are huge opportunities for MV­NOs growth and survival in Nigeria’s ICT space, noting that connecting the unconnected population would help to boost the country’s economy and develop other sectors such as tele­medicine, education, agriculture and micro, small and medium-scale enter­prises (MSMEs). “Let’s cite an example. During the two years of COVID, people had access to very little. People dropped out of schools and universities. Yet, today, in the cor­porate world, you talk about people working from home sitting in Nigeria and working in the US knows what disparities that you’re seeing. “One set of people are using tech­nology to make a good life. You have another set of people who cannot get access to basics. I’m talking about edu­cation. I’m not talking about shelter or water or other any other thing. “So, the idea behind the technol­ogy opportunity is how do you take technology to the people and make a difference? How does the elderly grandma in a village get access to this? She doesn’t need to know about pro­tocols, patches and OS versions. She needs a service. How can you bring this technology to that person? If it doesn’t make a difference to the com­mon people, then it’s not that good. Anybody can make money. That’s what MVNO is set to do; making a difference in people’s lives through technology,” Mekala explained. Unlike the MNOs which can run on their own, MVNOs have the license to run on the mobiles network oper­ators, while the tier 3 to tier 5 have the license to put radios in the rural communities. WTL is the only com­pany that can supply them with the components to run their businesses. POLL On his part, Olusola Teniola, for­mer President of Association of Tele­communications Companies of Nige­ria (ATCON), said MVNO business in Nigeria is a unique one that will fill the gap traditional telecom service providers are either slow or left out in their service offers.