Chief Tony Okocha, former Chief of Staff to former Governor Rotimi Amaechi of Rivers State, in this interview with DANIEL ABIA says the removal of the fuel subsidy by President Bola Tinubu is for the best interest of the country’s economy, among other topical issues. Excerpts: President Bola Tinubu after his inauguration was expected to hit the ground running, what in your opinion do you think should be his priority? Nigerians have elected President Bola Tinubu who has long prepared himself for the office. We saw the grip in knowledge of what he will do, when he made that brilliant and comprehensive extempore speech which qualifies as his social contract with Nigerians. Not in the recent times, can we remember a President of Nigeria, being that profound in off-hand discussion of the issues befallen the country to which he elected to address summarily. I don’t expect half-measures nor blame-game with President Tinubu at all. He has already told Nigerians that no one should pity him while in office. That whatever he sees, are what he bargained and applied to tackle. The issue of removal of petroleum subsidy has brought so much tension across the country, what do you think Mr. President can do to ameliorate the hardship occasioned by the removal? The President didn’t need to vacillate between opinions on the issue of removal of fuel subsidy. Fuel subsidy has been one of the longest discussed policies of governments. I recall during former President Goodluck Jonathan’s Presidency, he attempted a fuel subsidy removal but without being stern and resolute, he lost it to a more prepared civil society led by the Nigeria Labour Congress. Streets were occupied, protesting what was referred to as an obnoxious decision. The issue is: How has fuel subsidy helped Nigeria? What is fuel subsidy in fact? Fuel subsidy is simply the situation where the government picks a huge chunk of the costs of refined fuel importations into Nigeria with a bid to make it a bit affordable to the end users. How has it helped Nigeria? Judging critically though some have argued that fuel subsidized by government, is an altruistic policy as it makes the cost less expensive to Nigerians. Is that truly the case? From where is the subsidy money coming from? What is the impact of such expenditure to other facets of our society, education, health, economy, etcetera? Have we not uncovered the stunning statics that the total amount deployed to fuel subsidy monthly, out-weighs the total amount used to pay the salaries and emoluments of workers in the federal civil service, each month? Who are the racketeers in this business? Very few Nigerian crude capitalists, cruising in deep pockets at the peril of the larger Nigerians. Overtime, fuel subsidy has been identified as an indispensable conduit pipe and albatross to our developments in infrastructure and job creation in Nigeria. Worse still, is that the country borrows money from international lending facilities, with stringent conditions and terms, all to fund fuel subsidy. How do we recoup the money to be able to payback our creditors? So, fuel subsidy is the necessary evil that must be yanked off forthwith, for any government wishing to succeed, to operate well. Some have argued that Mr. President’s action on fuel subsidy removal, was spontaneous. That he should have consulted with stakeholders; that there should have been other measures to cushion the effects, put in place first before it is taken out. Yes, largely plausible arguments they have. But, is it a good policy of government, weighing it against the backdrop of other variables? No one has affirmed. I think the President by harping on what has no place in the budget of the country, effective July 1, displayed uncommon courage to take hard decisions. Any leader who is fickle minded to the extent that he or she is unable to step on annihilating toes, should better throw in the towel. The principal of eudaimonia stipulates that actions to be taken by a responsive and responsible leadership, must tend towards bringing the greatest amount of happiness to the greatest number. Are we not baffled that barely 24 hours after the President’s quip that “Fuel subsidy is gone”, Petroleum Marketers instantaneously created artificial scarcity and those that managed to sell, took the price to the roof-tops? What was new? Did they import new products overnight? I hold profoundly that Nigerians should support the new administration to succeed. The decision to remove fuel subsidy by Mr. President, not minding when or how it was announced, is commendable. What is expected is that the organised labour and responsible civil society groups, should interface with the new government, particularly the vision-carrier, to think up palliatives and mode of operations, to cushion the effects. Threats to strike and/or any form of civil disobedience, is infantile. In sum, fuel subsidy is like hernia eating deep into the human body. The doctor’s intervention by way of saving the one affected, is surgical operation. The operation in itself brings excruciating pains on the patient, but the end in view, is overall good. Fuel subsidy removal aptly put, is a necessary evil. We should encourage the overhauling of our refineries, funding of education, funding of power sector which will engender the enhancement of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and create jobs, plough the looted purse to provision of other basic infrastructural needs of the citizenry not enriching a few mindless bourgeoisies. If you are in Mr. President’s shoes how will you constitute your cabinet? Mr. President is reputed as one perfect talents hunter. He is not a neophyte to government. His track records in the saddle of Lagos State, speak volumes. Check a list of those who passed under his administrative tutelage and their pedigrees. On this area, no one should be in doubt that Mr President will bring on board, Nigerians irrespective of the cankerworms of religion and ethnicity which some are beginning to bring to the front-burner of discourses in recent debates. He has a vision. He will be able to assemble the egg-heads to help navigate through the central vision. I know that party loyalty and patronages cannot be removed but it may play covertly. Just as I argued profusely when some pundits hyped the issue of Moslem/Moslem Ticket before the presidential election, I still hold tenaciously that a very reasonable yardsticks for appointments, should dwell on capacity. Party patronage, individual loyalties and participation to victory, shouldn’t also be jettisoned. Every politician on the turf, is interest-driven. So, when they sow, they expect to reap correspondingly. You have accused Tonye Cole, Rotimi Amaechi and Emeka Beke of anti party activities, why has the All Progressives Congress (APC) not expelled them? POLL Amaechi, Cole, Bekee have not absorbed themselves of my claims to anti-party activities pre, intra and post Tinubu’s emergence. I am not the only one saying it. I may be said to be the most vocal voice on the matter. Yes, I have no reservations especially as it is not a voyage of blackmail. You are aware that Emeka Bekee and some members of his defunct State Executive Council of the APC Rivers, were suspended by a breakaway group. They hinged their grouse on anti-party activities. It was sustained in court of competent jurisdiction and the court found merit in the issues canvassed and gave her considered decision. Dissatisfied with the order of the court, Emeka Bekee pushed further in appeal against the interim order of court, but met a brick wall as the party at the national level, withdrew the case to ensure that the status quo remained. Today, Emeka Bekee cannot carry himself or function in the garb of the chairman of APC Rivers. That’s for Emeka Bekee and his cronies in the state Exco. On Cole, have you not read that the APC national, withdrew interest in the election petition? What can be better explained than that? Earlier on, I had posited two encompassing possible reasons why a party may decide to stay off an election petition tribunal and leave the candidate to a state of hopelessness. Infidelity to the party is one. Lack of merit is the other. On Amaechi, has he not been completely relegated? As a hitherto back-bone of the APC Nigeria, was he not seen in an obscure place at the terrace in Abia State where Gov Alex Oti of the Labour Party was being sworn~in?. Was it not the same day that the President, a member of his party, was being inaugurated in Abuja? Knowing Amaechi, would he not have taken the centre stage in Abuja if he supported his party during the presidential election? One way or the other, they have been served their breakfast in concomitant reactions. Does it really matter if Amaechi and Cole are suspended by the party? No. They have become inconsequential to and in the party. They know that “Conscience is an open wound”. I won’t expect any more sledge hammer on them by the party. Since 1999, PDP has always won in Rivers State, what did you do differently that APC won in the last presidential election? On your question as to the roles of individuals as you enlisted, I boldly say that former Governor Nyesom Wike reserves and deserves the highest mention in the Asiwaju’s victory in Rivers State. Yes, he came in late but at the most timeous period. If he worked for his party, APC would have been sprawling. Alas, apart from the presidential election that APC won through the help of Governor Wike, which other position did APC win in Rivers State? After Wike, it is me. (Chief Tony C Okocha Ksc, DSSRS, JP.). I was frontal from the pre-primary election on the side of Asiwaju not caring a million hoots, how I was abused, insulted and cursed for working against my immediate former boss, Rotimi Amaechi. Senator Magnus Abe was a pillar but abandoned the ship, to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) were he contested for governorship of Rivers State and spectacularly lost. My coordinators that kept the faith, are commendable.