LAGOS  – Dr Dorn Cklaimz Enamhe, the University of Calabar (Unical) Alumni Relations Officer, has congratulated Rt. Hon. God­swill Akpabio over his election as President of the 10th Senate of the National Assembly. In a letter addressed to Sen­ate President, a copy which was made available to Sunday Independent, Dr. Enamhe said he was thrilled to hear about Ukpabio’s well deserved elec­tion into his new position. Enamhe stated: “I have al­ways known you were destined for great things. Your carriage and deportment during your time as Speaker of the Student Union Government of the University of Calabar was a testament to your potential for greater things. “Your days as the Honour­able Commissioner for Local Government, and later for Hous­ing led to uncommon transfor­mation that has remained un­equalled by any commissioner in the country. “Need I speak about how you defeated 56 others to become governor of Akwa Ibom State and how you made Uyo and the entire state rival any city in Eu­rope and America. “More recently, you fearless­ly audited the Ministry of Niger Delta and moved it to its new headquarters. Everything you have done and accomplished has led to this point and I am extremely proud of you. “You dreamed big, you worked hard, and you have earned the recognition that comes with your new role. “It is such an incredible opportunity brought about by your consistency and determi­nation, and I can’t think of any­one better suited to this office than you. POLL “With a work ethic, skill set, experience, personality, and mind like yours, you are a natu­ral fit for your new position and you’re sure to knock this out of the park, as you have always done. “I am aware that this new role is a huge step that comes with a new mantle of respon­sibility, one that I am confident you will wear with your usual style and grace. “From the depth of my heart, I wish you the best experience ever, uncommon breakthroughs and innovation, jaw-dropping accomplishments, and huge success in your new office. “Please know that you have my full backing, allegiance, and availability to be of any support you may require.”