President Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s un­equivocal declaration during his presidential inaugural speech to the effect that “subsidy is gone” was, at least, three economic decades overdue. In the old banal spirit of “money is not our prob­lems but how to spend it”, Nigeria’s hedonis­tic military juntas, starting from the seven­ties, inexplicably subjected many consumer items, including petroleum products, to the rare economic privilege of “subsidy” which translates to mean that citizens could afford to purchase them at prices that were less than what they actually cost to produce and supply to the market. This neo-welfarist policy was given prac­tical legal teeth with the passage of the Price Control Decree of 1977 which was ideological­ly a policy negation of the so-called “free mar­ket economy”. It was widely welcomed then, being a populist form of “state intervention” and everyone was happy. Sadly, the post-civil war hedonistic economic boom of “easy mon­ey” did not last for long; immediately came “austerity measures” and other unpleasant belt-tightening initiatives. Even when the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) was forcibly imposed on Nigerians under the instructions of the IMF and the Bretton Wood institutions, the IBB-led military government which enthusiastically adopted and sloganeered the “deregulation” mantra surprisingly failed to open up the oil sector, the proverbial Golden Goose, for private sector participation despite the sup­posedly deregulated marketplace. Instead, government relied on the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), whose oper­ations were shrouded in ironclad secrecy, a very fertile ground for unbridled corruption and fraudulent manipulation of the flow of the massive revenue from oil. Whereas similar agencies in the other oil producing OPEC countries like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE (Dubai), Algeria and many oth­ers places were serving their people as engines of national economic growth through the fun­neling of petrol-dollars into focused develop­ment areas naturally associated with the oil industries such as refineries, petrochemical industries and general infrastructural revo­lution, NNPC on the contrary, turned itself into a mammoth conduit pipe for the mindless siphoning of Nigeria’s oil revenue into the wrong hands all at the expense of the com­monwealth. There were the unrefuted global institu­tions’ estimates indicating that roughly 300 billion US dollars of Nigeria’s oil earnings have been stolen by those who were opportune or able to militarily force their ways into na­tional leadership positions. That is why suc­cessive governments stubbornly held on to the subsidy scam while successive Heads of State since President Obasanjo monopolized the oily portfolio of “Minister of Petroleum”. Under the direct stewardship of the vari­ous C-in-Cs, the refineries over which billions of US dollars were reportedly expended for repairs and turnaround maintenance started shutting down one after the other, leading to the embarrassing situation in which a major oil-producing country is now embarking on wholesale fuel importation. Everyone is now hoping for the completion of the Dangote Refinery which was prematurely “commis­sioned” last month by the out-going President Buhari like what Americans call “Baby Show­er”, a fundraising ceremony for a baby who is still in the womb! The mystery of petrol subsidies lasted until it was revealed to a bemused nation that most of the stupendous payments in the guise of “petrol subsidies” were corruptly made to strategically-connected individuals who did not supply a litre of petrol. They merely presented forged fuel importation documents to the officials of NNPC and the Ministry of Finance, who were “kill and share” conspirators and colluders waiting to perfect the heist. Still, the gargantuan subsidy scam persist­ed until just last week when President Tinubu finally proclaimed it a goner. It was already clear that the current budgetary allocation had no single kobo allocated for subsidies but there was probably the innate conspiratori­al hope within the unrepentant subsidy en­clave that President Tinubu would somehow contrive the typical excuse to postpone the implementation of the removal by asking for “time to study the problem”. Unfortunately, he wanted to hit the ground running, hence the unexpected announcement. POLL The National Labour Congress, NLC, has subsequently issued an ultimatum but the moral snag there is that Labour is no longer a non-aligned trade union outfit, per se. It is now a political party. Let’s see how it can extricate itself from the inevitable suspicion that will inevitably follow, namely, that they are just pursuing a partisan political agenda. That is the inevitable k-leg confronting the NLC’s call for an anti-subsidy removal protests. The right time for NLC action would have been when the National Assembly drew up an Appropri­ation Act in which there were no provisions for fuel subsidy, not when its implementation has become a faith accompli. What we should be urging the government to do now is to hasten the rollout of appro­priate formula for palliatives, especially the adjustment of wages and salaries which have remained stagnant for years as a verifiable way of reducing the resulting sufferings. Pres­ident Tinubu should quickly ameliorate the adverse effects of the subsidy policy in the immediate terms. People need to be assured that there are humane official responses to their plight because in as much as the subsidy removal was inevitable, it is also expected that there would be certain inevitable negative out­comes which should now be tackled headlong since there is no going back.