LAGOS – The International Centre for Tax Research and Development, (ICTRD) has called on Nigerians to support citizenship-oriented governance, one that will allow citizens to take charge of their government and safeguard their interests. Morenike Babington-Ashaye, Founder\President International Centre for Tax Research & Development,(ICTRD) made the call while speaking at a 2-day virtual conference organized by, ICTRD with the theme; Promoting Citizenship As A Political Ideology. “The citizenship I am promoting is to look at how best we can empower citizens to the place of power to be able to safeguard their interest. “We look at the way democracy is practiced all over the world and we see that some have turned democracy to anarchy, oligarchy, but in this structure we have stages. There will be checks and balances; there is no way only one person can hold the whole nation to ransom that is the structure of citizens. She said that as far as citizens are concerned one does not need to know anybody to get employment in government. “As far as citizens are concerned you don’t need to know anybody to get employment in the government. There must be transparency and if the citizens want this kind of government to happen it will happen. Ashaye noted that it is not what will be sudden but that anything that will begin will start at any point in time. “We are talking about it, we write a book about it, engage the public about it and we believe that once the people understand that they have the power to be able to do what they need to do for their own country without hiring somebody else, they will support it. POLL Speaking further she said at the community level, people would have discussed what they need before it goes to the national hierarchy. “I believe that the family and the community actually make the nation, if we take care of the family and community there is no way we will not have a good nation. That is why citizenship is actually based on cooperation between the family and the communities. Families have a responsibility, if any country is to succeed the family has a role to play. She further stated that when the executive violates the constitution they will be punished by the constitution council, that there will be a penalty for every offence. Also, Yemisi Ransome-Kuti, Co-Founder Lagos Island Connect (LIC) while speaking said that citizens hold the key to unlocking the opportunities that can be delivered by the government in any country. She said for citizens to operate effectively in the political space, trust must be engendered between the state and the citizen, and between the citizenry. She suggested that this can be achieved by establishing a legal framework for stakeholders/citizens engagement in every ward and local government. She noted that there are programs that strive to promote citizen engagement, which according to her include; partnering with state and local governments, private sector and stakeholders to unlock opportunities at the local government level. Speaking further she said good governance is in our hands, that everyone should take responsibility for it. “Let’s start with ourselves, the right values, discipline, honesty and courage will get us there. The right mindset should extend to our families and our communities then we will all have that great community, local government, state and nation we want,” she said. Titilola Akinlawon, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Partner, Akinlawon & Aiomo, said transparency and accountability were two important words that play a role in building trust in government at all levels. She expressed dismay that those who worked to change the status quo had met stiff opposition from political and economic actors whose business was to develop chaos and reap selfish rewards through national crisis. According to her, these negative actors were political, economic and social terrorists who shake the very structure that promotes good governance in any society.