MAKURDI – Clerics in Nigeria, under the aegis of Clerics Congress of Nigeria and Middle Belt Bishops Conference (MBBC), have commended President Bola Ahmed Tinubu over the appointment of Senator George Akume as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). The clerics further called on President Tinubu and the Benue State Governor, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia, to nominate Moses Ayom for a ministerial position. While they commended Ayom for his kind disposition and his sacrificial nature, they observed that the call by Ayom on President Tinubu to appoint Senator Akume as SGF was exemplary and worthy of emulation. The groups argued that they were calling on Tinubu and Alia to nominate Ayom for the position of Minister again for the fact that Ayom had turned down an earlier call to be made a minister, so as to ensure that the leader of the party in Benue State, Akume, was appointed SGF. In a statement signed by ArchBishop Alli John Alli and made available to newsmen in Makurdi on Tuesday, the clerics particularly appreciated President Tinubu for heeding the appeal by Ayom to appoint Senator Akume as the SGF. They stated that it would be proper to make Ayom a minister in the present government because of his selfless disposition for fighting for the emergence of the SGF, instead of working for himself. The clerics of Nigeria and MBBC emphasized that, now that Senator Akume has been appointed as SGF, it was time to reward Ayom with the position of minister for his loyalty to the leadership of the party both at the state and the national levels. Furthermore, the groups noted that Ayom has devoted so much of his time and resources in ensuring that the All Progressives Congress (APC) won the 2023 elections at all levels. POLL They also reminded Governor Alia, whom they described as the ‘elder brother’ to Ayom, not to omit Ayom’s name when submitting the names of ministerial nominees to Abuja for consideration, because he would add value to the Tinubu-led government, in view of the wealth of experience he has garnered over the years. Taking into consideration the recruitment style of President Tinubu, which lays emphasis on expertise, character, capacity, knowledge, experience and competence, Alli insisted that Ayom, a former presidential aspirant, would be an asset to the Tinubu administration and indeed the nation at large.