The late Dr Nnamdi Azik­we was the first president (ceremonial) of the coun­try. Alhaji Shehu Shagari was elected in 1979 as the first executive president of Nigeria. MKO Abiola was democratical­ly-elected president of Nigeria on June 12, 1993. On the strength of the popular mandate Abiola secured across the country, Pres­ident Bola Tinubu, on this 30-year historic occasion of June 12 pres­idential election, a watershed in the history of Nigeria, is urged to invoke the doctrine of necessity and proclaim Abiola as the third democratically-elected president of Nigeria and cause this to be published in the Federal Republic of Nigeria Gazette. Still under the doctrine of neces­sity, the self-proclamation speech of MKO Abiola on June 11, 1994 at Epetedo in Lagos, reproduced in part hereunder, is valid in law. “People of Nigeria, exactly one year ago, you turned out in your mil­lions to vote for me, Chief M.K.O. Abiola, as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. But politicians in uniform, who call themselves soldiers but are more devious than any civil­ian would want to be, deprived you of your God-given right to be ruled by the President you had yourselves elected. “These soldier-politicians in­troduced into our body politic, a concept hitherto unknown to our political lexicography, something strangely called the ‘annulment’ of an election perceived by all to have been the fairest, cleanest and most peaceful ever held in our nation. Since that abominable act of naked political armed robbery oc­curred, I have been constantly urged by people of goodwill, both in Ni­geria and abroad, to put the matter back into the people’s hands and get them to actualise the mandate they gave me at the polls. But mindful of the need to ensure that peace con­tinues to reign in our fragile feder­ation, I have so far tried to pursue sweet reason and negotiation. My hope has always been to arouse whatever remnants of pa­triotism are left in the hearts of these thieves of your mandate, and to persuade them that they should not allow their personal desire to rule to usher our beloved country into an era of political instability and economic ruin. All I have sought to do, in seek­ing dialogue with them, has been to try and get them to realise that only real democracy can move our nation forward towards progress, and earn her the respect she deserves from the international community. However, although this peaceful approach has exposed me to severe censure by some who have mis­taken it for weakness on my part, those with whom I have sought to dialogue have remained like stones, neither stirred to show loyalty to the collective decision of the people of their own country, nor to observe Allah’s injunction that they should exhibit justice and fair-play in all their dealings with their fellowmen. POLL Appeals to their honour as of­ficers and gentlemen of the gal­lant Nigerian Armed Forces have fallen on deaf ears. Instead, they have resorted to the tactics of di­vide and rule, bribery and political perfidy, misinformation and (vile) propaganda. They arrest everyone who disagrees with them. Even the 71-year-old hero of our nation, Chief Anthony Enahoro, was not spared. How much longer can we tolerate all this? People of Nigeria, you are all witnesses that I have tried to climb the highest mountain, cross the deepest river and walk the longest mile, in order to get these men to obey the will of our people. There is no humiliation I have not endured, no snare that has not been put in my path, no ‘setup’ that has not been designed for me in my endeavour to use the path of peace to enforce the mandate that you be­stowed on me one year ago. It has been a long night. But the dawn is here. Today, people of Nigeria, I join you all in saying, “Enough is Enough!” We have endured 24 years of military rule in our 34 years of independence. Military rule has led to our nation fighting a civil war with itself. Politi­cally, military rule has torn to shreds the prestige due to our country be­cause of its size and population. The permanent seat at the Unit­ed Nations Security Council that should be rightfully ours is all but lost. For who will vote for Nigeria to get the seat if Nigerian military rulers do not respect the votes of their own people? Enough of military rule. We are sickened to see people who have shown little or no personal achieve­ment, either in building up private businesses or making success of any tangible thing, being placed in charge of the management of our nation’s economy, by rulers who are not accountable to anyone… Enough is enough of economic mismanagement! People of Nigeria, during the election campaign last year, I presented you with a pro­gramme entitled “HOPE ’93. This programme was aimed precisely at solving these economic (problems) that have demoralised us all. I toured every part of Nigeria to present this programme to you the electorate. I was questioned on it at public ral­lies and press conferences and I had the privilege of incorporating into it much of the feedback that I obtained from the people. Because you knew I would not only listen to you but deliver superb results from the programme, you voted for me in your millions and gave me an overwhelming majority over my opponent… Not only that, you also enabled me to fulfil the constitutional requirement that the winner should obtain one-third of the votes in two-thirds of the states. As of now, from this moment, a new Government of National Unity is in power throughout the length and breadth of the Federal Repub­lic of Nigeria, led by me, Bashorun M.K.O. Abiola, as President and Commander-in-Chief. The National Assembly is hereby reconvened. All dismissed governors are reinstated. The State Assemblies are recon­stituted, as are all local govern­ment councils. I urge them to adopt a bi-partisan approach to all the issues that come before them. At the national level, a bi-partisan ap­proach will be our guiding principle. I call upon the usurper, General Sani Abacha, to announce his resignation forthwith, together with the rest of his illegal ruling council. We are prepared to enter into negotiations with them to work out the mechan­ics for a smooth transfer of power. I pledge that if they hand over quietly, they will be retired with all their entitlements, and their posi­tions will be accorded all the respect due to them. For our objective is nei­ther recrimination nor witch-hunt­ing but an enforcement of the will of the Nigerian people, as expressed in free elections conducted by the duly constituted authority of the time. I hereby invoke the mandate bestowed upon me by my victory in the said election to call on all members of the Armed Forces and the Police, the Civil and Public Ser­vices throughout the Federal Re­public of Nigeria to obey only the Government of National Unity that is headed by me, your only elected President…” POSTSCRIPT If unelected military leaders, some of whom seized power by overthrowing democratical­ly-elected presidents of Nigeria, can be accorded recognition as former of Heads of States, draw­ing pensions and allowances from the Nigerian state, how much more a leader that won elections across the country in the freest and fairest election in the annals of Nigeria! History beckons on President Tinubu, who was equal­ly part of the struggle against military rule and restoration of the legitimate mandate of June 12, to right the wrong of history and bring a just and fitting clo­sure to June 12 presidential elec­tion. Abiola should be declared the third democratically-elected president of Nigeria.