Chief Olisa Agbako­ba, human rights activist and former president of Nigeri­an Bar Association (NBA), has thumped up the Federal Government for reportedly floating Naira currency af­ter so many years of sticking with a hard peg that hit hard on investors and drained Dollars from the economy. It has been reported that Nigeria has officially floated its Naira currency whereby a mar­ket rate based on a willing buyer and a willing seller is currently being quoted by banks who sent out emails to some customers confirming the change on Wednesday morning. The news caused some apprehensions among Ni­gerians given that it could lead to higher exchange rate from banks, even as Daily In­dependent gathered that ex­change rate could go as high as between N800 and N1000 by the end of today, according to some bankers, who said the CBN’s next move should be to prioritise supply of Dollars to support the Naira float. However, speaking to our correspondent, the rights activist and lawyer said this is one piece of good news that would be classified as a good one for him in the last 60 years. He said much as it could engender higher exchange rate, it was good since the foreign exchange market has become another source of corruption among the few players. He said: “This is one piece of news that I will say is the best I have heard in the last 60 years. I am hearing it from you and if it is true, I have to commend Tinubu on this. He has shown that he is in charge. “With these two policies of fuel subsidy and forex market, Tinubu has done very well in the short period he has been the President. “What is the forex market, it is artificial control of the foreign exchange whereby a few people manipulate the system to the detriment of the poor and the majority. POLL “What is fuel subsidy? It is the manipulation of the petroleum subsidy regime whereby a few people enrich themselves corruptly in the name of importation of fuel. There is no way Nigerians are consuming 60 million liters of petrol daily but because they are corruptly enriching them­selves, they sell what they quoted in other countries.”