LAGOS  – The International Centre for Tax Research and Development (ICTRD) has called on Nigerians to support citizenship oriented governance, one that will allow citizens to take charge of their government and safeguard their interest. Morenike Babington-Ashaye, Founder/President Internation­al Centre for Tax Research & Development (ICTRD) made the call while speaking at a two-day virtual conference organised by ,ICTRD with the theme; Promot­ing Citizenship As A Political Ideology. The citizenship I am promot­ing is to look at how best we can empower citizens to the place of power to be able to safeguard their interest. “We look at the way democra­cy is practiced all over the world and we see that some have turned democracy to anarchy, oligarchy, but in this structure we have stages. There will be checks and balances; there is no way only one person can hold the whole nation into ransom that is the structure of citizens. She said that as far as citizens are concerned one does not need to know anybody to get employ­ment in government. “As far as citizens are con­cerned you don’t need to know anybody to get employment in the government. There must be transparency and if the citizens want this kind of government to happen it will happen. Ashaye noted that it is not what will be sudden but that any­thing that will begin will start at any point in time. “We are talking about it, we write a book about it, engage the public about it and we believe that once the people understand that they have the power to be able to do what they need to do for their own country without hiring some­body else, they will support it.” POLL Also, Yemisi Ransome-Kuti, Co-Founder, Lagos Island Con­nect (LIC), while speaking said that citizens hold the key to un­locking the opportunities that can be delivered by the govern­ment in any country. She said for citizens to operate effectively in the political space, trust must be engendered be­tween the state and the citizen, and between the citizenry. She suggested that this can be achieved by establishing a legal framework for stakeholders/cit­izens engagement in every ward and local government. She noted that there are pro­grams that strive to promote cit­izen engagement, which accord­ing to her include; partnering with state and local governments, private sector and stakeholders to unlock opportunities at the local government level.