As the immediate past Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, recently revealed in a media chat, President Muhammadu Buhari whose tenure just ended on May 29 is aware that Nigerians had nicknamed him Baba Go-Slow while he was presiding over the affairs of the country, 2015-2023. That tag is derived from his reputation for applying snail speed in making decisions or his indecisiveness on critical national issues that snowballed with negative consequences on Nigeria and Nigerians. Some of the most glaring indecisions include the overdue removal of the obnoxious subsidy on petrol pump price ostensibly to make it affordable to the poor and the operation of multiple foreign exchange rates aimed at propping up the naira thus giving it exaggerated value against foreign currencies. The aforementioned twin policies of the outgone administration are the bogeys that have sort of practically ruined the economy of our country because they are unproductive and unsustainable, hence they currently constitute the bulk of the mess that has been left behind by President Buhari for President Bola Tinubu and his team to clean up. Because of the increase in petrol price, the cost of transportation has been jerked up, and the masses have been immediately negatively impacted, hence an uproar by the masses. While the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd, NNPCL, has validated the increase by announcing a new price regime triggering about 300% increase, the multiple Foreign Exchange rate, FX, in the country are converging. Take for example the Import and Export, I&E window, and the official government rates that the gaps are gradually closing up. The CBN in my reckoning is encouraging convergence of the windows by discouraging demand for FX by Nigerians through stiffer conditions precedent to receive FX from the CBN. POLL For instance, I have sighted a circular that states that from the 1st day of June, Nigerians are required to present a three (3) year tax clearance certificate to be qualified to obtain FX at official rate with respect to Basic Travel Allowance, and Business Travel Allowance, BTA. How many Nigerians have such tax clearance certificates? With the process of obtaining FX tougher, fewer Nigerians would be applying for it and the pressure will be less and the naira would become strengthened and more stable. Just like the high cost of petrol has resulted in the disappearance of queues to purchase petrol in the retail stations, with the new CBN rule, most Nigerians would be unable to apply for the purchase of FX and the penchant for traveling abroad would be reduced. So, the pronouncement by President Tinubu about an end of petrol subsidy and his desire to see a unification of all exchange rates with the naira in his inaugural speech, which is in stark contrast with ex-President Muhammadu Buhari’s famous body language approach, is impacting both the cost of petrol and naira exchange rate with foreign currencies. But it is doing so at different levels of impact. Whereas there has been panic and tension arising from the astronomical petrol price increase, because it impacts practically everyone (poor or rich), there is no panic arising from the FX rate adjustments simply because it applies perhaps to only about 10% of Nigerians who are the elite that travel abroad for business, educational, medical or holiday purposes. All of the rapid changes catalogued above are the realities that justify tagging ex-President Buhari as Baba Go-Slow and President Tinubu as Mr. Go-Fast. Drawing from the wisdom in the aphorism, the morning foretells the evening, by now it should be clear to all that when President Tinubu coughs Nigeria catches a cold. That is one of the reasons that I have elected to brand him Mr. Go-Fast so that Nigerians can understand the underlying reasons for some of the contents of his inaugural speech that is having a bombshell effect on Nigerian society. Of course, there is a myriad of other reasons for branding former President Buhari Baba Go- Slow. They include the rash of bills that only got signed into law by President Buhari in the proverbial 11th hour of the life of the immediate past administration. Those pieces of legislation, according to reliable sources, had been deliberated upon by lawmakers and they had been awaiting the signature of the president for months, if not years before he eventually appended his signature on his way out. And one event that stands out and therefore justifies the unenviable toga of Baba Go-Slow on former President Buhari is his inability or lack of interest in putting together a cabinet until he had spent a whopping six (6) months in office. If President Buhari was slow in action, the new President Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the direct opposite in terms of speed of action. In any case, most pundits had speculated that he would likely hit the ground running. So it is no surprise that he is acting true to type. Incidentally, I had observed in a piece titled, ‘Post Elections Conflicts, Peace And Hand Of God’, and published in my column on May 2 before he was inaugurated into office that the president would hit the ground running as he has had time, especially during his two (2) trips to Europe while he was president-in-waiting to assess the situation of governance of Nigeria and come up with possible solutions. In the piece, I expressed alarm that a critical ministry had no operating manual until a few weeks to the end of the administration exposing haphazard leadership: “Ideally, every ministry in the executive branch of government should have a long term development plan which should encompass the regime’s broad agenda. As revealed by the Minister of Interior, Mr. Rauf Aregbesola, the ministry of the Interior had no such development plan until recently. To be specific, the 18th of April (barely one month to the end of the current regime) that he launched one”. I continued by stating that “it beggars belief that critical ministry charged with internal security had no defined plan of action. That implies that it had been operating on staccato basis. “If that is the case, then it is clear why the authorities have been unable to rein in religious insurgency in the northern axis and separatism in the South-East plus crude oil theft in the Niger Delta”. Furthermore, I made the following observation, “And there is every likelihood that the identified gap in the Interior Ministry applies to all the other ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) from the top to the bottom rung of the outgoing administration which obviously has no grand strategy.” I argued further by stating that: “One would have thought that in the cause of the numerous retreats organized by the executive arm in the course of the nearly eight (8) years that President Buhari has been at the helm of affairs, a grand strategy for the management of the sociopolitical and economic affairs of our country would have been hashed out. “Apparently, given the revelation by Interior minister, Aregbesola that is far from being the case”. Then I condemned the short comings of the immediate part administration by commenting thus: “Little wonder leadership at the centre has been lackluster, performance far below the expectations of Nigerians whose desire for security of their lives and properties as well was economic transformation from poverty to prosperity has been unmet, hence the legacy of the outgoing government is sorrow, tears and blood”. And I finally concluded by hinting at the approach which I reckoned that then President-elect, now President Tinubu would adopt upon his inauguration: “Clearly, President-elect Tinubu’s mission upon taking office on May 29 would contrast the current leadership style at the centre with a new paradigm that would give Nigeria a new lease of life in a truly democratic atmosphere as opposed to the pseudo democracy which by all measure it is currently”. Incredibly, it is the scenario that I had envisaged long ago that is currently playing out as the new president is complying with the law. In a follow up piece titled, ‘President-Elect Tinubu, Likely First Billionaire Private Jet Owner To Occupy Aso Rock Villa’, published on May 16 in my column, I also highlighted the fact that Asiwaju Tinubu as president-elect (before being sworn into office) was already on a business drive for investors in foreign countries, particularly Europe to put Nigeria in their radar for investment. He did that during his last visit to the United Kingdom, UK, and France when he departed our shores on May 10 and returned ten (10) days after on May 20, which is nine (9) days to his May 29 inauguration date. That implies that even before he got sworn into office as president, Asiwaju Tinubu was already working implying that Mr. President has a lot of zeal, passion and preparedness to serve: “Invariably, it appears to me that it is the desire to save the economy and also have something tangible to show in the first 100 days in office that are the motivators for the President-elect Tinubu’s hurry to go to work quickly and as the saying goes: ‘hit the ground running’. “That is the justification for his embarking on a trade drive in Europe even before officially receiving the baton of leadership from President Buhari which would only happen on May 29 all things being equal and which is still more or less two (2) weeks away”. Arising from the above, Nigerians should not be surprised that he actually hit the ground running with his announcement of the very consequential policy decision to comply with the provision in the PIA that petrol subsidy policy had been abolished from June. That is why President Tinubu has earned the nickname Mr. Go-Fast. Apparently, he had already thought it through when he was president-in-waiting. In my view the type of patriotic fervor that the new president is bringing into governance of Nigeria by not hesitating to take unpopular decisions in the best interest of our country is reflective of the fact that he has been preparing for the job for a long time as he had admitted in several media interviews. To me, it also shows that unlike what is typical of politicians who more often than not distance themselves from their campaign promises as soon as they win the contest, President Tinubu has elected to keep his campaign promise as evidenced by a trending video in the social media where he had during his hustings vowed to (if elected) remove petrol subsidy that is killing Nigeria, come what may. Is it not somehow exhilarating that the challenges that I predicted like a prophecy that the new president would be faced with and how they may manifest and the way and manner he would deal with them started becoming reality barely 24 hours after he took the oath of office? At this juncture, I would like to crave the indulgence of readers once again to allow me reproduce a snippet of the referenced article relevant to what occurred immediately after Mr. President took his oath of office: “Another ‘can’ as the Americans would put it that is being kicked down the road by the outgoing government for the in-coming government to deal with is the burden of removing the obnoxious petrol pump price that by some estimates the authorities have been sinking funds in the region of $15 billion in the past decade”.