The National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) has empowered One Hundred (100) youths across Kwara State in line with the directive by President Muhammadu Buhari to upscale the skills of youths nationwide in order to promote employment and self-reliance. According to deputy director Information and Protocol of NASENI, Olusegun Ayeoyenikan, the Agency has previously carried out similar exercises in 11 States of the Federation, totaling about 1100 youths altogether trained nationwide in various vocations ranging from Electrical Installations and Maintenance, Modern Auto-mechanics and Diagnostics, Solar Installations and Maintenance, Modern Tailoring and Installations of Plaster of Paris, popularly known as POP. The new executive vice chairman/ chief executive officer of NASENI, Dr. Bashir Gwandu during the closing ceremony of the five Day training in Ilorin, Kwara State capital thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the foresight by the Federal Government to impact directly the youths through the NASENI Skill Development Programme which began since the middle of the year 2022 and the first phase was targeted to be completed before the expiration of the tenure of President Buhari Administration in May,29. The executive vice chairman of NASENI said the closing ceremony in Ilorin on “Modern Methods of Electrical Installations and Maintenance and skill development workshop was significant because it marked the second of its kind in the North Central Geo-political Zone by NASENI, and it was part of the series of directives from His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari to NASENI to build the capacity of young people in Modern Electrical Installations and Maintenance amongst other vocations and professions. He said: “Our aim is to ensure that our teeming youths develop modern skills in electrical installations and maintenance required for the creation of jobs and self-employment generation.” The NASENI helmsman, therefore, thanked His Excellency, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, the Chief of Staff to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for his unwavering support for NASENI. According to him, the entire Board, Management, and Staff of NASENI, he said, were eternally grateful for the efforts of the Chief of Staff in giving the Agency a new lease of life to realise the dreams of its founding fathers. Represented at the occasion by the Coordinating Director, Planning & Business Development Mrs. Nonyem Onyechi, the New NASENI Chief Executive also explained that the efforts by the President and support by the Chief of Staff had helped NASENI in bringing innovation and infusion of science and engineering in different sectors of the Nigerian economy Prof Ibrahim Agboola Gambari, the Chief of Staff to the President, while declaring the training closed represented by Engr. Yahya Alapansanpa, Chairman, Governing Board of Nigeria Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), who also doubled as Dan Masanin of Ilorin and Chairman, Durban Committee representing the Emir of Ilorin Dr (Alh) Ibrahim Sulu Gambari, said the concern of Buhari Administration was to build the capacity of youths and to empower them mentally and skills upgrade as a way of preparing g the youths for the future. POLL “The policy of the federal government is to increase the capacity and competence of the youths and the country’s workforce to be able to compete with their contemporaries within and outside the country. The Chief of Staff urged participants to use the modern tools not to only empower themselves but also to become successful entrepreneurs in electrical installations and maintenance and beyond”, he said.