In a bid to enhance for­eign investments in the country, the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) is set to introduce Business Trust Visas to foreigners who are com­ing into the country for the purpose of investment. This is as the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos Com­mand of NIS, said it issued 55,644 Visa on Arrival (VoA) to foreigners in 2022. Speaking on Thursday in Lagos at the MMIA Com­mand during a facility tour and inauguration of new VoA office in Lagos, Carol Adepo­ju, the Comptroller-General, NIS, said that the Business Trust Visa would eliminate fear of fraud among foreign­ers coming into the country. She lamented that nu­merous foreign investors were willing to come into the country for the purpose of investments, but were skepti­cal about the sincerity of their supposed business partners in the country. According to her, the Busi­ness Trust Visa would elim­inate the trust deficit as the Service, in collaboration with the Department of Security Service (DSS) and other secu­rity agencies, would carry out in-depth background checks on their business partners in Nigeria. She said: “As a result of the prevalence of international crimes, especially the ones that are done online where you have a lot of fictitious business offers, there are so many investors with lots of funds that want to invest in Nigeria because of Nigeria’s population, sophistication and climate. All these are at­tractive to investors, but some of them are afraid. “They do not know the cali­bre of people they are dealing with. You will need partners sometimes here. So, when we have that Trust Visa, we would partner with security agencies like DSS and other agencies that are entrusted with security in the country. When you give us the contact of whosoever you want to partner with in Nigeria, we will do a background check on such a person and we will let you know if he is a trust­worthy person or not. “The moment we are able to tell you who he is, we will guarantee you that your in­vestment with him would be a success. It is a way of attracting investors into the country. We will remove the doubt and when there are peo­ple of shady characters, too, we will let them know.”