Permanent Secretary, of Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, Abdulhafiz Toriola, has announced that the state government has begun the implementation of the new Annual Proof of Ownership Certificate (POC) to streamline and enhance the process of vehicle ownership verification in the state. Toriola, who announced the initiative during a media briefing on the Proof of Ownership Certificate held in Alausa, Ikeja, on Tuesday, said the development is in line with compliance with legal requirements fundamental to transparency, security, and accountability within the transportation network. Toriola said: “We are about to take another bold step as a responsive government aimed at the continued promotion of safety and security of lives and properties in our dear state. “This initiative is in accordance with the National Road Traffic Regulation 2012 as amended, No. 101, Vol. 99; Section 73- (1), which states that ‘There shall be Proof of Ownership Certificate for all registered Vehicles’. Section 73- (1-6) also added that ‘The Commission shall establish and maintain a Central Database for Vehicles and drivers for the federation’. “To this end, the Federal Government has introduced the issuance of an annual Proof of Ownership Certificate for all registered vehicles. This certificate will serve as official documentation of a vehicle’s legal owners upon successful completion of the necessary requirements and procedures.” The Permanent Secretary said that the POC will contain vital information, including the vehicle’s registration details, such as license number-plate, model, and year of manufacture in addition to the owner’s name and address. “Having critically reviewed the challenges encountered in ensuring the promotion of safety and security of lives and property through the issuance of POC nationally and especially in our dear state, the Joint Tax Board in its communiqué issued at the end of the emergency meeting held on May 9, 2023, adopted and made a resolution that proof of ownership certificate (PoC) be issued to motorists on an annual basis nationwide. “This decision, among other things, is aimed at tracking the real-time status and guarantees the integrity of all vehicles registered on the National Vehicle and Identification Scheme (NVIS) database,” Toriola said. POLL He added: “For effective security administration, the annual POC is specially printed and is connected with other vehicle documents in the state through the following benefits: Statistics of vehicular population nation-wide can easily be obtained; Solution to minimization of car theft and recovery of stolen vehicles; Streamline the fulfillment of uniform licensing scheme mandate; “States motor vehicle documents can easily be verified regardless of the issuing state; Safety and security of vehicles and their owners; Enhance National Vehicle database for national security; and for planning and economic development,” He said that the POC will help track the real-time status and guarantee the integrity of all vehicles registered on the National Vehicle and Identification Scheme (NVIS) database. “It is based on the safety and security it guarantees that the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, has approved for its commencement in Lagos State, hence this briefing to enlighten the public,” he said. On the importance of the POC to stemming crime perpetrated through the use of vehicles, Toriola said the state, after reviewing the “challenges encountered in ensuring the promotion of safety and security of lives and property,” adopted the initiative with the Joint Tax Board “aimed at tracking the real-time status and guarantees the integrity of all vehicles registered on the National Vehicle and Identification Scheme (NVIS) database.” Toriola, however, debunked the insinuation that the initiative was aimed at generating revenue for the state government. The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Lagos, Corps Commander, Babatunde Farinloye, who was represented by Deputy Corps Commander (DCC), Tajudeen Mafe, said the development would enhance the security, well-being, and development of the state. He said the Agency, in line with its role to regulate, enforce, and coordinate traffic management through robust databases, would mobilize its personnel for the implementation process.