LAGOS  – The Nurses Across The Borders, Fredrich-Ebert- Stiftung And Green Mobilisation Initiative recently organised a side event during the recently held United Nations Framework Convention On Climate Change (UNFCCC). The theme of the programme was ‘Strengthening International Collaboration For National Engagement And Development Strategies’ The event, held in Bonn, Germany, attracted top personalities and stakeholders from across the globe, including Pastor Peters Omoragbon, Executive President/CEO, Nurses Across the Borders International and First Designated Contact Person from Nigeria to the UNFCCC. Speaking with Sunday Independent from Germany at the venue of the event on its essence, Pastor Peters Omoragbon said: “Our side event was part of the activities organised by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) as the SBSTA, which is one of two permanent subsidiary bodies to the Convention established by the COP/CMP. “It supports the work of the COP, the CMP and the CMA through the provision of timely information and advice on scientific and technological matters as they relate to the Convention, its Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement.” According to him, “the aim is to draw attention to the need for the North-South collaboration, utilising the technological and knowledge advancement of the North to build the capacity of healthcare professionals in the South to be effective agents for adaptation and mitigation strategies. “Two, expose the delegates to international best practices and knowledge exchange to be replicated back home. And, finally, explore the possibilities of identifying global partners that will facilitate the achievement of the goal for this side event through collaboration and future Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Nurses Across the Borders, bridging the gap between the local institutions like the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Nigeria and international organisations.” He added, “The SBSTA and the SBI have traditionally met in parallel, twice a year. When they are not meeting in conjunction with the COP, the subsidiary bodies usually convene at the seat of the secretariat in Bonn, Germany. “The gains of the meeting is the cross fertilisation of ideas by all the major stakeholders from the UN agencies, delegates of all the countries, civil society organizations, business communities and trade unions on issues relating to the mitigation and adaptation strategies.” POLL Omoragbon noted that Nigeria has a lot to benefit as a country that is statutorily admitted into the UNFCCC as a party to advice on scientific and technological matters as they relate to the Convention, its Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. Speaking at the occasion proper, Omoragbon urged developed nations to fulfil their age-long pledge of $100 billion to assist developing countries mitigate adverse effects of climate change. In his concept paper, he noted that one of the major outcomes of the UNFCCC COP 27 Conference held in Egypt last November under The Glasgow-Sharm el-Sheikh Work Programme on the Global Goal on Adaptation, was the establishment of a framework on the decision to initiate the development of a framework for the global goal on adaptation to be undertaken through a structured approach, recognising that adaptation is a global challenge faced by all with local, subnational, national, regional and international dimensions. This, he said, is a key component of and makes a contribution to the long-term global response to climate change to protect people, livelihoods, and the ecosystems, taking into account the urgent and immediate needs of developing country parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. This multi-faceted side event, he added, was expected to address the progress, problems, and prospects of the Global Stocktake and explore the development and training programs opportunities that strengthen national institutions against the climate change crisis; and promote ecological restoration through tree planting. He added that the issue speaks to the thematic areas of this SB 58 on Mitigation, including response measures, Health, Capacity building; Disaster risk reduction, risk assessment/insurance; Systems transformation. According to Omoragbon, the goal of this event is to explore the North-South collaboration for the development and implementation of education and training programs, including the strengthening of national institutions and the exchange or secondment of personnel to train experts at scientific, technical and managerial levels. According to Pastor Omoragbon, Article 12 of the Paris Agreement stated that parties shall cooperate in taking measures, as appropriate, to enhance climate change education, training, public awareness, public participation and public access to information, recognising the importance of these steps with respect to enhancing actions under this agreement. The Side Event, which involved participants and speakers from both local and international countries vast in the knowledge of the climate change campaign and the UNFCCC process provided insight into cutting edge solutions and exchanges on best practices. Continuing, Omoagbon said that in strengthening Article 6 of the convention, the Side Event would attempt to draw attention to and address the following objectives: Promote and facilitate at the national and, as appropriate, subregional and regional levels, and in accordance with national laws and regulations, and within their respective capacities: The development and implementation of educational and public awareness programmes on climate change and its effects; Public access to information on climate change and its effects; Public participation in addressing climate change and its effects and developing adequate responses; and Training of scientific, technical and managerial personnel; Cooperate in and promote, at the international level, and, where appropriate, using existing bodies: The development and exchange of educational and public awareness material on climate change and its effects; and The development and implementation of education and training programmes, including the strengthening of national institutions and the exchange or secondment of personnel to train experts in this field, in particular for developing countries. Concluding, he acknowledged the impressive turnout of participants, both onsite and virtual, by reiterating that there is no gain saying that from the robust discussions here today from all these eminent speakers and experts, the Side Event captured fully, the five targets of Goal Number 13 of the Sustainable Development Goals as in: Strengthening Resilience And Adaptive Capacity To Climate Related Disasters. Target 2, Integrate Climate Change Measures Into Policies And Planning; Third, Build Knowledge And Capacity To Meet Climate Change by improving education and awareness creation and human and institutional capacity, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. Implement The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change-we are awaiting the firm commitment of the developed nations in rising up to their age long promise to jointly raise $100 billion annually from all sources to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation and fully operationalise the Green Climate Fund through its capitalization as soon as possible. Remember this was to have started since 2020! Lastly, Promote Mechanisms to Raise Capacity For Planning And Management. Nurses Across the Borders, Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung and Green Mobilisation Initiative are hereby appealing to International Partners for support to take the outcomes of this event further to the grassroots in Africa and Asia. Dr. Faruk Umar Abubakar, Registrar/CEO, Nursing and Midwifery Council of Nigeria spoke on ‘How can Healthcare Education Strengthen Collaboration For Building A Strong National Adaptation Plan’, He welcomed the idea of collaborating with Nurses Across the Borders in building the capacity of nurses/ midwives in the areas of the climate change campaign and also to begin the initiative of developing their curriculum with the introduction of climate change in their studies/training. Another Speaker, Ms Haneen Hamed, Board Member of Climate Action Network Arab World (CANAW), spoke on the sub-theme, ‘The role of civil society in the climate agenda locally, regionally and internationally and how impactful they can be’. She proffered answers to the following questions: In a region that is facing so many challenges such as political instability and lack of resources, do you see the climate agenda as a priority? During COP 27 last year, do you believe civil society organisations achieved their goal? She acknowledged the myriad of problems confronting the world from political instability to terrorism but nonetheless asserted that the world could no longer ignore the devastating effect of climate change disasters on human and sustainable development as a security threat of great proportion. She celebrated the fact that two COPs are taking place in the Middle-East successively and that at COP 27 last year in Egypt, a lot of NGOs that hitherto were unaware of what COP and climate change was, became sensitised and all are becoming fully engaged. Also, Mr. Gabriel Aborele, Executive Director, Green Mobilisation Initiative (GMI) on ‘Promoting ecological restoration in schools through tree planting’ spoke as an Environmentalist/Forestpreneur/Climate Change activist creating awareness in Ecosystem Restoration Designs and tree planting activities with the involvement of schools and communities in a participatory manner. He reported organising tree planting sessions with secondary schools students and have so far planted trees in 26 Secondary Schools in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja between 2018 to date, planted in eight schools in Abeokuta in 2017 and one school in Kaduna in 2011. Aborele, it should be noted, is a member of the Forestry Association of Nigeria (FAN), Member, Commonwealth Forestry Association and Member, AIESEC Alumni. Another Speaker at the side event was Nithi Nesadurai, Director and Regional Coordinator, Climate Action Network Southeast Asia (CANSEA) and President, Environmental Protection Society, Malaysia. He equally answered some questions on the Subtheme: The role of civil society in the climate agenda locally, regionally and internationally and how impactful they can be. The questions were: In the context of international commitments and national activities, where do you see the role of the civil society? And what are the strengths and challenges associated with their contribution? With the whole discussion of Just Transition, where do Trade unions stand and do you believe they are engaged in the process as needed.