A civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Associ­ation of Nigeria (HURIWA), on Monday asked Governor Umo Eno of Akwa Ibom State and his associates to stop the political per­secution of the candidate of the Young Progressive Party (YPP) in the just-concluded governor­ship election in the state, Senator Bassey Albert. HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, asked the state administration to respects pluralism of political opinions and the rights of political oppo­nents to challenge the outcome of an election at the Petitions Tri­bunal without being harassed, victimized and intimidated by state forces and security agents allegedly working to ingratiate themselves to the new powers that be in Akwa Ibom State. The group cautioned Eno to call his people and party, the Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP), to order and immediately halt the threat to the life of Albert because he had the courage to challenge Gov Eno’s declaration by the Inde­pendent National Electoral Com­mission as the winner of the poll. HURIWA acknowledged that although there was no empirical evidence linking the person of Umo Eno to this latest aggression against the YPP governorship candidate and the main challeng­er of the governor’s victory in the 2023 governorship race, but as the Chief Security Officer of Akwa Ibom State, the bulk of the re­sponsibility and legal obligations to protect citizens of his state is on his desk. The governor must create the enabling environment for politi­cal pluralism to thrive in Akwa Ibom State. HURIWA warned that the gov­ernor and his party would be held responsible if anything untoward happened to Albert because the governor is the chief security officer of Akwa Ibom state while at the same time called on the In­spector General of Police to rein in his men in Akwa Ibom and stop them from being used allegedly by the Akwa Ibom state govern­ment as tool of oppression against petitioners at the governorship tribunal. HURIWA’s Onwubiko said, “There is video evidence of the oppressive regime ongoing in Akwa Ibom state under the watch of Governor Umo Eno. Just on June 20, 2023, Senator Albert’s witness was harassed by alleged state-sponsored thugs and secu­rity agents at the tribunal at the State Judiciary Complex, Uyo, metres from the Government House and almost opposite a po­lice division. “It is ironic that the police stormed the venue and wanted to arrest Senator Albert’s wit­ness against the governor. This is shameful and the Nigeria Police Force should be most ashamed.” POLL “The YPP candidate, as part of his petition at the tribunal, tendered the academic creden­tials of the PDP candidate from the University of Uyo to advance his allegation that he (Eno) was kicked out of the university over alleged fake school certificates but gunshots and heavy armed presence were used by the gov­ernor to intimidate the witness. “This is broad day oppression in a democratic setting and this kind of tyrannical behaviour has no place in our civil world. The YPP has already written a petition to the Department of State Services on the matter and the apparent threat to the life of Senator Albert.”