LAGOS – Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), Lagos and the Nigeria Police, Airport Command, have renewed their partnership. A statement by BASL said that the partnership was aimed at improving safety and security at the terminal. The statement hinted that during an inaugural courtesy visit to the terminal, Ebong Ebibwa; the Commissioner of Police, Airport Command and his team, including Kayode Sunday, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, renewed the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that has been in place for over 16 years between the two organisations. Ms. Tosan Duncan, Acting Chief Operating Officer (COO), BASL, who led the senior management team of the terminal operator, while receiving the law enforcement officials, said the renewed synergy was strategic and key to safe air travels and deepening of economic prosperity for the state and the country at large. In her remarks, Duncan commended the police officials for their commitment to maintaining a high-level security within and around the terminal. She also recognised the support of the Nigeria Air Force in supporting this same overview. She emphasised the importance of providing a safe and peaceful environment for businesses and individuals to thrive, stressing that beyond the MoU, BASL was willing and ready to support the Nigeria Police on other developmental initiatives. Duncan maintained that BASL was actively involved in addressing Nigeria’s socio economic challenges through human capital development and strategic partnerships with state and non-state actors. POLL She said: “We are not saying this for the sake of it. We want this interface to translate into concrete output. We want to see programmes and projects we can partner with the Police on to sustain and improve security of our infrastructure, businesses, and the Nigerian people who use our facility and that of our customers’ daily.” In his remarks, Ebibwa affirmed his willingness to address the concerns raised by BASL and assured the company of the police command’s unwavering support. The police chief reiterated the importance of safety and security in the aviation business and expressed the police’s commitment to providing their professional expertise. He said: “I am very happy to visit Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited, the operator of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two today, one of Nigeria’s most important business investments. “The purpose of my visit is partly to familiarise myself with the environment, particularly important stakeholders as the management of the MMA2 Terminal, assure you of my command’s unwavering support, and to engage you on how to sustain and even improve the existing partnership for more groundbreaking achievements. So, we are on the same page on this objective.”