Access Bank Plc, in collaboration with the Enterprise Development Centre (EDC) of the Pan-Atlantic University, recently organised a highly impactful 2-day capacity-building program for female entrepreneurs through The W Initiative. The program aimed to address key challenges faced by women in business and equip them with essential skills for managing and growing sustainable enterprises. “At Access Bank, we firmly believe that capacity building is the bedrock of any business’ sustainable growth and prosperity. Hence, providing access to programs like the Business Masterclass is a core part of The W Initiative’s mission,” Abiodun Olubitan, Group Head of Women Banking at Access Bank Plc, emphasized. “The W Initiative operates with the understanding that empowering businesses to thrive and championing the success of women entrepreneurs go hand in hand. We are confident that our sustained partnership with the Pan-Atlantic University will foster the growth and increased operational efficiency of numerous women entrepreneurs, empowering them to thrive and contribute to the development of the economy,” Olubitan continued. Through the interactive sessions, participants were able to enhance their business acumen and glean invaluable insights into strategies for expanding into new markets and streamlining business operations. The program also introduced the women to the HerVenture app, an innovative learning platform tailored to the needs of women entrepreneurs in the start-up and early growth stages of their businesses. In addition to the training, the EDC empowered 20 female entrepreneurs with free business advisory services, social media optimisation consultancy, promotional flyers, sponsored ads, and more. These resources were provided to enhance brand visibility and scale market access. Women-owned businesses across Africa can access some training sessions on The W Initiative’s YouTube page and stay updated on Access Bank’s offerings by following @thewcommunity on social media. Some other growth and capacity-building programs offered by The W Initiative for female business owners include the Womenpreneur Pitch-a-Ton and a Mini MBA, which is certified by the International Finance Corporation. POLL The 5th season of Womenpreneur Pitch-a-Ton is scheduled to launch on June 27, 2023.