The first episode of ‘Hello Mr Right’, the dating reality show on StarTimes, debuted with love, excitement, and drama. Episode one was anchored by Nigerian celebrities, Bukunmi ‘Kiekie’ Adeaga-Ilori and Bolanle Ninalowo, who spiced up the show with witty comments and advice. The show, which premiered on June 10, features twelve single ladies and three single guys looking for their right match. It also features a chance to win over N20,000,000 in prizes. “Let me tell you why the money part is important,” Kiekie teased her audience. “A wise man once said that love is sweet, but when money comes in, love becomes sweeter.” Female contestants experience love at first sight as they meet different guys who impress them. However, not all matches are mutual, as some guys are rejected by their chosen ladies or vice versa. While a contestant turned down a guy because her taste was pitched at guys in their twenties, another lady was fascinated by the same guy because he was chubby. Seven ladies showed interest in this guy; however, when he was asked to pick his favourite out of the seven, his choice turned him down, citing the excuse that she doesn’t like short guys. Two lucky couples found love at first sight but faced a tough decision: cash-out or go big. Cash-out allows them to take instant cash prizes ranging from N10,000 to N250,000 via a lucky-dip box; while Cash-big gives them a chance to compete for N5 million cash and N5 million worth of prizes if they emerge as the ultimate couple via an audience vote. The couple hit it off instantly and decided to go big, meaning they will compete for the ultimate prize of N5 million cash and N5 million worth of prizes if they emerge as the ultimate couple. POLL The show sponsored by Indomie, Colgate, Lush Hair, 9mobile, CallerTunez, Taeilor Furniture, and Chef Panda restaurants promises to be more exciting and entertaining in the next episodes as more singles join the search for love and money. Episodes of ‘Hello Mr. Right’ airs every Saturday on StarTimes’ Nollywood Plus at 8pm and Novela E channels at 7:50pm as well as the StarTimes ON mobile app. ‘Hello, Mr. Right’ is a StarTimes original franchise with success stories in many African countries such as Zambia, Tanzania and Kenya.