BENIN – The United Patriots Assembly of Nigeria (UPAN) has applauded President Bola Tinubu’s suspension of Godwin Emefiele as Governor of Nigeria’s apex bank, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), just as it called on Mr president to constitute a national inquiry to extrapolate the dire impacts of the CBN cash crunch management disaster. Ambassador Aiyamenkhue Edokpolo, National Facilitator, United Patriots Assembly of Nigeria, who stated this in a statement in Benin on Saturday said while we welcome President Tinubu’s suspension of Godwin Emefiele, we also urges FG to constitute a National Inventory Commission on the CBN cash crunch disaster still ravaging the economy till date. According to UPAN national facilitator, Nigerians desire an inquiry that is patterned after the United States of America 9/11 Commission – so, across the 36 states and FCT, Nigerians will share variable accounts of the killing spree policy on our economy by the CBN Governor. “Small, medium and large scale sectors witnessed a tormentous effect of the heartless project management disaster. “It is certainly not a punitive venture to embark on such a wholesale fact finding exercise, at least, it will help the current management of the CBN to be mindful of conceptualizing pseudo partisan political strategy in the guise of a monetary policy management template. “In our view, the so-called new Naira notes printing was a fraud, and the timing of the fierce implementation, at a time the DSS was seeking to charge him for terrorism financing raises more questions than answers. “It is pertinent to ascertain as a matter of urgency for the federal government to unravel the can of worms and pure administrative failure that almost put our dear nation into chaos or ruin. “Even at this moment with the palliatives and interventionist efforts of government and the law the people are still faced with pockets of the stench of the ignominious policy by the CBN. POLL “It is good as a nation to put out the records for ease of reference and for posterity so as to nip in the bud any future occurrence of such disastrous policies,” the group also stated. The group further noted that President Tinubu has by the sack of Godwin Emefiele demonstrated a prolific understanding of macroeconomics intelligence. “We however urge Mr. President to dispassionately consider our appeal for the setting up of a holistic inquiry into Godwin Emefiele’s project management disaster, especially, the consequential loss by most Nigerians,” the group declared.