Professor John Ebhomien is a former Consultant to the United Nations Office of Project Services. The former World Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF) economist and financial management expert spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on some of the recently held Democracy Day, some actions of President Bola Tinubu among other crucial issues. Excerpt: How do you see the actions of President Bola Tinubu so far? The actions and decisions taken by President Bola Tinubu so far are a mixed grill. This is because these actions seem very hasty. One would have expected that as a new government, he would have studied carefully the actions and decisions taken by his predecessors and taken into consideration the current situation and hydra-headed problems begging for solutions over the years. Also, the action taken by President Tinubu to remove subsidy was taken without due consultations with the various stakeholders, those who voted him to power. These include the trade unions, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), oil marketers and suppliers. He should have carried them along with a view to get their support. I sincerely hope in future when decisions regarding serious policies that will affect the people, due consultations will be made by the president with relevant stakeholders. Many believe that the oil subsidy has been doing more harm than good to the masses. What is your view on its removal? The removal of oil subsidy by Tinubu, though a good idea, was too hasty considering the hardship Nigeria have been going through, the insecurity in the country. From what we have seen so far, over 70 percent of Nigerians are not happy with the removal of subsidy. It cuts across all strata of the society from the upper-upper to the lower-lower. Even though Mr. President has suggested some palliative measures, these will only benefit a few people, less than 25 percent of the society. Think of the masses in towns and villages who cannot afford three square meals in a day. Think of the artisans, roadside food sellers and those who depend on daily income to feed their families. The multiplier effect of the removal of subsidy is monumental and beyond expectation of the majority of Nigerians. It is apparent from all indications that President Tinubu was ill advised on such an issue which had been lingering since 1999 when this democratic dispensation started. The subsidy issue of subsidy is a fraud. My expectation in this so-called ’oil subsidy’ could best be described as a circus display of gangsterism by previous administrations. My expectations from Bola Tinubu is to put in place appropriate mechanisms to fix the moribund refineries and encourage the establishment of modular refineries and more importantly, decentralise the downstream and upstream sectors for proper management and also ensure probity and accountability. Do you think the suspension, arrest and investigation of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Godwin Emefiele, was right? The suspension of the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, is in the right direction considering the confusing decisions on monetary policies that were taken by him and the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) that were anti-people. The naira redesign policy, though good, was poorly implemented, so, the infractions committed by Emefiele and the other MPC members such as high interest rates and other bad infractions that affected the economy so badly require serious explanations. President Tinubu should take some steps further to re-jig the CBN and carry out a forensic audit to look at the cash flow and other financial malpractices. So, those saying that the arrest of Emefiele has political undertones are myopic and speaking out of context. To me, President Tinubu has done well in suspending the CBN governor. It is a chain of events in the CBN. I will advise Tinubu to sack all the CBN deputy governors and some of the directors that are culpable in some of their disgraceful actions and financial recklessness that were unprofessional. I will advise Tinubu to appoint seasoned economists and financial experts to head the CBN and other key positions for the proper management of the economy and sound monetary policies as done in other climes. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, has also been suspended by Mr. President and is being investigated over corruption allegations. How do you see the development? POLL The suspension of the EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, is a good development. There have been several allegations of corruption and misappropriation of funds at the EFCC. The allegations of corruption did not start from Bawa. Even his predecessors were fingered in misappropriation of funds. President Tinubu should carry out without further delay a total overhaul of the EFCC and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other offences Commission (ICPC). I will sincerely advise that the President should merge the EFCC and ICPC to become one vibrant anti-graft organisation that can bite . People of high integrity and responsibility should be appointed to head the new anti-corruption agency after the suggested merger. Bawa and his predecessors should be made to account for their stewardship. Nobody should be above the law. What is your take on the way the 10th National Assembly leadership emerged? Don’t you see them becoming a rubber stamp to the Executive due to their emergence through the influence of Mr President and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership? The emergence of the new leadership of the 10th National Assembly must be seen as a demonstration of democracy in action, so far, so good. I sincerely hope the NASS leadership will live up to expectations as Nigerians and do the needful as enshrined in the country’s constitution, discharge their responsibilities without fear or favour and live above board. They should remember that they are not there for self aggrandisement, but to serve the people. They should enact laws that will help in the smooth administration of the present administration and boost the economy. They should not be a rubber stamp leadership. They should ensure the Principle of Separation of Powers, enact bills and motions that will move the country to an enviable position in the comity of nations. The 10th National Assembly leadership should avoid budget padding, financial malpractices that will likely bring the nation to its knees or ridicule. Hey should demonstrate a high sense of integrity at all times. They should not antagonise or be at loggerheads with the President. Though, it is not proper for Mr President to have picked the leadership of the10th National Assembly as alleged, one would have expected the National Assembly members, the Senate and House of Representatives, to see themselves as the conscience of the people. They should avoid those things that will make people believe that they are apron strings of the Executive. This is not to say that they should be at loggerheads with Mr President. There must be cordial relationships now and years ahead. President Bola Tinubu recently got the nod of the Senate to appoint 20 Special Advisers. Don’t you think such a number of Special Advisers are too many considering that he will also have as many as 36 ministers and Senior Special Advisers among others, especially with the state of the nation’s economy and the need to reduce cost of governance? The 9th Senate approval of Tinubu’s 20 special Advisers, was timely. One must commend him for this decision he has taken. But, the number of the Special Advises are on the high side considering the present state of the economy, knowing full well that 36 ministers will also be appointed as well as several Senior Special Assistants and Special Assistants and other key officers who will also have their Special Assistants. When we look at the current situation and the drain on the economy, one would have expected the number of Special Advisers to be reduced to 14 or 15. President Tinubu should appoint seasoned technocrats and management experts as Special Advisers. These people must not necessarily be politicians. I trust Mr. President will read the handwriting on the wall and appoint those sectors of the economy where they are needed most. These include Banking and Finance cum Monetary Policy, Fiscal Policy, Manufacturing and Commerce, Media and Publicity, Planning and Strategic Management, Customs and Excise, Inland Revenue Security and intelligence Gathering, Aviation, Transportation and Shipping Services, Education and Technology Advancement, Health Services, Youth Engagement and Employment. President Tinubu should resuscitate Youth Employment Exchange, Community Enlightenment, Traditional and Chieftaincy Affairs, Religious Affairs and Intergovernmental Relations. Finally, on Petroleum Resources, Mr. President should be a seasoned petroleum expert as Minister of Petroleum. He should hand off the Petroleum Ministry for proper management competence. Nigeria just celebrated Democracy Day on June 12. Would you say that democracy has come to stay considering the events of these 30 years? The recent celebration of Democracy Day is a good development considering what Nigerians suffered under the military junta. One should not forget in a hurry the election won by Chief M.K.O. Abiola and the after effects of that obnoxious decision by General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida and his cohorts without any acceptable justification as we speak. So, I think we should commend former President Muhammadu Buhari for taking the bold step to declare June 12 as a national public holiday. The lessons of June 12 must not be taken with levity by politicians at all levels. They should make sure they guard jealously the hard won democracy. Politicians must always remember the sacrifices of our heroes past, like Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, the late Owelle of Onitsha; Sir Ahmadu Bello, Alhaji Aminu Kano, Sir Tafawa Balewa, Chief Anthony Enahoro, Herbert Macaulay, Alvan Ikoku, Chief Obafemi Awolowo,Chief S. L. Akintola, Chief Adelabu, Joseph Tarka, Chief Daboh,Chief Okotie Eboh, among others. They laid down their lives for democracy to thrive in Nigeria. They include people like Kudirat Abiola, Gani Fawehinmi, Dele Giwa, Bagauda Kalto, Pa Abraha Adesanya who was nearly killed, and a host of others who laid down their lives for this country. Some members of the Abiola Family are reportedly demanding that the full entitlements of Chief M.K.O. Abiola as President should be paid by the Federal Government. What is your take on this? The request of the Abiola family for the entitlements due to the late Chief M. K. O. Abiola to be paid to them must be looked into by the Federal Government. If former President Buhari could recognise Abiola as former President and give him the highest national honour of the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), there is justification for the family that have accrued to Chief M. K. O. Abiola. So, President Tinubu should complete the good work started by Buhari for total reconciliation, restitution and unity. God bless Nigeria.