A number of European clubs are calling for a ‘fair market investigation’ into Saudi Arabia’s transfer interest in a number of Chelsea and Wolves players. Barely a day passes at the moment without another raft of Premier League players being linked with lucrative transfers to Saudi Arabia. At the moment, Chelsea’s cast-offs – such as Hakim Ziyech and Romelu Lukaku – and Wolves captain Ruben Neves are being tempted by the eye-watering sums of money on offer to go and play in the Middle East Kingdom. Now, according to the Telegraph, a number of European sides are questioning the sudden transfer interest in the players amid both club’s desire to meet Financial Fair Play [FFP] rules. The Stamford Bridge club, in particular, urgently need to trim their bloated squad to keep the right side of FFP rules and balance the books – having spent £600million over the past two transfer windows. Wolves, similarly, will take a massive step towards appeasing FFP demands by the £47million deal in-place for captain Ruben Neves. News of the transfer shocked many football fans and now, one European rival claimed that investigations need to be started over the transfer business. ‘PIF has so many investments around the world that it should be compelled to prove there are no conflicts of interest as it spends big with its bottomless pit of cash on ageing players,’ said one European club to the outlet. POLL ‘Watch clubs use Saudi this summer across Europe as a get out of FFP jail free card. It becomes even murkier should PIF have investment interest in both the selling and buying club.’ The sudden spending spree has been led by the Saudi Public Investment Fund [PIF] – the oil-rich state’s sovereign wealth fund. PIF also own 80 per cent of Premier League club Newcastle United, whose competitiveness was transformed pretty much overnight by an injection of Saudi cash following a £350million takeover in 2021. Yasir Al-Rumayyan is governor of the sovereign wealth fund and Newcastle’s chairman. And, as Mail Sport revealed last year, PIF are also major investors in Chelsea’s majority shareholder, Clearlake Capital. PIF have billions of pounds of assets managed by Clearlake. Clearlake bought 60 per cent of Chelsea in a £4.25billion takeover last year with Todd Boehly leading the consortium. Chelsea sources insist there was no Saudi involvement in the purchase of the club and, therefore, no potential conflict of interest with Newcastle competing in the same competitions. Intriguingly, the Chelsea co-owner Boehly was spotted in Saudi Arabia meeting with Al-Hilal president Fahd bin Nafel earlier this month. Also at the meeting was Saudi billionaire Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal, a well-known Al-Hilal supporter who sold a minority stake in his investment firm to PIF last year. In two transfer windows, Chelsea have paid out over £600million on new signings, recouping around £60m for a net spend of £540m. They were placed on a UEFA watchlist of 19 clubs whose finances would be ‘monitored closely in the upcoming period’ last September after accounts for the 2021-22 campaign revealed a net loss of £121.3m. The budget has also been hit by Chelsea’s failure to qualify for the lucrative Champions League next season following a disappointing 12th-place finish in the Premier League. So Chelsea need players out the door as quickly as possible to raise funds and there’s nobody keener to buy on the planet at the moment than leading Saudi clubs.