LAGOS – Chief Edwin Clark, elder statesman and leader of Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) has lamented the level of poverty in the Niger Delta area and stressed that if the 13 percent derivation accru­ing to the region had been prop­erly managed militancy in the region would have been curbed. Speaking on Arise TV on Wednesday, Clark lamented that governors in Niger Delta are now richer than the Niger Delta states. He berated former Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for failure to ac­count for the 13 percent deriva­tion received during his tenure as governor. He said, “The 13 percent der­ivation was something that was raised at the Constituent As­sembly, chaired by the former Justice of the Supreme Court. People like Late General Shehu Yar Adua and others felt that there was a need to compensate the people that produce the oil and we were around lobbying and the 13 percent was granted under section 1622 of the con­stitution which provided for at least 13 percent of the federation account to be given to the oil pro­ducing communities for their de­velopment. “If that money was properly spent our boys won’t be agitating. There will be no more militancy in the creeks. We have been fac­ing the federal government and not the governors who have been stealing the money. At the 2014 National Confab, we asked for an increase to 25 percent, and to 50 percent after five years. They told us that they would give us 18 per­cent but that we should go home and see what our governors were doing with the 13 percent. “That is why we decided to ask the governors what they are doing with the money. I re­member that in 2015 New Niger Avengers gave a warning to the federal government that they would attack oil pipelines if the derivation money is not used in developing their area. I inter­vened and appealed to them that I would talk to the governors. “Recently the former Gov­ernor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike revealed in one of his press conferences that a certain amount of money was paid to them by President Buhari un­der the 13 percent derivation and that Delta State got over N250 billion. “That annoyed Okowa and he criticised Wike for interfer­ing in their matter. So, I wrote a letter to Okowa to account for the money that he has been collect­ing. He answered and said that they spent N5 billion in paying pensioners in Delta State. How does that come under 13 percent? Are they oil-producing pension­ers? He is spending the money on building a university in his village.”