LAGOS – Two football power­houses, South Korea and Nigeria’s Flying Eagles, are gearing up for a highly anticipated quarterfinal match in the on­going FIFA U20 World Cup in Argentina. The match is billed for the Estadio Único Madre de Ciudades in Santiago del Estero for 6.30pm. The clash between these teams is expected to reignite a rivalry witnessed on previous occasions at this prestigious tournament as both teams vie for a coveted spot in the semifinals. With challenging track re­cords in the FIFA U20 World Cup, the encounter promises to be thrilling. Having locked horns in previous editions, both nations are no strangers to the intensity and pressure of this competition stage. Nigeria’s Flying Eagles de­livered a resounding blow to the host country Argentina in the second round of the knock­out stages, securing a place in the highly anticipated quarter­finals of the tournament. With brilliant skill and determination, the Flying Ea­gles outshone their opponents, defeating the Argentine team 2-0 at San Juan. Led by their astute coach Ladan Bosso, the Nigerian squad showcased a defensive masterclass; effec­tively nullifying Argentina’s attacking threats throughout the match. The team’s relentless ef­forts paid off in the second half, as Ibrahim Muhammad and Rilwanu Sarki found the back of the net, securing a memorable victory. In a thrilling quarterfinal match against Ecuador, a South American contender, South Korea showed their attacking prowess, led by the exceptional Bae Junho. With a captivating 3-2 vic­tory over Ecuador, Bae Jun­ho not only scored a goal but also provided an assist to his teammates. Their tenacity and ability to capitalize on op­portunities proved decisive, ultimately triumphing over their opponents in a pulsating encounter. POLL As the tournament pro­gresses, Nigeria’s triumph over host nation Argentina and South Korea’s exhilarat­ing victory against Ecuador set the stage for a captivating quarterfinal clash between the two nations. Football enthusi­asts around the world eagerly await this matchup, which promises to deliver another enthralling spectacle of skill, strategy, and fierce competi­tion. Bosso, who was also head coach when the Flying Eagles reached the quarterfinals of the FIFA U20 World Cup in Canada 16 years ago, told thenff.com that his team has kept to the pre-tournament philosophy of dealing with one match at a time. “We are delighted to have executed a perfect game plan against Argentina. Our strate­gy and tactics worked out and the boys worked very hard. Now, we have to concentrate on what to expect from the Ko­reans. We have been watching their games at this champion­ship and we have a good idea how to prepare for them. “Again, the boys must work hard and carry out our plan on match day. We have the playing personnel to do the job and I am positive we will cross the Korean hurdle.” In 2007 in Canada, Bosso’s wards defeated Costa Rica and Scotland and drew with Japan to reach the Round of 16, where they edged fellow Af­ricans Zambia 2-1 in Ottawa to set up a quarterfinal date with Chile in Montreal. That team, captained by Nduka Ozokwo, stood up to the Chileans for 90 minutes but collapsed in extra time under the covered arena of the Montreal Olympic Stadi­um. Bosso said he is aware of the quarter-final banana peel and will not stumble this time. “It is a new day, a new championship, a new city and a new team. Nigeria has been in the final of this same competition on two previous occasions. Our objective is to at least match that feat. Once we’re in the final, anything can happen,” said Bosso.