The Ezendigbo of Ibadan land and Oyo state, His Roy­al Highness (HRH) Dr. Alex Anozie has appealed to the judiciary to give Nigerians truth, justice, equity and fairness. In a press release he per­sonally signed, Dr. Anozie, appreciated Nigerians for the enduring manner they tolerated themselves before, during and after the elections notwithstanding the various violence and dirty abuses floating in the air just as he ad­vised the judiciary to ensure justice, fairness, equity in the interest of peace and unity of the country. He also eulogized the Pres­idential flag bearers for en­couraging their supporters to be calm as the matter is being litigated just as he enjoined Nigerians to embrace judge­ment when it is delivered by the judiciary apart from obey­ing it and supporting whoever wins the case. He suggested that each geo-political zones of the six zones should produce 30 in­telligent people who would look into the problems of the country and come out with progressive ideas on how the country can be better for all Nigerians adding that those to be selected must be selfless and from all fields of life whether low or high and should be matured and intel­ligent enough. He stated that it is either this idea is embraced or Ni­geria pick up the recommen­dations of former President Goodluck Jonathan’s confer­ence positing that all Nigeri­ans should be given a sense of belonging in everything concerning Nigeria so that there would be lasting peace and progress in the country. “Leadership of the coun­try should be allowed to touch all of the six zones so that there would be a sincere and positive commitment from all the people of the zones to­wards the unity, progress and peace of the country. “There is none of these zones where we cannot find capable hands that can suc­cessfully be the President of Nigeria at any time it is their turn to rule, “Dr. Anozie said. He pointed out that it is the inability of Nigeria leaders to manage the size of Nigeria, her ethnic diversity, and re­ligion which makes her an attraction to the world that brought about zoning stress­ing that if this had been well managed before now with justice, fairness equity being the watchword, there would not have been any agitation as it would have fizzled out.