LAGOS  – The Governor of Anambra State, Prof Chukwuma Charles Soludo, has condoled the former Governor of Imo State, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, on the death of his mother, Dame Dorothy Nsonma Ihedioha. Dame Ihedioha who passed on at the age of 90 years was interred at Uvuru, Mbaise Imo State. Soludo was represented by his Chief of Staff, Mr Ernest Ezeajughi. Commiserating with the Ihedioha family, Solude asked them to bear the demise of their matriarch, who according to him lived a beautiful, impactful and fulfilled life. The Governor described Dame Ihedioha as a model mother who nurtured her large family and served very well in God’s vineyard, having been inducted into the Women’s Guild in 1959, Mother’s Union in 1965, licenced as Lay Reader and also a knight. Earlier in a sermon during the burial service held at St Peter’s Anglican Church, Mbutu, Diocese of Mbaise, the Metropolitan and Primate of All Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Most Reverend Henry Ndukuba admonished the congregation to consider how life should be lived to the glory of God who creates and knows when to take it. Primate Ndukuba advised humanity, especially leaders in various sectors, not to just enrich themselves, but make impact in the life of others, stressing that all riches are left behind after death, which according to the bible is followed by judgement. The cleric mentioned many good works and impacts left behind by late Dame Dorathy Nsonma Ihedioha. He extolled Chief Ihedioha for his service to the people and prayed for the family and Nigeria. POLL In his vote of thanks, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, while thanking everyone who attended and contributed to the success of the burial, said his late Mother was passionate about Education and has ensured that all the children around her were educated. Many Archbishops and Clergyme participated in the burial service including the Bishop of Awka and Archbishop on the Niger, Most Reverend Alexander Ibezim. Governor of Abia State, Mr Alex Otti, past Governors of Delta and Cross River States Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa and Mr Donald Duke, President General, Ohaneze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu among others also graced the occasion The Chief of Staff to Governor Chukwuma Charles Soludo, Mr Ernest Ezeajughi was accompanied to the burial by the Commissioner for Culture, Entertainment and Tourism, Comrade Don Onyenji while many dignitaries including political leaders and Industrialists attended the ceremony.