LOKOJA – The state police Command said an alleged criminal, Kabir Bala alias (Okwo) has been killed in Ejule. Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi State. The Police Commissioner, Akeem Yusuf made the disclosure, in a press conference held on Thursday in Lokoja. The Commissioner of Police said the notorious criminal had remained unrepentant, with a charge by the State Security Council to go after Kabir Bala and arrest him immediately for prosecution, which led to his death when he opened fire on a joint patrol team of security agencies. The Commissioner disclosed that the said Kabir Bala was in October 2018 granted pardon in the prerogative of mercy as part of rehabilitation, but pointed out that the State Security Council meeting held on 20th June 2023 revoked the pardon. The said Kabir Bala the Police Commissioner disclosed remained an unrepentant criminal with lots of atrocities traced to him, stressing that the late Bala and his gang have been terrorising the people of the state. He said several cases have been traced to him such as the Burning alive ‘of Mrs Salome Abu, a PDP woman Leader in Ofu LGA in her residence on 18 November 2019 at Ochadamu ” Killing of two (2) Igala youths; UMORU AREH and UNEKWU SULE on 20” April 2022 at Ejule. POLL ” Killing of Five (5) Fulani Herders namely; Ibrahim, Haruna and Shuaibu along Alloma Road, Ofu LGA in April 2022 and Muhammed and Dauda at Imoko in Ofu LGA on 3 March 2023 Other crimes allegedly committed by Kabir Bala and his gang, include: ” Attack on troops of Nigerian Navy and dispossessed them of four (4) Rifles at Alloma village on 4″ March, 2022. however, the Firearms were later returned to the Navy following the high-powered intervention. According to the CP” Attack on Elisha Aya, Pastor and founder of Kingdom Faith Assembly Ejule on 18th March 2022 who later paid one N1m to Bala as a levy for establishing a Church. ” Invasion of Egane Fulani settlement, burning 213 huts, rustled 122 cows on December 2022, ” Assault on the Lord’s Chosen Church, Ejule on 29″ January 2023 for disturbing his Hotel with their Service, during which Joy Abuh, a worshipper sustained a gunshot injury on her left hand. ” He was also responsible for seven (7) Kidnappings along to Be-Anyigba highway from 5th to 28 May 2023″. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of police has assured the people of the state of safety of lives and property and vowed to apprehend the remaining members of the gang. Items recovered from him include One (1) AK 47 Rifle with three(3) fully loaded magazines. Six (6) locally fabricated weapons. Two (2) Phones and Charms.