Two police officers said to be detectives of State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) of the Riv­ers Police Command have been arrested and detained over al­leged extortion of members of the public. The arrest of the police de­tectives came three days after Rivers Governor, Siminalayi Fubara, complained over re­ports of extortion, harassment of innocent citizens and other criminal activities allegedly be­ing perpetrated by operatives of disbanded ‘SARS’ officials in some parts of the state. Governor Fubara had di­rected the Command to fish out and punish officers involved in the alleged harassment and extortion when the state Commissioner of Police, CP Emeka Nwonyi, visited him last Friday. He urged the CP to ensure that such extortion and harass­ment are stopped. However, it was gathered that the two detectives were arrested following a complaint by one of the victims of their extortions on twitter. The victim had also tagged the Force Spokesperson , CSP Prince Adejobi Olumuyiwa. The Force spokesperson had upon receipt of the complaint from one of the victims tweet­ed: ” So, PPRO Rivers, come up and take up this case while we do the needful from Abuja. By now, we are not expected to still be seeing or hearing Policemen searching people’s phones on the road after several warnings from the IGP”. The Police Public Relations Officer in Rivers State, SP Grace Iringe-Koko had in a tweet in response to instruc­tion of the Force PPRO, con­firmed the arrest of one of the Police Officers. But she did not state if they are in the SCIID or the partic­ular unit and if all the money extorted had been recovered from them (Police Officers). POLL “Good evening Sir, the offi­cer in this post has been arrest­ed and detained, investigation is ongoing, I urge the com­plainant to come and facilitate the investigation process for us to give feedback to members of the public. “Sir@LifeofNapaul, you said you are no longer inter­ested in this matter of alleged extortion you reported through this medium, while the Com­missioner of Police Rivers State Command is fully inter­ested and insist that you should provide us with your email ad­dress,” SP Koko added.