AHMED MUSA The All Progressives Congress (APC) as a new bride the Nigerian political marriage in 2015 came into being majorly on what some may call, ‘the Coalition of the Willing’, an alliance between the South West Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), led by the President, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and the North West’s Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), led by the former President, Muhammadu Buhari. Both were joined by the All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) led then by Dr Ogbonnaya Onuh and the Rochas Okorocha faction of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA). All other individuals from other zones or regions simply bought into the movement that sought to uproot the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government from power by all means necessary. Therefore, the spoils of war in terms of core leadership bounties were shared by the two dominant parties and zones from the North and South. As a result, the North West held the position of President, while the South West took that of the Vice President. However, as against the party’s arrangement which wasn’t at the time backed by a strong presidential involvement, the positions of the Senate President and Speaker which were meant for the North East’s Ahmad Lawan and South West’s Femi Gbajabiamila, were hijacked by the North Central’s Bukola Saraki and North East’s Yakubu Dogara respectively. While the party had the option of exerting its supremacy, the President at that time chose to be indifferent by leaving the leadership doors of the National Assembly open for anyone with adequate muscle to fight his or her way in. The result was that “undesirable individuals” seized the opportunity to launch themselves into national reckoning but in a manner that bore negative consequences for the intended success of the administration and the party. The President’s efforts were in many ways sabotaged by his seeming fairytale understanding of democracy, which was in a way, an attempt to launder his military past into the new image of a democrat. The outcome thus became, for me, a confirmation of Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt’s arguments in their seminal work — ‘How Democracies Die.’ They are of the opinion that for democratic institutions to serve the purpose of the people, the governing party in power must find a way of getting its programmes and policies implemented with ease by having a friendly legislature, through which governance decisions can have the stamp of legitimacy and popularity among the people, otherwise it would fail completely. Therefore, elections or leadership recruitment processes, according to them, require some kind of built-in screening mechanism by which various elements and dispositions are laid on the table for dissection, assessment and eventual decision. POLL On Monday, May 7, 2023, the ruling All Progressives Congress came out with its zoning arrangements for the presiding officers positions for the 10th National Assembly, naming Sen. Godswill Akpabio,(Akwa Ibom) Sen. Barau Jibrin, (Kano), Hon. Tajudeen Abbas (Kaduna), and Benjamin Kalu (Abia), as President of the Senate, Deputy President of the Senate, Speaker of the House and Deputy Speaker of the House respectively. But as welcoming as the decision was to those who expected it, as well as the scornful reception and protests that greeted the decision from those who detest it, the party as a special purpose vehicle for attaining legitimate democratic political powers must cut some slack for not repeating the mistake of its maiden year in governance (2015). It has done what’s expedient by working with the President to provide leadership to its teeming supporters and Nigerians as a whole. While the preceding thoughts aren’t in any way suggesting that those favoured by the party’s zoning decision are the only ones qualified for the positions, for all other aspirants reserve the constitutional rights and legal qualifications to lead their respective chambers as presiding officers, — different considerations however came to play in the final decision on zoning as earlier pointed out. This time around, while the presidency has gone to the South West’s ACN bloc, another formative partner in the merger for the APC, the ANPP from North East took the VP position, leaving the next available offices in the order of national protocols in the Legislature. And if by political calculations the North West’s CPC lost the VP seat that ought to have come to it, it should pick one out of the available presiding officer’s positions in the National Assembly. And good enough, the party found in Rt. Hon Tajudeen Abbas PhD, a founding member of the defunct CPC, a perfect combination of competence and intellect, qualities required of a first amongst equals in the 10th Assembly, using his legislative achievements, educational background and dedication to duties as veritable marketing tools for his choice and candidature. But again, the need to strike some level of religious balance in the polity forced the APC to look elsewhere, and this time, to the South- South geopolitical zone. Therefore, in the absence of Number One, Two and Three, the party deemed it fit to placate the North West being its second major originating zone and votes bank with the No.4 seat. This is so because, though, we may hate to admit it, the positions of deputies despite having presiding powers and responsibilities don’t usually count in the order of national protocols. Given the foregoing explanations, the APC has no choice but apply the textbook postulations of Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt’s arguments to among other things prevail in making difficult but necessary calls at a time like this. Political parties, in their considered opinions “must, therefore strike a balance between two roles: a democratic role in which they choose candidates that best represent the party’s voters; and what political scientist James Caeser calls a “filtration” role, in which they screen out those who pose a threat to democracy or are otherwise unfit to hold office. However, in the present scenario, the case is not that of aspirants being threats to democracy nor being unfit to hold offices, but that they may not best serve the current political exigencies of the ruling party and the new administration. It was the lack of understanding of this philosophy that gave President Muhammadu Buhari the false sense of eldorado in 2015, with the thinking that every political smile that came his way was well intended and true. So the APC and President Bola Ahmed Tinubu may have just proven to Nigerians that they are very good students of political history and cannot fail to play their leadership filtration role.