BENIN – Former governorship aspirant and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Barrister Ken Imansuangbon, Wednesday has resigned his membership of the PDP. The frontline Edo politician became a household name in Edo state and beyond for his free annual rice sharing and other philanthropic gestures. In a statement he personally endorsed and copied his Esan South East ward 2 chairman, the Local Government and State chairman of the party, Tony Aziegbemi, he was however silent on his reasons to quit the PDP. The colorful politician however thanked the entire body and leadership of the PDP even as he described his experience as memorable. Imansuangbon in a four-paragraph letter stated, “Since 2009 in what was tagged the ‘Ewohimi Declaration’ where I had joined the People’s Democratic Party, PDP has remained a memorable journey for me and I want to thank God almighty for his benevolence. “The course of my political journey in the PDP had afforded me the opportunity to make great and wonderful friends and had shared great moments with which I will cherish for a lifetime. “However, the reality of the moment has made it decisive that there comes a time in a man’s life when he has to move ahead. “Consequently, therefore I hereby tender my resignation of the membership of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP. Once again, I thank the entire leadership and body of the PDP”. POLL Recall that Imansuangbon joined the governorship race in 2007 having worked assiduously for the PDP and later the Grace Group, the PDP faction that thereafter metamorphosed into Action Congress, AC and ACN, and later APC. Imansuagbon has consistently contested for the governorship and in all was prevailed upon to step down which he did in patriotism to the party. Also in 2020 Edo governorship in which Governor Obaseki switched from the ruling APC to PDP, Imasuangbon and Engineer Gideon Ikhaine, two critical PDP Governorship aspirants from Esanland also stepped down and allowed Obaseki to run for his second term paved the way for the incumbent to win in a landslide victory.