A group of seasoned journalists, concerned media managers and veteran journalists under the aegis of the South West media stakeholders has advised the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and other stakeholders to zone the Senate President to South East region. The group noted that the need for a South Easterner to become the Senate President is necessary in order to heal the wounds of the past. They added that this will help to accommodate the interests and yearnings of the Igbo nation. The group made these disclosures during a press conference held on Saturday in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital and addressed by Mr. Kolawole Ilori, Founding Editor of Tell Magazine. Ilori who flanked with former Chairman of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Oyo state council, Mr. Victor Oluwadamilare and Mrs. Bose Oyewole former NAWOJ Chairperson in Oyo state, noted that as media practitioners, it is their duty to enjoin members of the 10th National Assembly to choose the right Senate President for the sake of Nigeria and democracy. He added that for equity and fairness, the choice of a South Easterner is sine qua non. He said that for good governance to endure in the country, the media must has a voice of it’s own in the scheme of things. Ilori while speaking further, explained that the leadership of the Senate has to be anchored by a sound Senator who has a high pedigree with an unblemished record. POLL Stresing that the best man for the job of Senate President at this time is Senator Osita Bonaventure Izunazo from Imo state. He added that the senator remains the most consistent and reliable party faithful over the years. “For equity and fairness, the choice of a South Easterner, is sine qua non, to heal the wounds of the past, and genuinely accommodate the interests and yearnings of the Igbo nation. Izunaso’s choice will be the much-needed ‘Balm of Gilead’, to douse the general tension in the South East. “As media professionals and critical stakeholders in the Nigerian project, who knew what we suffered to birth this democratic experience we currently enjoy in Nigeria, should as a matter of responsibility be worried at the turn of events in the country. “This explains why we are constrained to share our thoughts, particularly as it affects the wellbeing of the National Assembly, at this Press Conference. “For good governance to endure in Nigeria, the media must necessarily has a voice of it’s own in the scheme of things in the country, which we adequately represent in the South West, the Home of Democratic Values. “With the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly fixed for coming Tuesday, 13 June, 2003, we owe it a duty as the Conscience of the Nation, to guide our distinguished Senators right in choosing their leadership for the sake of Nigeria and our democracy. “To us, the best man for the job of Senate President at this time is Senator Osita Bonaventure Izunazo, representing Imo State in the Senate. “With the coming on board of a fully grown democrat who does not have any military vestiges, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, it would not be out of place to declare that the country is on the threshold of making history in civilian political dispensation. “He is a civilian President with neither military experience nor a mentee of any military leader.Since the executive arm cannot be an island onto itself, moreover with somebody that has seen it all as the head, it is imperative that it must be complemented by a legislative arm that every Nigerian must be proud of. “The Senate being the upper chamber of the National Assembly, the question that should ordinarily come to mind is, what kind of Senate does the country deserves at this auspicious period of our civilian governance. “There is no doubt that the quality of the National Assembly headed by the Senate President would go a long way to determine the sociological outlook of the country on one hand, and it also determines the ratings of Nigeria on the global stage. “This explains why the leadership of the Senate has to be anchored by a sound Senator who has a high pedigree with an unblemished record in terms of selfless service to fatherland, nationalism, patriotism and more importantly, probity and accountability. That is why there must be a benchmark as to who qualifies to become the Senate President of the 10th Senate.”