Egusi melon, botanically called Citrullus colocynthis, also has many names such as colocynth, bitter apple, bitter cucumber, desert gourd, vine of Sodom, or wild gourd. Although egusi is consumed in Nigeria, the cultivation hardly attracts any significant attention and even government has not developed any programme to promote its inherent potentials to hugely improve the household income in poor communities. At the moment, only sesame can compete with the product in the market. Egusi soup is one of the most commonly consumed foods in most Nigerian states. It is an uncomplicated one pot meal that is often accompanied with swallows like fufu, amala, eba, pounded yam and many others. Some people also serve it with rice and other foods that are not swallows. There is a very high demand for egusi both within Nigeria and outside her borders that you wouldn’t have to be bothered on how to get customers. One shocking thing is that many Nigerian entrepreneurs are yet to see the goldmine in egusi business. Nutritional Benefits Of Melon The nutritive value is great and should complement our daily dietay plan as it helps: POLL • Improves Appetite • Prevent Anemia • Good for Bones • Prevents Malnutrition • Promotes Heart Health • Improves Vision • Reduces Inflammation • Helps in Digestion • Helps in Digestion • Antioxidant properties Melon Farming Business Melon is planted the same way other crops like maize, okra and watermelon are planted in Nigeria. Egusi can be planted in nursery but is more preferable to plant them directly to the field because of their fragile nature. Land Preparation Chose a suitable site, get the land ready by clearing and tilling the soil. Make ridges and beds especially if the land is hard. If possible, do land conditioning for maximum output. The best soil to use is sandy-loam or slightly clayey soil rich in organic matters. You can dress the land with manure 2 weeks before planting if there is need for it.Do not plant them on waterlog area because they won’t survive. How To Plant Melon Egusi seed is planted with the shell, drop 2-3 seeds into a hole of 2cm deep and cover lightly with soil. Space them 2m by 2m. Melon can be inter-planted with cassava or any other crops but for business purpose plant only melon. Pest/Diseases Common pests that affect melon plants are whiteflies, mites, fruit flies. The common diseases are mosaic – a virus disease that affects melon plants by causing stunted growth. Others are aphids, fusarium etc. Uproot affected plants. Apply insecticides and pesticides. You can use neem oil or water. In all melon plants are very resilient and cares suppress diseases and pest manifestations. If a good land conditioner is used it will an added advantage to the plant in diseases resistance. Application Of Manure You should apply fertiliser in every stage of their development, ie; germination, sprouting, flowering and fruiting. It is preferable you go for the organic manure like animal dung, but when using inorganic, go for NPK 15 15 15 and urea. Weeding The ground cover by the egusi crops suppresses the weeds, so you won’t have to weed after four weeks of planting. However, in its early stage, you still need to watch out for weeds and clear them for optimum yield. Planting Time Recommended planting time is in the month of May to june in Nigeria. Emergence occurs in 4-7 days. Four weeks after planting, flowering occurs and vines form a nearly complete ground cover, suppressing weed growth. Effective ground cover using Egusi Melon for crop interplanting may be achieved with 20,000 Egusi Melon plants per hectare. Weedings in primary crops like maize have been reduced from 2-3 weedings, to one, when interplanted with Egusi Melon. Yields are best on fertile humus rich loose soil. Egusi Melon tolerates dry to wet growing conditions but fruits mature only in dry conditions 4 months after sowing. Harvesting And Seed Production Harvest fruits after they stop enlarging; they will keep well for several months in storage. Seed removal from the solid pulp requires breaking the fruit with a hard stick (not a machete which will slice some of the seeds) and lying the pieces pulp side down on the soil for several days. During this time the pulp decays. Wash the seeds from the remaining pulp; allow the seeds to dry before storage. The seeds need to be dehulled before use as food. About half the weight of the seed is in the hull. Egusi Oil Investment Opportunity Egusi oil is recommended as edible oil for cooking and frying and also as a food supplement because of its high content of essential fatty acids and its positive health benefits on serum lipids. Oleic and linoleic acids isolated from C. colocynthis show larvicidal activity against mosquitoes. There are high demand for egusi oil for different use both in Medical, food and cosmetic industry.