ABUJA – Ahead of the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly scheduled for Tuesday, 13th of June, 2023, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has warned that the Choice of presiding officers of the National Assembly must not be appropriated by any group or individuals. The party also Decried the harassment of members opposed to the choice of All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate. The party called on the members-elect that Nigerians expect them to assert their independence in the election of the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Addressing newsmen on Saturday, the National Publicity Secretary, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, noted the provision of the standing of both chambers of the National Assembly, which emphasize the need for the legislators to elect their leadership among themselves on the floor “This is the critical ingredient of constitutional democracy, independence of the legislature and principle of Separation of Powers “Since the PDP made its position known, feelers from public discourse indicated that some elements in the APC have become agitated and resorted to plots to influence the emergence of the leadership of the National Assembly outside the floor. “Information at our disposal reveals attempt by such APC elements to intimidate, harass and threaten lawmakers-elect with the view to influencing the emergence of the leadership of the National Assembly. “Reports in the public space indicates plots to arrest individuals who are considered to be strong proponents of the independence of the legislature and the right of members-elect to elect their leadership. POLL “We as a party that believes in democracy and we have had the privilege of midwifing this our democracy for 16 years recognises the fact that the legislature is an ingredient that is very important and key to the sustenance of democracy. So, we need to raise an alarm or to bring to the fore where the situation is at the moment. The PDP noted that the independence of the legislature is a prerequisite for a virile democracy and therefore insisted that the members-elect in both houses must be allowed to elect their leadership. “The National Assembly is the symbol of the sovereignty of the people in a participatory democracy. The people exercise such sovereignty through the choices made by their elected representatives on the floor of the National Assembly. “Fundamental to this sovereignty is the choice of the presiding officers of the National Assembly which must not be appropriated by any group or individuals. Such will amount to a dethronement of the sovereignty of the people,” the party said. The PDP charged the lawmaker-elect to remain steadfast in their resolve and continue to keep in mind that Nigerians expect them to assert their independence in the election of the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. “Therefore, at all times, the interest of the people should be paramount in their consideration.. As a party, we charge the lawmakers to remain steadfast in their resolve because we are conscious that majority of them are resolved to defend the Independence of the legislature,” the party said.