Barrister Baba Kura Ba’aba is a legal practitioner in Yobe State, an elder statesman and politician for decades. In this interview with our Correspondent, MOHAMMED ABUBAKAR, he speaks on the importance of removing fuel subsidy and applauded President Bola Ahmed Tinubu. EXCERPTS: Recently, the Federal Government of Nigeria announced the removal of fuel subsidy, what is your take on it and the expected hardships on Nigerians? It is obvious that the removal of the fuel subsidy is going to cause hardships on Nigerians, but it is unnecessary even, because it is something that should have been done a long time ago but it is a basis if somebody has the courage to do it. I am glad that the current President Ahmed Bola Tinubu is set to right wrong, it doesn’t matter who is hard. Everybody is going to be hard but the people who are going to be hard more are those who have been paid the money, because the money they’re receiving technically is illegal money, it is a kind of grand theft. Is it real that some are benefiting from the subsidy? Yes, it is real that some are benefiting from the subsidy but not the ordinary person. The ordinary person gets nothing from the oil subsidy. Why is it that there is so much mystery surrounding it? This is because very big people are involved, the NNPC and top shots close to the government. In fact, those close to the military are in cohorts, stealing Nigeria blindly. What is happening is not real, is not true. I think you have seen some comments made by Ngozi Okonjo Iweala and that of Sanusi Lamido Sanusi. You will realise that these people who are real Nigerians were set on getting this corrected but top people are benefiting from it and they are causing havoc. POLL How can government remedy the consequences and hardship on society? You see, the amount of money we are losing is huge, now you’re going to get the money back. In that way, you are going to improve the railways, roads, infrastructure, transport system and may reasonably increase the salary of workers and still save some money. But in all honesty, the people will gang up against this government, so the ordinary person now who is going to suffer should try to support this government because the top beneficiaries of the subsidy money will do anything to destabilise this. Even the labour and other trade unions who are gingering for strike, the top people in the labour organisations are also, I’m sorry to say part of it. They wouldn’t want this paid because people are going to see them, so it takes courage to do this, once it is done Nigeria is going to reap the benefits. Finally, how can you assess the takeup of Tinubu Administration? I must confess that I have been with Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu for years, we have been in the UPN together, so I worked for him here in Yobe during the elections, I voted for him and you know that. I’m convinced that this man is a blessing to Nigeria, he is going to look for good people. God’s willing, those who are going to assist him and Nigeria will be better for it. My example is look at Lagos, look at what he has delivered to Lagos. We pray that what he has done to Lagos will be done to us here. I am very confident in his administration. People are talking about his health, I am not bothered about his health. Even if Tinubu is on a wheelchair, he will do a lot better than in the last administrations we saw.