SYLVESTER OKONKWO Having followed the happenings in the National Assembly for years with my background as a lawyer and a very active politician, I believe that the legislative arm of government must not make any mistake at this critical time in getting the right lawmakers to supervise the affairs of the National Assembly. So, when the then President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, now President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, named Senator Godswill Akpabio as the man to lead the 10th Senate, a lot of his (Akpabio) colleagues knew that he (Tinubu) was on the right track, and that also explained why barely a few hours after that pronouncement, over 69 Senators out of the 109 Senators, across party lines endorsed the former Governor of Akwa Ibom State. One unique thing about Akpabio is his grassroots posture. Though the then President-elect and the party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) named him as the man for the job, it didn’t get into his head. He still went out to market himself, campaigning to tell his colleagues and stakeholders why they should trust him with the job to lead them. One of such moves was his visit to the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, when he led his campaign team on a courtesy visit. He used the opportunity to tell his audience that 69 Senators-elect had already endorsed him why more members would soon join the train. Akpabio said the senators-elect supporting his ambition are people with integrity who have distanced themselves from money politics. POLL “I want to assure you, that the people you see seated here are those shunning dollars and shunning pounds and shunning naira. The Senate is composed of men and women of integrity. We will not allow Nigeria to be bought. If leadership in the country goes to the highest bidder, I don’t think those like the late President Yar’Adua would have ruled Nigeria. Even the former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, was not even available, I think he was somewhere else, I think Yola, when he became President,” he added. “So, it’s not a function of money. We have seen money politics play out, though we have not seen it play out in the 10th Senate yet. As a prelude to the inauguration, we have seen what is going on. We condemn it and we believe that integrity should come to play.” That was the comment of a man who was popularly called an Uncommon Public Officer, I would like to boldly say that Akpabio is an epitome of excellence in service. He is a staunch believer in quality delivery and human capacity development. He showed exemplary leadership as Governor of Akwa Ibom State and Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, even in the Senate as Minority leader. The records are all there. I am sure that the 10th Senate will have so much to tap from his experience, with his legislative and executive backgrounds, Nigerians look forward to seeing a robust 10th Senate with Akpabo as the Senate President and chairman of the National Assembly. Recall that he was the governor of Akwa Ibom State from 2007- 2015. His tenure as the state chief executive brought about the transformation of the state in an unprecedented fashion, which earned him the appellation of Uncommon Transformer, because he transformed Akwa Ibom State in an uncommon way. In recognition of his landmark performance as the state governor, his people in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, elected him as their representative in the Senate, where he was unanimously elected the Senate Minority Leader of his former party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). For his sake, the rules of the Senate were suspended to pave the way for him, a first timer, to be elected the Minority Leader. Shortly after his election, the Senate rule was restored. It is not news that his tenure as governor saw the introduction of free, compulsory and qualitative education for all school age children resident in Akwa Ibom State, without political, religious or cultural considerations; free medical care for pregnant women, children and the aged; as well as massive infrastructure investments in the state. Akpabio as a public officer is highly detribalised. He pays little or no attention to where anyone who crosses his path comes from. Akpabio came into office in 2007 determined to leave the state better than he met it. Before he left office  in 2015, Akwa Ibom was already a positive reference point in the comity of states. He built the best stadium in West Africa; which was later christened the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium by the state House of Assembly in recognition of his uncommon achievements in the state. He made sure the Victor Attah International Airport, which he met at site clearing level, became a functional, internationally required landing and lighting system installed in one of the longest runways in the industry in Nigeria. He witnessed the first take-off and landing of international flights before he left office in 2015. Akwa Ibom under Akpabio, was a massive construction site. In the Senate as its Minority leader, Akpabio demonstrated a high level of patriotism in his handling of government issues with the opposition. Those who expected him to play blind opposition politics were disappointed with his style of leadership. He was able to balance his role as the leader of opposition and the need to support everything that would be of benefit to Nigerians brought to the floor of the Senate by the ruling party. Akpabio, as governor, was determined to put an end to the perennial problem of flooding across the state during the rainy season. He got the construction giant, Julius Berger to deploy the pipe jacking or micro-tunneling technology to put an end to the menace that had become a yearly horrific experience for the people of the city. Apart from saving the structures in the areas from being submerged, Governor Akpabio had reckoned that flood would make nonsense of the huge sums of money that had been sunk into road construction and the flyover projects if the issue of flooding was not addressed. Akpabio’s appointment as the Minister, Niger Delta Affairs by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019, shortly after the 2019 general elections has led to many positive developments in the Ministry and by extension, the Niger Delta Delta Development Commission (NDDC). His first work plan was to ensure that the region remains very peaceful while various stakeholders were frequently engaged on ways to move the region forward for its development. It can be said that Akpabio’s endorsement is based on merit, a man who can make the workings of the legislative-executive arms of government very smooth and would in turn enable Nigerians to reap the dividend of democracy. This explains why the then Vice President-elect, and now Vice President, Kashim Shettima took time to give the reason Tinubu picked Akpabio to be Senate President. Shettima disclosed that Tinubu picked Akpabio as his preferred candidate for the position of senate president to avoid the “negative narrative of Islamisation”. According to Shettima, Tinubu wants to prevent a situation where the President, Vice President, Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives would all be Muslims. “Recall that the same faith ticket of Tinubu and Shettima already created a situation where the president and vice president are Muslims. “There have, therefore, been calls by many Nigerians for the APC to ensure religious balance in its choice of presiding officers of the parliament. The Vice President said that Tinubu and the APC picked Akpabio (South-South) and Barau Jibrin (North-West) as preferred Senate President and deputy Senate President respectively. While explaining the rationale for the zoning arrangement, Shettima said “What we are trying to avoid is a situation whereby the number one citizen, number two citizen, the number three citizen and the number four citizen are all of the same faith. That will validate the negative narrative of the Islamisation of Nigeria. “That is why my principal, a fair-minded individual, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu insists the number 3 citizen must come from the South-South (Christian). The stability of the nation is more important than any other consideration. We are talking about inclusivity,” he said. The Senators-elect have the opportunity to come together and give Akpabio the necessary support for his forthright leadership and commitment to the growth and development of the National Assembly. He can deliver, all that he needs is the support of the Senators-elect across party lines.