ABUJA  – The alleged move by the Peo­ples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate in the 2023 election, Atiku Abubakar, to impose former Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, as Senate Minority leader has suffered some setbacks. Senators elected on the plat­forms of opposition political parties have moved against the bid to foist Tambuwal as Minority Leader on them. A PDP senator from Riv­ers State and another senator from the North and a ranking senator from the South-West revealed this on condition of anonymity because of the sen­sitivity of the issue. They vowed to resist at­tempts to impose Tambuwual on them, expressing their read­iness to vote for any person oth­er than him. The group is insisting that Tambuwal has a record of throwing his political allies un­der the bus at critical moments to promote his selfish interest and lacks the capacity to pro­vide the needed leadership to them as Minority Leader. Some of the minority senators, who spoke after a meeting on Wednesday, said that the indications are clear that with what Tambuwal did against the PDP, he would use the Minority Leader position to negotiate and apologise to President Ahmed Bola Tinubu, who he betrayed after making him Speaker of the House of Representatives. The senators stated that they know that Tambuwal, whose regime has come under scrutiny in Sokoto State, is on a mission to use the Minority Leader position to negotiate for self-preservation and use the platform to run for presidential election in 2027. One of the sources said: “You can trace the major polit­ical activities of Tambuwal for the past one decade. Do you re­ally think such a politician can be trusted? He seems to have a record of treachery and betray­al of close friends and allies as he did to Goodluck Jonathan, Nyesom Wike, Tinubu himself and several others. POLL “In 2019, he went against his party, the PDP, and a sit­ting president, to rubbish the PDP zoning arrangements just because it favoured him; he always plays to ethnic and religious card when it favours him. “When he became speaker with the support of opposi­tion elements (that is Tinubu, Buhari and other leaders), he used the platform of speaker­ship to effectively rubbish the presidency of Johnathan and the PDP and decamped/aban­doned the party that made it possible and moved to the APC and negotiated to be governor. “Buhari, Tinubu, Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko and others, rewarded him for his treachery against the PDP but his ambition could not be accommodated so he betrayed Wamako, Tinubu, Buhari and aligned with Atiku and came back to PDP with the APC man­date that was given to him with the hope of running for pres­idency. “Wike, against all odds, backed him and promised to deliver the presidential nom­ination to him but thank God that he did not succeed.” “In 2021, he again went for a presidential visit but this time, he did not get Wike’s support. He then betrayed Wike finally instead of supporting him to re­ward him for his loyalty in the primaries. This is the record of the politician Atiku wants to foist as Minority Leader on the party. “Also, his senatorial election in Sokoto, is now being contest­ed; he was desperate to come to the Senate with the ambition that he would be rewarded with the position of the Senate President. “When it emerged that the PDP did not get the majority and with the defeat of Atiku and Ifeanyi Okowa, Atiku and the PDP then changed their plan to make him Minority Leader to compensate him. “This explains why the PDP and other opposition senators are rejecting him, saying that he has an antecedent of treach­ery and betrayal and placing ambition over party, friendship and anything else and that kind of person is not going to have their support,” another senator said.