The r-elected lawmaker representing Anambra-West State Constituency in the 8th legislative assembly of Anambra State, Hon. Patrick Obalum Udeoba has stated and without mincing words that only Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo has remembered Anambra-West among all the governors that have served the state so far. Udeoba who spoke exclusively with Daily Independent correspondent in Awka said no other governor of the state has paid attention to Anambra-west Local Government Area supposedly due to its remoteness. According to the lawmaker, however, Governor Soludo has come and broken the jinx of decades of underdevelopment in the council area. He said “Immediately Soludo assumed office; within one month, he came to Anambra-west and flagged our road off for construction. The road the governor flagged off is a road that is very dear to us in Anambra-west because we don’t have any access road to our local government headquarters at Nzam. “So, today, Anambra-West people are happy because we can now access our council headquarters. The road in question is already 80% completed. We can now access our local government headquarters because Soludo intervened. “We also do not have electricity in Anambra-west but today Soludo has brought electricity to our local government up to Inoma community which is a border between Kogi and Anambra State.” Udeoba also disclosed that Soludo has repaired all the dilapidated water boreholes in the local government such that the entire area now has running portable water. The lawmaker disclosed too that Governor Soludo is venturing into the health sector in Anambra-west, saying that the governor is building new health centres in the area. POLL He maintained that Anambra-west has remained underdeveloped for decades but according to him, Soludo came and redeemed Anambra-west from oblivion and backwardness. Although he mentioned that ex-governor Peter Obi attended to Umueze-anam -Mmiata road and ex-governor Willie Obiano built the Iyiora Bridge and also awarded the road connecting the local government headquarters at Nzam but Soludo’s intervention in the area surpassed theirs because he is now transforming Anambra-west with infrastructures. He therefore enjoined Anambra-west people to support the governor to enable him to do more for the council area because Anambra-west according to him, has been treated with levity by past governors.