The Save Urhobo Youth Forum ( SUYF) has sent a warm message of felicitation to Governor Sheriff Oborevwori of Delta State and his Deputy, His Excellency, Sir Monday Onyeme over their successful inauguration into office on May 29th, 2023 at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba, the State Capital. Ambassador Agadia Samuel Oghenegare aka The Street Governor, the President of Save Urhobo Youth Forum who spoke to Daily lndependent Newspaper stated that the Save Urhobo Youths are joyful over the emergence of RT. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori as Governor of Delta Statebecause he is Youth Savvy and pragmatic in his approach to issues bothering on the well-being of the masses. Ambassador Agadia Samuel Oghenegare, aka The Street Góvernor, the Save Urhobo Youth Forum President remarked in his good Will message to the Delta State Governor and his Deputy that the Sheriff administration is bound to perform credibly well because both of them have demonstrated capacity in the offices where they served earlier with so many laurels to their credit. Ambassador Agadia Samuel Oghenegare the Group President explained that one of the reasonsthey are celebrating Governor Sheriff Oborevwori is because he is developmentally savvy and Youth friendly, with a mien that placed him far ahead of his fellow contestants during the electioneering campaign and the election that brought him to power., The Urhobo Youth boss aka Street Góvernor, pointed out that in terms of empowerment, our Governorwhen he was the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, carried out different empowerment and capacity-building progrogrammes which were acknowledged to be the best, as the people till date recall with gladness how our Governor distributed dividends of democracy generously to his constituency in particular and the general public in the interest of all Deltans. The Street Góvernor, further poured encomiums on Governor Sheriff Oborevwori. said: ” Going by the Supersonic Performance of Governor Sheriff while he was the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Deltans across the board know that the New Sheriff in town is indeed a detribalized leader who cares for all. The Save Urhobo Youth boss observed that indeed Governor Oborevwori is a man that can be trusted to bring about accelerated growth and development to every nook and cranny of the State without recourse to any form of primordial inclinations. Speaking further, The Street Góvernor, Ambassador Agadia Samuel Oghenegare added: ” Our amiable Góvernór has made a lot of landmarks in his Political journey that is dotted with laurels to attest to his celebrated Street Credibility status. POLL Agadia stressed that the coming on board of RT Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, the Credibility Street Governor is a dream come true for the Youths because he knows how to identify with them as a leader who cares about their plights. He emphasized that the Youths knows Governor Oborevwori as a promise keeper. That is why people voted for him en mass so that he can continue the good works of His Excellency, Senator Dr Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa, the immediate past Governor of Delta State, aka The Road Master. Conclusively, Ambassador Agadia said: ” We are grateful to God Almighty Who made it possible for RT Hon Sheriff Oborevwori to be in the saddle of leadership in our State, and we are convinced beyond every reasonable doubt that his era Will be fruitful with so many legacy projects as encapsulated in the MORE Agenda for the betterment of the Government and good people of Delta State.