ISEGHE AJAYI Attaining financial peace of mind in an unfavourable economy is almost impossible, especially with a single source of income. The incessant rise in the cost of commodities has continued to have a negative multiplier effect on the living conditions of the masses. The current upward review of the pump price (PMS) by NNPC has worsened the economic situation further. Hence the need for every right-thinking individual to think outside the box, especially in the area of making ends meet to stay afloat. It is quite true that the present economy does not guarantee financial stability owing to high inflation coupled with the weakening worth of the Naira, a situation that has made financial freedom a difficult task to attain. The unfavorable situation has inflicted hardship, particularly on those whose means of livelihood have been affected adversely. The never-ending weakening value of the Naira has also worsened the situation, making survival a colossal task for everyone. Do you know that losing your source of livelihood can be demoralizing and if there is no other means of survival can be more disastrous? That is why it is imperative to consider multiple streams of income to avoid financial shame if the inevitable happens. Achieving financial independence is possible through various sources of income irrespective of what your monthly earnings are. But to accomplish this, there are habits you really need to shun if you are truly interested in widening your financial scope. But with proper financial prudence, planning, and self-discipline, it is very possible to add to your income streams and build wealth. Besides, if you really desire to survive with your family in a harsh economy, there is a need to ponder how to expand your income base. The under-listed tips will help you see the need to enhance your finances to remain afloat in an unfavorable economy: POLL Set Income Goals If you desire to expand your income base, you must have financially set goals and try as much as possible to work towards accomplishing them. Mind you, our needs dictate most of our financial decisions. So, if you want to make more income, you should first focus on what you want to attain by generating more money. You must have knowledge of the level of income you are looking at if you commence extra streams of income other than your job. Having an income goal can always make things easier for you to plan; it could either be a short or long-term goal. Spending Plan The way you handle money will determine if you can actually create wealth successfully. Your attitude towards money matters a lot especially if you want financial independence. For many people, money is just a piece of paper or legal tender that can be used to procure whatever they desire. However, some people do not believe in investment as they view money as something that must be spent, not tracking their expenses. But for those that desire financial prosperity, every kobo that comes their way must be accounted for such that they consider it a seed, which should be planted for multiplication. Irrespective of what your earnings are or maybe, there is a need for proper planning, especially if you want to earn respect from your friends and family. That is why it is expedient for you to try as much as possible to keep a certain amount of money aside for savings at the end of the month. This can only be possible through an appropriate budgetary plan. Appropriate Investment/ Savings Saving and investing can be monotonous and challenging at times, but you cannot stop as it may disrupt the financial set goals you must have set for yourself for the year. Remember, you will profit from what you sow now in the future and you will be amazed at how far your money has gone. With appropriate investment and continuous savings, there is bound to be a multiplier effect at the end of the day. Be Focused/Motivated Before considering building or having multiple streams of income, you must be focused and vision-minded to avert financial failure or regrets. For a start, it is advisable, to begin with a single stream of income and put much effort to grow it. Be motivated and do not be distracted by new strategies or new business prospects; carry on with what you have commenced until you are able to build a steady income. Once you are able to generate consistent income, you can add another stream of income. Understand Your Income Stream Choose the income stream you want to build, understand it and ensure you have a good vision of the business you intend to invest money in to avoid losses. You can also select whatever income stream you have been exerting energy on by leveraging on the fact that you are familiar with the business to record success. Resolve what it would be, the budgetary amount you want to commit to it, and your financial expectations or returns. The stock market is a good business to invest in but it can be devastating especially if you do not have a good stock broker that is conversant with the terrain of the business. But you can concentrate on these three tasks to make it easy; clarifying, timing in, and timing out. Mutual funds are also a great investment and they are all over the place. How do you choose? Pick the one that has the longest but a good track record. Also, the longer you invest, the lower the risk. Do Not Be Scared To Try New Things Do not be afraid to try new things when you think of diversifying your income as there is certainly a lesson to learn from every financial mistake made. If there is a skill you have and desire to develop it to enhance your income, do not delay such an opportunity. When you are diversifying your income, you can be as diverse as you desire to be. So do not be afraid to try something new. Good Marketing Strategy You need to be educative or knowledgeable before delving into a particular business or investment to avoid blunders. It is imperative you study the specific business you want to venture into as it would help you to make a knowledgeable decision that would enable you to plan better. It is good to have financial freedom but it does not occur overnight. If you choose to create multiple streams of income, build your initial income stream first. When you are satisfied with it and know how to handle it well, then you can start building your next stream of income. With a clear focus and a good marketing strategy, you can create wealth through multiple streams of income, thereby paving the way for financial independence. Be Innovative There is needed to be innovative especially if you are not satisfied with your current income. More so, gone are the days when one had to depend on only one source of income for survival. In today’s world, there are numerous things or businesses to choose from and undertake to reach financial goals. Selecting an income-generating stream would hinge on many factors such as your financial set goals, your lifestyle,