Qatar-based drug kingpins, Eyah Celestine Nnamdi, alias Murphy and Ugwuoke Peter Oluchukwu, have been arrested by operatives of the National Drug Law En­forcement Agency, NDLEA fol­lowing the interception of their methamphetamine consignment at the Murtala Muhammed Inter­national Airport, MMIA, Ikeja Lagos. Ugwuoke was the first to be arrested on June 6 during the outward clearance of Qatar Air­ways passengers at the departure point, Terminal 2 of the Lagos airport. NDLEA officers discov­ered that the suspect was trav­elling to Doha with an Ivorian international passport with the name Hien Narcisse. A further scrutiny of his black carry-on luggage led to the discovery of a false bottom concealment of two parcels of crystalline substance that tested positive to metham­phetamine weighing 1.00kg. Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect is a Ni­gerian who had gone to obtain an Ivorian passport for his travels. He confessed that he travelled to Qatar in August 2022 and re­turned from the Arab nation about two months ago to perfect arrangements for the movement of the drug consignment. A further probe led operatives to discover that his Qatar-based senior partner in the trade, sim­ply identified as Murphy, was lurking around Eziani, his home town in Nsukka LGA, Enugu State. Ugwuoke who hails from Igboeze North Local Govern­ment Area of the State claims he holds a National Diploma in Electrical Engineering from the Federal Polytechnic Oko. A prompt deployment of NDLEA operatives on 10th June to Eziani community of Nsuk­ka Local Government Area of Enugu State, led to the arrest of ‘Murphy’ whose true identity was later discovered to be Eyah Celestine Nnamdi, who had lived in Indonesia for some years be­fore relocating to Doha, Qatar. In the same vein, anti-narcot­ic officers of the Agency have arrested a female Pharmacist, Ikwebe Ori Hellen, in Kaduna following her attempts to use forged documents to purchase and distribute six cartons of pentazocine injection with 2,000 ampules. She confessed she used fake documents from a Kaduna hos­pital to order the drug, which she planned to distribute in Kaduna, Abuja and Sokoto. The consign­ment was initially intercepted at the local wing of the MMIA, Ikeja while being sent to Kaduna by a freight agent. In the same vein, NDLEA operatives in Niger state have seized a total of 1,072 kilograms of cannabis in two raids. On Thursday 15th June, 726kg of the illicit substance was recovered at Oyoyo filling station along Kadu­na – Abuja express road where four suspects: Aminu Moham­med, 50; Nasiru Mohammed, 30; Rabiu Haruna, 29, and Hamza Abubakar, 18 were arrested. The following day, 16th Friday, opera­tives intercepted a Mercedes 1422 truck marked MKD 116ZM on its way from Umunede, Delta State with gallons of palm oil to be de­livered at Garki market in Abuja. POLL However, the truck driver, Jekwe Udenze, 38, along with his two assistants: Gabriel Nze­kwube, 43, and Chima Uzoma, 42, stopped over at Uromi, Edo State and loaded 19 jumbo bags of cannabis weighing 346kg, to be delivered at Dumez Luxury Park along Kaduna road, Suleja to Ignatius Mokwe, 47. Both the driver and his two assistants as well as the owner of the illicit consignment, Ignatius Mokwe have been arrested. Meanwhile, a total of 30 of the hectares of cannabis farms were destroyed in Delta, Edo and Ondo in the past week. In Delta, 18 hect­ares of cannabis farms were de­stroyed on Monday 12th June in Umuchime village, Ogume, Ndokwa West LGA by NDLEA operatives supported by soldiers. Four suspects arrested on the farms include two men and two women: Kingsley Atuola, 40; Oki­kiolu Adekunle, 44; Osai Doris, 40, and Ublenu Joy, 28. In Edo State, operatives on Wednesday 14th June stormed Awakpa forest in Owan West LGA where they arrested Mal­achy Amaechi; Nanmua Peter; Ojo Momoh; Afam Luke and John Danladi who were appre­hended inside a hut located on 2.5 hectares of cannabis farm, which was destroyed and 102 kilograms of the substance already harvest­ed recovered. Another farm mea­suring 1.294870 hectares was also destroyed with the three farms razed totalling 3.978217 hectares.