High Chief Rashidi Ladoja, the Otun-Olubadan of Ibadanland, on Wednesday in Ibadan said he was not interested in wearing any other crown except that of the Olubadan. Ladoja told newsmen at his residence after the Eid prayers that it has always been his tar­get to become an Olubadan and was not going to wear any other crown. According to the News Agen­cy of Nigeria (NAN), there had been widespread speculation that the Ibadan high chiefs would be installed as beaded crown-wearing kings from July 7. Some high chiefs who were crowned during the administra­tion of the late Abiola Ajimobi had surrendered the crowns after an out-of-court settlement. This was to pave the way for Oba Lekan Balogun’s ascension to the Olubadan throne. However, Ladoja said infor­mation at his disposal revealed that the high chiefs were now seeking permission to resume wearing of their surrendered crowns. Ladoja, a former governor of Oyo State, said it was illegal for any Ibadan high chief to think he can resume wearing an already-surrendered beaded crown. He said there would not have been a new Olubadan of Ibadan by now if the high chiefs had failed to surrender their crowns and withdrawn the case in court. POLL “I joined the Olubadan line on October 1, 1993. I joined as ‘Jagun Olubadan’ and my tar­get was to become Olubadan. I did not expect that I was going to wear any beaded crown on the way. “If I wanted to do that, I would have become the ‘Baale’ of my village and I will be called ‘Baale’. Our role as high chiefs is to advise and support the Ol­ubadan, not to wear the crown with him,” Ladoja said. The former governor said he as an individual was not interested in any other crown apart from that of Olubadan of Ibadanland, adding, “Only God chooses kings”. Ladoja expressed dismay at the fact that some high chiefs wanted to short-circuit the sys­tem, saying such was alien to the Ibadan tradition. He said that it was not fair or right to have high chiefs as kings, adding there was no need to mend what was not broken.