Today is the Feast of the Most Holy Trinity. We are celebrating the three Persons in One God. We are celebrating Unity in Diversity. We are celebrating God the Father, the Creator that was not created, the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the End; the Unmoved mover and the uncaused cause! We are celebrating our Lord Jesus Christ, the Beloved Son of God and the Son of the Blessed Virgin Mary; the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity; We are celebrating Jesus, our Lord and our Saviour, our Redeemer, our Liberator and our Mediator. We are celebrating the Holy Spirit, the Third Person of the Blessed Trinity. We are celebrating the Great Paraclete and the great Advocate. We are celebrating our Comforter, the Source and Giver of our gifts and Talents. We are celebrating the channel of Love and the Unifying Love. Today’s gospel reading presents Love as the Essence of the Trinity. The gospel of John 3:16-18 declares “God so loved the world that He gave His only-begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life.” God the Father is the Most Loving and most Caring Being the world has ever known. With this passage we can attempt the explanation of mystical relationship between God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. God the Father is the Lover. Jesus Christ is the Beloved Son of the Loving Father. The Holy Spirit is the Love that unites the Father and the Son. St. John defines God as Love: “He who does not love does not know God, for God is love.” (1 John 4:8) Love is indeed the fundamental nature of God. Apart from His Son, God also love us. He loved us so much that He gave Himself to the world through His Beloved Son Jesus Christ. This is the highest expression love. “Greater love has no one than this: to lay down one’s life for one’s friends.” (John 15:13) This is love in action! This is sacrificial love! And this is what Divine Love is all about! We all share in this Divine Love. When God wanted to create Human beings in Genesis 1:26, He said, “Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness.” St. Paul declares in Romans 5:5 “The Love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us.” If Love is the essence of God and we are created in God’s image and likeness that means we must be loving as our Heavenly Father is loving. Matthew 22:36-40 presents Love as the greatest Commandment. In 1 Corinthians 13:1-2 St. Paul declares that we are empty without love. “Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.” POLL Love is the only force that will pull down the fall of violence and hostility. It is the only solution to most of the problems we are facing in our society today. Where there is love there is peace and harmony. As we celebrate the Trinity today we pray against every spirit of hatred and hostility. And Let there