ABEOKUTA – Ogun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Tuesday in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, has indicted the state Police police command for allegedly supervising the attack on its members during a tribunal sitting in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The party also condemned the command for denying the attack on its members when indeed the attack was witnessed by officers of the command. The Ogun State Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abeokuta, commenced sitting on Monday over a petition filed by the Governorship candidate of the PDP, Ladi Adebutu against Dapo Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The premises of the tribunal however became tense when some suspected political thugs invaded the premises with canes with which members of the opposition PDP were beaten away from the court premises. The thugs descended on the former governorship aspirant of PDP, Segun Showunmi, while trying to gain access to the court premises. He was caned away from the gate. But the state Police Command, while reacting to the incident, insisted that nobody was attacked at the Tribunal. The Command in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Omolola Odutola said, “There was relative peace, no case of assault was reported during the court sitting neither was the police aware of anyone assaulted”. But, the Chairman of PDP in the State, Sikirulahi Ogundele while addressing journalists at the party’s secretariat, accused the police of being used to “play politics with the lives and property of the people”. POLL He cautioned security agencies against being used as a tool to truncate the peace and tranquility of the State. He called on the police to bring the perpetrators of the attack to book to prevent a repeat of such in the future. Ogundele said, “The PPRO is a liar, I don’t know the reason why the PPRO decided to lie. I don’t know what the PPRO is covering, for her to have made such a statement when it is known to the entire citizens of this State and this country that people were beaten to stupor. “It is demoralizing and very disgusting of the State PPRO to have come up with that kind of statement. Something that is in the know, we cannot continue to deceive the people of this State, we cannot continue to play politics with the security of lives and property of the people of the State. “The most disgusting aspect of this was that security operatives were there, especially the police, they looked away, policemen were there in their hundreds but nobody was arrested, this is quite bad. “Policemen were there and they looked away which is quite unexpected. The police wanted us to engage the attackers so that they can arrest us. But our people were so peaceful and they did not react.”