In pursuit of equal rights for the African Child’s advancement in the digital environment, in commemoration of the OAU Day of the African Child which is celebrated on June 16 every year, a non-profit and non-governmental organization in Nigeria, A Mother’s Love Initiative (AMLi) with the aim to safeguard the well-being and future of African children by employing research, advocacy, and psychosocial interventions, and which carries out advocacy against admitting under-aged children into schools and by extension against the hurried child syndrome, has as a matter of urgency called on the leadership of Africa to seek proper collaboration in order to provide proper policy for the development of African Child for global competitiveness.Commenting on this year’s theme: “Children’s rights in the digital environment”, the NGO stresses the need for African leadership especially Nigeria to invest in the digital education of the fast-growing population of African Children. Founder/President, AMLi, Barrister Hanatu A. Enwemadu in a media chat with newsmen said, “Over 400 million children are currently living on the African continent and the number is rising. The United Nations estimates that Africa’s population will double to 2.4 billion by 2050, that’s one-quarter of the world’s population”. According to Barrister Enwemadu, it is important that the Nigerian and African leaders reaffirm their commitment to the future of the African Child. “We cannot ignore the unique challenges that children face. It is of great importance that we address the barriers to their well-being, prioritize education which is 21st century oriented, reform and enforce policies that positively impact across the education sector, ensuring that every Nigerian and African child has access to quality education”. She said that access to healthcare services, proper nutrition, and comprehensive support systems are also vital in creating a healthy and thriving future for Nigerian and African children. “Empowerment is key to shaping the future of the Nigerian and African child. The centrality of children and their protection is also an important factor that has to be reviewed. We, therefore, encourage African leaders to provide opportunities for skill development, vocational training, and entrepreneurship as these indirectly impact the children’s well-being in society. POLL In our pursuit of securing the future and well-being of Nigerian and African children, collaboration is essential. Governments, civil society organizations, communities, and individuals must work together, pooling resources, expertise, and knowledge. We encourage the current Nigerian government under the leadership of His Excellency, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and other African leaders to forge partnerships and share best practices. Together, we can create a collective force that uplifts the lives of Nigerian and African children”.