IBADAN  – Dr. Debo Akande, the immediate past Executive Adviser on Agribusiness to Governor Seyi Makinde, has stressed the need for Nigerians youths to be encouraged to venture into agribusiness, stating that there is danger ahead if the youths are not fully engaged in agriculture. Akande dropped this hint while speaking during the launch of OOK Farms Radio/TV online station at the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) Ibadan, stating that the fact remains that those that are currently in agriculture are averagely above 65 years of age. “My generation below the age of 45 are not actively in agriculture, we only have snippet of them doing it, we have very low percentage of them engaged in agriculture, and what that means is that if the older generations that are into it now fade away, there is no generation that is coming in, what will happen? “This is a major danger for us in the country and once you don’t have what Dr. Femi Adeshina, called food sovereignty in the country then it becomes a problem, because any of the sovereignties without food sovereignty is a problem and it’s even a weapon of war. If you cannot produce the food you’re eating by yourself, even if it’s a small percentage, it is a problem.” “So, that’s why our major concern as Oyo state government is to see how best we can support, either in terms of training, capacity development, enterprenuership support in Agribusiness and agriculture system, so, as a state government we are creating enabling environment for the generation below the age of 35-45.” “Now in Oyo state we are doing more in terms of agriculture than before, in the past what they were doing was the distributions of inputs to our farmers, and since they have been distributing the inputs for them what change has that brought to the state?, what has happen to our agricultural sector?, have we done better?, we have a data from the federal government now that shows that within the period of government of Governor Seyi Makinde compare to the previous administrations before him, we have done over 40% of land and plant size than the previous governments before him, in fact if you look at crops by crops we have a statistics that shows that we have produced more cassava, more soya beans, unlike before that we were doing around 26,000 tonnes of soya beans around 2018, by now we are doing about 40,000 tonnes of soya beans, these are federal government statistics. “So, we’re doing more maize, yam and in almost all the crops and we achieved this feat just because we brought in policies, strategy and programmes that look at the root of the problem rather than handling problem at the surface and I want the people of the state to expect much more in the next four years of this administration.” Akande said. Speaking on youth engagement, he said: “at Fashola farms alone we have over 50,000 hectares of cassava farm land which some of them were done by our youths that were sent for agribusiness training at Nasarawa state by this Seyi Makinde led administration and this is an experiment that has worked well. POLL “This is advantage of this farm hub because if it were to be in the past we will be looking for a place for them because one of the critical issue about the youths who wants to go into agriculture is that, where am I going to get land, and there is what we called soilless agriculture now where you just get bags or sacks at the back of your house and start planting things like yams, onions or others. “We have seen this happen; we are just using this hub as an experimental ground for them so that they can be doing what they want to do at their various houses later. “Much more the state has supported these young people in terms of providing inputs for them through the Oyo state N-CARES, where some of them were given goats, point of lay chickens, fertilizers, and others things, so in the next few years some them will be service providers in agriculture sector in their various areas, Oyo state government under Engr. Seyi Makinde through the State N-Cares project supported by the World Bank has supported these young people and very soon we shall start seeing the dividend of democracy and the support that has been given by the state”, Akande said. Omolara Svensson, Group Managing Director of OOK Farms in her address maintained that there is a need for speedy re-revolutionize of the agricultural sector in our country. “All of our orientation needs to change, we need to learn and relearn a lot of things because the true wealth that we have in our country, in Africa as a continent, is actually in agriculture.”