LAGOS – In the dynamic and ever-evolving world of event planning, quite a number of professionals have managed to rise to the top, leaving a significant impact on their industry. Nigeria’s event planning space in particular has been considered to be one of the fastest growing industries creating employment for hundreds of young men and women annually. The industry’s progress is not without the strides being made by exceptional players like Onyinye Ejike, who through her brand, and her exceptional talent, dedication, and relentless pursuit of excellence, has transformed the event landscape in Nigeria, setting new standards for creativity, professionalism, and client satisfaction. Onyinye Ejike is the Creative Director of The Velvet Expression, a brand she started around 2015, professionally providing planning, coordination, styling and design among others to her highly valued clients. Ejike is a graduate of accounting from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, with several certifications as part of her cravings for personal development. Passion for Perfection: From a young age, Ejike exhibited a natural flair for organization and a keen eye for aesthetics. Her passion for creating memorable experiences led her to pursue a career in event planning. Armed with a degree in accounting, she began her professional journey, determined to make a difference in the industry. Speaking on how the journey into event business began for her, she said, “While I was still in secondary school, I had a neighbour, who was into event and wedding decorations. I got fascinated all the time by what she did and little did I know that the creative instinct in me was craving for expression. “So, I would prompt my mother to buy me sample materials to create designs as I took time to replicate what I could grasp. It took years before I could start up mine as I had to finish school and raise capital to start my own business.” POLL Innovative Approach: What sets Ejike apart from her peers is her innovative approach to event coordination. She recognized the need to infuse Nigerian cultural elements into events, blending tradition with modern trends to create a unique and authentic experience. Her ability to seamlessly integrate cultural nuances has earned her a reputation for crafting unforgettable events that resonate deeply with attendees. Speaking on early days, she said: “My dream of starting an event planning and coordination business took a while as I had to pick up employment in several industries from information technology to advertising and finally into the banking industry before I was able to save up enough money to start buying items for my start up. “Eventually in 2015, I registered my company The Velvet Expression and since I was still learning the ropes of the business and not seeking to be a household name as at the time. I had to take up free wedding decoration and planning jobs to help develop skill, grow clientele and create content for my company and business portfolio. “A few years down the line, I have built a brand with a large client portfolio that cut across many leading industries in Nigeria.” Breaking barriers and challenging conventions: She stated that Nigeria’s event planning industry was once dominated by traditional norms and conventional ideas. However, Ejike challenged these preconceptions and pushed boundaries, introducing fresh concepts and unconventional ideas to the scene. “Her boldness in experimenting with new themes, decor, and entertainment has revolutionised the way events are conceptualized and executed in Nigeria. Setting New Standards: Giving insight into some of what her brand does, the event expert explained that, “The Velvet Expression has been able to capture the minds of her clients by providing Event, Planning Services ranging from event management and coordination, creative venue styling and design, event consultation, rentals and also provide training services to those who want to learn the craft, thereby being a one-stop shop for everything that has to do with events. On how she has been able to develop her personal brand, she stated, “I know the importance of professional development to the growth of any business. So, on this journey, I have embarked on several trainings, invested in courses, webinars, attended seminars, conferences among others, all in a bid to stay relevant in the industry. I have also at some point, collaborated with leading colleagues in the industry that have influenced my deliverables across board positively. Sharing thoughts on how she has been able to navigate the harsh economic reality today, Ejike said. “It is true that the Nigerian economic landscape is unfriendly to many businesses. However, I have had no option than to think out of the box. I say we rise above the challenges with the spike in inflation, the devaluation of Naira, increase in importation cost due to exchange rate fluctuation. However, against all these odds, I will say that our drive to satisfy the client has been our main stay. As a brand, we are able to work around these challenges to meet and in many instances exceed customer’s expectations.” She noted. Empowering Local Talent: As an industry leader, Onyinye is committed to nurturing and empowering local talent in Nigeria’s event planning sector. She actively seeks opportunities to collaborate with emerging event planners, providing mentorship, training, and networking platforms. By fostering an inclusive and supportive environment, she has paved the way for aspiring event planners to succeed and flourish in their careers.