Intrauterine insemination (IUI) is an infertility treatment where sperm are placed directly into a woman’s uterus. During natural conception, sperm have to travel from the vagina through the cervix, into the uterus, and up to the fallopian tubes. With IUI, sperm are ‘washed’ and concentrated, and also placed directly into the uterus, which puts them closer to the egg. This process can increase the chances of pregnancy in certain couples who have had difficulty getting pregnant Who Does IUI Help? IUI is a relatively noninvasive and less-expensive fertility treatment compared to more invasive and costly treatments such as in vitro fertilisation (IVF). In some cases, couples may begin with IUI before progressing to IVF if needed. IUI may be the only treatment needed to achieve pregnancy. IUI can be performed using a male partner’s sperm or donor sperm. IUI is most commonly used in these scenarios; unexplained infertility, mild endometriosis, issues with the cervix or cervical mucus, low sperm count, decreased sperm motility, and issues with ejaculation or erection. Others are, a single woman wishing to conceive and a couple wanting to avoid passing on a genetic defect from the male partner to the child. IUI isn’t effective in the following scenarios, including, women with moderate to severe endometriosis, women who have had both fallopian tubes removed or have both fallopian tubes blocked and women with severe fallopian tube disease. Others are women who have had multiple pelvic infections and men who produce no sperm (unless the couple wishes to use donor sperm). POLL In situations where IUI isn’t recommended, another treatment such as IVF may be helpful. If you wish to discuss options for conceiving, your doctor can help determine the best course for you. What To Expect From The Procedure IUI is a relatively painless and noninvasive procedure. IUI is sometimes done in what is called the “natural cycle,” which means no medications are given. A woman ovulates naturally and has the sperm placed at a doctor’s office  around the time of ovulation. IUI can also be combined with ovarian stimulation. Medications such as clomiphene citrate (Clomid), hCG (human Chorionic Gonadotropin), and FSH (follicle-stimulating hormone) may be used to prompt the ovaries to mature and release an egg or multiple eggs. Ovulation with more than one egg usually increases the chance of pregnancy. Each medical facility and doctor will have their own specific instructions for the IUI procedure. After your initial consultation, when you and your physician have determined that IUI is the best course to pursue, a typical timeline may include certain guidelines. You may have several office visits while on your period for bloodwork, ultrasounds, and medication instructions. If medications are prescribed, you’ll usually start taking them while on your period. About a week after starting the medication, you’ll likely have another ultrasound and possibly bloodwork. Depending on your test results, your doctor will determine when you’re ovulating, and you and your partner will return to the clinic. This is typically 10 to 16 days after starting the medications. Your male partner will provide a semen sample on the day of the procedure, or the donor sperm will be thawed. The sperm will immediately be taken to a lab where they will be “washed.” This is a process where the seminal fluid and other debris are removed so that the sperm is very concentrated and unlikely to irritate the uterus. IUI is quick and typically painless and does not require anesthesia. You will lie on an exam table and your doctor will use a speculum (the same tool used in a Pap smear) to gently open the vagina and visualize your cervix. The sperm will be passed through the cervix and placed into the uterus using a long, very thin tube. You will remain reclined on the exam table for 10 to 30 minutes following the insemination. Most women experience little to no discomfort, although some women may experience mild uterine cramping or vaginal bleeding following the procedure. Some practices perform a second insemination the following day. Some practices also prescribe progesterone to take after the procedure and through the early stages of pregnancy if pregnancy is achieved, while others do not. You can take a pregnancy test two weeks after the IUI procedure. Risks There is a small risk of infection following the IUI procedure. Your doctor will use sterile instruments, so infection is very rare. If medications are used to induce ovulation, there is a risk of pregnancy with multiple babies. Since fertility medications increase the likelihood that more than one egg will be released, they also increase the likelihood of pregnancy with multiples. Your physician will try to balance the amount and type of medication, along with bloodwork and ultrasound monitoring, to prevent too many eggs from being released at one time. Sometimes the ovaries over-respond to fertility medications (particularly the medications given as injections) and a condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome may result. A large number of eggs may be matured at one time and possibly released. This can result in an enlarged ovary, fluid buildup in the abdomen, and cramping. In very rare cases, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome can result in fluid buildup in the chest and abdomen, kidney problems, blood clots, and twisting of the ovary.