LAGOS – Samsung, Nigeria’s consumer elec­tronics brand, has announced the launch of Galaxy A14 5G. This latest addition to the popular Galaxy A series is aimed at offering a complete package of the latest Galaxy innovations at an affordable price, making awesome technology acces­sible to everyone, especially to Airtel Nigeria customers. The device was unveiled on Mon­day, June 19, 2023 in exclusive partner­ship with Airtel Nigeria, during the latter’s 5G service launch in Lagos. Charles Lee, the Managing Direc­tor, Samsung Nigeria, said that Sam­sung has been driving 5G adoption globally with its widest portfolio of 5G devices and it is ready to replicate the feat in Nigeria. He said that with the launch of Galaxy A14 5G, Samsung will now have the widest distribution of 5G devices in the country. According to the Samsung MD, the Galaxy A14 5G showcases Samsung’s premium design and this comes with industry-leading features like 16GB RAM with RAM Plus and 5000mAh battery. “Starting at a net effective price of just N122,000, the device will be instru­mental in driving Airtel’s mission of ‘re-imaging with 5G’ and accessible to everyone,” said Lee. Earlier in this speech, Carl Cruz, the Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Nigeria, thanked Samsung for part­nering with the network to democra­tize 5G accessibility and affordability in the country. POLL The Airtel CEO said that 5G is not meant to be out of reach to the masses. “We are here to democratize 5G. Our research entails customers with a 10x faster speed network with low latency and no lag; to connect more users, 8K streaming, available to iOS and Andriod devices. So, we are of­fering the most affordable 5G router with N30,000 offer, and partnering with Samsung A14 5G model to deliv­er the most affordable 5G handset in the country”, he said. Also speaking, Chika Nnadoz­ie, Head Marketing PR, Samsung Nigeria, said that Galaxy A14 5G showcases Galaxy’s signature de­sign philosophy for a premium feel in mid-segment products. The laser pattern back cover enhances the stun­ning design and the flat linear camera housing creates a seamless unibody silhouette. “Galaxy A14 5G will come in three new colours – Dark Red, Light Green, and Black. Nigerians can start to pre­order the device now and be assured of massive gifts”, Nnadozie said. Solomon Osibeluwo, Master Train­er MX, Samsung Nigeria, said Galaxy A14 5G comes with 6.6” HD+ display with 90Hz refresh rate for real smooth scrolling. The edge-to-edge Infinity-V display offers a large screen experi­ence to consumers to explore and create content.