LOKOJA – Prof. Jacqueline Azumi Badaki, Professor of Parasitology and Entomology has advised Nigerians to consider Lymphatic filariasis disorder, popularly known as elephantiasis, as part of the tropical diseases and not an ailment being inflicted by the gods against the disobedient. This is just as the erudite professor charged the government to muster political will for the establishment of a Center for Neglected Tropical Diseases with a focus on improved disease management in areas of diagnostics, preventive treatments, research, and capacity building. Prof. Jacqueline Azumi Badaki made the call in her Inaugural Lecture titled: “The Endless War Between Neglected Tropical Diseases NTDs and Overlooked Populations” at the Federal University Lokoja (FUL) on Wednesday. In the Lecture which is the 12th in the Federal University Lokoja Inaugural Lecture series, Badaki said that though the nation had recorded tremendous success in the elimination of few NTDs, there were threats from parasitic diversity and resilience especially in rural population. She said that Such a center could also take the lead in advocacy for improved financing of NTDs control and health policy research that could inform new strategies for the control and elimination of NTDs in the country. She called for Political will on the part of government towards financing as well as institutional commitment and enabling working environment urging that sensitivity of government towards the health situation of the people should go beyond rhetorics.The erudite professor noted that the elimphatic disorder is caused by the parasites that are responsible for the causalities for the NTDs and not solely for spiritual and not variables considered for Human infested manipulated diseases. “We should begin conversations and research around what is going on in the world of the parasites so that we are not taken unawares in the future. POLL According to her, in 2015 the World Health Organization (WHO) recognized 20 NTDs and two years later, the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) recognized nine diseases as NTDs of public health importance in Nigeria. They include; Trachoma, Burult ulcer, Trypanosomiasis, Dengue Fever, Schistosomiasis, Dengue Fever, Schistosomiasis, River Blindness, Lymphatic Filariasis (LF), Onchocerciasis and Soil Transmitted Helminthes (worm infections). “As at 2020, according to WHO, 863 million people were at risk of lymphatic filariasis with 25 million men living with hydrocoele and over 15 million people with lymphoedema. “Note that Nigeria is the highest contributor to these estimates. Yet, NTDs receive only 0.6 per cent health fund of official development assistance unlike HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis that collectively receive above 50 per cent”, Badaki said. She held that a lot of the diseases could be controlled with improved sanitation and hygiene and therefore, called for good and accessible sanitary facilities and safe water supply. Prof. Badaki urged researchers to market their research findings saying that it was not enough for them to publish their research works in journals but should go extra to market their research products using digital marketing. She called on those with interest in infectious diseases research to explore WHO training grants rather than overload TETFund. Prof. Olayemi Akinwumi, Vice Chancellor of Federal University Lokoja (FUL) commended the Inaugural Lecturer for the lecture saying that she had met one of the academic requirements that qualified her as a professor of FUL and declared: ‘She is discharged and acquitted.” Akinwumi also thanked the Governing Council of the University for the opportunity granted the professor and urged the academia and guests to get copies of the lecture for proper digestion and their libraries. The Adamawa born Professor of Parasitology and Entomology has had over 22 years of community interactive research experience and has served on several WHO/APOC missions in different capacities such as technical adviser, independent monitor and Program Evaluator, Consultant Evaluator/Scientist for several NTD in different countries.