LAGOS – The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), has expressed its determination to deepen and diversify the capital market in a bid to create more wealth for investors and Nigerians as well as stimulate economic growth. Mr. Lamido Yuguda, Director General of the SEC, made the disclosure during an interview in Lagos at the weekend. He stated that when capital markets are developed, the entire engine of saving and investing and allocation of resources to the projects that have the highest expected returns is made easy. “And if you do that effectively, you will see that you will create more jobs in the economy, you will create more revenue for the government and make life easier for all investors. “When that happens, you then have a lot of interested parties that want to put in their money to help the market develop”, he said. The SEC Director General, said in a bid to develope the market, the SEC saw the need to have a forum where the Commission could interface with issuers in a bid to discourage delisting. “When issuers delist, they do because of certain issues. So, we decided to engage Nigeria Employers Consultaive Association, NECA and set up the securities Issuers Forum. This was done to sit and discuss the issues and find solutions to them. Yuguda, said that the Commission is working hard to look at the various issues and ensure that the problem of delisting by companies is brought under check. POLL The SEC Director also disclosed that the Commission has put in place various other incentives to encourage companies to list as listing provides enormous benefits to both the companies and investors. “Listing enhances higher investor protection. This collaboration with NECA has been very fruitful and that has given confidence to many of the players. We have started getting interest from the big players. The SEC Boss stated that some strategic listings have happened in the market in recent times and the Commission is encouraging the diversification of the equity market by listing companies within Power generation, Telecommunications and foods. According to him, “We have had some strategic listings like the IPO of MTN, BUA Foods etc and asset class creation or new products like Derivatives have further helped diversify the listings from the huge leaning on the financial sector (Banks and Insurance) several years back.