LAGOS  – Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) has called on the Federal Government to take necessary urgent steps to put an end to the dollarisation framework of the nation’s economy to ensure a moderation in energy cost for the manufacturing sector. Dr. Muda Yusuf, CPPE’s Executive Director in charts with Daily Independent, also called on government to take urgent steps to reduce the cost of LPG to households. He acknowledged that though the recent reduction in the LPG price is laudable, but the price reduction trajectory should be sustained to ease pressure on households and prevent deforestation. He said: “Import duty, VAT and other port charges on Semi Knocked Down parts for the assembly of mass transit buses should be waived. This would not only make mass transit buses cheaper; it would enhance industrial capacity utilisation of the vehicle assembly plants in the country. “Import duty on passenger buses of 15 passenger capacity and above should be reduced by 50% for the next one year. Import duty on fairly used cars of engine capacity of 2000cc and below should be reduced by 30%. This would enhance access of the middle class to vehicle ownership in the light of the high deficit in the provision of public transportation. Drastic reduction in import duty on intermediate products for food processing industry in the country. “The government should engage major food processing companies to determine specific policy options for the realisation of this objective. “This would moderate food inflation. Introduce incentives to stimulate private investment in pipelines. This would sufficiently reduce distribution costs of petroleum products. “Abolition of all forms of taxes and import duty on renewable energy equipment to boost the adoption of renewable energy by households and SMEs. Such waivers would make renewable energy adoption affordable. POLL “This reduction should cover relevant equipment like solar panels, inverters, batteries etc. This would make citizens less reliant on the electricity grid. “All agricultural inputs – machineries, agrochemicals, fertiliser, etc. should attract zero import duty and zero VAT. This would boost investment in agriculture, especially commercial agriculture. Higher agricultural output would boost food production and ultimately moderate food inflation. “Generous tax and other fiscal incentives should be provided for private investors in healthcare. This would help to conserve foreign exchange through a reversal of the growing medical tourism in the country. “Generous tax and other fiscal incentives should be given to private investors in education. This would enable the private sector complement the efforts of government in providing quality education, especially at the primary and secondary levels. Generous tax and tariff concessions to incentivise rapid growth in investment in refineries. The outlook for growth in refineries investment is very bright given the elimination of fuel subsidy. “This is also in line with the commitment to promoting competition in the petroleum downstream sector. Gross monthly salaries of N200,000 and below should be exempted from payment of Personal Income Tax (PAYE). This will give the low-income earners some room to improve their spending capacity and reduce poverty. “Government should immediately entrench competition in the importation and refining of petroleum products. This would put an end to the current monopoly structure of supply of petroleum products in the country. NNPC is currently a monopoly supplier of petroleum products which is partly responsible for exploitative pricing of petroleum products – diesel, aviation fuel and petrol.