…Opens Talks With FG, Wants It To Go Back To Status Quo …NNPC Increases Fuel Price To N488/N557 Per Litre ABUJA – President of the Nigeria La­bour Congress (NLC), Joe Ajaero, has accused the Feder­al Government of ambushing the citizens with the release of a new pricing template for sales of fuel. It said it rejects the template in its entirety. The Nigerian National Pe­troleum Company (NNPC) Limited on Wednesday morn­ing instructed all marketers to adjust retail prices for premi­um motor spirit (PMS), other­wise called petrol, to a range be­tween N488 and N555 per litre. The instruction which hit marketers cited management approval of the upward review of NNPC PMS pump price ta­ble for Mega/Standard/Leased Stations. The new table of retail prices for different geopolitical zones of the country to be effected by retail managers was instructed to take immediate effect begin­ning from May 31, 2023. In criticising the new ad­ministration of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu on Wednesday, labour said government cannot in one breath be talking about deregulation and at the same time fixing the prices of petro­leum products. POLL He said this negates the spirit of allowing the opera­tion of the free market unless the government has as usual usurped, captured or become market forces. It described the new price template which has taken ef­fect in most fillings stations as vexatious, calling on the Feder­al Government to immediately instruct the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) to withdraw the pricing tem­plate to allow free flow of dis­cussions by the parties. Labour said, “We are wor­ried that the government through the NNPC despite the ongoing meeting of stakehold­ers in the oil and gas sector to manage the unilateral but unfortunate announcement by the president to withdraw subsidy on petroleum products, went ahead this morning to an­nounce a new regime of prices under a new pricing template. “This is an ambush and runs against the spirit and principles of social dialogue which remains the best plat­form available for the resolu­tion of all the issues arising out of the petroleum down-stream sector. “Government cannot in one breath be talking about dereg­ulation and at the same time fixing the prices of petroleum products. This negates the spirit of allowing the opera­tion of the free market unless the government has as usual usurped, captured or become market forces. “It is therefore unacceptable and we seriously condemn it. Good faith negotiation is key to reaching agreement. What the government has done is like holding a gun to the head of Nigerian people and bring undue pressure on the leaders thus undermine the dialogue. “We call on the Federal Government to immediately instruct the NNPC to withdraw this vexatious pricing template to allow free flow of discussions by the parties. “Nigerians would not accept any manipulations of any kind from any of the parties espe­cially from the representatives of the government. “Our commitment to this process is buoyed on the fact that all the parties would be committed to ensuring that it is carried out within the am­bits of liberty without undue pressure. “The release of that tem­plate may not allow us to con­tinue if nothing is done to with­draw it so that the dialogue can continue unhindered. It is clear that government is actually try­ing to scuttle the process. “As it stands, the Federal Government has become fix­ated on their chosen course of action. Would this help this dialogue? It clearly will not. There must be flexibility to allow concessions and reason­able accommodation that will produce the best result for Ni­gerian people. This is what we all seek at this time”. The NNPC Ltd in its new pricing template said, “Please implement meter change as approved effective today 31st May 2023.” According to the new price schedule, petrol will sell highest in Maidugiri and Damaturu at N557 per litre, and N550 per li­tre in the rest of the North-East zone. Birnin Kebbi will buy petrol at N545 to lead prices in North- West zone. Average price in the North-Central zone will be N537 per litre except in Ilorin where it will sell for N515 per litre. Consumers in the South- East will buy at an average of N520 per litre, it said. Apart from Uyo and Yene­goa where petrol will now sell at N515 per litre, the rest of the South-South zone will get the product at N511 per litre. Consumers in Lagos will buy the product at N488 per li­tre while the rest of the South- West zone will get the product at N500 per litre. Meanwhile, the Federal Government and members of the organised labour, compris­ing the Trade Union Congress and Nigeria Labour Congress have opened talks on ways to find a soft landing on the issue of subsidy removal. The meeting which held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Wednesday, did not arrive at any resolution as it was ad­journed to a later date. The meeting had in atten­dance President of the NLC, Joe Ajaero, and that of Trade Union Congress, Festus Osifo, as well as the Group Managing Director of the NNPCL, Mele Kyari. Dele Alake, who briefed State House correspondents, while speaking on behalf of the government, said, “We have been deliberating on finding very amicable solutions to the issue at hand, to the queue and all of that and the increase in pump price. “We had a very robust en­gagement. We cross-fertilized ideas, ideas flew from all sides and there is one thing that is remarkable even from the la­bour side, and that is Nigeria. We are all looking at the peace, progress and stability of Nige­ria. That is what is paramount. “Of course, the NNPCL CEO is here, Mr. Kyari, we can­not go into details now because the talks are still ongoing. We cannot finish everything at one sitting, so we have adjourned now, we are continuing the talks at a later date very shortly. “But the point is that the talks are ongoing and it is al­ways better for all sides to keep talking with a view to arriving at a very amicable resolution that will be in the longer term interest for all Nigerians. That is as much as we can say now”. Recall that the TUC had ac­cused the Tinubu-led adminis­tration of taking a unilateral decision to remove subsidy, arguing that it was against the liberalisation policy of all stakeholders in the oil sector. Speaking to journalists after the meeting, Ajaero said that “as far as we are concerned there was no consensus.” He said that the principle of negotiation was for the govern­ment and the NNPCL to revert to status, adding that “you don’t ask to negotiate under gun point”. On the demands of the or­ganised labour, Ajaero said, “We should go back to status quo, negotiate, think of the alternatives and all the effects and how many of the effects this action will have on the peo­ple if it is an action that must take off.” He said that the subsidy pro­vision has been made up to the end of June and asked, “Why is it now. Last administration made it up to end of June. Why can’t we respect the sanctity of even that law that provided that expenditure up to June?” On the claim by the Federal Government that there is no money to continue with the subsidy, Ajaero flanked by the President of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Festus Osifo, said, “What is the purpose of governance, is it the duty of NLC to raise funds for the government, collect tax, to sell crude at the international market when the price of crude is going high and the govern­ment that is a major exporter of crude product is telling you there is no money. “Other countries that are in the same scenario are eat­ing fat.” Asked whether it is realistic to continue with the payment of subsidy, the NLC President said, “Why do you keep on hampering on subsidy, what do you understand about subsidy, has anybody explained to you the meaning of subsidy, what did they say is subsidy? “Is there any country even in the US there is subsidy on wheat product, is there any country that does not subsidise living of people even if it is by providing public transporta­tion, those are the issues we are looking at. “If you are a major producer of crude and you refine or carry the crude abroad and refine and bring it, definitely there will be difference in the price and that is what they are paying. “If your father established a refinery and that refinery dies in your hand and you are now refining abroad, you ask your­self some questions. We have refineries in Kaduna, Warri and Port Harcourt, why are they not functioning that we have to go and refine abroad, the transportation money, refining cost at international price or rate and bring it back here and the same government pays the difference in cost of what it is here and what is in­ternationally, that is what they are telling you about”. He wondered why the gov­ernment should claim that it has deregulated the product and at the same time is fixing prices of the product. Ajaero said in 2011 labour met with government and agreed on some principles in­cluding the repair of the refin­eries to start operation latest by December, last year, but noth­ing was done.