ABUJA – All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) has reported that an estimated 11 million of its members have adopted Tingo Mobile’s smartphone and fintech applications, including the Nwassa platform, as part of their daily operations. This was made known by the association in a letter dated June 7, 2023, which was duely signed by its National President of AFAN, Dr. Farouk Rabiu Mudi, and a copy made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, on Thursday. According to the letter, AFAN announced the manifested progress in its partnership with Tingo Mobile,” a subsidiary of the Group. The letter reads in part, “The All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) is pleased to announce a noteworthy progression in its lease and service agreement with Tingo Mobile Limited, a significant provider of mobile and fintech solutions in Nigeria. “As of today, AFAN reports that an estimated 11 million of its members have adopted Tingo Mobile’s smartphone and fintech applications, including the Nwassa platform, as part of their daily operations. “This update signifies a considerable stride in AFAN’s goal, established on December 14, 2022 to provide its members with access to advanced mobile technology and financial services. “In addition, some members have started making their produce available for processing to Tingo Foods Plc, an affiliate of Tingo Mobile. This development is a modest but promising step in AFAN’s partnership with the Tingo Group.” Meanwhile, AFAN National President, Dr. Mudi in his comments with respect to the partnership said, “We are encouraged by the progress we have seen through our partnership with Tingo Mobile. POLL “The use of digital technology among our members is growing and some of our farmers have started to engage with Tingo Foods Plc. We remain hopeful for more growth and improved utilisation of the products and services offered by Tingo and its group of companies.” This collaboration underscores AFAN’s dedication to modernising agricultural practices and ensuring its members are given the necessary tools to adapt in a rapidly evolving digital landscape. It is interesting to know that the AFAN is the umbrella organization for all farmers, agricultural cooperatives and associations in Nigeria committed to promoting the interests of farmers and the development of agriculture in Nigeria. Dozy Mmobuosi, who hails from Delta State is the visionary CEO of Tingo Group. He has built an extraordinary business conglomerate that generates substantial revenue. Under his astute leadership, Tingo Group oversees a range of successful subsidiaries, including Tingo Mobile, Tingo Foods and Nwassa. He is also currently engaged in the pursuit of acquiring Sheffield United Football Club in England.