The air quality in the capital region of Canada started out bad and got worse over Sunday, rising to 10+ or “very high risk,” the federal air quality index’s highest level. “High levels of air pollution have developed due to smoke from forest fires. Smoke plumes from forest fires in Quebec have moved into the area, resulting in deteriorated air quality,” said Environment Canada in a special air quality statement. In response, organizers of two out of the four major festivals in Ottawa have decided to cancel events, while the City of Ottawa has taken the step to cancel its outdoor programs and close wading and outdoor pools. Air quality readings are expected to drop to a level seven on Monday, which is still a high risk, returning to a moderate risk at night. Current weather conditions could worsen forest fires in Quebec and spark new ones, the Minister of Public Security announced on Saturday morning. According to a statement from the ministry, several parts of the province are currently experiencing a flammability index ranging from “very high” to “extreme,” indicating a significant risk of burning. The heightened risk is attributed to decreased levels of precipitation and rising temperatures, which have intensified the threat of forest fires. Several regions are currently under close surveillance including Abitibi-Temiscamingue, the North Shore, northern Quebec and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. SOPFEU, Quebec’s forest fire agency, is actively engaged in combatting 81 fires across the province, with 25 of them being classified as out of control. Presently, the agency has prioritized its resources towards managing 43 fires. POLL Several municipalities have had to evacuate in the last few days, including some parts of the northwestern city of Senneterre. On Friday afternoon, authorities issued an evacuation order of 60 cottages in a rural area, around 30 kilometers north of the city centre. Later in the day, evacuation orders were also issued for certain sectors of Beaucanton, Val-Paradis and Lac Pajegasque in the northwestern parts of the province. According to the Canadian Interagency Forest Fire Centre, there were five new wildfires burning in Canada on Sunday, bringing the total across the country this year to 2,880. Wildfires have so far devoured about 74,000 square kilometers of land in Canada, making 2023 one of the worst years for wildfires on record, according to the center. This year record fires have resulted in Canada deploying around 550 armed forces personnel and more than 1,700 international firefighters, paid for by the provinces, to beef up its stretched crews. As more wildfires threaten communities, provincial agencies are also increasingly leaning on structural firefighters to help protect homes. But of the 126,000 structural firefighters in Canada, 90,000 are volunteers, according to the Canadian Association of Fire Chiefs, who are bearing the strain of protecting their own communities while also holding down day jobs.