It’s with a strong passion that I write this Column to the President of Nigeria and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, Bola Ahmed Tinubu who was recently sworn in as the 16th President of the most populous black nation of the world with about Three Hundred Million people of di­verse ethnicity. I grew up when the president was much younger than he is today. I knew the Senator when he was one of NA­DECO’s strong forces. I also knew how he fought with his blood putting his life on the line to bring about democracy in Nigeria. This was during the military regimes that ruled Nigeria. He was also part of NADECO, a political movement at the time that fought against the guns toward returning Nigeria to a democrat­ic country! After that struggle, I also knew when Tinubu became Lagos State’s executive governor. His two terms as Governor of the Centre of Excellence speak vol­umes. I also knew how Senator Tinubu made appointments in his cabinet and got results in those eight years he governed Lagos. Indeed, he was exceptional and a “yardstick” in judg­ing his counterparts in the country at the time. Bola Ahmed Tinubu was very emphatic in his appointments of Commissioners to the ministries. As a result of his success on all fronts, Lagos became the envy of all others during his administration. Specifically, I am using this calculation because he appointed square pegs for square holes in the Ministry of Sports. Lagos excelled in sports. This is because he had tech­nocrats around him as commissioners. It is no doubt that Nigeria’s sports have been down the drain under past presidents and administrations. They saw sports financing and management as waste and not relevant to their priori­ties. So, sports weren’t given any serious­ness like other ministries in the country; hence, any Nigerian can be appointed Minister of Sports as long as he’s a party member or an affiliate. This ugly ideology was obviously contrary to what all the military re­gimes in the country used as a carrot to forge Nigeria ahead in unity and in projecting the nation to the world view; even when military regimes were fast fading away universally. When the election of Moshood Kashimawo Abiola (MKO) was annulled on June 12, 1993, by the military regime of General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangi­da (IBB), it was this sport – FOOTBALL – that helped unite Nigeria in the face of all odds. The Super Eagles then did bet­ter in Africa or in the world. The Super Falcons were in their zenith. The Dream Team was in good shape. Throughout their various categories, the Flying Eagles and Under-17 were fan­tastic. I speak in this direction because it’s the nucleus of this column and the real tool that healed Nigerian hearts and brought us together as one again. This was in the heat of June 12th that nearly disintegrated the country. As such times we are now and having Senator Tinu­bu as the President of Nigeria bringing back the lost glory of Nigerian sports via football is paramount! POLL I want to pray that President Tinu­bu in his wisdom reenacts the magic of Lagos in his Nigerian governance us­ing football as the carrot to placate all and sundry now that the election has come and passed. Football has suffered so many setbacks in the past. Therefore, the President must give Nigerians a technocrat as Sports Minister! He must end this era of compensating politicians with a sports ministry. Football, the most popular global sport, has been killed! Yours truly played this game as a student in my heyday. I also worked with the Police Machine team as a Po­lice Officer until my voluntary retire­ment from the Police Force. The likes of Chief Segun Odegbami played his best game with the defunct Green Eagles of Nigeria. He was one of Nigeria’s finest left-wingers. He was the technical director of the NFA. He’s alive and still writing football, and talking football on radio and televi­sion. He tried at a time to become NFA chairman, but he was unable to, only God knows why. However, I was in Nige­ria writing about football for the defunct “Sporting Champion” newspaper during the time and I knew all that transpired in the Glass House. I am not arguing for the “Mathemati­cal 7,” but to prove that the most talented footballers don’t make effective coaches or administrators. There was a time in the NFA when the Secretary-General then, Ambassador Fanny Amun (MoN) had appointed Coach Yemi Tella from the Nigeria Institute for Sports (NIS) Surulere, Lagos, for the U-17 team of Nigeria. That decision was heavily criticised and didn’t sit down well with many Ni­gerians across the board. Why would Coach Amun appoint a NIS coach, a teacher at the Institute? Myopic Ni­gerians blew out so much cacophony from their native Vuvuzelas that Tella and Fanny Amun will fail Nigerians and Nigeria at the FIFA global tour­nament! In that year’s FIFA U-17 World Cup, Coach Tella (May his soul rest in peace) won gold. Several critics of Coach Amun fled, while Coach Tella (The Teacher) and his victorious U-17 team were highly celebrated and given a he­roic welcome! And all of the football friends in the country were happy and celebrated like never before. That is the aura of love and unity that flows through football all over the world. This means that FOOTBALL does not harbour nepotism, tribalism, religion, sectionalism, descent, or creed. Football only speaks one language which the entire universe recognises and understands – it’s the language of UNITY and LOVE; of one World, One People, One Game with Fair Play! In this light, President Tinubu must give us a technocrat with merit as Min­ister of Sport. This will definitely reflect in the governance of the Nigeria Foot­ball Federation (NFF) whose adminis­tration has become outdated and cum­bersome but thrives in mediocrity with incompetence. The football federation has been where merit, commitment, patriotism, sincerity of purpose and dedication were thrown overboard by its administrators over the years with­out checks. I stand to be corrected if my postula­tion is untrue! Football does not go well with circular politics, so picking this Minister of Sports must be devoid of partisanship. This fact President Tinu­bu must consider in his appointment as minister for sports. Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morn­ing Nigeria! 