Marca are reporting that Liverpool and Real Madrid are two major candidates to sign Paris Saint-Germain forward Kylian Mbappe in the summer transfer window. Mbappe has told his club PSG that he does not want to extend his contract beyond 2024. This means that the Ligue 1 champions will either have to let the 24-year-old leave on a free transfer next summer or sell the £893,000-a-week (SalarySport) forward now. Spanish publication Marca have reported that Madrid were ready to pay big for Mbappe two summers ago and remain interested in the France international forward. After all, star striker Karim Benzema has left Los Blancos, who now need to sign a suitable replacement for the Frenchman. The report in Marca has claimed that “Liverpoolis the other great candidate to get the player if he puts himself on the market”. The Times have claimed that Chelsea will register their interest in the 24-year-old, adding that Madrid are favourites to sign him. Manchester United are also an option for the 2018 World Cup winner with France, according to the report. POLL Could a transfer to Liverpool happen?In our view, it is very unlikely that Liverpool will be able to sign Kylian Mbappe in the summer transfer window. Le Parisien have reported that the Frenchman wants to move to Real Madrid. And while Madrid are on the verge of completing a £88.5 million deal with Borussia Dortmund for England international midfielder Jude Bellingham (BBC Sport), it is very unlikely that Los Blancos will not manage to get the funds to bring in Mbappe as well. After all, Mbappe is one of the best players in the world and could become a footballing legend. And Madrid need a world-class forward. Liverpool are very unlikely to be able to meet PSG’s transfer demands for Mbappe, whose wages are also too much for FSG. Moreover, the Reds will not play in the UEFA Champions League next season. And since Mbappe seems keen on a move to the Santiago Bernabeu, it is really hard to see him move to a Liverpool team who have won the Premier League title just once and do not tend to win the UEFA Champions League on a regular basis like Madrid do.