The organisers of the De9jaspirit Talent Hunt have promised to unleash the true Nigeria spirit of creativity and talent amongst the participants of the forthcoming season 3. In a statement signed by one of the organizers, John Eneh said registration for season 3 has begun and it will witness a more astounding array of talents than ever before. The statement noted that the grand prize for Season 3 includes a staggering 10 Million Naira in cash, a brand new car, and an all-expenses-paid 5-days trip to the breathtaking Maldives and Kenya. According to the statement, “DTH Season 2 brought a lot of goosebumps and excitement as Esther Ugochi Kalu, popularly known as Ugee Royalty, emerged winner, bagging a whopping N10 million, and a 5days all expenses paid trip to Dubai and Kenya, while Ibukunoluwa Oluwaseun known as Ibquake and Bassey Stephen Ernest known as Masterseb Comedian won the cash prizes of N3 million and N2 million naira as the runner ups respectively. “We’re ready to take this season to new heights,” proclaimed the PR Manager for DTH. “Our aim is to discover, nurture, and showcase the incredible talent that resides within our shores. But that’s not all. The winners this season will be treated to an experience like no other, elevating the rewards to a whole new level.” “Aspiring participants are required to pay a registration fee of N2,200 and follow a simple procedure that includes downloading the DTH app and completing the registration form available on the platform. To stand a chance of being screened, applicants are asked to create a fresh 1-minute audition video to be uploaded on their social media profiles. “Once registration and payment confirmation is complete, participants can then submit the link to their audition video via the DTH app. The PR Manager also reminds applicants that, “Attention to detail is key and that they should ensure to follow the registration procedures carefully to avoid missing out on this golden opportunity.” “This season, a total of 100 contestants will be chosen for the Physical Audition, scheduled to take place in Calabar. Out of which, 20 to 25 talented individuals will be selected as the official DTH Season 3 contestants. POLL “Despite the palpable excitement surrounding the registration process, the clock is ticking. Prospective participants have until the 16th of July to complete their registration. The anticipation is building, the stage is set, and as the PR Manager confidently stated, “This season promises to deliver even more amazing arrays of talent on the DTH stage. It’s not just a competition, it’s a celebration of creativity and talent. We can’t wait to see what this season has in store as we’re are glad to help creatives express the true 9ja Spirit”, it added.