UYO – The Niger Delta Conscience Coalition (NDCC)has again declared Senator Godswill Akpabio most qualified, right and ripe to lead the 10th Senate as President. The group, in a press statement signed by its President, Mr Aniefiok Fabian and Secretary, Mr. John Adango and made available to our correspondent in Uyo on Monday said the declaration stems from deep understanding of the person, character, potential and leadership prowess of Senator Godswill Akpabio. The Group cautioned political players that no amount of blackmail and paid advertisements would sway both the public empathy and support of the majority of senators-elect of the 10th senate from toying the path of honour, fairness and equity “in their decision to elect this uncommon leader with undeniable capacity to lead the 10th senate” “As a detribalized Nigerian, Senator Godswill Akpabio will no doubt use his position as senate President to cement the bond of unity in Nigeria as he has been noted for his ability to work with Nigerians across party and ethic divides in his previous positions and offices. “This erudite legal practitioner, with almost 40 years post call to bar experience, brought about massive turnout in various sectors of Akwa Ibom State economy during his time as Governor of the state. His uncommon achievements speak for themselves. “As minority leader of the 8th senate, Akpabio no doubt gave a satisfactory representation to the interest of the minority, this should furnish a suitable conviction to minority members of the 10th senate that Akpabio as senate President would create harmonious relationship with members across divides. “It is common knowledge that the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) had since establishment ran its operations from a rented facility as headquarters, it was during Sen Godswill Akpabio’s brief stay in office as Minister, Niger Delta Affairs, that the commission’s permanent office was completed and put to use, “From these undeniable facts, we can strongly affirm that Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio, beyond the demands of Justice and equity that President of the 10th Senate has to rightly emerge from the south south region, is a tested and trusted face of hope for the 10th senate in a time like this.”. The Group maintained POLL It therefore called on Nigerians from all walks of life, political leanings and ethnic divides to drum support behind Sen Akpabio whom they described as proud a son of the Niger Delta region, to emerge President of the 10th senate. The group also used the medium to commend the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for unanimously zoning the Senate presidential seat to the South-South region and the endorsement of Senator Godswill Akpabio.