ABUJA – The presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has slammed President Bola Tinubu, over a video showing 124 vehicles in his convoy during the President’s recent visit to Lagos State. Obi, while responding to journalists on Thursday, in Awka, Anambra State, stressed that “The present Nigeria requires that all those who serve and lead must do so by example. “Their behaviour and their public conduct must be in consonance with what the society requires today. We cannot continue to preach for the people to sacrifice without sacrificing too. The sacrifice must now start from the leaders, visibly, measurably at all times because the people are suffering; and we must now be at the forefront of the suffering.” While he admitted to having not seen the video footage, the former Anambra State governor’s latest advice is coming about two weeks after the President in a Democracy Day address on June 12, 2023, asked Nigerians to sacrifice more in the wake of the federal government’s removal of subsidy on petrol. The government’s action which led to skyrocketing prices of goods and services. Corroborating the LP presidential candidate’s stance, Diran Onifade, Head, Obi-Datti Media Office, in a statement regretted that the President’s Lagos Convoy scandal, noting that “Not since the creation of Nigeria by the British has such mindless and embarrassing exhibitionism been purveyed by a politician. Not even the military known for their brash and unbridled display of raw naked power dared to exhibit such recklessness.” POLL According to the statement, “The Obi-Datti Media, like millions of Nigerians whose sense of decency have been affronted by Asiwaju Tinubu’s unbridled tendency to flaunt power and position, joins our presidential candidate in pointing to the hypocrisy inherent in Tinubu’s action. For a man who promised to cut the cost of governance to be moving around with an over-bloated convoy of security details and aides, surely speaks volumes of his “do what I say and not what I do” attitude.”