Kwara State Governor and Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) Chairman Abdul­Rahman AbdulRazaq on Thursday joined the royal train of the Emir of Ilorin Dr Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari for the #IlorinDurbar, the annual sociocultural festi­val of the emirate involv­ing colourful horse riding and other local displays. The Governor had earlier paid homage to the Emir, af­ter which his delegation went back home to mount their horses as part of the cultural ceremony that attracted lead­ing traditional title holders and thousands of Ilorin sons and daughters. Mounted on the back of his hugely decorated horse along­side his brother the Mutawali of Ilorin Dr Alimi Abdulrazaq, the Governor congratulated the people of the Emirate on the annual cultural festival which honours the Islamic monarchy of Sheikh Alimi, projects the valour of its peo­ple, unites the community, and boosts local commerce. The AbdulRazaq admin­istration has made cultural festivals across the state a key component of its drive for a greater Kwara, in which a handful of projects — visual arts centre, innovation hub, sugar film factory, and inter­national conference center, among others — are being developed to build a new econ­omy around tourism eco-sys­tem, technology and innova­tion, and entrepreneurship. Decked in glamorous cultural attires, the Abdul­razaqs paraded several hors­es mounted by young and old members of the family to welcome the Emir’s large en­tourage of royal courtiers to their frontage, keeping alive the long-standing tradition that sees the monarch tour his community ahead of the grand parade and other cere­monies at his forecourt later in the afternoon. The royal carriage touched base with many other family houses and Daudus, including Basambo, Abojumeji, Agaka Isale, Ajia Sakasaka, Bay­ero, Jiddah, Baboko, Magaji Ngeri, Taiwo, Ita Amodu, Afin, Ita Kure, among others. A few royal chiefs were on the train such as the Ciroma of Ilorin, Mayaki of Ilorin, and Magaji Ngeri of Ilorin. The procession was televised live across all of the government’s electronic media channels and a few other private ones. Speaking to reporters as he joined the Emir, the Governor said: “We thank Almighty Allah for making us witness another Durbar of Ilorin Emirate. It is a significantly important cul­ture to the people of Ilorin Emirate, which we com­memorate every year. This event unifies and brings us all together to be our broth­er’s keepers.