According to a report from Marco Barzaghi, Nicolo Barella is a target for clubs like Arsenal, Chelsea and Manchester United. But Liverpool are now prepared to pay big money for him. Apparently, the Reds could offer around £77 million for the 26-year-old midfielder in the coming weeks. Barella would be a quality acquisition for Liverpool, and he could be the ideal long-term replacement for Naby Keita. Liverpool parted ways with Naby Keita, James Milner and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain recently and all three players have chosen to leave the club as a free agent. Liverpool are now left needing midfield reinforcements, and Barella would be a superb acquisition. And reports for a long time have suggested that the Reds have been attempting to lure the 26-year-old to Anfield. The Italian international is at the peak of his power, and he could play his best football in the Premier League. The Inter Milan star has the technical attributes to thrive in English football, and he could prove to be the ideal acquisition for Jurgen Klopp’s side. Liverpool had a disappointing 2022/23 season by their standards, finishing fifth in the league table. They will be desperate to qualify for the Champions League once again. And players like Barella will certainly help them do so. The Italian international has proven himself at the highest level with club and country. So it seems that now is the right time for him to take the next step in his career. A move to Liverpool would be an exciting new challenge for him. He would get to test himself at the highest level in the Premier League. Clubs like Arsenal, Chelsea and Manchester United need midfield reinforcements as well and have targeted Barella. So it will be interesting to see if Liverpool can beat the competition from their Premier League rivals. And the Reds are ready to make their move by paying £77 million for the 26-year-old. Granit Xhaka has been linked with a move away from Arsenal, and the Italian international could be a quality replacement for him at Arsenal. Meanwhile, Chelsea midfielder Mateo Kovacic is heading to Manchester City, and Barella could replace him at Stamford Bridge. POLL As far as Manchester United are concerned, the Red Devils could lose Fred and Scott McTominay in the summer. So they need to add more depth and quality to the side. Barella can not only serve that purpose but be an upgrade on Christian Eriksen. It will be interesting to see how Arsenal, Chelsea, and Manchester United respond to Liverpool’s £77 million offer.