Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri has urged the various Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) youth bodies under the aegis of Prosperity Youth Coalition (PYC) to forge a formidable and united front in working for the victory of the party in the November 11 governorship election. Diri, who gave the charge at a meeting with members of the PYC in Government House, Yenagoa, advised all groups to have clear-cut hierarchical structures from the ward to the state level for efficient operations. Represented by his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, he urged the youth groups not to succumb to the propaganda and other antics of the opposition parties aimed at stoking violence in the state. Diri, in a statement issued by the deputy governor’s media aide, Doubara Atasi, stressed the need for them to show more commitment in defending the interests of the party at all levels and continue to preach the prosperity message to convert the few youths that are still haplessly wallowing in opposing camps. He equally charged the youths to shun rivalry amongst them but work in unity of purpose to collectively achieve the set goals of the PDP and the Prosperity Administration in Bayelsa. The governor further enjoined them to work closely with the executive members of the party from the ward to the state level in ensuring a landslide victory for the party. He expressed appreciation to the youth groups for the support given to the Prosperity Government since its inception in 2020 as well as the role they played in the last National and State Assembly elections. Diri, who expressed delight that the party was able to secure all the state’s seats in the National Assembly, also noted that the PDP was hopeful in regaining the few seats it lost during the state assembly election. POLL In their separate remarks, the chairman of the Prosperity Youth Coalition, Doubara Kumokou, and the secretary, Ayibakuro Igbeta, applauded the Diri-led administration for prioritizing the welfare of youths in the state. They pledged the PYC’s unflinching support and loyalty to the party and assured the governor that they would join forces to galvanize support towards ensuring success for the party at the forthcoming governorship polls.