A delegation of Global South scholars and activists is embarking on a lobbying and advocacy tour of European capitals to discuss the urgent issue of an ecosocial energy transition. The seven participants are following up on a global manifesto published this year decrying new Green colonialism and urging more equitable approaches to achieve a fossil-free future. Miss Kome Odhomor, Media/Communications Lead at Health of Mother Earth Foundation said this in a statement penultimate Monday in Yenagoa. HOMEF, a Nigeria-based environmental group is a participating member of the coalition of groups making up the delegation. The delegation which held public events, met with policymakers and NGOs, and engaged with members of the media in Berlin, Brussels, and London from May 29 to June 2, stated that the mission of the delegation is to inject Global South perspectives into current European policy discussions around energy and environment. Prior to the embarkment of the tour, Odhomor said, “The delegation will include the Right Livelihood award winner, a Nigerian activist Nnimmo Bassey, widely published Argentine sociologist and philosopher Maristella Svampa, the Fijian international human rights lawyer Kavita Naidu and Indian activist-researcher Madhuresh Kumar. “Others are Brazilian-Spanish activist-scholar Breno Bringel, Venezuelan linguist and ecofeminist Liliana Buitrago, and South African-Swedish scholar-activist Vasna Ramasar. “The tour is organised by the Ecosocial and Intercultural Pact of the South, the Global Just Transition project of the Institute for Policy Studies, and the Global Tapestry of Alternatives,” she said. POLL She said that while in Germany, the delegation would in Berlin, meet the press in the morning of Tuesday and hold a public event co-sponsored by the Rosa Luxemburg Stiftung at 5 pm (Str. der Pariser Kommune). She said that in Brussels, Maristella Svampa would participate in a public event “The Green Transition and Critical Minerals” on May 30 at 12:30 at CCND. “Also in Brussels, on May 31, the delegation will meet with NGOs at Mundo-madou at noon co-sponsored by Oikos. “The itinerary further shows that in the evening of May 31 in Brussels, the delegation will hold a public event at 6 pm co-sponsored by Broederlijk Delen at GEC in Ghent (Kon. Maria Hendrikaplein. “In London, the delegation will meet with NGOs on June 1 beginning at 1 pm at Kairos House, The Bookroom, Essex Hall, 1-6 Essex Street. “While on June 2, in London, there will be a public event at Pelican House at 6 pm (144 Cambridge Heath Rd, Bethnal Green).”