.Berates political office holders for dissociating themselves in Saudi Arabia Popular Islamic leader in Ibadanland, Engr. Abduljelyl Adekunle Karheem Mogaji Adanla and Turaki Adini of Oyo state has hailed the deputy governor, Barrister Adebayo Abdulroheem Lawal for his exemplary conduct in Saudi Arabia at the ongoing 2023 Hajj. He equally praised former First Lady of Oyo State, Alhaja Mutiat Ladoja, former Speaker of the state, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu, former commissioners for budget and Health, Professor Musibaudeen Babatunde and Dr Bashir Bello as well as renowned Islamic cleric, Professor K. K. Oloso for fully identifying with Oyo State pilgrims in Mecca by staying in the same hotel and tents despite having all the resources to access 5-Star Hotels. Adanla in a statement on Friday forwarded to journalists in Ibadan from Saudi Arabia recalled some of his experiences in the holy land at the ongoing pilgrimage saying Governor Seyi Makinde’s deputy as well as Alhaja Ladoja and Senator Sunmonu have all demonstrated the ethos of Yoruba’s ‘Omoluabi’. According to Mogaji Adanla, Barrister Lawal clearly testified to the unwavering commitment made by Governor Makinde to the welfare of Muslims in the state by showing an uncommon leadership trait when against all available resources at his disposal, chose to be with the over 1400 pilgrims from Oyo State in the same hotel and tents instead of accessing a 5-Start Hotel. He explained that Barrister Lawal refused to detach or dissociate himself from Oyo state pilgrims throughout the Hajj and even went further to stay with them under the scorching sun stressing that it was the height of humility which readily brought a sense of belonging to all Oyo state pilgrims regardless of social or economic status. POLL In his words, “The deputy governor of Oyo State, barrister Bayo Lawal, once again demonstrated and testified to the commitment made by governor Seyi Makinde by duly reciprocating the love the Muslim community has for him during the holy pilgrimage. This was despite calls from some selfish politicians and Muslims not to vote for the ‘SeyiBayo’ mandate. “During this ongoing pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia, the deputy governor did not show class or detached himself from the over 1400 pilgrims from Oyo State, he instead, chose to stay in the same hotel and tents like every other pilgrim, this is a show of love, affection, and humility which gave everyone a sense of belonging as also exemplified by Engr Seyi Makinde.” Mogaji Adanla however, bemoaned the behavior of some political office holders who on the contrary, dissociated themselves and ignored the over 1400 pilgrims in Mecca despite being members of the same Muslim community. “To my greatest surprise, some political office holders are in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, and chose to ignore the over 1400 pilgrims. As the Turaki Adini of Oyo State, I find this highly unacceptable and use this opportunity to advise them to quickly retrace their footsteps as it’s never too late. “I want them to borrow a leaf from the likes of the former First Lady, Alhaja Mutiat Olayinka Ladoja and the former speaker of Oyo state House of Assembly Senator Monsurat Sunmonu, who also chose to stay and feel the same pain with Oyo state pilgrims despite having financial muscles to stay in 5-star hotels.” Mogaji Adanla said. Some of the political office holders currently on the holy pilgrimage according to the Turaki Adini of Oyo state include a Senator, House of Representatives members, Local Government chairpersons and other notable persons. “The Muslims in Oyo State deserve better treatment than this from these political office holders. I still see no reason why they couldn’t come to check the welfare of their people, these people are not poor to be able to pay over 3m each but no support is too much. If you think you may need our votes in the future, kindly treat us better.” Mogaji Adanla added.