ENUGU  – Police Operatives of the Enugu State Command serving in the Anti-Cultism Squad have arrested nine suspects for various crimi­nal offences in the area. DSP Daniel Ndukwe, Po­lice Public Relations Officer, of the state command who disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists on Monday, said the opera­tives acted on credible infor­mation of a case of criminal conspiracy, malicious dam­age, threatening violence and cult activities, “on 09/06/2023 at about 0448hrs, arrested Maduabuchi Ag­bougwu aged 29, Mbah An­ayochukwu, 28, Mbah Ifesin­achi, No. 26, Anike Ebuka, 31, and Mbah Chiagozie, 28, all males.” According to him, the search warrant executed in their living houses led to the recovery of one big locally fabricated revolver gun, an­other locally fabricated dou­ble-barreled pistol, eight live cartridges and one expend­ed cartridge were recovered from Maduabuchi Agboug­wu, while weeds suspected to be Indian Hemp were re­covered from the suspects. Further discreet investiga­tion into the case is ongoing. He said, “Similarly, work­ing with law-abiding citi­zens, Police operatives serv­ing in Ogui Police Division of Enugu the Command, on 09/06/2023 at about 1510, arrested two male suspects, Anasonye Somtochukwu, 20 and Ogodo Chigbogu, 21, upon criminal suspicion. One locally fabricated pis­tol and the tricycle they were operating in were recovered. A discreet investigation into the case is underway. “Furthermore, on 08/06/2023 at about 1100hrs Police Operatives of No. 3 PMF Enugu, while on rou­tine stop and search duty at Ugwuoba, along Old Enugu/Onitsha Highway, intercepted a commercial bus en-route Enugu. After a thorough search conducted on the vehicle and its occu­pants, eleven live cartridges and a black-coloured crim­inal hood were recovered from two of the occupants and brothers, namely: Ja­cob Gabriel aged 26 and Gideon Gabriel 24, both of Kogi State. They were conse­quently arrested, while fur­ther discreet investigation is ongoing,” he said. “To this end, the Commis­sioner of Police, CP Ahmed Ammani, has lauded the ef­forts of the operatives and those who supported them in recording the operational breakthroughs. He charged them and others to remain focused and on top of their games, while soliciting for continued citizens’ cooper­ation and support through the provision of credible in­formation and intelligence,” he said.