One of the political figures in Nigeria that have won my curiosity is Godswill Akpabio, former governor of Akwa Ibom and now Senate President. Since the return of democracy in 1999, I doubt if we have had many political figures who are as intriguing, almost enigmatic. On June 13, 2023, aided by his party zoning system, President Bola Tinubu’s backing, and his own political grit, he emerged president of the senate after the longest and toughest stretch of manipulative campaigns we have seen for legislative positions. Certainly, legislators aspiring for presiding officers positions have never been as desperate to the extent of promising to gift fellow lawmakers houses in return for votes, as we heard. But that’s really not the point – after all, desperation and a willingness to part with physical substances as compensation for political support is the hallmark of politics in Nigeria. The biggest interest for me was the impressively intense manner the legislators carried out their horse trading as a crowd of contestants embarked on national tours and stirred up so much involvement of almost anyone that was hitherto not interested who whoever held whatever office in the National Assembly. Our man, Akpabio, even had a statewide prayer group in Akwa Ibom in honour of his ambition to be senate president. So intense was it. And after it all, his colleagues who openly declaimed the fact of his being favoured by the party leadership, gave him their votes, and he won – resoundingly. It was a positive reversal of fate. This deserves some explanation because of its irony. Recall that at the expiration of his eight year tenure as governor of Akwa Ibom state, he had made it to the Senate where he became its minority leader despite being first timer in the senate, and he held this position until he defected to the All Progressive Congress (APC) that had become the ruling party after the 2015 watershed election. Curiously, when he attempted to return to the red chamber in 2019 on the platform of the APC, he failed, losing the election of Akwa Ibom North Senatorial District to Peoples Democratic Party candidate, Christopher Stephen Ekpenyong. Many political observers had thought it was over for the man who liked to be identified as the ‘Uncommon Governor’ when he called the shots in that state. Indeed, a pioneer chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum. In all likelihood, he was a don in his political circle. His electoral defeat resounded far and wide, and many political observers had thought it was finally over for him. It was a lead item in political discourse for the whole of that period. And one of his former political associates, the bellicose Dino Melaye, who is also popularly accepted as a song writer and performer of the folkloric hue, did a triumphant performance to ridicule the former governor. That single electoral catastrophe almost seemed to have nailed his political career. Thereafter, there were speculations that he was lobbying for a ministerial position which he might not get, but he would later become Minister in charge of the Niger Delta Affairs Ministry, an appointment he got from Muhammadu Buhari. The appointment did not only rescue his political career but also boosted it. At this point, it should have been clear to observers that Akpabio is a political survivor to whom fate has been very kind, a political cat with nine lives, a phoenix. You have only to dig into his emergence as governor of Akwa Ibom State from among equally or more ambitious political acolytes of Victor Attah to know that he had something going for him. I recall his time as Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, when he was easily one of the most influential politicians in the country being then a major voice in the ruling party. So deeply involved in the PDP that it was thought impossible to discuss the party without mentioning his name. At the most critical period of the life of the party, just before the 2015 general election, when Bukola Saraki and other die-hards of the PDP who became known as the New PDP, dumped the supposed biggest party in Africa, Akpabio was still there. And when the party lost out in the presidential election of 2015, he remained a major pillar of the beleaguered community and indeed became minority leader in the senate, defending the party that had made him. This was perhaps why so many Nigerians, including me, were jolted when in 2018, he announced his defection to the APC which had become the ruling party. He was officially welcomed into that party on August 9, 2018, at the Ikot Ekpene Township Stadium. I was curious to see how he would look and talk as a member of a fold he had once run out of town. But he played his card with his accustomed deftness, and soon became a leading figure of the APC. And many expected him to be able to transform Akwa Ibom state to an APC state. It has proved a daunting task. In any case, in June 2022, Akpabio resigned from his position as minister for Niger Delta Affairs to contest in the presidential primaries of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) but stepped down on the night of the primaries for the party’s most popular aspirant, Bola Tinubu. Curiously, a few days after the presidential primaries, he emerged as the senatorial candidate for Akwa Ibom North-West, and despite the controversies that followed the political miracle, he went on to defeat Emmanuel Enoidem of the Peoples Democratic Party, polling 115,401 votes against Enoidem’s 69,838 votes. Then, on June 13, 2023, he was elected President of the Nigerian Senate with 63 votes against former governor of Zamfara State, Senator Abdulaziz Yari’s 46 votes. POLL His political career has thus defied all odds but his contest for the senate president position has been his toughest yet, and this probably explains why he carried that fawning/funny smiles all through his post-election engagements. In a recent viral video, Akpabio was shown amid a long, sickening convoy vulgarly displaying the reason they had all been desperate to occupy legislative positions. It was a video that demonstrated the futility of calls for sanity and decency in the Nigerian political space. My belief is that if Akpabio and his fellow political vain riders continue like this, Nigeria will remain a laughing stock. The best they can do for Nigeria at this most difficult time is to denude themselves of those ridiculous accoutrements of political office – outlandish convoys and vulgar ceremonies. After all, Nigeria is still the poverty capital of the world – a very shameful appellation we should be rushing to erase with a sense of commitment and a desire to attain political sanity. At this turn in our nation’s fortune, the campaign for sacrifice should be championed by those elected into offices of public trust – and this should be visible to all. We have been on this foolish journey of political insensitivity for much too long.