Former commissioners who served under the immediate past governor of Plateau State Simon Bako Lalong have pledged their continued loyalty to him as their political leader and also assured that they will continue to work for the peace, progress and stability of Plateau State as well as the success of the APC. The Commissioners who were led by their Chairman and former Commissioner for Information and Communication Hon. Dan Manjang gave this pledge when they visited Plateau ex-Governor in Abuja. Dan Manjang told Lalong that they were on a visit to once again thanked him for the opportunity to serve the people of Plateau State under his leadership, describing the period as a memorable experience that they will not forget in a hurry. He said “We enjoyed working with you because you did not only appoint us to serve, but supported us and respected our views towards government policies and its implementation. You trusted us and never refused to listen to us whenever we needed your attention. You are an uncommon leader whose humility is second to none. You did so much despite the challenges you passed through yet some people castigated and maligned you because of politics. But it is gratifying to note that people are already missing you in Plateau State less than a month since you left. Indeed it is true that you never know what you have until you lose it”. Manjang said they would remain loyal to Lalong not because of political convenience but because he has shown the capacity to lead without seeking personal gains. Rather, he said Lalong was always working for the good of the people. POLL He said already, the legacies of the Rescue Administration of Governor Lalong are speaking loudly for him across Plateau State despite the fact that he is out of office. The Commissioners prayed God to continue to grant the Governor good health and many more opportunities to serve Nigeria just as he did in Plateau State. They said having led the campaigns of the APC to produce President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, they are convinced that he will ensure that Plateau plays a greater role in national politics. While responding, the former Plateau State Governor described their visit as heartwarming and said he cherished working with them under an atmosphere of peace, intelligent discourse and commitment to impact the lives of the people. He said having played his part in serving the people of Plateau State with their support and collaboration, he was satisfied that his administration was not self-seeking or one that focused on self enrichment. Lalong assured them that his interest for the development of Plateau remains very paramount, but his immediate focus now is to see how Plateau can be given its rightful place in national politics under the government of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu who is passionate about Plateau. He appealed to them to also continue to play their part in praying for Plateau State and ensuring that peace and stability prevail.