LAGOS – The Lagos State Government has enjoined stakeholders in Amuwo-Odofin Local Government Area to cooperate for the speedy completion of the Old Ojo road construction project. Leading this call at a Stakeholders meeting in Alausa was the former Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Engr. Omotayo Bamgbose-Martins. Engr.Bamgbose-Martins said that the landmark project, designed to deliver 4km length of road with ultramodern furniture in its first phase, would bring about enhanced social and economic well-being to the people while addressing the Traffic and Transportation issues in the axis. His words: “I am happy for the people of Oriade in whose domain the project is sited. The deliberate measure of spreading critical social infrastructure across different parts of the State has hallmarked the democratic administration of our reliable and promise keeping Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu who has been working tirelessly to attain the Greater Lagos vision in all fronts. “At this point, may I emphasise that the project is “your project” and as members of the community you are expected to guard it jealously and give it the importance that a community project of this nature deserves. “However, I am confident that you would reciprocate the good gesture of your Government and give every support to ensure the successful implementation of the road construction of Old Ojo road”, he said. Emphasising that the essence of the meeting was to communicate government intentions concerning the project, especially the delivery of Right of Way and other aspects, the Commissioner urged the people to show restraints and understanding with challenges that are generally attendant with road project works. He noted that the delivery of Right of Way was a precursor to actualising any road construction in the State while recalling that the procedure include the service of statutory notices and marking of affected buildings, publication of the notice in the national dailies and valuation exercise by Lands Bureau for compensation purpose. POLL He called for total respect for Right of Ways and other open spaces to avoid the experience of illegal encroachment and embarrassment that occurs as a result of mandatory establishment of road alignment and right of way. “May I also take this opportunity to urge citizens to respect Physical Planning laws so that together we can avoid incessant building collapse and loss of lives. I am inclined to urge you all to maintain vigilance in your environment and ensure that people act correctly by building right”, he added. He urged the people to visit Google Play or Apple Store on their mobile devices to download the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development App to report any untoward development around them, in addition to the State toll free emergency Number 767 and the ministry’s hotlines. Also speaking, the Special Adviser, Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye said that considering the activities of tank firms in the axis, the contractors had been mandated to use superior materials to ensure the durability of the road. She explained that delays in road projects in the area were mainly caused by difficulty in moving materials to site due to the activities of the tank firms, in addition to vandalism experienced on site by contractors. The Special Adviser to the Governor on eGIS and Planning Matters, Dr. Olajide Babatunde joined others to call for the people’s cooperation on the project, saying that they should give their maximum cooperation and take ownership of the project. The Permanent Secretary, Office of Infrastructure, Engr. Olufemi Daramola gave the project brief while his counterpart in the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Engr. Abiola Kosegbe introduced some staff of the ministry that would be working on the project to the stakeholders. Generally, residents of the area welcomed the project as a good and impactful development whilst urging the timely completion of all road projects in the area. Amongst the speakers from the area were the Chairman, Oriade Local Council Development Area, Hon. Ramotalahi Akinola Hassan, Member of the House of Assembly, representing Amuwo-Odofin constituency 2, Hon. Rauf Age-Sulaimon, the Community Development Committee Chairman, Oriade Mr. Okunola Olufemi and the Chairman Satellite Town Forum, Mr. Governor Emitiri.