…Says Improved Livelihood Top Priority Of His Govt …Appoints Gbajabiamila CoS, Akume SGF, Hadejia DCoS ABUJA – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu Friday in Abuja said improved livelihood for Nigeri­ans remains a top priority of his administration, with more people-focused economic poli­cies, assuring that the national minimum wage needs a review to reflect realities. The President, who received members of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) led by the Chairman, Hope Uzodinma of Imo State, at the State House, said the national and sub-na­tional governments will work together on the minimum wage, which already requires “soul searching.’’ “We need to do some arith­metic and soul searching on the minimum wage,’’ he said. “We will have to take a look at that together, and the reve­nue. We must strengthen the source and application of our revenue.’’ President Tinubu urged the governors to seize the oppor­tunity of being chosen among millions of citizens in their states to make a difference in the lives of people, adding that he will work for the benefit of Nigerians. “This meeting is not strange to me, and the content of the meeting is so valuable. The ca­maraderie is very stimulating. This is about the Nigerian proj­ect, not Bola Tinubu,’’ he said. The President said that the multiple exchange rates will be streamlined, noting that gover­nance was a continuum. POLL “I have inherited the assets and liabilities of my predeces­sor. This is the first time you entered the Council Chambers, and it is my first time too for a meeting. “As progressives and think­ers under the umbrella of the All Progressives Congress (APC), you have a role to play in educating our people and making sure we manage our­selves,’’ the President told the governors. President Tinubu said it was a good and encouraging sign that the APC has a major­ity in the National Assembly and some Houses of Assembly, which will make it easier to de­velop policies that will directly impact the economy and the people. “If we work together, the Ni­geria of our dreams is not far away. Rest assured that we will not have multiple exchange rates anymore. You asked for this meeting, and I had to set aside time to be here. “We have a political party that we will need to manage, whichever way, we have inher­ited assets and liabilities, and we cannot complain,’’ he stated. President Tinubu said he would maintain an open-door policy, willing to entertain is­sues, deliberate, and collective­ly find solutions to the challeng­es facing the country, including security. “It is in our hands, and I am ready to work and listen at any time,’’ he added. In his remarks, the Vice President, Sen. Kashim Shetti­ma, called on the governors to rally around the President as he tackles the challenges that stagnate the economy, like the oil subsidy and multiple ex­change rates. “Let us rally around the President and not bulge, there are vested interests that may want to resist the subsidy re­moval. Its removal will free resources for the development of your states,” he added. Earlier, the Governor of Imo State pledged the support of the Progressive Governors to the President, noting that the initial decisions already foretell good intentions for the economy. “We are here today as mem­bers of the APC to fraternise with you as our leader, and con­gratulate you on your election as President, and Command­er-in-Chief. “We are using this opportu­nity to express our support for you at this trying time in our history,’’ he said. Uzodinma noted that the President had started well, by placing the economy and wel­fare of the people on a priority list, with honesty of purpose. “We are aware of your capacity and excellent track record,’’ the PGF Chairman stated. The Governor of Borno State, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum, said the development of the national and sub-nation­al economies remains interwo­ven, assuring that President Tinubu would receive their support to succeed. Other governors present at the meeting were the Chair­man of Nigerian Governors Forum and Governor of Kwara State, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, Yahaya Bello of Kogi, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun, Mai Mala Buni of Yobe, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe, and Dikko Radda of Katsina State. Governors Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa, Hyacinth Alia of Benue, Umar Bago of Niger, Nasir Idris of Kebbi, Uba Sani of Kaduna, Umar Namadi of Jigawa, Nwifuru Francis Og­bonna of Ebonyi, Ahmed Ali­yu of Sokoto, and Bassey Otu of Cross-River State were also present. At the meeting, the Presi­dent announced the appoint­ment of Femi Gbajabiamila as Chief of Staff, Sen. Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia as Deputy Chief of Staff, and George Akume as Secretary to the Government of the Federation. Gbajabiamila, a lawyer and member of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), has served as Speaker of the House of Representatives since 2019. Over the years, George Akume, an alumnus of the University of Ibadan, has been a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in charge of Special Duties and Inter- gov­ernmental affairs since 2019. Recall that there has been speculations as to why the President was delaying the ap­