LAGOS  – Group Managing Director/CEO, C & I Leasing Plc, Ugoji Lenin Ugoji, has stated that domestication of policies and competitiveness will boost economic growth. Ugoji, made the declaration at the recently held breakfast meeting and exhibition organised by the Nigerian Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (NICCI), in collaboration with Equipment Manufacturing West Africa (EMWA), with the theme: ‘Reigniting manufacturing to drive economic growth and development.’ He acknowledged that, “domestication of policies and prioritising our areas of comparative advantage to make local industries competitive will drive sustainable growth in the manufacturing sector. “we need to be practical, and we need to start from where our strength begins. Our strength may not be in manufacturing immediately, yet we could exploit the places where we have comparative advantage in terms of the mineral resource or the material itself. “ He noted that policy and credit are critical factors in reigniting growth within the manufacturing sector. According to him, “I think policy is really everything if we are going to achieve what it is we say we are going to achieve here. Policy requires strategy, it requires will, and it requires collaboration.” “Availability of credit is so critical to all that we are trying to do. The reason why banks do not fund SMEs is simply because the sovereign risk is too high. “There are usually too many downsides impeding the process knowing when a bank lends money, it needs to ensure the money comes back because it is depositors’ money”. POLL Restating the Lagos State’s government’s commitment to nurturing an enabling environment for business growth, the state’s Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Mrs. Adetutu Ososanya, FCA said that the state is paying more attention to its industrial estates, Hubs and Enterprise zones to support Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). She pointed out that: “In addition to the ongoing reorganization of existing small scale industrial estates that are situated in various commercial axis of the state, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led administration is working to complete a new industrial estate at Imota LCDA”. On his part, President of the Nigeria Indonesia Chamber of Commerce and Industry (NICCI), Mr. Ismaeel Balogun, described the Breakfast meeting as a melting point of ideas and partnerships between equipment manufacturers and industrialists. “There is no doubt that equipment is critical to industrialization and has the potential to reignite manufacturing that will drive economic growth and development. The meeting is to further turn our attention to the need to focus more on manufacturing as a way out of the current national underdevelopment and economic challenge”, he said.