The African Democratic Congress, ADC, has called on President Bola Tinubu to take a second look at the 2023 Student’s Loan Act so as to review its terms and conditions to make it easy for the beneficiaries to obtain. Looking at the loan Act closely, it is observed that not only is the process to obtain it cumbersome, but the conditions are also typically set out to enslave the already battered youth population of the country that other countries cherish. ADC which made the observation in a statement signed by its National publicity, Mabel Akomu Oboh said, “Mr President should explore other options and review the terms and conditions of this loan if he truly has the interest of the millions of indigent youths especially the students at heart. According to her, it is interesting to note that the Student’s Loan law provides interest-free loans to indigent Nigerian students, but the process for the beneficiaries to secure it leaves much to be desired “The law provides that the Students must apply to the Chairman of the Education Bank through their respective institutions and an applicant’s income or that of the family must be less than N500,000 per annum. “Applicant must provide, at least, two civil servants as guarantors: of not less than 12 years in service; or a lawyer with at least 10 years post-call experience; a judicial officer; or a Justice of Peace. Students who have defaulted on previous loans, or are found guilty of exam malpractices, felony, or drug offenses will not be considered and Students with parents who have defaulted in respect of previous loans will not be considered. “All applications will be submitted through the Students Affairs Office of each Institution via a list of all qualified applicants from the institution accompanied by a cover letter signed by the Vice-Chancellor or Rector or the head of the institution and the student affairs. “Academic records of beneficiaries are to be monitored through the student affairs office of each institution via a list of all qualified applicants from the institution, accompanied by a cover letter signed by the vice-chancellor, rector, or the head of the institution and student affairs. POLL “The Act also stipulates that a beneficiary will begin repayment two years after completing the mandatory one-year National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme by having 10% of his/her monthly salary deducted into a designated bank account. Defaulting or aiding to default will attract a fine of N500,000 or two years imprisonment or both. “Funding for the scheme will be from one percent levies from the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), and one percent from oil profits. This sounds very vague. “The only good news in the Act is the sound of disbursement timeframe, which says application and disbursements are made within 30 days of the application reaching the chairman of the committee. “The new Act establishes the Nigerian Education Loan Fund domiciled with, managed, and administered by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through the money deposit banks in Nigeria. “The CBN governor will set up a special committee to perform the functions of the fund. The chairman of the committee shall be the governor of the CBN who shall appoint the secretary of the committee, among others” ADC however stated that based on these conditions, it could be argued that the conditions are designed to discourage would-be applicants. “First, for the combined family earnings to be less than N500,000 annually, parents must earn less than N30,000, which is less than the minimum wage. “Besides cutting off several would-be beneficiaries, this group or category cannot get tax receipts (a requirement) to tender, since this low wage cannot be taxed. “These automatically disqualify many that are reformed and seek help to get educated and be set on the right part. “Furthermore, perhaps most insensitive, are the list of guarantors. How are such classes of individuals expected to sign up for indigent youths? In the first place, how are prospective applicants and/ or their parents expected to get access to such persons? Shouldn’t prospective students be trusted with their future? “Another area of difficulties is the bureaucratic process of accessing the loan, from the applicant’s institution to the CBN. “Since when has civil service been so efficient as to process such in 30 days? And to start repaying two years after NYSC is simply assuming too much. “The speed with which the introduction of the student loans came makes makes our party wonder if the scheme was well thought out. Is the idea of its introduction intended to placate the fuel subsidy removal, or serve as one of the palliative packages? “What does the government truly want to achieve, propaganda or a solution to the University funding challenge for students from the most vulnerable families in Nigeria?” “We therefore called on Mr President to take a second look at the at the act for immediate review so as to make it easy for the Nigerian students,” ADC pleaded.