Dr. Adetokunbo Pearse, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Lagos State, has called on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to ensure devolution of power to states in order to give room for the creation of state police if he hoped to arrest the threatening insecurity in the country. The former gubernatorial candidate in Lagos and coordinator of Atiku-Okowa Presidential Campaign Support Groups in the state in the last general election, while in a chat with our correspondent, said the country should go back to the pre-independence era when states had major control over their affairs, saying since Nigeria is practising the federal system of government, it was imperative that there should be devolution of power. “For security, it is about empowering the states because the Federal Government cannot effectively secure the states. Tinubu has to have, as we had in the past before independence, state police. “This is necessary because in any federal system as we claim to be practicing, there must be devolution of power to the states. Do that and you have it right. What money have we not spent in training and arming our security forces, still nothing to show for it? The coordinator of Jonathan/Sambo Presidential Campaign Organisation in Lagos in 2015 said the job is already cut out for the president, however saying the task ahead is enormous for President Tinubu. He averred that he earlier believed so much that Tinubu would fix the economy, however expressing pessimism that with the way he started by allegedly throwing the country into chaos through fuel subsidy pronouncement, he had his doubts on Mr. President. “The job is cut out for him; it’s not going to be easy and in his speech, he has everything covered but the issue is can he implement them? “I am one of the people that believe that he can solve the economic problems but now, from the very first beginning, from his first speech, he has actually hurt the economy. Which investor will come to Nigeria now? “If you are an investor and you build houses, who is going to buy it with the economic situation triggered by his speech? Where is the purchasing power to buy it? Even if you build to rent, who is going to rent the houses, unless salaries are increased. POLL “There are so many things the president needed to do and not just go and increase pump price to as high as N500. That is N2000 per gallon whereas people earn N1000 per day as minimum wage. People earn as low as N20,000 per month so when we even say N30,000 minimum wage, we are being generous to the government,” he said.