ABUJA  – The Senate on Wednesday ad­journed to July 4, to enable its Committee on Welfare to fine tune details on allocation of resources, offices and inter­ests to lawmakers. The interests will include office spaces, vehicles, accom­modation, among others. Senator Ahmed Ningi (APC, Bauchi Central) in a briefing with journalists at the National Assembly said that the red chamber in its executive session also congratulated the House of Representatives on its ran­cour-free election for the speaker and deputy speaker, respectively. Senator Ningi also dis­closed that the upper cham­ber used the occasion of the closed door session to send “communications to inter­national bodies like the EU, AU, and the other legislative national bodies”. He said that the lawmakers had planned an early resump­tion after a two-week break but for the pending Sallah holiday. The lawmaker further re­vealed the resolve of the 10th Assembly to save the country from implosion, adding, “This nation was crashing some few months back but with what is happening right now espe­cially with the inauguration of the National Assembly, I am very positive that we are going to save this country, this country will benefit from our experiences and with the fac­es I have seen in the Senate in particular no doubt in my mind that the Senate will be an entirely different Senate this time around. “I have been out of the National Assembly for eight years. I was also here for 16 years. “We have come a long way and I believe without you this democracy which is personi­fied by the National Assembly would not have been here for the last 24 years. POLL “That it has attained 24 years. It is as a result of your work. You have been there and you have also been ac­cused just like each and every member of the parliament. “You have been accused of corruption, indolence, you have been accused of so many things, that members of the National Assembly have been accused and this work has to be done.” This is as he dismissed con­cerns of a rancorous execu­tive and legislative relations, as he maintained, “We are not going to be confrontational as we have never been, but we are not going to be laid back legislators to make sure we understand some things, we make sure they understand our powers to make sure that we understand our limita­tions. “We will out rightly inform the executive of our powers under the constitution, under the House rules and under the legislative matters privileges. “We are not going to be caged. I am very happy this afternoon that the first thing that the Senate President did was to call for an executive session with very exhaustive deliberations and I am happy he has started on a very clean slate.” On the resolve of the 10th Assembly to be different from its predecessor, the Bauchi lawmaker pointed out, “I can see that he is ready for this job and we have assured him that once he gives us our respect, we are going to accord him our full loyalty. “And we also cautioned him that in spite of whatever happened, the Senate is the institution that made him Senate President and the Chairman of the National Assembly. “Because he is a ranking senator he understands that on behalf of the people of this country over the years things have not been done so well. “That time will give us another opportunity to redo what we have not been able to do in the last couple of years.” The experienced legisla­ture urged the media to place the country on the path of development, as he under­scored, “I want to call on the media in particular to remain steadfast in what they are do­ing, we don’t have any other country other than Nigeria. “I know we have challeng­es of tribal sentiments, reli­gious sentiments, regional sentiments; they all interplay within the Nigerian body poli­ty but at the end of the day we bear the consequences. “We have tested insecuri­ty and it is not a respecter of anybody from the executive to the legislature and to the com­mon man and even the Nige­rian security forces have been confronted by this insecurity and there is the issue of pov­erty and anger in the polity. “Therefore, if we don’t put Nigeria first which is easi­er said than done, we must make sure that this country is pushed forward, we must make sure that we add value.”