ENUGU – Stakeholders in Enugu State on Saturday commended Governor Peter Mbah for ordering an end to the Monday sit-at-home practice in the state. The commendation was made in Enugu on saturday during a town hall meeting attended various bodies, institutions, organisations, associations, including government officials and heads of security and intelligence agencies It could be recalled that Mbah had last week ordered that the residents of the State end the sit-at-home and go about their activities on Mondays. In a communique issued after the meeting and signed Comrade Stephen AniaguPresident, Enugu State AmalgamatedTraders Association, Comr. Barr. Fabian NwigboChairman, Nigeria Labour Congress, Mr. Ben Asogwa, Chairman, Trade Union Congress, Comrade Nweke Odoh T.Chairman, Nigeria Union of Teachers, Enugu State Chapter, Comrade Ebuka OkohChairman, National Youth Council of NigeriaEnugu State Chapter. Other signatories includes Mr. Paully EzeChairman, Association of Presidents-General, Enugu State, CP Ahmed AmmaniCommissioner of Police,Comr. Onyebuchi Igboke OChairman, NGOs,Comr. Ugochukwu AnichukwuNational Association of Nigerian Students,Chief Martins AsogwaNURTW, Enugu State,Barr. Ugo Ferdinard UgwuezeCoordinating Chairman, Nigeria Bar Association, Enugu State,Rev. Emmanuel O. EdehChairman, Christian Association of Nigeria, Enugu State, Comr. Monday OnwukaChairman, Tricycle Riders Association Others includes: “HRH Amb. Lawrence AgubuzuEnugu State Traditional Rulers Council, Most Revd Prof. Emmanuel ChukwumaBishop, Anglican Ecclesiastical Communion, Hon. Solomon OnahChairman, ALGON Enugu State, Prince Chiwetalu NwatuCoordinator, Financial Institutions in Enugu State, Hon. Dr. (Mrs) Ngozi OziokoChairperson, Nsukka Traders Association, Jasper OnyekaChairman, Organised Labour, Sammy AjuforFor the Media Community in Enugu State, Comrade Alor Edwin IkechukwuChairman, Inter-Party Advisory Council, Enugu State The communique commended Mbah for the decisions taken towards restoring peace in the state, including appeal for the release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.A communique issued after the meeting was signed by: The communique reads: “After extensive and exhaustive deliberations at the town-hall meeting, which also had the Governor of Enugu State, Dr. Peter Mbah, and the Deputy Governor, Barr. Ifeanyi Ossai, in attendance, it was resolved: POLL “That the decision of the Enugu State Government cancelling the Monday sit-at-home order considering that its detrimental impacts on productivity, investment flow, and the Igbo spirit of creativity, entrepreneurship and commerce is hereby endorsed by the town-hall. “That the town-hall commends the State Governor, His Excellency, Dr. Peter Ndubuisi Mbah, on the laudable steps taken so far to ensure peace is returned to the state, which include his recent visit to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for the release of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu; opening door for dialogue with those with genuine grievances. “That the town-hall reiterates the position of the State Government, and further appeals to the President to act on the governor’s request by releasing Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, and expedite the process of national healing, national integration and national reconciliation. “That the town-hall calls on the State Government to resuscitate, overhaul, rejig and strengthen internal security mechanisms such as the Community Policing, Neighbourhood Watch, Forest Guards, amongst others, in the state. “That the stakeholders and representatives of various groups at the town-hall meeting – traditional rulers, religious leaders, heads of institutions, corporate bodies, youth and students leaders, transport and market associations, etc. – shall educate and sensitize their members on the gains of ending the Monday sit-at-home and getting back to work. “That the security agencies should continue to work round the clock in order to reassure citizens and residents of their safety, not only on Mondays, but also on other days of the week. “That the town-hall proposes that the Government should procure special commercial city buses and taxies that will ply the routes beyond 9.00 pm when tricycle operators are prohibited from doing so. “That the town-hall supports any security measure or measures and other steps the State Government deems necessary in order to end the Monday sit-at-home and get people back to work in the overall interest of the state and its residents. “That the town-hall enjoins members of the public to resume work and go about their normal daily businesses as various security and intelligence agencies have, in their joint and collaborative efforts, given assurance(s) of their safety, including proactive responses to distress calls any time of the day. “That the town-hall urges members of the public to continue to support the government and security agencies by sharing vital information with them, including suspicious movements and gatherings by strange persons or groups of persons in any part of the state, including forests and borders. “That the town-hall urges persons and groups with genuine grievances to take the opportunity of dialogue offered by the Government of Enugu State to engage the government on their grievances to ensure lasting peace and security in the state.