LAGOS  – The Global Leadership Summit (GLN), a global leadership organisation, is thrilled to announce the highly anticipated third edition of the Global Leadership Summit for Business (GLS4Business), set to take place on 20th June 2023 at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria, in partnership with The Leadership Project. Themed “Leading Effectively in Uncertainty,” the event aims to equip business leaders with the critical skills necessary for thriving despite the uncertainties that pervade the 21st-century marketplace. This year’s GLS4Business will feature a speaker lineup of renowned local and international experts which include Chris Ordway, former General Manager, Consumer Products, Motorola Inc., for North America, Europe, and Africa Division and now Executive VP, Int’l Engagements, GLN USA; Dr Gabriel Ogbechie – OON, GMD of Rainoil Limited; Dr Sam Adeyemi, Principal Consultant of Sam Adeyemi GLC, Inc., and President of Success Power International; Heather. R. Younger, founder, and CEO of Customer Fanatix USA; Ibukun Awosika, former Chairman of First Bank of Nigeria Plc. and CEO of The Chair Centre Group. According to Godman Akinlabi, Convener of The Leadership Project, the winds of change sweeping across the nation and the world at large, beckons the need for effective leadership for businesses aspiring to excel. “We firmly believe that this conference will empower business leaders with a change mindset, enabling them to navigate the current season of change both within the country and across the globe. By providing them with essential tools and insights, our aim is to transform the lives of these leaders, equipping them to lead effectively in uncertainty and thrive in the ever-evolving business landscape,” he expressed. Since its inception, the GLS4Business has made veritable business insights and skills accessible to business leaders who want to lead sustainable businesses. Priced at ₦50,000 for participation, the third edition provides an array of interactive workshops, expert-led training sessions, and immersive simulations aimed at enabling business leaders to elevate their strategic thinking, communication proficiency, growth mindset, and capacity to inspire teams, foster innovation, and adeptly navigate the ever-evolving business environment. During this edition, there will be an exclusive opportunity to network with some of the speakers, who will share valuable insights from their wealth of experiences. Heather. R. Younger and Dr Sam Adeyemi will participate in the event virtually.