Bishop Taiwo Akinola is the presiding Bishop at RHEMA Christian Church & Towers, Otta, Ogun State. In this interview with select journalists, he bares his mind on a number of topical issues. Excerpts: What would you say about the current state of the nation? We want to seize the opportunity of this major event today to lend our voice to the issues relating to the development of our dear country Nigeria. It is a critical role of the Church of Jesus Christ within any geographical border to positively impact her system of governance, growth and development, and to clearly contribute towards the delivery of other social outputs that are crucial to nation building. We thank God for the just concluded election and that Nigeria is on the march again with the new administration to drive the country for better prosperity in the next four years. But we cannot be oblivious to the facts on the ground which we would like the new leadership to be guided with as it articulates its strategies for the new administration. Today, it is glaringly observable that, in our beloved nation Nigeria, God’s commandments regarding justice, integrity, humility, love, fairness and equity are being neglected and relegated to the background. This leaves so much room for concern because, as history teaches us, whenever the right religious/ moral foundations of a nation are eroded, the glory of such a nation equally follows that pattern. Of course, vices don’t come without social consequences. In some quarters today, patriotism and due respect for national identities have degenerated into agitations and disillusionment, simply because of real or perceived political injustices, impunity, greed and vain pursuits with which some of our political leaders are glaringly guilty of and we would like the new administration to correct all these anomalies. Your comment on the 2023 election and inauguration We bless God for the last election. It was such a crucial one in the history of our dear nation. The issues surrounding it are many and compelling. We opposed a Muslim-Muslim ticket which we considered as a slap on the face of the highly and eminently qualified Christians in the nation. We also looked at it as a sly way of edging out Christ-based views and further entrenchment of Islam as a prominent and dominant religion in the nation. These concerns are founded on past and present blatant infractions on the basic rights of Christians all over the Nation. Recently, a former governor of Kaduna State, El-Rufai, was carelessly playing to the gallery on this subject when he gleefully referred to what he reportedly termed the “Islamic domination” as a result of the inauguration of the Moslem-Moslem ticket. I feel like reminding him that anyone that mocks Christ must await his/her spiritual Waterloo, and anyone that ridicules His Body — the Church — must be ready for a just desert sooner than later. It is worthy of note that the youths also spoke loudly through their votes at a point in the electoral process. Definitely the signs of discontent were quite loud for the wise to note. The inauguration ceremony itself was also held on a background of strong contentions from some sections who felt a great sense of dissatisfaction with the process that made room for it. Albeit, our own take at this stage is that it is time for all parties to bury the hatchet and work together. Let us make this administration work for the collective interest of all Nigerians. President Bola Tinubu is preaching unity in the polity. What is your view on this. We will all agree that Nigeria’s polity was greatly polarized during the last election. In the history of the nation, no election had a more monstrous effect on the unity of the nation than the last one. Issues of tribe, religion and other sentiments escalated beyond reason. It is obvious that key players in the political realm orchestrated these divisions, skillfully manipulating and arm-twisting simple minded people in an orchestra of lies and deception. While this was done to garner some undue advantages, it has injured the soul of the nation more. It is our plea that this new administration do the needful in mending fences with all the aggrieved sections of the nation. This is to ensure that true peace prevails in the nation. Let’s be reminded that it is within the right of anyone to differ from your political standpoints during the electioneering process. Now that the election period is over, however, we must choose to close ranks as good, responsible and matured Nigerians. Let’s resist the temptation of playing the games of vendetta in any way imaginable, keeping in mind that whatever worked for you now could have worked against you if not for the grace of God. How about the need for inclusion in the government POLL The last administration created a woeful scene bedeviled by lopsided appointments and implementation of critical policies in favour of a particular ethnic group. People from other parts of the nation became mere spectators in a country belonging to every one of us. This injustice was perpetrated with utter disdain for the injured feelings of others. If Nigeria, in spite of its diversities, is truly a nation where everyone is equal, let this new administration show a clear departure from the past by embracing inclusiveness, irrespective of ethnicity, religion, region or gender. What is your take on the issue of the rule of law. Rule of law is a basic principle which is the bedrock of democracy. In an egalitarian society all should be governed by the same ethics and bound by the same laws. No one is above the law and governmental decisions must be made only by applying across board known legal and moral principles. A situation whereby some are regarded as sacred cows must be abolished. Let the law be applied equally and fairly as it’s done in every sane society. How do you respond to the removal of subsidy by the new administration? Since the new administration came in barely two weeks ago, the nation has been engulfed with the issue of fuel subsidy removal and the aftermath effects. Fortunately, almost everyone has a clear understanding that fuel subsidy is not sustainable as only a few rich individuals, as well as some countries bordering Nigeria, have been benefiting from it at our expense. For instance, I just read that some groups of people were protesting the subsidy removal in faraway Cameroon. It is also clearly not sustainable for us as a nation to be spending trillions of Naira in the payment of subsidies. The fact on the ground also shows that the financial situation of this country is in dire straits and the amount of money we are using to service debt is getting higher than our revenue. In addition, our exchange rate is not stable and these are determinants of import-driven products. Meanwhile, we all know that with inflation in the system, the removal of subsidy would further worsen the situation and impose more difficulties on the citizenry. Whereas we commend government for thinking about putting in place some palliative measures. Nevertheless, we hold the view that as the new government is just coming in, it should have had a dialogue with the stakeholders before making such a pronouncement which has since thrown the nation into a frenzy. There’s no doubt that until we produce locally what we consume, every other talk is merely political. Hence, we want to emphasize the need for the Federal Government to bring back the Nation’s refineries and create an enabling environment for investment in the refining business sector to thrive, we reason these as a way out of the subsidy controversies. We also support those advocating for the adoption of the NLNG model in the running of the nation’s refineries when fully revamped and the creation of an enabling environment for the establishment and operation of modular and private refineries. We use this medium to commend and to congratulate all the major stakeholders involved in the newly commissioned Dangote Refinery. We believe that this new refinery will bring a significant impact on the fuel supply dynamics, including easing pressure on the economy, especially when combined with the ongoing revamping of the other refineries in the country. However, we wish to urge them to be wary of the temptation of monopoly and be mindful of the domino impacts of such business concepts on the generality of Nigerians, especially the poor. Your take on a review of the Nation Evidently, our beloved nation is in a debt crisis. According to reliable sources, by May 2023, Nigeria’s total public debt stock had increased to N46.25 trillion or $103.11 billion. While many are looking for debt relief to keep the repayment at a minimum level to enable us sort out some of our investment needs and compelling current obligations such as expenditures on infrastructure, education and health, it does not provide a sustainable or permanent solution because the amount left unpaid will keep piling up as arrears and gets added to the principal amount making the debt larger. The bottom line is that we cannot afford to service all of our debt unless we are really prepared to commit to very little investment in our physical and human resources for the next two decades. We cannot also afford to allow the debt to pile up. So this means that this administration must search for a permanent workable solution to our debt problem. The search for this solution is therefore a key priority and a vital financial and economic issue for the country, not only for the present generation but also for our yet unborn generations. While we do not condemn borrowing, we support the school of thought that borrowed funds should not be used for consumption, but rather channeled into productive ventures and infrastructural development. We however expect to see a different approach to borrowing from the current administration. How do you think government should respond to the issue of insecurity? Thank you very much for this question. 2023 began with sad tales of the burning of a Catholic Priest in Niger state, kidnap of a DPO in Jos, attack on church worshipers in Katsina community and the abduction of 23 train passengers in Edo State, coupled with news of near daily occurrences of kidnappings along the nation’s highways especially the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway. Citizens of Southern Kaduna and Benue are gradually becoming extinct due to unending attacks, killings and the resulting displacement. The growing insecurity in the land is heart-rending and therefore a nightmare to citizens, investors and visitors. The numerous cases of alleged herdsmen attacks even on farms, organized kidnappings, perennial killings and other associated stories on waste of human lives and property across Nigeria are unacceptable and condemnable. Nigerians deserve to be adequately protected by the Government against these monstrous marauders. The fact that it has become sustained not only suggests an orchestration and a strong organization by those sponsoring the upsurge to spill more innocent Nigerians’ blood but also a clear manifestation of leadership challenge at all levels in the country because security of lives and property remains the essence of any Government. We therefore expect that the new administration should immediately review the current security strategy, rejig the entire security architecture, provide more funding and shift from a reactionary approach to focusing on intelligence gathering that will proactively help to nip such planned attacks in the bud.