CHIBUIKE CHUKWU Nigeria has been involved in the payment of petroleum subsidy for years but the issue assumed a wide prominence when former President Goodluck Jonathan and his then coordinating Minister of the Economy, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, attempted albeit failed to remove the subsidy from the national budget. However, fuel subsidy is a programme where the government pays for some of the production costs of fuel, especially petroleum products, to make such products more affordable for consumers. While the process has seen more criticisms than praises to the extent that so many prominent Nigerians have called it a scam with other unprintable descriptions used in describing the subsidy on petroleum products. Analysts have pointed that paying subsidies is not really the problem with Nigeria despite the fact that the process is enmeshed in alleged corruption. They opined that the inherent corruption in the subsidy chain remained the death knell in the Nigerian energy value chain. For instance, Majid Dahiru, a popular columnist and public affairs commentator, said Nigerians voted overwhelmingly for the removal of petroleum subsidy in the last election and thus have no reason to complain of its removal, averring that most economically vibrant nations of the world are deep into subsidizing petroleum and other economic products for their citizens. “Nigerians overwhelmingly voted for the fuel subsidy to be removed and should not complain. “Remember whoever that was eventually declared the winner of the last election among the trio of Peter Obi, Atiku Abubakar and Bola Tinubu would still have done what President Tinubu has done because all of them anchored their campaigns on removal of fuel subsidy. “Remember Peter Obi even called it organised fraud while Atiku said subsidy would go from his first day in office; so Nigerians voted for it to be removed and should not complain. POLL “But then, is subsidy the problem of Nigeria? I don’t think so because most developed countries subsidize several goods, including petrol, for their citizens so it is really not the issue of removing subsidy but lack of policy thrust that has seen the four government refineries not working to refine a certain amount of the product for the citizens…” The United States of America, unarguably the biggest economy in the world, subsidises petroleum products. Before assuming office, Joe Biden, it would be recalled, promised to get rid of fossil fuel subsidies as part of a multi-pronged effort to fight climate change that also included ending new drilling on public lands. Those promises had been impossible to keep. For one, they require an act of Congress, and Republicans and some Democrats oppose the removal of fossil fuel subsidies. Secondly, soaring energy prices since the Russia invasion of Ukraine have led Biden to call for more oil and gas, not less. While the United States subsidizes fuel and other petroleum products just like Nigeria, the essence is immediately targeted at the citizens and other economic value chain in order to not only boast domestic production of the product but to attract further investment in the sector. A peculiar case different from what obtained in Nigeria is that oil and gas subsidies in the United States include provisions ranging from incentives for domestic production, write-offs and deductions tied to foreign production and income, and approved accounting methods that can reduce the stated taxable value of assets. One specific U.S. tax break on domestic production, for example, called intangible drilling costs, allows producers to deduct a majority of their costs from drilling new wells. Despite the enumerated advantages in the American petroleum subsidy regime as well as payment of subsidy for other goods, the call for its end has resonated continually in the country, with difficulties in removing the same. Recall that former President Barack Obama also wanted to ditch tax breaks for fossil fuels in particular to show the world that the United States was serious about speeding a transition to clean energy to tackle climate change. But even with a commanding Democratic majority in the Senate in Obama’s first six years in office, he was unable to kill the subsidies. China, another world economic power, has been in the forefront of paying subsidies on petroleum products (fossil fuel). DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that China has been the biggest subsidizer in Asia in absolute terms, contributing $2.2 trillion in subsidies in 2020, or nearly 15% of GDP and approximately 1,600 USD per capita. This is according to an IMF report. In the advantages inherent in the energy value chain in China, subsidies address both users of fossil fuels and producers of fossil fuel products. National, regional, and local authorities regulate the prices of fossil fuels in China and that brings healthy competition. Despite these, Reuters, In February, reported that China’s oil refining capacity overtook the United States as the world’s largest in 2022, according to industry officials, though its production of fuel products lagged the United States due to low utilisation rates. China’s refining capacity expanded to 920 million tonnes per year, or 18.4 million barrels per day (bpd), Fu Xiangsheng, vice president of the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association, told reporters. By refining fuel, the country beat down the effects of payment of subsidies in energy and energy-related services, and this is what would have been expected of Nigeria if the four refineries are working. China has 32 refineries with at least 200,000 bpd capacity each, according to local sources, with the launch of a new facility built by PetroChina in Jieyang in Guangdong province adding to the country’s growing capacity. While Japan has been subsidising fuel for her citizens, the country went full blast at the end of 2022. According to information obtained from Climate Scorecard, the Japanese government, at the end of 2022, began full subsidizing part of the price of gasoline, kerosene, and other fuels. The annual budget was put at about 3.2 trillion yen, about $24.6 billion. In Nigeria, the concept of subsidy on petroleum products was that the government would fix the price of petrol for consumers below the international price, and use government resources to pay for the difference in order that the citizens would pay less for the product which is very vital to day-to-day activities. While the price of the product had earlier remained low in Nigeria, the subsidy payment has become a conduit through which certain cartel in Nigeria perpetuate fraud. In a 2011 interview granted to a local television station, Muhammadu Buhari, who was seeking election as president, lampooned fuel subsidy payments, calling it a fraud. The former president spent more on fuel subsidy than his three previous predecessors combined, an analysis on a national daily showed. Subsidy payment data compiled from payments recorded by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC) and Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) indicated that the Buhari government may have spent over N11 trillion on petrol subsidies, an amount that could have built several schools, hospitals and is bigger than everything he earmarked for road infrastructure since he took office. A breakdown of petrol subsidy payments shows that Buhari spent N11 trillion, Goodluck Jonathan spent N3.9 trillion, Umaru Yar’Adua spent N794 billion, and Olusegun Obasanjo spent N570 billion from 2005 to 2006, based on available data. According to analysts, that has shown that truly the problem bedeviling Nigeria goes beyond payment of fuel subsidy as even the better administration in the country also pays the same. But the corruption in the petroleum value chain has remained a huge setback for the country, as authorities and the cartel have ensured that nothing works in the sector, including the national refineries. This is in contrast with other countries where petroleum products are subsidized. For example, despite payment of subsidy on fossil fuel, China’s recent wave of refinery expansions has been led by state-run PetroChina and large private firms such as Zhejiang Rongsheng group and Jiangsu Shenghong Petrochemical, mainly to fill a supply gap in petrochemicals rather than transportation fuels. Today, Nigeria’s state-run refineries in Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna are moribund with little or no refining capacity. If they are working and perhaps because of Nigeria’s huge population, the country will spend less in subsidizing petroleum products to the citizens. This is because in many countries, including Nigeria, fuel subsidies are regarded as part of an implicit social contract between citizens and the state but it has not been so in Nigeria. Admittedly, fuel subsidies in Nigeria are sky-high, around N1.8 trillion annually, according to a declaration by NNPCL), that is nearly the combined budget of the Health Ministry and the Ministry of Works and Housing (covering aviation, water resources, transportation, power, works and housing). While this is unacceptable, warranting the constant call for an end to it, the main reason for the call to nip subsidy payment in the bud is because the Nigerian subsidy regime is notoriously corrupt in that it serves vested interests rather than benefits common citizens. The NNPCL earlier admitted that 42 million of the 102 million litres (41.18%) of subsidised petrol for Nigerians’ daily consumption is smuggled out of the country despite the N20 billion invested in technologies to eradicate smuggling. The government had proposed to construct modular refineries in the country for quick refining of fuel but up till now, nothing has been heard of that proposal. Information gathered has it that a construction timeline for a modular refinery from start to production of the first barrel of processed oil is between 15 and 18 months. The question then is why has the approved modular refineries companies not been able to produce after more than four years? Why is the Dangote refinery taking so long to start production? The answers are not far-fetched. It was due to deliberate actions of the regulators of the industrial sector, the NNPCL, and others who are benefiting from the fraud called subsidy because they hid the entire process in secrecy. Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party in the last election, was more critical of the fraud inherent in fuel subsidy. “What they are telling you is not what it is. Half of what is being mentioned is not subsidy. First is that we consume the quantity that is not supposed to be consumed here,” he said.