The crisis rocking the Pan -Yoruba Organisation, Oodua People’s Congress, (OPC) has deepened as the Oyo State Coordinator, Comrade Rotimi Olumo has accused the OPC National Coordinator and Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams of drumming campaign of calumny against him. In a statement issued by the Special Assistant to Olumo, Jelili Ojerinde on Monday, he called on Adams to desist from the campaign of calumny against Olumo who has parted ways with him following the crisis that engulfed the OPC. He accused Gani Adams of using some disgruntled persons to tarnish Olumo’s credible, transparent and honesty image, by saying that he has been mismanaging the affairs of OPC in Oyo State. He described a statement by one Alhaji Muritala Ifawale Adekola that his principal, Comrade Olumo, was using his position to oppress the people of Oyo State, as a sponsored one and a lie from the pit of hell, saying there was no iota of truth in it. Ojerinde said Ifawale Adekola, had ceased to be a member of OPC since 2020, saying Iba Gani Adams is also aware that Adekola is no longer an OPC member. He said part of the reasons Adekola was relieved of his membership of the organisation, was as a result of several allegations including using OPC apparatus to torment the people of Ido Local government Area of Oyo State on land matters. According to Ojerinde, Adekola had been arrested for various criminal cases, capable of denting the image of the OPC, hence his removal. He stated that Adekola who was booted out of the organisation, has no right whatsoever to issue any statement on behalf of OPC, saying this has shown that he is being sponsored by some disgruntled elements within the organisation. POLL He therefore warned Adekola to desist from further tarnishing the image of Olumo, who he said has been coordinating Oyo State OPC diligently to the satisfaction of all residents of the state. He warned that if he ( Adekola) refused to stop the campaign calumny against Olumo, a legal action will be taking against him and his sponsors.