ABUJA – Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Tuesday, dismissed a suit filed by five residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), seeking to stop the May 29, swearing in of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as President of the Fed­eral Republic of Nigeria. The suit marked FHC/ ABJ/CS/578/2023, was filed by Chucks Nwachukwu on behalf of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs are Anyaegbu­nam Ubaka Okoye, David Aon­dover Adzer, Jeffrey Oheobeh Uche, Usang Paul and Chibui­ke Nwachukwu, who sued for themselves and as representing other residents and registered voters of the FCT. Delivering judgment on the suit, Justice Ekwo ordered the plaintiffs’ lawyer, Chuks Nwa­chukwu, to pay N10 million each to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Jus­tice, and the Chief Justice of Ni­geria for constituting an abuse of court process. The court held that it lacked the jurisdiction to entertain the suit because the issue for deter­mination was predicated on election matter, which only the Presidential Election Petition Court can hear. More so, the trial judge stated that the plaintiffs were bereft of the requisite legal right (locus standi) to institute the legal ac­tion, having failed to show that the case is not before Presiden­tial Election Petition Court. Justice Ekwo reasoned that there is no provision of law that gives the court any power to restrain the Chief Justice of Nigeria from discharging his constitutional role. Meantime, the judge took the plaintiffs’ lawyer to the cleaners for making uncom­plimentary comments in the media against the court, saying Chuks Nwachukwu would have been barred from the court if he were to be present. POLL The judge directed that since Nwachukwu was not present in court that the registrar should forward all the processes to the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee to determine wheth­er he is fit to practice the legal profession. Justice Ekwo added that failure of the plaintiffs’ counsel to comply with the court rules demonstrates a contempt of court. It was the opinion of the judge that Chuks Nwachukwu instigated the suit and merely got the plaintiffs to stand in as parties while he handles the suit as a lawyer. In addition, the court noted that Nwachukwu’s act is “un­professional, reckless, frivolity and a complete lack of knowl­edge of elementary principle of law as it relates to the consti­tution and Electoral Act, 2022.” Recall that in the suit filed in May, the plaintiffs had applied for an order, restraining “the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, any other judicial officer and/or any other authority or person from swear­ing in any candidate in the Feb­ruary 25 presidential election as President or Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, until it is judicially determined with finality or in accordance with the provisions of the con­stitution that such candidate has fulfilled the requirement of Section 134(2) (b) of the consti­tution”. The plaintiffs further wanted a declaration that “the plaintiffs and other FCT residents have a legal interest and constitutional rights to be heard on the ques­tion of whether a President-elect must secure at least 25% of votes cast, on the first ballot, in the FCT, Abuja.” They are consequently seek­ing the following reliefs: “a dec­laration that no candidate in the February 25 presidential elec­tion in the country may validly be declared elected President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria without that candidate obtain­ing at least 25% of the votes cast in the FCT, Abuja. “A declaration that no can­didate in the February 25 pres­idential election may validly be sworn in as president and com­mander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, without such candi­date having obtained 25% of the votes cast in FCT, Abuja. “A declaration that following the February 25 presidential election and until a successor is determined in accordance with the provisions of the constitu­tion and sworn in, the term of office of his Excellency, Muham­madu Buhari, GCON, as Presi­dent and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Fed­eral Republic of Nigeria subsists and endures in accordance with the provisions of Section 135 (1) (a) of the Constitution. “An order setting aside or suspending any declaration and/or issuance of a certificate of return to any candidate in the February 25 presidential election in the country as having been elected, save and except it is judicially determined with final­ity that such candidate fulfilled the conditions stated in Section 134(2) (b) of the constitution”.