Veteran singer, Charles Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy is set to drag Premier Records Limited to court for vio­lating their terms of agreement in a musical contract signed about 35 years ago. According to information from the singer’s lawyer, Char­ly Boy had signed Recording Contracts with the company in 1988, 1990 and also recently. However, the popular singer is alleging that the contracts he signed have since expired, yet Premier Records Limited is breaching his copyrights to the musical works. A legal document by Rockson Legal, representatives of Charly Boy, which was dated 19th June 2023 and signed by Rockson Ig­elige, Premier Records Limited has 30 days to hand over our master tapes, artworks, promo collateral for the music and oth­er relevant and confidential in­formation with the company to Charly Boy or face legal action. Igelige listed the albums af­fected to include the ‘1990’ album containing songs like ‘Big Bot­tom’, ‘Aids’, ‘Sexy Lady’, ‘Mama’, and ‘Nwata Miss’. Also affected is the album titled ‘U-Turn’ with songs like ‘Akula’, ‘Sheri’, ‘Comfort’, ‘Civilian Barrack’, and ‘Akula’ Instrumental. Igelige noted that the album titled ‘Reality’ which contains songs such as ‘Monkey’, ‘Fam­ily Support’, ‘No.6 Man’, ‘Give Mv Life’, ‘Lagos Life’, and ‘Baby Come Back’ was also affected. On behalf of Charly Boy, the legal practitioners are also demanding the payment of outstanding royalties due to the popular singer from Premier Re­cords Limited within the given ultimatum. “We are legal practitioners for Charles Emeka Oputa also known by his stage name as “Charly Boy” (our Client) and we write this letter on our cli­ent’s instructions. Our client informed us that the terms of the Artists Recording contracts he entered with your company as Polydor Record in 1988, and as (Polygram Records Limited) in 1990, and as (Premier Records Limited) subsequently, have ended by expiration of time. “In this wise, we have our client’s instructions to formal­ly inform your company to stop a further breach of our client’s copyrights to the musical works under the music albums and single(s) produced during the aforesaid expired contract peri­od, especially as the condition precedent, as well as the consid­eration for the contracts, were not met and furnished,” Igelige stated. POLL He further noted that fur­ther breach after the receipt of his letter from Premier Records will attract legal action.