Quite an eventful week it’s been. And the prize for the most significant event of the week goes to workers’ pro­test against FG’s withdrawal of fuel subsidy and the almost immediate but ridiculous N537-550 per litre price imposition by the NNPCL. When fuel queues erupted on Tuesday, I had thought another lockdown was immi­nent. So crazy was the panic that set in. The thought of 400 percent hike in transport fare and food prices was scary, and you could see it in the faces of people everywhere. Of course, it’s already happening but some hope has started creeping in, it seems, since the Nigeria Labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress rose to the occasion – as usual. But regardless of the hope being bred in the minds of some Nigerians by government’s promises, I know that harder times are here for most Nigerians. You can depend on this. You see, it never gets better – only worse – whenever and wherever builders begin the building from the rooftop. Everything that ought to have been done before the withdrawal of the sleazy subsidy was systematical­ly neglected. In the last two decades when every government found it nec­essary to complain about the cost of subsidizing fuel imports, none took the necessity of refining oil here in Nigeria seriously. Yet, they had all the time in the world to do this. As the cost of fuel subsidy tightened like a noose around the neck of the econ­omy, the Federal Government never thought it necessary to try the several suggestions, including allowing the emergence of modular refineries, which have been made by Nigerians knowledgeable in the field on how to ramp up local refining of crude – a technology which experts claim is not rocket science. Government offi­cials never considered the matter to be urgent yet they were not averse to complaining about the financial im­plications of importing the refined products. It never ceases to amaze me that Nigerian governments would be comfortable spending billions of Nai­ra on Turn-Around-Maintenance of the nation’s four refineries continu­ously and paying the redundant staff without getting anything from them. Why keep them if they’re only mon­ey-guzzlers? Why, on the other hand, have the relevant authorities refused to license smaller refineries that av­erage investors could set up and fill the gap left by the big-for-nothing refineries established by the Feder­al Government? Some experts talk of environmental hazards, but what extraordinary environmental haz­ards does a multiplicity of small fuel refining companies pose to the earth and man that oil exploration and ex­ploitation are not already inflicting? We often think the only way to attain abundance is through the setting up of elephantine projects – that mental­ity that has hindered us up till now from fully deregulation the power subsector. Crude oil can be refined by small companies with requisite expertise in different localities just as electricity can also be produced and supplied by specialized companies in their localities – behemoths are inef­ficient. But we refuse to understand this and so would not free the space. Of course, this is what is acceptable to the Nigerian bureaucratic obses­sion. This would just have been okay if the cost of the inefficiency at the top didn’t have to be borne by the al­ready over-exploited masses. Now, for failing to try all the plausi­ble options of refining adequate fuel for local production, the same privi­leged class is yet again calling upon the perpetual occupiers of the lower rungs of the social ladder to tighten their belts until they are strangulated and buried with ignominy. The com­mon man is the perpetual sacrificial lamb always. He is the one that will be admonished to bear the cost of priv­ileged opportunism and indolence with equanimity – for the love of country. Don’t Nigerian leaders ever get tired of pushing the impoverished to the wall? My concern is that whatever hap­pens at the end of the negotiations between the Federal Government and workers’ union, there is a large segment of the society that won’t benefit from it: artisans and other self-employed who are daily try­ing to eke out a living in one of the harshest economic environments in the world today. I have deliberately omitted the group of unemployed who, it would seem, are going to be classified as dependants irrespective of their family status. Altogether, we have a large segment of struggling poor whose life will get more dreary on account of government’s actions. The wretched of the earth. They are now going to be deprived of a sizeable part of their once-a-day meal because they will have to forgo meat or fish in their soup – those little sources of protein which must now be surren­dered to the whims of the times as luxuries. But no one has any thought for them because they don’t have an organized union. Workers do – espe­cially those in the public service and the organized private sector. So, when the government talks of cushioning the effects of their rash decisions, they have in mind just such people who can organize themselves and stampede the government into reviewing their actions under for­midable umbrellas such as the NLC and TUC. For instance, Tinubu, on May Day, had promised Nigerian workers that he would offer more than minimum wage to them. When he stated this, he already knew that they were going to meet soon after his inauguration. Recall his words: “In Nigeria, I shall have the honour and privilege to lead from May 29. Workers will have more than a minimum wage. You will have a living wage to have a decent life and provide for your family. “The days ahead will, however, demand better understanding and cooperation from all sides, because leadership will require that we take tough and hard decisions so that our people and all Nigerian workers can live more abundantly.” POLL Now, what happens to barbers, bricklayers, and painters who cannot increase their service charge for fear of losing patronage despite a 400 per cent increase in transport fare and foodstuff? What happens to messen­gers, cleaners and teachers in slum schools who get paid N30,000 monthly. What happens to gatemen and clean­ers in small offices who get N20,000 at the end of every month. These peo­ple may not get wage increase even if workers in bigger places get. So, how will their life be when govern­ment’s ‘generosity’ does not reach them? The government apparently doesn’t know that such people exist. What promise could possibly be made to such people? Have you realized that President Tinubu is unperturbed by the fury from workers’ unions? No, he’s not. He is familiar with the back-and-forth and all the traditional stomping be­fore nothing. He knows how it will all end. In fact, he has rehearsed it all be­fore the swearing-in date. He has his garland of promises intended to pad the impact of the inevitable twirls to come. Mind you, everything will at­tract higher prices. So, some public transit buses will be generously or­dered. Some big politicians will ben­efit from those contracts. That takes care of transport fare spirals. Then, minimum wage increase – 50% or more, maybe. That takes care of the increased bills and stomach issues. The naira will gain a little worth­lessness as a result of government’s generosity even though some obscure labourers in some dingy set-ups – in­deed more than half of the workers in private concerns – won’t benefit from the larger pay packet. But they will pay the same fare to commute to workplaces and buy food in the same market. To be candid, I think stampeded wage increases are just as retrogres­sive as fuel subsidy withdrawal is brainless. In my submission, then, I will describe President Tinubu’s with­drawal of subsidy as a very lazy de­cision because it lacks creativity. It was handed over to him as the only possible solution by those who lacked the will to implement it. Tinubu could have embarked on an aggressive pro­gramme of crude oil refining in the country in the next one year while gradually backing down from fuel import without having to further sink the poorest nation on earth into greater hopelessness. Nigeria won’t be better off even if the people pay higher prices for fuel until we begin to produce our own refined products. Not much will happen as long as we remain import-dependent. Tinubu ought to have known that and focus more on the development of the productive channels rather than accept to be railroaded into a diabolic conspiracy against the helpless segment of the Nigerian society. After subsidy, what next will the government withdraw? Estacodes? Security Votes? Oh, why not? Since it’s a season of belt-tightening, all must be involved. It is not right that only the downtrodden should make sacrifices for Nigeria. So, let’s hear what political office holders are ready to forfeit in service to dear nation.