What is a hydrocele? — A hydrocele is a buildup of fluid inside the scrotum. The scrotum is the skin sac that holds the testicles. Hydroceles are common in newborn baby boys. They usually go away by the time the baby is 1 year old. Older boys and adult men can also get hydroceles. How prevalent is hydrocele in Africa? Adult hydrocele is a very common urological disease in most of the sub-Saharan African countries, with a reported incidence of up to 20–28% in some lymphatic filariasis endemic communities. What is the main cause of hydrocele? A hydrocele can form due to an injury. Or it can form because of a type of swelling, called inflammation, within the scrotum. Inflammation might be caused by an infection in the testicle or in the small, coiled tube at the back of each testicle. What are the symptoms of a hydrocele? POLL — A hydrocele usually does not cause symptoms, except when it gets very large. When it does, the symptoms can include: Pain or discomfort in the scrotum Feeling as though the scrotum is heavy or full Swelling or irritation in the skin around the scrotum What fluid is in a hydrocele? A hydrocele is a collection of peritoneal fluid between the parietal and visceral layers of the tunica vaginalis, which directly surrounds the testis and spermatic cord. What happens if the hydrocele is left untreated? If a communicating hydrocele doesn’t go away on its own or doesn’t receive treatment, it can cause an inguinal hernia. If you have an inguinal hernia, part of your intestine or intestinal fat pushes through an opening (inguinal canal) in the groin area. Is there a test for a hydrocele? — Yes. Tests include: Light test – Your doctor can shine a powerful light on the area of your scrotum where there is a swelling. If the light passes through, it means nothing solid is blocking the light. The fluid in a hydrocele does not block the light, so if the light goes through that, it is good proof that the swelling is a hydrocele. Ultrasound – This test uses sound waves to create pictures of the inside of the body. An ultrasound can tell the doctor if you have a hydrocele or a different condition. How is a hydrocele treated? — Treatment depends on what caused the hydrocele and what symptoms it causes. Treatment is not always necessary. Some hydroceles go away on their own. Depending on your age, symptoms, and type of hydrocele, you might not need treatment. If a baby has a hydrocele that does not go away by age 1, he will probably need surgery to remove the fluid or the sac that holds it. To remove the hydrocele, a surgeon makes a cut in the scrotum or lower stomach area, hydrocelectomy. Sometimes, a hydrocele is found during surgery to repair an inguinal hernia. In this case, the surgeon might remove the hydrocele even if it’s causing no discomfort. What is the danger of hydroceles? Hydroceles are usually not dangerous, and they are usually only treated when they cause discomfort or embarrassment, or they get so large that they threaten the blood supply of the testicle. What is a complicated hydrocele? Complex hydrocele: Complicated fluid, which may be due to blood (hematocele) or pus (pyocele)  Older children, usually with history of trauma, infection, testicular torsion, or malignancy. Can a hydrocele be cancerous? If you are unable to feel your testicle, it could mean you have a swelling of the scrotum known as a hydrocele. As with any sudden change, you should contact your doctor. Although not normally suggestive of cancer, a sudden onset of a hydrocele could indicate testicular cancer. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies in the United States of America. He is a Harvard Medical School scholar, and he is affiliated with Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas, Texas. He specializes in Internal medicine, Acute care and Emergency Medicine, Geriatrics, Psychiatry, and Surgical services.