Sperm are produced and released by the male reproductive organs. The testes are where sperm are produced. The testes are linked to the rest of the male reproductive organs by the vas deferens, which extend over the base of the pelvic bone or ilium and wrap around the ampulla, seminal vesicle, and prostate. The urethra then runs from the bladder through the penis. Semen is the milky fluid that a man’s penis releases during orgasm. Sometimes the sperm cannot travel effectively to meet the egg. Semen consists of fluid and sperm. The fluid comes from the prostate gland, the seminal vesicle, and other sex glands. The sperm is produced in the testicles. When a man ejaculates and releases semen through the penis, the seminal fluid, or semen, helps transport the sperm toward the egg. The following problems are possible: Low sperm count: The man ejaculates a low number of sperm. A sperm count of fewer than 15 million is considered low. Around one-third of couples have difficulty conceiving due to a low sperm count. Low sperm mobility (motility): The sperm cannot “swim” as well as they should to reach the egg. Abnormal sperm: The sperm may have an unusual shape, making it harder to move and fertilize an egg. POLL If the sperm do not have the right shape, or they cannot travel rapidly and accurately towards the egg, conception may be difficult. Up to 2 percent of men are thought to have suboptimal sperm. Abnormal semen may not be able to carry the sperm effectively. Causes A medical condition: This could be a testicular infection, cancer, or surgery. Overheated testicles: Causes include an undescended testicle, a varicocele, or varicose vein in the scrotum, the use of saunas or hot tubs, wearing tight clothes, and working in hot environments. Ejaculation disorders: If the ejaculatory ducts are blocked, semen may be ejaculated into the bladder. Hormonal imbalance: Hypogonadism, for example, can lead to testosterone deficiency. What you should know about retrograde ejaculation What you should know about retrograde ejaculation Retrograde ejaculation is when the semen goes the wrong way, into the bladder. Genetic factors: A man should have an X and Y chromosome. If he has two X chromosomes and one Y chromosome, as in Klinefelter’s syndrome, the testicles will develop abnormally and there will be low testosterone and a low sperm count or no sperm. Mumps: If this occurs after puberty, inflammation of the testicles may affect sperm production. Hypospadias: The urethral opening is under the penis, instead of its tip. This abnormality is usually surgically corrected in infancy. If the correction is not done, it may be harder for the sperm to get to the female’s cervix. Hypospadias affects about 1 in every 500 newborn boys. Cystic fibrosis: This is a chronic disease that results in the creation of sticky mucus. This mucus mainly affects the lungs, but males may also have missing or obstructed vas deferens. The vas deferens carry sperm from the epididymis to the ejaculatory duct and the urethra. Radiation therapy: This can impair sperm production. The severity usually depends on how near to the testicles the radiation was aimed. Causative Diseases: Conditions that are sometimes linked to lower fertility in males are anemia, Cushing’s syndrome, diabetes, and thyroid disease. Medications increase the risk of fertility problems in men. Sulfasalazine: This anti-inflammatory drug can significantly lower a man’s sperm count. It is often prescribed for Crohn’s disease or rheumatoid arthritis. Sperm count often returns to normal after stopping the medication. Anabolic steroids: Popular with bodybuilders and athletes, long-term use can seriously reduce sperm count and mobility. Chemotherapy: Some types may significantly reduce sperm count. Illegal drugs: Consumption of marijuana and cocaine can lower sperm count. Age: Male fertility starts to fall after 40 years. Exposure to chemicals: Pesticides, for example, may increase the risk. Excess alcohol consumption: This may lower male fertility. Moderate alcohol consumption has not been shown to lower fertility in most men, but it may affect those who already have a low sperm count. Overweight or obesity: This may reduce the chance of conception. Mental stress: Stress can be a factor, especially if it leads to reduced sexual activity.