LAGOS – Ethiopian Airlines said it would offer advanced, high-speed inflight broadband to passengers onboard its upcoming Airbus A350-1000 aircraft, with GX Aviation provided by Inmarsat. A statement by the media consultant to the airline in Nigeria, said that as one of the launching airlines for inflight connectivity (IFC) through Airbus’ HBCplus programme, the airline would benefit from a more streamlined, efficient order process that would ensure its latest aircraft met the rapidly growing passenger demand to stay connected while flying. Inmarsat’s latest Passenger Experience Survey found out that 97 per cent of respondents use their personal devices on flights for entertainment, such as streaming movies and TV shows, keeping up with work, and to stay in touch with family and friends. In addition, 82 per cent of passengers are more likely to rebook with an airline that offers quality inflight Wi-Fi. The first of Ethiopian Airlines’ Airbus A350-1000 aircraft is set to be delivered in the Q3 of 2024, with passengers able to benefit from GX Aviation’s world-class connectivity technology. This, the statement said, supports the airline’s Vision 2035 Strategy, which focuses on expanding its fleets, enhancing its passenger experience and maintaining its leading position in the airline industry. Commenting on the new service, Mr. Mesfin Tasew, Ethiopian Airlines Group Chief Executive Officer, said that the airline was endeavour to maintain its position as Africa’s number one and among the leading airlines globally. He emphasised that the management knew one of the key success factors was giving its passengers the best possible onboard experience, stressing that connectivity was a crucial part of its services and products. POLL “And bringing Inmarsat’s best-in-class GX Aviation service to our passengers, as part of Airbus’ HBCplus programme, is a major step forward. We want to give our passengers the possibility to stream, surf, and chat from thousands of feet in the air, no matter where their route or destination is. “Inmarsat’s seamless, truly global inflight connectivity will be vital to deliver this. We look forward to a very successful partnership with Inmarsat and Airbus, now and in the years to come.” Also, Niels Steenstrup, President, Inmarsat Aviation, said the company was selected as the first managed services provider (MSP) for the Airbus HBCplus programme last year, with a scope that included connectivity, digital portal services and ISP capability. “The fact that we have already been selected by two leading airlines is a great achievement and we are excited about delivering our award-winning GX Aviation inflight broadband to Ethiopian Airlines’ passengers starting from next year. “This will enable them to stream videos, browse the internet, shop online, enjoy social media and more, all from the comfort of their seats and using their personal devices,” he added. Andre Schneider, Airbus VP Cabin and Cargo Programme, expressed delight that Ethiopian Airlines had selected its agnostic and flexible high-bandwidth connectivity solution – HBCplus. He pointed out that this was a further endorsement from its valued airline customers of the confidence they placed in Airbus to devise and integrate enhanced inflight capabilities for their passengers to experience.