LAGOS – Norfund, the Norwegian Investment Fund for developing countries, through an investment of USD $12 million in OH Ecosystems Ltd (“Eco”), aims to create jobs in Nigeria, while contributing to addressing some of the challenges in the cocoa value chain. OH Ecosystems Ltd (“Eco”) builds and operates cocoa processing and confectionery businesses on the African continent. Eco has successfully acquired a majority stake in FTN Cocoa Processors PLC (“FTN”)—a publicly traded company based in Ibadan, Nigeria. With 20,000 metric tons of installed capacity, FTN transforms cocoa beans into semi-finished products (cocoa liquor, butter and powder) for commercialisation to global and local clients. Prior to this investment, FTN had been dormant and underutilised for several years. Norfund’s investment will upgrade FTN’s operating facilities and extend its reach to produce and sell additional products into the cocoa supply chain. Eco is supported by established leaders in the global cocoa chain including Niche Cocoa Industry Ltd, Africa’s largest indigenous cocoa processor, who will serve as technical partner. At 4 million metric tons per year, West Africa produces more than 75% of the world’s cocoa. In 2021 Nigeria produced 290,000MTs, ranking 4th behind Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, and Cameroon. Unfortunately, more than 70% of West Africa’s cocoa is exported as raw material with no significant value addition. POLL Norfund’s investment directly supports the increase of local, value-added transformation leading to quality job creation, local tax revenues, and foreign exchange for West Africa’s cocoa-producing countries. The investment furthers Norfund’s strategy to help create sustainable, scalable businesses in Sub-Saharan Africa that promote value addition at origin. Obafemi Awobokun, Investment Manager at Norfund, said: “Increasing the share of raw materials that are processed locally can create a large number of jobs that give the fast-growing population of Nigeria the opportunity to work their way out of poverty, and we are confident that this investment can contribute to this,” “We are thankful for Norfund’s partnership as we focus on building out value-add production in Nigeria. Having partners who are aligned over the long-term on both the financial and social impact of our work is extremely important. Together, we can contribute to Nigeria’s agricultural manufacturing with a focus on financial sustainability for farmers in the value chain”, says Nathaniel Durant, Managing Director of Eco. “This is a strategic alliance come through that will help FTN sew up her pursuit of conversion of cocoa beans, job creation, contribution to the economic diversification goals of the government, delivering value to stakeholders and actualising the vision of being a global player”, says Akin Laoye, Managing Director of FTN.