YOLA – Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has extended his felicitations to citizens of Adamawa State on the occasion of Democracy Day celebrations. The Governor who expressed delight over Nigeria’s unbroken democracy since the return to civil rule in 1999, described it as the triumph of freedom. “Twenty-seven years ago, we witnessed a scene that had once seemed impossible. An election where, for the first time, the people of this nation had a choice-unanimously agreeing to ensure democracy thrives.”Governor Fintiri noted that though it was thwarted, 1999 saw a new beginning as the event turned out to be a landslide victory for freedom as it ushered in the beginning of the end of military rule. He said “And we have seen the extraordinary progress since that time. As Nigeria today is standing tall as proud democracies.” While describing Adamawa as a peaceful State, he regretted the ugly happenings of the Adamawa election where some elements tried to subvert the will of the people. He commended the resilience of those who stood to preserve democracy by ensuring the right thing is done. “We must never forget that the spark for so much of this revolution, this blossoming of hope, was lit by you, the people of Adamawa. It was the culmination of the struggles of those who rose up and finally won and those who resisted the enemies of democracy. History will remember you for standing for the truth. You are our heroes of democracy.” The Governor said. POLL Rt. Hon. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri noted that democracy is more than just elections. “True democracy, real prosperity, lasting security — these are neither simply given, nor imposed from the outside. They must be earned and built from within.”As we celebrate democracy day let us continue to persevere and keep hope alive in a Nigeria of our dreams. “This is the Nigeria we celebrate today. The free and democratic nation that our forebears and some who are here today dreamed of and fought for and, in some cases, died for.” While commending the spirit of oneness exhibited by Nigerians 27 years ago, Governor Fintiri urged for a return to that kind of spirit where a projected 14 million Nigerians – ignored tribe, religion, class, sectional propensity and even harsh conditions to elect their president with the hope of instituting representative governance and enjoying the dividends of democracy; a process that was, however, tragically annulled. “It was more than the date of an election. It is indicative of the collective aspiration of Nigerians to enjoy the dividends of democracy and create a better life for themselves.” Governor Fintiri said that the people must learn to imbibe that spirit they were once known for and put away sentiments and see themselves first as Nigerians for the much-needed change. Meanwhile, in commemoration of the 2023 Democracy Day, Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has granted pardon to two prisoners in the state. The Governor said the inmates were granted pardons based on their good conduct right from the different dates of their convictions. He said, “In the spirit of the 2023 Democracy Day, and in the exercise of the powers conferred on me as Governor in Section 212 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic Of Nigeria 1999 (As Amended). After due consultation with the State Advisory Council on Prerogative of Mercy, I have granted various categories of pardon to two prisoners for their good conduct. The two Prisoners as aforementioned should have the remainder of their sentences remitted whole.” The Governor listed the concerned persons who are at the Medium Security Custodial Centre including; Adeolu Adumjobi and Ibrahim Babale.