ABUJA – The South-South Solidarity Group(SSSG) has alleged that some contestants for the 10th Senate leadership have bought “a whole housing estate in Abuja ostensibly to bribe Senators-Elect to vote for them.” Mr. Peter Ikpan Ilefa, Convener of the SSSG, raised the alarm on Saturday at a media briefing in Abuja. Ilefa said the Group, which is the umbrella body of all socio-political organisations in the South-South region of Nigeria, had discovered the plan being orchestrated by some contestants to bribe Senators-elect with houses, noting that such defiant move by these contestants undermines and negates the decision of All Progressives Congress(APC) to cede the position of the 10th Senate Presidency to the South-South region. Ilefa therefore called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission(EFCC), the Nigeria Police Force and the Directorate of the State Security to swing into in-depth investigations into the “huge threat against the sanctity of our National Assembly by a handful of persons” who indulge in this inglorious and despicable act. According to him,” When found wanting, they should be immediately reined in and taken before the law for their inordinate ambition to compromise the integrity of the hallowed chamber. “No amount of inducement can make this category of Senators-elect to fall for such a greek-gift.” The South-South Solidarity Group(SSSG), which is also a political support group for Senator Godswill Akpabio and Sen. Jibrin Barau 10th Senate leadership, appealed to other contestants jostling for the same positions to step down and support the consensus candidate of the APC for the interest of peace and respect to the leadership of the Party led by President Bola Tinubu. Ilefa said:”Today is the turn of Akpabio and Barau, tomorrow could be the turn of any of them. POLL “Anything short of stepping down would mean fragrant disrespect to Mr. President who is determined to serve Nigeria by building a team he feels will complement his drive for a better and prosperous Nigeria. “For the purpose of National solidarity, we call on Senators Yari, Orji and Osita to step down and support the consensus candidate of the APC.” Speaking further on the qualities of Senator Godswill Akpabio, the Group said Akpabio has demonstrated immense competence in the management of human affairs, assuring that Akpabio would bring to bear his competence, capacity and character to the leadership of the 10th Senate. According to him, “Senator Akpabio has relentlessly been in the Vanguard of uplifting humanity all his life and examples abound in Akwa Ibom State where he led his people out of “Egypt” to the promised land of massive infrastructural development, superlative medical facilities, educational growth, cutting down insecurity to manageable level and writing the name of the State in the map of one of the fastest infrastructurally developing states in the country.” Also speaking, the Leader of the SSSG, Sunday Onyewonsa, said the Group would continue to lend support to Senator Akpabio and Barau quest for the 10th Senate leadership, as the President and Deputy President respectively. Onyewonsa pointed out that Akpabio, if elected, would complement the efforts of Mr. President to move the country forward and guarantee the stability of the country in all facets. In his remarks, Muktar Dahiru Gora, a representative of Senator Barau, revealed that already that 72 Senators-elect have thrown their weights behind Senators Akpabio and Barau. Gora therefore, pleaded with senators-elect to shun all forms of monetary and material inducements and vote rather for competence, justice, and fairness when they would be electing the Senate leadership in June 13, 2023.