Gracious Akintayo, a Gospel Minister, Publisher and Chief Editorial Officer of Providence News, a faith-based publication, in this exclusive piece for Sunday Independent, wrote on the morale decadence in the Nigerian society Many parents, home, family, religious organisations, media and the society tainted by immoral celebrities, have been much more interested in clout chasing than promoting core values, character, morals, discipline and fear of God into the children of today. We exposed our children to all manners of deceit, lies and corruptible practices with pampering in the name of the jet age and civilisation. Every parent, home, family, tribes and the society have one way or the other, ignorantly sowing seeds of lies, discord and hatred into the life and future of their children indirectly. Thereby, we are breeding confused generations and a crisis-ridden future. The present youths are going in the wrong direction, instead of rebuking, correcting and admonishing them, we give flimsy excuses and unreasonable reasons to defend them, cheering and applauding them to continue. In today’s society, there is no more character value. Discipline has been eroded and morals with the fear of God have been replaced with demented character, gross indiscipline, immoral behaviours and unethical religion that lack the fear of God. Divorce, broken homes, marital and relationship separation are shamelessly becoming a way of life and pride that are being publicly POLL applauded and celebrated than happy marriage and harmonious home. The slangs like ‘Baby Mama’, ‘Single Mother’, ‘Co-parenting’, ‘Single Father’, ‘Side Chicks’, ‘Crossdressing’, ‘Transgender’, among others are irresponsibly and erroneously becoming trends and being promoted, encouraged and hyped in the media to the detriment of godly character, moral and cultural values for our better society. Some parents go extra miles, openly celebrating and promoting corruptible practices, knowing full well that what they are actually celebrating are purchased. They even bribe their way to get results for the examination and graduation of their children. Parents fail to tell the youths the truth about life, pampering the children, instead of instilling discipline in them when they go wrong. Failure to be rebuking, correcting and admonishing them will backfire and this will be regretted later. Bigotry, ethnicity and religion are the fruit of bad seed sown in the future generations and the result is the germinating fruit we see spreading to practically determine our supposed collective harmonious and glorious destinies with merit buried into the dark. Not minding the cost, sacrifice and pains, to have an expected and hopeful society with a sanitised future and better environment, we must begin to sharply correct, admonish and punish our children for wrong doings.