P/HARCOURT. – Chief of Accounts and Budget, Nigerian Army, Major General Adetokumbo Fayemiwo has charged personnel of finance officers of 6 Division Nigerian Army Port Harcourt to see training as a tool for developing proficiency and proactive personnel in the work force. Major General Fayemiwo, who made this known while declaring open Six Division Nigerian Army Port Harcourt Finance and Accounts training week, noted that training enhances accountability, reduces wastage and increases prudent management of scarce resources. Fayemiwo who revealed that similar training has been scheduled to take place in other divisions across the country, added that some officers have also embarked on training tour to United States of America and United Kingdom. He described training as the only sure route to attain professionalism in the Military. In the same vein, General Officer Commanding (GOC), Six Division Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, Major General Jamal Abdussalam stressed the importance of training in grooming personnel ready to defend the nation’s territorial integrity. “Training remains the key to unlocking the potentials of our personnel. It is only through training that we can collectively achieve the mission of the Chief of Army Staff which is to have a professional Nigerian Army ready to sccomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defence of Nigeria.” Abdussalam observed with pleasure that the effort of the military has been instrumental in the increase in oil production in the Niger Delta region in recent times. “The doggedness and unwavering commitment of personnel of 6 Division in the face of daunting security challenges in the South – South is highly impressive. Recently released data from the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission indicates that Nigeria’s crude oil output grew by 185,000 barrels per day to hit 1.185 million per day for the month of May.” The GOC charged participants to leverage on the opportunity to develop capacity for a successful career. POLL On his part, the Commander, Six Division Finance and Accounts, Brigadier General Garba Mohammed while giving details of the programme, said that the training was to equip the soldiers with needed financial knowledge to be all round professionals. He noted that technocrats were engaged to expose participants to various areas in financial management. The theme of the training was enhancing the capacity of Six Division Finance personnel to be proactive and proficient in delivering financial services. Some of the topics of the training Include, rendition of various accounts to reflect accountability of all the receipts from higher authority, safeguard of information cum handling of classified documents, social media and its negative effects on the society as well as drug abuse and its impact on the health of personnel.