ENUGU – Enugu State governor, Dr. Peter Mbah, has commended civil servants, transporters, the business community and other institutions in the state for their significant compliance with the government’s directive ending the Monday sit-at-home order. This was even as he put the compliance level at about 70 percent, expressing hope of total compliance on subsequent Mondays. The Governor stated these during the monitoring of compliance to government directives by government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), and markets, among others, restating the government’s resolve to secure lives and property. Ministries and offices visited included the Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Capital Territory, Ministry of Inter-Ministerial Affairs and Special Duties, Ministry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Lands, Ministry of Finance, Office of the Accountant-General, Office of the Head of Service, Office of the Surveyor-General, among others, where he was received by the civil servants and heads of MDAs. Mbah also visited several markets, including the Akwata section of Ogbete Market, and Mayor Market situate along Agbani Road, among others, where he was warmly received by happy traders and their leaders. Mbah said productivity was key to all the promises he made to the people to drive investment inflow into the state, create jobs, and provide quality services. He reminded the people that the power and mandate belonged to them, hence they should never allow people, who had no stake in the state’s economy to undermine the peace and prosperity of the Enugu State. POLL Our correspondent who monitored the situation reports that while some traders and transporters defiled the sit at home to carry out their Monday business, some public institutions like ministries and offices still run skeletal duties as most workers are yet to resume while most schools still remain shut A trader at Artisan market who spoke to our correspondent, Chidinma Ugwu expressed optimism that the sit-at-home will soon fade away. She said “We thank Governor Mbah for this move as live is gradually returning to Monday activities, though some people are still afraid to come out due to fear of attack but with the level of security on ground and the governor’s commitment, I am sure next week Monday will witness more turn around’ she said Speaking with newsmen after the monitoring exercise, Mbah, he said: “The primary objective of my visitations is largely to observe the level of compliance of the directive that we gave last week, declaring that we do not have sit-at-home in Enugu henceforth. The directive was meant to ensure that our people come out on the first working and productive day of the week. “We do have a compliance level of about 60 to 70 percent; and the order took effect from today. I am aware the circular to this effect was sent out on Friday. It may well be that not all the workers got the information that we no longer have sit-at-home on Mondays. “Whether we succeed or fail in ending sit-at-home, we do that together as Enugu people. If we succeed, our collective success means we can rise together against intimidation. It is not anybody’s or government’s success. We need to take collective responsibility for our decision. “But the truth is that everything we have promised our people in Enugu is anchored on getting the flow of private sector investments into our state; and the private sector cannot come into a state where the people are not productive. The private sector thrives on big markets and a vibrant workforce. “So, our people are known by their hard work, by their industry and commerce. So, we cannot have people, who kill these spirits in our people and dictate to us the day we should go to work and the day we should sit at home. “We have to revive that spirit of hard work and culture of commerce and industry that our people are known for. We want to reinstate that; and that is exactly what we are doing”. Mbah assured the people of government’s commitment to the security of lives and property every other day of the week, Mondays inclusive. “Security of lives and property is essentially the oath we took and that is at the top of our priorities. We must ensure the safety of our people. And we have also said repeatedly that our people should go about their businesses. “Let it not ever be heard that we are going to be listening to people, who do not stake in our economy and social welfare dictate to us when we must come out to work. It should not be heard of. “Think about it, we are here today because we got the mandate of the people. So, could you then have somebody make you inferior without your consent? Someone you have not given your mandate to lead you tells you to sit down and, somehow, you begin to sit at home. And he tells you to go, and you begin to go. That should not be acceptable. It actually undermines our dignity as a people and we shouldn’t endorse that”, Mbah declared.