LAGOS – A new report by Glovo, the multi-category delivery app, has revealed that compared to 2021, burger consumption in Nigeria has grown by 4,928%, making it the biggest increase globally in 2022. The report which was released in recognition of International Burger Day celebrated globally on May 28, 2023 also revealed that in 2022, 62 burgers were ordered per day in Nigeria. Insights revealed that burgers are a lunch option for Nigerians as almost 50% of the daily consumption of burgers was ordered between 12h to 15h, with the peak time at 14:00h. In this same time slot (12-15h), 88% more burgers were delivered in Nigeria than the global average. Lorenzo Mayol, General Manager for Glovo Nigeria, while speaking said: “Burgers are one of the most popular foods in the world and for good reason. They are fast, inexpensive, and tasty and it is no surprise that the average consumption growth rate is the highest globally at 4,928%, highlighting the exponential rise in the popularity of burgers in Nigeria. “We are glad to support and provide a digital platform for chains and SMEs offering this meal option to consumers which in turn contributes to the overall consumption growth rate in this market.”, December was the month with the highest consumption of burgers in Nigeria, which can be attributed to the festive season. Lagos State ranked first in cities where most burger units were delivered in 2022 with Lagos Mainland and Island representing 50% & 38% of the yearly consumption. The report also revealed that Wednesday is the favorite day for Nigerians to eat burgers. On average, the weekly consumption trend consists of increasing growth until Wednesday, then declining and plummeting at the weekend with the lowest consumption. In Nigeria, the weekend accounts for 39% of consumption (Friday-Sunday). This is interesting as it is just the opposite of the overall trend where the highest consumption is concentrated at the weekend (51%), especially on Sunday. POLL Beef, chicken, and suya flavored burgers are favorites across the nation. Partners who delivered the most burgers in 2022 include Sweet Sensation, Chicken Republic, KFC, Suya Brothers, Boga Masta, Kobis and Sooyah Bistro. Globally, Glovo has delivered more than 70 million burgers in 2022. Glovo is a pioneering multi-category app connecting users with businesses, and couriers, offering on-demand services from local restaurants, grocers and supermarkets, and high street retail stores. Glovo’s vision is to give everyone easy access to everything within their city, so that our users can enjoy what they want, when they want, where they want. Founded in 2015 in Barcelona, it operates across 25 countries in Europe, Central Asia and Africa.