Engr. Emmanuel lgbini was a two-time governorship candidate in Delta State. The human rights activist in this interview with ISAAC ASABOR, speaks about Nigeria’s politics, corruption in fuel subsidy, the welfare of Nigerians, and other issues. Excerpts: As a chieftain of the Peoples Redemption Party, (PRP), what is your reaction to the emergence of Bola Tinubu as the President of Nigeria? I am so excited. I see the beginning of rising again for our beloved country and Nigerians. My long-held belief that Nigeria shall overcome and rise again is sure to come to reality. I have never been this optimistic since May 29, 1999, except when Umaru Musa Yar Adua emerged as President in the year 2007. Sadly, we lost him to death. I pray his soul continues to rest in Peace with Almighty God. But it is on record that prior to the emergence of Bola Tinubu as the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), you were strongly advocating for a Southerner who must be a Christian Yes, it is true, I did. This is in line with my over 25 years of consistent and unrepentant advocacy and struggles for equal ownership, belonging, and duty to Nigeria by all geographical zones of Nigeria. It is to guarantee our collective commitment to building and advancing our country to the enviable height that God destines it to be. In other words, I am for rotation and zoning of certain critical political offices at federal, state, and local government levels. And you now support Tinubu who is a Southern Muslim? It was initially very difficult for me to accept that Tinubu emerged as the candidate of APC having earlier been unhappy that the People Democratic Party (PDP) produced Atiku as its candidate which meant retaining the presidency in the north for straight 16 years in total disregard and disrespect for Nigerians of southern extraction. My initial objection to Tinubu’s emergence was because of his age and health status then. Religion has never been a very critical factor in my insistence on the rotation of political power for balancing and equity. What is of importance to me is ensuring a balance between the geographical north and south of Nigeria. After all, in all states of Nigeria, there are Christians and Muslims. Or is there any state where there are Nigerians of only one religion? Honestly, I was initially all out in support of the presidency going specifically to the south-east geopolitical zone and the person I was rooting for was former President of the Senate, Senator Ken Nnamani; the best President of the Senate Nigeria ever had since 1999. A man who displayed so much maturity, intelligence, courage, and a high level of patriotism at a time that the third-term ambition of former President Obasanjo was pushing our country and nascent democracy to the point of explosion. Nigerians needed the Senate to intervene to save Nigeria. He didn’t disappoint. He saved Nigeria. So it was so devastating for me when I heard that he pulled out of the APC presidential primary. Does the emergence of Peter Obi of the Labour Party perfectly fit into your demand for a president from the southeast and a Christian after Ken Nnamani pulled out? POLL Peter Obi is someone I naturally love and defended from the day the PDP-dominated Anambra State House of Assembly unconstitutionally removed him from office as Governor. He has some qualities I admire from a distance but frankly speaking, much more is required for me to support anyone to be president. What then are the qualities you see in Tinubu that made you support him? First, because he is the man who turned the then quasi or near state of total collapse of Lagos state before May 29, 1999, to the 6th largest and most prosperous economy in Africa today. Nigeria is sadly in the same situation as Lagos State was then and therefore the urgency needed for someone to take full charge and bring in Tinubu’s magic to save Nigeria. Peter Obi and Bola Tinubu both have been Governors so it helped me compare their performances vis-a-vis the challenges they inherited and how well they confronted and defeated same. Secondly, there are very critical and important factors I considered which are proven patriotism, courage, and intellectual capacity to confront and defeat huge societal challenges and obstacles to national progress and prosperity. Another factor is that of deep knowledge and understanding of the politics of Nigeria and management of Nigeria’s oil and gas sector coupled with extensive friendship with people across all parts of Nigeria. I knew how horrible Lagos State was before May 29, 1999. Public infrastructure had almost collapsed and insecurity became the order of the day. I recall vividly that in the 1990s while I was serving in my company, Total Energies Upstream Nig. Ltd, in Delta and Rivers States, I made up my mind never to accept any transfer to work in our Lagos State head office. I rather resign because I couldn’t see myself living in Lagos State. Have we forgotten in a hurry, the dreaded Oshodi where unimaginable crimes were committed in broad daylight? What is the situation today? I remember how the Ocean once or twice surged and took over Victoria Island to the extent that state governments and big businesses abandoned their multi-billion naira lodges/liaison offices and properties. Experts even predicted that, that area of Lagos State was going to be washed away in a few years by the ocean. Bar Beach was gone! This is the Lagos State that Tinubu courageously confronted. Today that same Victoria Island hosts the Eko Atlantic City, increasing numbers of high-rise buildings and head offices of multinational companies moving in there from other parts of Nigeria. This is the same Lagos State today where we have the Banana Island Estates in Lekki and Ajah, Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical Complex. This is the Lagos State that Nigerians today “Japa” to from their states of origin for a better life while Nigerians in diaspora find confidence in returning home to invest and live in. This is the true story of Tinubu’s Lagos State in the last 24 years that Tinubu is fully in charge. Why then should I waste a second in wholeheartedly supporting a man who made all these happen? Tinubu is a patriot who was part of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) and other Pro-Democracy Movements that fought the military regime for the enthronement of the democracy we have today. President Tinubu recently said he wants to secure the collaboration of the multinational oil companies operating in Nigeria towards ensuring stability, transparency, and fair competition in the sector. Is this a right step? Yes and no. I say yes because it is the right move if and only if he correctly identifies the right persons in these International Oil Companies (IOCs) to collaborate with. On the other hand, I say no, because he can’t achieve this without first retaining the position of Minister for Petroleum Resources. I am therefore strongly advising him as I did to former President Buhari in 2015 when he became President, that he must never ever appoint a Minister of Petroleum Resources. He must retain the position as doing otherwise will jeopardise Nigerians’ Renewed Hope in him to rescue our country. But this is the same way you advised former President Buhari and he heeded your advice yet the situation became worse in the oil and gas sector. Do you have any regret now? No, I don’t. I only feel so pained for him that he meant well but he made the costly mistake of appointing some people he so trusted to help sanitise the sector. They failed him. Either some of them meant well but were grossly incompetent or they were competent were grossly unpatriotic You are aware that Tinubu has set up a committee led by Vice President Shettima to negotiate with Labour Leaders, and other stakeholders to come up with palliatives to cushion the harsh effect of subsidy removal on Nigerians, part of the measures include, increase in salaries of workers, purchase of mass transit buses, production of gas-powered vehicles, electric vehicles, etcetera. What is your take? This is going round in a circle like a barber’s chair, with due respect to them. Are these not the same measures previous Presidents took and implemented and they all failed woefully? Why do we keep doing the same wrong things and expect different positive results? Why? My colleagues, the Labour leaders of today, adopt new approaches for the overall good of all Nigerians. This is the reason I didn’t agree with their initial threat to embark on nationwide strike action and to keep blaming only the federal government for this seemingly unending crisis in our oil and gas sector. If they want the situation to be sanitised and the refineries to commence production today, they can do it We hear of Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) going on in the four refineries that will take months to complete. What is their understanding of TAM? What does it mean in Engineering? I don’t know. All I know is that these refineries can commence operations today if our labour leaders are patriotically committed to it. This is all I will say for now. If President Tinubu wants me to guide him more, I will patriotically do so. What is your advice to the presiding officers of the 10th National Assembly? The National Assembly is the true symbol of representative and constitutional democracy all over the world and is very critical to its survival and progress. Particularly the Minority leadership of the Senate and House of Representatives. These positions are even more critical than those of the presiding officers because they are the ones constitutionally saddled with the responsibility to checkmate every decision and action taken by the ruling party. And two men stand out today going by my very close monitoring of the activities of the National Assembly since the year 2015 And who are the member and why? They are Comrade Hon. Kingsley Chinda, representing Obio-Akpor Federal Constituency of Rivers State in the House of Representatives, and Senator Abaribe of the Senate. Particularly Hon. Chinda who is a very patriotic, courageous, and intelligent man, committed to his duties, humble, and relates very cordially with his colleagues and members of the public. He is a Comrade in the struggle for democracy and is incorruptible.