LAGOS – Prince Adewole Adebayo of the Social Democratic Party SDP presidential candidate in the just concluded national elections has disclosed that more than 20 million Nigerians who voted for the three most popular parties in the general election and who incidentally supported the removal of fuel subsidies are among those who are now kicking against the removal of the subsidy. The subsidy, he said, was a campaign point of an economic programme that he pledged to sustain if elected even as he chastised the labour unions for their hypocritical statements and actions. Recall that hours after President Bola Tinubu’s inaugural speech about the removal of subsidies, fuel stations across the country increased the fuel pump price by more than 300% making the transport operators to increase fares with its attendance effects on the passengers. Members of the organised labour under the aegis of the Nigeria NLC and TUC described the pronouncement by President Bola Tinubu as outrageous and insensitive to the economic plight Nigerian masses were being subjected to. Joe Ajearo, president of the Nigerian Labour Union, advised the government to adopt an alternative strategy that would not adversely hurt the Nigerian while seeking to resolve the issue of subsidy.While speaking on a TV programme, Adebayo said Tinubu’s speech reflected his party, APC campaign plans for the country. He explained: “They said they were going to remove fuel subsidy, we thought it was a very bad idea and we debated it all over the country but the three major parties who supported subsidy removal APC, PDP and Labour Parties were handsomely rewarded by the voters. “People like us, the SDP, said no, because you need a social safety net for the people, and the subsidy is a way to control other cost drivers to avoid cost-push inflation. So, all they need do is to try to cut the heavy burden of wastage of corruption, not the subsidy. “The labour unions protesting now were there when these parties publicly said they would remove subsidies, none of them objected, why protesting now? POLL “You didn’t protest against the administration that engineered the process. Why now? It is now left to the Nigerian people to understand that elections have consequences and next time if you are not happy, the SDP is still here because you have 4 years to think about whether you made a good decision or not”.