LAGOS  – Sterling Bank, Nigeria’s leading commercial bank, launched a new product focused on market women and traders in Ogun State. The One-Woman Saver Account is a product that aims to give easy access to banking services at a six percent rate of return on savings. The Regional Business Executive of Sterling Bank, Southwest, Evans Akinlolu, explained that the product was designed to drive financial inclusion, enable women to create a savings culture as well as improve their overall economic status over time, while speaking at the launch of the One-Woman Saver Account at Lafenwa, in Abeokuta, Ogun State’s capital city. He said women are a significant component of an economy, and it is crucial to incorporate them in any initiatives designed to strengthen the state’s economy. “At Sterling Bank, we believe so much in women. We know that women can transform society, and if you support a woman, you are supporting the nation.” “This product encourages you to save gradually, and the interest rate that comes with it is one of the highest today. Also, Sterling Bank is one of the leading banks in the country; you have nothing to fear. What we have done again is that we will come to you every day, not that you will be coming to the bank.” “Whatever the Ajo people are doing that you are not too sure of, we assure you that every kobo of your money is guaranteed. You are not losing anything. Above all, you get access to a soft loan after you have saved for six months. So, I want to tell you that you are in the right place. You are in the right hands, and we pray that your business will continue to grow”. To inform potential consumers about the advantages of the account, bank officials went to the town’s Itoku and Kuto marketplaces. POLL In his remarks, the representative of Women’s World Banking, Mr Emezino Afiegbe, disclosed that Women’s World Banking partnered with Sterling Bank because of its ability to solve women’s financial needs. He added that the bank always prioritizes the needs of women and is always ready to support them. “We are proud to partner with Sterling Bank because Sterling Bank has what it takes to make women prosper. At Women’s World Banking, we always go into the market to let customers tell us what they need so we can develop the right product”. Present at the launch were the Project Coordinator of the Nigeria Women Project, Mrs Fadairo; the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Women Affairs, Mrs Ogunremi; Olori Aje of Egba, Alhaji Mutiu; and Iyaloja Lafenwa, Mrs Sidi Owe, among others.