BENIN – The Benin Development Union (BeDU) has described Oba of Benin’s rebuking of Clem Agba as a wake-up call to politicians, saying that the action marks a watershed from the era of un­due glorification of politicians by Edo traditional rulers at the eve of every general election. BeDU in a statement signed by Dr. Orumwense Aiyudubie, its Secretary General, stated: “We received with great de­light, the news of the reproach that was meted on the former Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, by the Oba of Benin, as it marks a watershed from the era of un­due glorification of politicians by Edo traditional rulers at the eve of every general elections.” According to BeDU, “For us, the indictment of ingratitude against Hon. Clem Agba, which was based on the crass lopsid­edness of his ministerial inter­vention during his stint as Min­ister of State is literally tied to Professor Chinua Achebe’s novel admonition, ‘Those whose palm kernel were cracked for them by a benevolent spirit should not forget to be humble.” BeDU also pointed out that Edo State had two ministerial slots under the outgone Buhari administration, largely due to the Oba of Benin’s intervention. “It was only fair that both Ministers (Health, as well as Budget and National Planning) eschew acts of nepotism in the siting of projects across the 18 Local Government Council of the state, and not for a minister to see the appointment as a spe­cial gift to his senatorial district to the detriment of the other two districts. “In the countdown to the 2024 gubernatorial race, apostles of tribalism, nepotism and clan­nish aspirants have no chance to clinch any formidable party’s ticket, by the grace of God and the vigilant spirit of Edo masses. “Edo traditional rulers should emulate the interroga­tive and fatherly acumen of the Oba of Benin, and refrain from allowing politicians to use their royal palaces for undeserving endorsements or political gra­tis. “In the march to the election, we seek total restraint from po­litical godfathers by allowing the process to evolve seamlessly without undue interference, as doing otherwise will provoke the wrath of our youths, who are tied of imposition of candidates.