DAMATURU – The Yobe State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC) has today summoned IPAC, political parties, security and stakeholders meeting on the forthcoming Local Government Elections in the state scheduled for 25th November 2023. Speaking to newsmen at the Commission’s Conference Hall in Damaturu, Dr. Mamman Mohammed, Chairman SIEC said that Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni has given the approval to the State Independent Electoral Commission to conduct the election for the 17 Chairmen and 178 Councilors of the local Governments Council in Yobe State to be on 25th November 2023. “That is in consonance with the provision of section 197 of the of Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended.” He enjoined the working journalists in the state to ensure maximum support and cooperation to the commission through proper information dissemination to all the electorates in Yobe State to enable a free, fair and transparent exercise. Also on the part of the security agencies, the Commission Chairman urged them to ensure that they provide adequate security in all the polling units, “we welcome advice on grey areas and vulnerable areas to be proactive.” According to him, all the political parties will be issued with election guidelines, to enable them to read and understand the guidelines better. This he said will ensure coming up with better candidates that will yield quality and good governance at the grassroots level. Mohammed used the forum to appeal to his staff and electoral officers to double efforts to ensure the success of the elections. “We have confidence in all of you especially the stakeholders, that our hands shall be on deck to achieve the wonderful result and task ahead of us. POLL “The State Independent Electoral Commission will therefore take responsibility to undertake, organize and supervise the local government council election. Which shall be free, fair, credible and peaceful. “Therefore, we solicit for your cooperation and support to ensure success, come 25th November 2023. Those that are eligible to contest for Councillorship and the Chairmanship after attaining the age of 25 and 30 without gender bias, same not bankrupt, and resident and with a minimum educational standard of Secondary School Certificate or equivalent and a fee of N300,000, N250,000, N200,000 for Chairman, Vice Chairman and Councilors respectively”.