IBADAN  – Veteran Organisation for Hu­man Rights (VOHRI) has raised the alarm over an alleged un­lawful arrest and detention of a trailer driver in Ibadan by men of Oyo State Police Command. The group alleged that Mr. Kabir Adebiyi was unlawfully arrested by Police officers at­tached to CP Monitoring Unit around 10. P.m. on May 3, 2023. The group alleged that the tanker driver was arrested without a fair hearing. It added that all efforts made to secure his release by his fam­ily since his arrest had proved abortive. VOHRI in the statement on Wednesday and signed by the duo of Ayobami Sakirullah, Lead Activist/Coordinator, and Abimbola Adekunle, General Secretary, lamented that the detention of the trailer driver has caused serious emotional trauma and life-threatening situation to him and members of his family. The group then called on the Commissioner of Police in the state to intervene. According to the statement, “We have been briefed by our client’s wife, that, about 10 p.m. on May 3, Mr. Kabir Adebiyi was arrested by CP Monitoring Unit without a fair hearing, the following day, his mother went to the CP monitoring unit to find out the offence committed by her son, and she was told that her son described a loca­tion for a fraudster and they will not release him until they find the principal suspect. “When Kabir’s wife asked what can be done to locate the principal suspect, they told her they will need to track down the suspect and that would cost her the sum of N25,000. The mon­ey was handed over to them immediately, and after three weeks that they could not find the suspect, Kabir’s wife re­quested for his bail. They got infuriated and threatened to detain the woman. POLL “This has caused serious emotional trauma and a life-threatening situation to our client and her son in police custody. We are hereby calling on the Commissioner of Police to use his good offices to inter­vene before the situation gets out of hand and allow justice to be done on this matter in time. “It is pertinent to state that many cases of unlawful deten­tion had been reported in our office by this same CP Moni­toring Unit, which shows, they only changed the name SARs but, their modus operandi does not change.