ABUJA – Princewill Nnaji, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of ANNS Concept Multi Service International, has sent his felicitations to His Excellency, Peter Mbah, the Executive Governor of Enugu State, on his successful inauguration as the governor of the Enugu state. In a Congratulatory letter titled ‘The Tomorrow we have been waiting for is finally here’, which he personally signed, the ANNS Concept Multi Service International boss, described Governor Mbah’s victory as victory for all of Enugu irrespective of political affiliation. According to Nnaji, Mbah’s emergence is a major pointer that politics today is tilting towards meritocracy and not godfatherism. “We congratulate you on your emergence as the Governor of Enugu State in the just concluded governorship elections under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). “Your victory is a victory for all of Enugu irrespective of political affiliation as it shows that the hand of the Almighty God is truly on our dear state. May your renowned brilliance continue to bring positive change and development in our great state. “Your emergence is a major pointer that politics today is tilting towards meritocracy and not godfatherism. You contested the election against several qualified fellow sons of Enugu State whom I am confident also have the best interest of Enugu State at heart in offering up themselves for service and I believe they will continue to put the interest of our State first in all their actions. “As your campaign slogan, ‘Tomorrow is Here’we are positive that Enugu is going in the right direction as you face the daunting task. The task ahead is enormous but for your background and vast knowledge and experiences, we are positive of your delivery and positive you would make Ndi Enugu proud again. “Once again, Congratulations Your Excellency and thanks for your tenacity, steadfastness and consistent courage. POLL “Tomorrow is Here ‘as you will say , The work starts now!!!! It’s time to write your name in gold” reads the statement in parts.