VICTORIA OJUGBANA; SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Gover­nor, has said that subsidis­ing fuel for 87 percent of people who can afford it does not make sense eco­nomically. He stated this on Friday during a tour to some fill­ing stations in Ikoyi area of the state and its environ, stressing that the essence of the monitoring exercise “is to go round and see the real situation at the filling stations in Lagos State.” According to Hamzat: “The regime of fuel subsi­dy was announced to have ended and Lagos is always the epicenter of every­thing. Over 40 percent of cars in Nigeria are in La­gos. Whatever affects PMS also affects Lagos. “As you can see, the chal­lenge is not about scarcity, the fuel is there. The chal­lenge is the pricing that has been increased. I think that NNPC and others can explain the rationale be­hind it. I am sure you are all aware of that. “For us, it is to make sure that there is no scarci­ty, so that people don’t need to rush to come and buy. “The 87 percent in terms of fuel subsidy is for the people who can afford it. So, we are subsidizing for 87 percent of people who are doing very well. It doesn’t make any sense economically. Lamenting that Nige­rians have suffered for so long as a result of the fuel subsidy, he said: “We are spending trillions of Nai­ra on subsidizing for the substantially rich people because it’s only 13 per­cent that is meant for the less-privileged. POLL “If Nigeria was selling for N185, and Benin Re­public is selling for N650, that’s why the volume that they claim we use is high. That volume will crash be­cause people will have no incentives to take it. We have 48,000 kilometers of boarder in Nigeria. “You will notice that in two to three months’ time, a volume that we claim we use will crash and market will determine the prices.” Speaking further, he said: “If you listen to var­ious commentators, like Bismarck, who spoke over the past six, seven, eight months; the 14th Emir of Kano, Lamido Sanusi, and the IMF has told us that this is not sustainable.” On the benefits of the removal of the fuel subsidy, Hamzat noted: “The chal­lenge is that if we are able to plough that money back into the system, it makes it easier for us to invest in our health system, it makes it easier for us to invest in our education, so that majority that of our people can actually benefit from a lot of things.” Saying that part of the challenge we have in Nige­ria is revenue, Hamzat not­ed: “We have also said that part of the challenge in our country is revenue. “We don’t have enough revenue to take care of our popula­tion. This has the ability to divert subsidy into some­thing else, and the revenue will go up.” While expressing opti­mism that “President Bola Ahmed Tinubu will be able to harness this and use it for the various needs of the citizens,” the deputy gover­nor added: “We just need to give them time. But I under­stand that subsidy removal affects the people because cost of transportation and other things will increase. The only thing is that it will get a bit tougher before it gets better,” he added.