LAGOS – The Managing Director of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Engineer Salihijo Ahmad, emphasized the significance of adopting solar energy as a viable solution to mitigate the impacts of the recent removal of subsidy on Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), commonly known as petrol, in Nigeria. Speaking during the inspection and impact assessment of REA’s mass electrification projects in some of the south western states, Engineer Salihijo Ahmad highlights the emergence of solar energy as a sustainable and empowering solution for Nigeria, as the country grapples with the challenges resulting from the removal of fuel subsidies. He explained that, by harnessing the abundant solar resources available in Nigeria, the Rural Electrification Agency aims to alleviate the burden of escalating fuel costs and ensure uninterrupted power supply to communities nationwide. He added that solar energy adoption will expedite industrial activities, foster agricultural growth, and bolster small and medium enterprises. The Managing Director of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), along with his executive management team, visited some of the agency’s projects to inspect their progress and assess their impact on beneficiaries. The visit was part of the agency’s commitment to ensuring that its projects are implemented in accordance with approved technical standards and that they are having a positive impact on the lives of beneficiaries. During the visit, the MD met with beneficiaries in Osogbo, Ijebu Ode, and Makoko to hear their feedback on the projects. They also evaluated the projects’ progress and adherence to REA’s standards. He said that the solar systems are free to Makoko residents, and that they only ask for payment from beneficiaries in industrial and business areas. POLL He explained that some schools, religious establishments, and small and medium enterprises have benefited from the agency’s project in Makoko, a Lagos community.Salihijo Ahmad added “The implementation of solar energy solutions under the Solar Power Naija (SPN) program plays a significant role in mitigating the effects of fuel subsidy removal. By embracing renewable energy sources, this program reduces dependency on fossil fuels, resulting in cost savings and environmental advantages. The transition towards clean energy not only aligns with worldwide sustainability initiatives but also positions Nigeria as an active participant in the global clean energy transition. This move creates opportunities for investment and collaboration in the renewable energy sector.” “In the community of Makoko, the Solar Power Naija (SPN) program has successfully deployed nine large-capacity solar home systems (SHS) to energize schools and clinics, along with an additional 18 smaller-capacity SHS for residential use. These installations have brought about a significant positive impact on the local economy by facilitating improved educational facilities, enhanced healthcare services, and increased household productivity. He added: “Today, our primary focus lies on the social aspect of our initiatives. We are determined to continue deploying our decentralised solar home systems, particularly 150-watt systems, to critical areas such as schools and hospitals, with the intention of benefiting communities throughout Nigeria.” “The deployment has already taken place. Nearly six months ago, we successfully deployed over 30 units in various locations such as schools, hospitals, and homes. Our current visit is for the purpose of conducting an inspection. “We came so that we can access what we have done so far. Our primary objective for accessing the situation is to determine the most effective deployment strategy for this system. “We are actively engaged in this evaluation process. Our visit today is aimed at assessing the outcomes of the initial deployment. I am delighted with the feedback received thus far. The concept revolves around the anticipation of increased support from the federal government, particularly due to the removal of subsidies.”