LAGOS – The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) has called on the Federal Government to tackle fraudulent regime in the fuel pricing in Nigeria that has been rife with elite manipulations and intrigues for fuel subsidy removal to be taken serious. Auwal Musa Rafsanjani Executive Director Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC)& Head of Transparency International-Nigeria, also called on the Presidency to introduce palliatives and measures to cushion the effects of the fuel subsidy removal which would address the food and transport costs for Nigerians. The CISLAC boss noted the government needed to come up with immediate and short-term measures that would mitigate the pains of the sharp increases in transportation and feeding costs on the citizens, adding that food and transportation account for over 70% of the household budget of the populace, noting that “something urgent needed to be done”. According to him, arguments for the removal of fuel subsidy have always bordered on a need to free resources and take needed measures towards long-needed reform, as the cost has become unsustainable, especially as the economy hovers in and out of recession. “The present deregulation (subsidy removal) agenda is part of what is contained in the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA)”, he said. He noted that a report by the House of Representatives committee, revealed that Nigeria’s fuel subsidy scheme cost the country $6.8bn over a three-year period (2009-2011). The NNPC was single-handedly responsible for almost half of the siphoned subsidy funds and was “found not to be accountable to anybody or authority”. The report revealed that; “72 fuel importers, some of whom had allegedly close links to senior government officials, were also singled out. In one case, payments totaling exactly $6.4m flowed from the state treasury 128 times within 24 hours to “unknown entities”. Investigators discovered that importers were paid for 59 million liters a day, while the country only consumes 35 million. “In 2012, the pump price of fuel was N65 ($0.40) per litre, against a landing cost of N139. The government thus contributed a N73 subsidy per litre, for an annual total of N1.2trillion ($7.6billion), or 2.6 per cent of the country’s GDP”, he said. POLL He said the Nigeria Extractive Industry and Transparency Initiative, Nigeria spent about N722.3 billion on fuel subsidy in 2018. “The NNPC’s financial and operations report for 2019 showed that Nigeria spent N326.43 billion in four months (N104.35 billion, N102.24 billion, N30.64 billion and N89.19 billion in January, February, March and April, respectively) in 2019.”