Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a communication expert and seasoned politician, is a chieftain and leader of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State. Adikwuru, a member of Imo State Presidential Campaign Council under Media and Publicity Sub-committee in the 2023 elections and erstwhile State Publicity Secretary, Imo State Professionals for Atiku, is the State Coordinator, Imo PDP Grassroots Movement. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on some current issues in the polity. Excerpt: ould you explain the circumstances that led to the recent resignation of several State Working Committee (SWC) members of PDP in Imo State? The resignation and eventual defection of seven members of the State Working Committee (SWC) of our party has called for deep reflections of human nature and political behaviour of individuals. In the first place, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) remains the leading and grassroots party in the state. This party is a nightmare to the present government of Imo State. The present officers occupying the State Working Committee have been regarded as the cream of loyal, dedicated and steadfast officers who have led the party to a critical opposition session and ready to swing into victory come November 11. Unfortunately, the craze for power has resulted in an uncontrollable impunity of absolute power search, thereby rendering the Imo PDP into a situation of fear, intimidation, threats and coercion and now everyone seems to be on his heels in search of safety. This is one part. And leadership calls for perseverance which the defected officers could not showcase, thereby eating back their saliva. You cannot be on the lead for a change of a government that has rained horror and terror on the people and you suddenly walk to the same government to pour praises and pledge loyalty. This contradiction remains a puzzle to modern democracy and political leadership. It is unfortunate we have ourselves in between the search for absolute power and a compromised set of state party officials who have thrown our party in such a leadership lacuna with a teeming mass of followers in disarray. Few days after the resignation of the SWC members, they all defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and were received by Governor Hope Uzodimma who promised to be fair to them. Would you say that their resignation was the handiwork of the Imo government and not due to the crisis or their marginalisation within PDP? The defection to APC of the former state officials of our party and the shameful surrendering to the enemy government started immediately in regret for the conquered species. From the look of things, these fellows had one leg at the Government House and another at the PDP State Secretariat hence were waiting for an appropriate time to move out. I am sure a combination of the governor’s ill winds on PDP and the gullibility of the outgone party officials can be attributed to the present scenario, but I assure you that they will all experience a setback in their political careers. For instance, the governor, while receiving them, asserted that his only problem was Collins Opurozor, the former Publicity Secretary and while that euphoria lasted, Uzodimma charged Collins Opurozor to go back to Channels TV and other media to recant the lies he said against him. That is the beginning of the governor’s fairness to them and this is most unfortunate the way they have brought their career to an abrupt end. Would you say that the resignation of the SWC members and defection had nothing to do with the decision of Chief Emeka Ihedioha not to run for the governorship election? The decision of Ihedioha to withdraw from the governorship contest is one thing and the defection of the unfaithful officers is a different thing. Granted that Ihedioha’s withdrawal from the race has reduced the political sphere to a graveyard mourning scene, every loyalist of the former governor remained steadfast awaiting Ihedioha’s next move. It may be taken on both sides being that frustration resulting from Ihedioha’s withdrawal set in on the defected, but impatient State Executive members and also the lack of steadfastness on the part of the defecting former officers. Whichever way you see it, all is not well with Imo PDP and restoration of sanity is imminent. Are you not worried that PDP may no longer be in a position to compete and defeat Gov Uzodimma with the split in the SWC? POLL It is of great concern that the current situation in PDP is giving Hope Uzodimma and APC a clearer coast to victory. This is a self-inflicted injury which has affected the future of the populace of the state. From the moves going on and urgent need to restore sanity, confidence and people’s leadership in the party, coupled with ongoing reconciliatory activities, if key stakeholders can sheath their swords, swallow their pride, reduce the search for absolute control of the party and decide to work together, I can tell you that PDP chances will be restored. With the exit of the SWC members, what is the PDP and its candidate doing to restore the confidence of the members in preparation for the coming governorship election? First of all, the state chairman, who is a man of high repute and integrity, is expected to assemble the remaining State Executive members and take steps to get the former officers replaced in line with the party’s constitution. As for the party’s candidate, the onus is on him to employ all reconciliatory mechanisms and ensure that unity returns to the entire membership of the party. This is because he is the face of the election and should focus on uniting the members and restoring their confidence in his candidature. On the other hand, the top leadership of the party in the state is expected to work hand in glove to restore sanity in the state PDP such that everyone will assume cognate responsibilities and duties as his or her position or designation demands. We are expecting a full blast of activities in the wards, local governments and state in general if we are to convince the Imo electorate of the party’s seriousness in the November 11 elections. How do you see the effects of the petroleum subsidy removal on the Nigerian masses so far? Will you say the decision was well thought out by President Bola Tinubu? The petroleum subsidy removal remains harsh, ill-timed and insensitive by the Tinubu nascent government. Whatever the aftermath effects or good intentions, I must say that this singular policy has enlarged the APC’s impoverishment agenda on Nigerians wherein prices of commodities and every other thing has skyrocketed. I will tell you that this is always the way unpopular governments treat the citizens knowing well that they were not duly voted by the people. What is your take on the suspension of the CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele and the EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, by the President? The suspension of the CBN governor is expectedly a welcome development. The man became a wild institution without control of the system. How can a sitting CBN Governor waste Nigeria’s N100 million to aspire for Nigeria’s Presidency, purchase multimillion valued campaign vehicles, then later withdraw from the race and still remain CBN Governor? The worst of his outing was the new naira notes regime which resulted in the death of hundreds of Nigerians who could not access money for urgent medical and other needs. Cleansing of the system will demand the prosecution of Emefiele and I do not see it as witch hunt. In the same vein, the suspension of EFCC Chairman is expected given that the then government used that office to pursue vendetta agenda, but the fact remains that this agenda will recycle with Tinubu having his own person to further drag his perceived opponents and enemies to poverty and to the prisons What is your take on the retirement of the former Service Chiefs and the appointment of new ones? It is routine for incoming governments to retire Service Chiefs and as well dissolve Boards of Government owned Agencies and Parastatals. The reason is simply to ensure 100 per cent loyalty from their own appointees and also to satisfy other sinister motives of the gladiators. There is nothing strange in Tinubu’s new appointments as they are well expected. For the first time in recent years an Igbo from Enugu State, Rear Admiral Emmanuel Ogalla, became a Service Chief. How do you see the development? Service Chief of the Igbo man? Well, if the Igbo man has to be counted in the sharing of Service Chiefs, we should be looking at the Police, Army and DSS, but this does not mean that Chief of Naval Staff is not Service Chief. We are talking about a full command office, which has the respect of the President himself. I cannot tell you now that the Igbos should roll out the drums to celebrate Chief of Naval Staff. Don’t you think that Nuhu Ribadu being Retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) may not command the full respect and cooperation of the Military Service Chiefs? I do not know the intentions of the President in appointing Nuhu Ribadu to that high office. But, talking about respect and cooperation of Military Service Chiefs, they are bound to be loyal to him, not only as the office demands, but none of them is his contemporary in rank when he was the Assistant Inspector General of Police. So, I do not entertain any reservations on this. Where has the new scheme of things so far left the Middle Belt, the traditional ally of the South East? The Middle Belt as you call it, or North Central as we may also call them, I think are strategically embraced by the Tinubu government. The office of Secretary to Government is the Head of Administration and I tell you it is no small office. It is being occupied by a Benue State man. The present scheme of things, I must tell you, is yet to be fully unfolded given the fact that Tinubu is still in the dissolution and appointment spree and we need to watch him as he goes on this expedition. But, the South East is still benched and this is unfortunate.