LAGOS  – The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has expressed the concerns over the increase spate of unruly passengers in the global aviation industry after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, which collapsed the world’s economies. IATA said that the unruly behaviours among passengers increased in 2022 when compared to 2021. Mr. Conrad Clifford, IATA’s Deputy Director-General, called for more states to take the necessary authority to prosecute passengers under Montreal Protocol 2014 (MP14). According to him, latest figures showed that there was one unruly incident reported for every 568 flights in 2022, up from one per 835 flights in 2021. The most common categorisations of incidents in 2022 were non-compliance, verbal abuse and intoxication, he said. Physical abuse incidents, Clifford said remained very rare, but these had an alarming increase of 61 per cent over 2021, occurring once every 17,200 flights. “The increasing trend of unruly passenger incidents is worrying. Passengers and crew are entitled to a safe and hassle-free experience on board. For that, passengers must comply with crew instructions. “While our professional crews are well trained to manage unruly passenger scenarios, it is unacceptable that rules in place for everyone’s safety are disobeyed by a small but persistent minority of passengers. There is no excuse for not following the instructions of the crew,” he said. POLL Although non-compliance incidents initially fell after the mask mandates were removed on most flights, the frequency began to rise again throughout 2022 and ended the year some 37 per cent up on 2021. The most common examples of non-compliance, according to IATA are smoking of cigarettes, e-cigarettes, vapes and puff devices in the cabin or lavatories. Others are failure to fasten seatbelts when instructed, exceeding the carry-on baggage allowance or failing to store baggage when required and consumption of own alcohol on board. IATA said that a two-pillar strategy is in place for the needed zero-tolerance approach to unruly behaviour.