LAGOS  – Global hotel chain leader, Hilton, has announced the signing of Koko Beach Resort Lagos, Curio Collection by Hilton, during the recent African Hospitality Investment Forum (AHIF) in Nairobi. The signing of a Branding and Management Agreement with Outposts Investment Limited – owners of Koko Beach Resort, marks the dawn of the first internationally branded resort on Nigeria’s pristine Atlantic coastline. According to Richie Shittu, founder of Koko Beach Hotel & Resorts, the 60-room luxury Koko Beach Resort, located on the pristine Ibeshe/Ikaare beach in Lagos, is poised to open its doors in 2025. The agreement was signed by Patrick Fitzgibbon and Richie Shittu, representing Hilton and Koko Beach Hotels & Resorts, respectively. Carlos Khneisser, Vice President of Development, Middle East & Africa, Hilton, said: “We are delighted to partner with Outposts Investment Limited on this remarkable project as we continue to expand Hilton’s portfolio of world-class brands throughout Africa. “Koko Beach Resort Lagos represents Hilton’s third Curio Collection property in Africa, joining the already operating Legend Hotel Lagos Airport, Curio Collection by Hilton, and the soon-to-open Kwetu Nairobi, Curio Collection by Hilton. We look forward to welcoming guests to an authentic hospitality experience backed by Hilton’s globally recognized service at this outstanding property.” Richie Shittu, CEO of Outposts Investment Limited and owner of Koko Beach Resort Lagos, Curio Collection by Hilton, shared his enthusiasm: “Our collaboration with Hilton, a brand with over a century of hospitality expertise, will provide an unforgettable beachfront experience for our guests at this unique destination. We are incredibly proud to be partnering with Hilton – a renowned global hotel chain.” Shittu also acknowledged the instrumental role of Lagos State’s administration in ensuring a smooth implementation of the project thus far: “We extend our heartfelt gratitude to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos State without whose support and guidance, this monumental project would not be possible.” POLL He further added that with the current direction of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s progressive administration, investments like Koko Beach Resort would boost domestic tourism and reduce pressure on Nigeria’s foreign exchange reserves. With this signing, Koko Beach Resort Lagos, Curio Collection by Hilton, is set to become a shining beacon of Nigerian tourism, bringing a curated and authentic hospitality experience to the Nigerian shores. Koko Beach offers an unparalleled hospitality experience with stunning sea views, suites, three-to-four-bedroom private villas, diverse dining options via three restaurants, and an array of world-class recreational amenities as well as access to the resort’s private beach. Additional amenities include horse stables with a 630-meter coastline, a cinema, a sports complex, a meeting room, and a ballroom accommodating up to 750 guests. With Lagos State waiting in anticipation, this resort underlines a promising future for Nigerian tourism. Hilton currently operates two hotels in Nigeria and 43 hotels in Africa, with another 65 in the pipeline, including Kwetu Nairobi, Curio Collection by Hilton, Hilton Kinshasa, and Waldorf Astoria Platte Island. Koko Beach Resort Lagos, Curio Collection by Hilton will also be a part of Hilton’s award-winning guest loyalty program, Hilton Honors, where members who book directly through preferred Hilton channels have access to instant benefits, including a flexible payment slider that allows members to choose nearly any combination of Points and money to book a stay, an exclusive member discount, and free standard Wi-