Osun State Government has accused the immediate Senate spokesperson, Senator Ajibola Bashir of allegedly planning to cause mayhem in the state. A statement issued by the media aide to Governor Adeleke, Olawale Rasheed said the former senator has constituted himself to direct threat to peace by inviting some policemen to the state through petition written against some party and state officials in the state. State Government in the statement  alleged the former Senator of importing unauthorised policemen to the state to create confusion and mayhem to destabilise the peace of the state. But Former lawmaker, Ajibola Bashiru has denied the allegation levelled against him by the state government describing the government as comedian for pointing accusing fingers of disrupting the peace of the state to him. Rasheed in the statement said the ex-lawmaker had submitted names of top leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and that of the state government to the police so as to cause instability and tension in Osun. The statement reads: “We urgently bring to the attention of the Inspector General of Police, the State Commissioner of Police and the general public that former Senator Ajibola Bashiru has imported some unauthorized policemen into Osun state to create confusion, mayhem and destabilise the peace and stability of the state. “The former Senator is reported to have submitted a list of top leaders of the People’s Democratic Party and Osun state government for arrest on trumped-up charges. We reliably gathered that the Osogbo-born politician is personally coordinating the team in gross violation of extant laws and practice of law enforcement. “We call on the Inspector General of Police to order the immediate withdrawal of such policemen as their invitation under the control of a politician constitutes a grave threat to the peace and stability of Osun state. We urge the Commissioner of Police to urgently look into the matter before a breach of peace across the state. POLL “We use this medium to inform Osun people that the said Senator is today a direct threat to the peace of the state. At a time when the state is witnessing a return to good governance, it is reprehensible for any stakeholder to decide to create mayhem and instability. “Governor Ademola Adeleke hereby restates his resolve to tackle this matter headlong and ensure that no individual no matter how highly placed is allowed to plunge the state into conflict.” Recall that the former senate spokesperson lost his re-election bid into the the senate after losing to the ruling PDP in the state. Since his return, he has blamed the loyalists of former Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, whom he had described as “minute elements” that could not stop him for the defeat. During a sparsely attended event to mark one term tenure in office, Basiru had attacked the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun, wrongly accusing the revered monarch of partisan politics. Some residents of Osogbo have in turn accused the former Senator of arrogance and being a destabilizing factor in the peace and tranquility of the town.