Felix Uka, Abakaliki Ebonyi Federal Commissioner of the National Population Commission(NPC) Hon. Darlington Okereke has said that the postponement of the May 3rd 2023 census will bring about better census in the upcoming exercise and in the future. He explained that the development has created more opportunities for the Commission to further improve upon, and perfect the processes and systems put in place for the planned digital census. The Commissioner made the disclosure on the occasion of a one-day breakfast meeting with media executives at Osborn la palm resort, Abakaliki. Okereke noted that former President Muhammadu Buhari postponed the headcount to enable the present administration of Senator Bola Asiwaju Tinubu to be fully involved in the process. He noted that the meeting was to update the media executives on the status of preparations for the 2023 Census as well as the ways forward. “You will recall that President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR in approving the postponement of the 2023 Census from the scheduled date of 3rd to 7th May 2023, commended the Commission for the appreciable progress recorded and urged that preparations for the census should continue”, he stated. “The Commission welcomes the decision of the Federal Government to postpone the conduct of the census to allow the incoming administration to have input into the census process.The postponement has also given the Commission the opportunity to further perfect its processes and systems for the conduct of the first-ever digital census. POLL “The objective of the breakfast meeting is therefore to update the media executives on the status of preparations for the 2023 Census and the next steps forward in the light of the postponement of the Census”. On the concerns expressed by the media Managers regarding the huge resources invested so far, Okereke said, “Conscious of the enormous human and material resources that have been expended in the implementation of these preparatory activities, the most important task before the Commission is to sustain and reinforce the relevance of these activities to the successful conduct of the 2023 Census. This will ensure that the nation does not have to start afresh in the preparations for the conduct of the census thereby saving costs”. “The processes and systems put in place for the census are therefore being currently reviewed to determine what needs to be done to ensure that the preparations do not become obsolete for the census. The focus of the Commission is to ensure that all the resources expended so far are safeguarded and that the nation does not need to start all over when the census is to be conducted. “For us at the Commission, this is not a difficult task. In coming up with the plan for the 2023 Census, the Commission was not only looking at the immediate needs of delivering the next census but was concerned more with laying a solid foundation for future censuses. This mindset informed the scope and quality of arrangements put in place”. Earlier in their goodwill messages, the media executives extolled the measures put in place by the commission to ensure a successful head count. They commended the Federal Commissioner for the existing partnership between the media and the commission and advocated its sustenance.