Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission ((NCC), Professor Umar Danbatta, said on Thursday that the agency was committed to providing industry leadership to galvanize the process for the country to achieve 90% broadband penetration by 2025. Danbatta stated this at the commencement of a two-day south-south stakeholders consultative forum on “Talk To The Regulator” held in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, with the theme “Enhancing Stakeholders Satisfaction”. “In line with the Nigeria National Broadband Plan (NNBP 2020-2025), the NCC is providing industry leadership to facilitate the achievement of 90% Broadband penetration by the year 2025, and well above 50% at the end of 2023”, he said. Danbatta, who was represented by Damilola Ogunsipe, told the audience made up of representatives of licensees and consumers, among other stakeholders, that 150 million Nigerians currently have access to the internet while over 80% can access high-speed internet. He stated that other interventions by the commission include the facilitation of the rollout of 5G service provision and the introduction of a Mobile Virtual Network Operator License “to bridge the gap between unserved and underserved areas.” The Chief Executive Officer of NCC added: “You will agree with me that the telecom industry has witnessed milestones in more ways than one, including the rapid growth in technology, which is redefining service delivery, and creating wide and high expectations from all stakeholders. “To keep up to date with developments in the industry, the Commission has equally taken measures to improve regulations to accommodate the rapid and continuous development.” POLL He expressed confidence that the interaction would assist the commission to gather relevant information and feedback “to further advance the development of the industry, while improving regulations and service delivery to telecom consumers.” In his remarks, the Director, Licensing and Authorisation Department at the NCC, Mohammed Babajika, said the commission had recognised that technological advancements in the industry such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Big Data, Network as a Service (NaaS) and Internet of Things were redefining service-delivery. Babajika, who was represented by his deputy, Usman Mamman, said the commission was therefore reviewing its license categories in line with global trends.