Our government will continue to take proactive steps such as championing a credit culture to discourage corruption while strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of the various anti-corruption agencies. President Bola Tinubu, Inaugural address, May 29, 2023. Talk is cheap. It is easy to be brave when danger is far away. The promise on corruption is tucked in a sentence, so difficult to understand, that one cannot help wondering if it was deliberate. Others before you have promised to “fight corruption to a standstill” (Obasanjo); Jonathan proclaimed “zero tolerance for corruption”. Paper tiger General Buhari warned that “we better kill corruption or it will kill us”. Corruption became monstrous because they were focussed on second term and they needed the financial support of corrupt people. Buhari is an example of what can happen to a newly-elected President when he confronts the truth about corruption in Nigeria. When the anti-corruption agencies present the president with the list of suspects, he quickly discovers that many of them financed his campaign with stolen public funds. POLL It becomes almost impossible to arrest and prosecute them without admitting to accepting illicit funds for the campaign. By the time one or two names are ticked off, to be left untouched, the agents get the message. “Don’t bring any more names”. Buhari once declared that “information at my disposal shows that Jonathan’s Ministers were stealing one million barrels of crude per day”. The question is: why didn’t Buhari order them arrested and prosecuted? Nigeria’s crude oil quota, at the time, was 1.8 million barrels per day; and officials were stealing more than half; and the paper tiger we had as President allowed it to go unpunished. Why? You should ask Buhari before you make more promises which you might have to swallow later. But, permit me to give you a hint. All the governments before your own had discovered one thing. Abacha did not rob the Central Bank; neither did he rely on inflated contracts. He left such small time looting to the amateur crooks. His former Minister of Petroleum is in self-exile in France in order to avoid going to jail for crimes related to manipulation of crude oil activities. The Ogapatapata himself went straight for crude oil exports without remittance of the proceeds to the Federation Account. “A secret is best kept if it known only to two people – with one dead.” Anonymous Successful crude oil theft is a syndicate job. Over a hundred top officials in the Presidency, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company, the Navy, Marine Police, the rig operators, Customs, Department of State Security and Nigerian Ports Authority must be aware of the loading and departure of the vessels lifting illegal crude, without anybody blowing the whistle for the heist to succeed. Now, what sort of a secret is that; when it is known to so many? The over $5 billion Abacha loot was amassed through crude oil leaving Nigeria, without documentation and payment on “orders from above”. Incidentally, that also explains why crude oil theft persisted under Buhari. It was all a matter of “Authority Stealing”. My informant was a member of the syndicate, from Bori, Rivers State, who retired to great wealth in Portharcourt, before he died seven years ago. The syndicate is still operating; only the cast of characters has changed. If you cannot stop theft of 400,000 barrels of crude oil per day, you will never curb corruption – even if you govern for a thousand years instead of four or eight. Petroleum sector atrocities account for the lion’s share of all corruption in Nigeria today; as it has been since 1973. With Such Political Associates, Why Search Far? “Show me your friends; and I will tell you who you are.” Buhari spent virtually his entire first term justifiably denouncing elected and appointed officials of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for pervasive corruption. The massive raid on the public purse started from the first month of Obasanjo’s regime in 1999. The now self-righteous former President, ordered the disbursement of N10 billion for Poverty Alleviation Programme, PAP, without the approval of the National Assembly, NASS. Late Chief Tony Anenih, “Mr Fix-it”, was put in charge. It was a scam from the start to the end. Ask Mr Akume to search for a report about how N10 billion for PAP was spent under Obasanjo; and he will come up with nothing. More fraudulent schemes followed. Moving fast forward to 2023; and your promise to fight corruption lands you in a quandary – the resolution of which will test your commitment to checking corruption. The guys who are now under investigation or should be investigated, are your party members – just as Anenih was a member of Obasanjo’s party. How you deal with these cases and others coming up will determine whether Nigerians and the whole world should believe you mean what you are saying. A few examples will be sufficient to illustrate the point. “N22bfraud: EFCC arrests ex-Power Minister, Sale Mamman.” May 2023. “EFCC chairman demanded $2m bribe from me – Matawalle” May 2023. “Alleged N4bn Money Laundering: EFCC quizzes ex-Governor Fayemi.” June 2, 2023. All these cases have only one thing in common. They involve people who are card-carrying members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, which you now lead. One of them, Faye is so close to you one would need a surgeon’s scalpel and delicate touch to separate the two of you. That is the temptation. When Obasanjo vowed to fight corruption in 1999, I told him right on this page, that he should be prepared to wage war against his own party members and friends who were the most corrupt Nigerians; otherwise he would fail. He couldn’t beat the robbers; left them to continue stealing and failed in his stated mission. You are now faced with the same dilemma. You value loyalty and you stand by your friends and associates. Most of the rogues you are now called upon to catch are your friends and political associates. They have, in one way or another, participated in the corrupt practices from 2015 to 2023. The choice is clear. Will you side with your friends or will you stand up for Nigeria? Many Nigerians are convinced you will be loyal to your friends; and Nigeria can go to blazes. Will you have the courage to surprise them? Three leaders in history did just that. But, this is not the forum for long historical precedents. One Nigerian told us how he did it – Chief Obafemi Awolowo. Confront Evil Head-On “Real change starts with a man himself.” Baba Awo had told all of us how he became a serious person, a great thinker and an incredible leader. That was why his administrative legacies surpassed those of his contemporaries. Awo was once an incurable palm wine drinker and draft player. He spent hours on both – until it occurred to him that he was wasting his life. He got up in the middle of a game; went home and started a new life of reading and contemplation. Yet, every day, he continued to stroll by his former colleagues drinking palm wine and playing draft. He did not run from them. He faced the temptation head-on. Moral of the story? Break away; keep those accused at arms length; lead by example. Otherwise; forget it. You will end up like the rest. Stop Press: The Senate and the House of Representatives have belatedly declared Nigeria Air a fraud. I have, at last, been vindicated