LAGOS – The Nigeria Rugby team on Tuesday departed Nigeria for the pre-Olympic qualification in Mauritius through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. This is as the Nigeria Rugby Football Federation (NRFF) has formed a long-term partnership Buga Win Company for the sponsorship of rugby sporting events in the country and beyond. Dr. Demola Are, President of NRFF, Mr. Ayodele Omogbeyin and Otunba Charles Farimoye, Chairman and Managing Director of Buga Win, respectively were at the international airport to wish the team well.In his remarks at the airport with journalists, Are said that the male team christened the Black Stallions made up of 12 players would participate in the pre-Olympic tournament, which would hold in Mauritius, hoping that the team would perform very well to further aid their qualification for tor the Olympics. According to Are, nine of the 12 players that would represent Nigeria at the tourney are from the United Kingdom, one from the United States, while the other two players are from Nigeria. Are who is also the Chairman, Marketing Committee, Nigeria Olympics Committee (NOC), expressed delight with the partnership with Buga Win, saying that it was geared towards improving the image of the sport in Nigeria. He regretted that the ban by the World Rugby Council slowed in 2021, slowed down the progress of the sport in Nigeria, but expressed the joy that the unbanning of the team by the council would further increase its awareness among Nigerians. He said: “I am impressed with the partnership with Buga Win because in the last two years, the NRFF has gone through a lot. After the un-lifting of the ban that was placed on Nigeria, we now started to put things together. “We can’t move forward without funding. The Federal Government through the Ministry of Sports is doing its utmost best, but you will agree with me that the Federal Government has its priority areas. Sport is also a priority area because of its importance, especially among the youths, but because of the enormous funding requirements of these other areas, sport needs that extra push especially from corporate organisations and people with like-minds to take rugby to where it ought to be. POLL “Buga Win has come to our rescue when we needed it most with this partnership. Buga Win is an organisation that is out to empower Nigerians in entertainment and lottery activities. Rugby is a very physical contact activity and our young people are participating in it.” In his comment, Mr. Ayodele Omogbeyin, Chairman, Buga Win said that the lottery company would continue to encourage sporting activities in the country.Omogbeyin said that its partnership with the rugby federation was on a long term, which would be reviewed periodically. He explained that one of the major aims of the company was to create wealth and enhance fun among Nigerians, hoping that its partnership with the rugby federation would further promote the game in Nigeria. “We want to partner with the Rugby Federation to promote the sport in Nigeria. I have a passion for sport. We want to invest heavily and help to promote rugby in Nigeria,” he said. Besides, Otunba Charles Farimoye, Managing Director, Buga Win, stated that part of the partnership with the Nigeria Rugby Football Federation was to catch them young from primary, secondary schools and tertiary institutions. He added that the partnership also involved the establishment of rugby league in Nigeria. “We also plan to form our youth league and we want to be a reliable partner to the Rugby Football Federation in developing the sport. It is a lifestyle-tainment company, which we are happy that we are now becoming a very reliable and an official partner to the federation,” he said.