SAMUEL OGIDAN; KINGSLEY BENNETH ABUJA – Ahead of the inauguration of the 10th Senate on June 13, one of the contenders for the Senate Presidency and former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, seems to be having a tough time with his bid for the position. Some senators, who had earlier expressed support for his bid, are reportedly with­drawing on account of issues connected with his relationship with the National Assembly when he was Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs. It was gathered that his campaign organisation is now making frantic pleas to sena­tors-elect on behalf of Senator Akpabio. Recall that the Deputy Direc­tor-General of Akpabio/Barau Campaign Organisation, Sen­ator Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti Central), was quoted to have told the media on Monday that the campaign is appealing to senators-elect to support Ak­pabio’s bid. Some of the senators-elect hinted that they are having a rethink on Sen. Akpabio’s Sen­ate Presidency over accusations that he was disrespectful to the institution of the legislature when he, as the Minister of Niger Delta, openly accused National Assembly members of hugely benefiting from large contracts in the NDDC without a proof. A senator-elect, who plead­ed anonymity, confirmed the withdrawal of support for Sen. Akpabio, querying how he can preside over the National As­sembly he despised. He said: “I have withdrawn support for Senator Akpabio. It’s not only me. Many of us have withdrawn our support and it will show on the floor. POLL “I used to have very high re­gard for Senator Akpabio as a person but I can’t support him to be the Senate President. “How can he (Akpabio) come and preside over an institution which he once described as a cesspit of corruption after ben­efitting from the same institu­tion.” Those Against Akpabio Want Tinubu To Fail, Says Wike Meanwhile, Nyesom Wike, former governor of River State, has described those against the Senate President ambition of Senator Godswill Akpabio as enemies of the South-South who wish President Bola Tinu­bu to fail. Wike, in a live television in­terview on Tuesday in Port Har­court, said, “I have said this be­fore, they never wanted Tinubu to be president but he succeeded and that phase has passed and now they don’t want him to succeed and that is why they are setting stumbling blocks before him at the National Assembly. “There is no government in this world who is a ruling government that can bring up a policy that would make its party unpopular in an election period. No government. With­in that period, you introduced naira redesign and fuel scarcity. Two things that would impact the masses. It was a bobby trap against Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.” On why Senator Akpabio should be supported to lead the 10th Senate, Wike said, “Ev­erybody knows my position on this. It should come to the South-South. Why are people so selfish? If the presidency of the Senate comes to the South, where do you think it should go? “To the South-South of course and that is my position. Since 1999 the South-East has produced five Senate Presidents for eight years and Deputy Sen­ate President for 12 years. “The South-South has only occupied that office for just four years in 1979 through the late Senator Joseph Wayas. Let us tell ourselves the truth. “In terms of electoral per­formance for the president in the South, after the South- West, it is the South-South. The choice of Akpabio is to give the Tinubu-led administration the needed support to deliver on his campaign promises. “Asiwaju enjoys the con­fidence of Akpabio, believes in his ability and capacity to join him in executing his pro­grammes for Nigerians. “We are supporting the zon­ing of the office of the president of the 10th Senate to the South- South because that is the right thing to do at this moment for some balancing. Anybody who loves and believes in the unity of this country and wants Tinu­bu to succeed, will not hesitate to support the presidency of the Senate to come to the South- South and the Speaker to the North. “You want to take the Speak­ership and the Senate Presiden­cy to the North and to a Muslim. What are they talking about? What would you tell the Chris­tians in this country? We have to be careful. It is only those who don’t want the unity of this country that would come up with that kind of proposal. They should live and let’s live. “What signal are you send­ing out? From the beginning you set out to frustrate his ad­ministration. When he picked a Muslim as his running mate he was accused of wanting to run an Islamic agenda of Islamising Nigeria, which was not correct. He wants to balance the thing now so that Nigerians will know that it was all lies, you are here working against it.” According to the PDP chief­tain, “All these rumours and analysis by lazy politicians will further disunite this country. Let us give support to the presi­dent to give hope here and give hope there for national unity, so that it will not look as if we are running a religious govern­ment. If you love Tinubu and you truly wants him to succeed, you must think twice.” He stated that those who want to truncate the Tinubu government even before its take-off have forgotten the bitter les­sons of the Bukola Saraki era, saying, “It was Nigerians that suffered it. “Today, you want to repeat the same. What they want to do would be a major setback. Let’s see ourselves as one. Give every­body a sense of belonging. Stop manipulations because it comes with consequences. “Nigeria is a complex coun­try. Everybody saw what hap­pened during the elections. I heard some so-called leaders of the PDP saying nobody should impose the leadership of the NASS, but they forgot that when they were in government they were the ones installing Senate Presidents and removing them. You are trying to bring some­body who is working with you to be Senate President to make sure that his administration fails, why? To the detrimental Nigerians? “Let us allow the president to have his way because when there is no smooth relation­ship between the leadership of NASS and the president, you can’t have a very good adminis­tration. Remember the Saraki era. It was a big problem. The president supports Akpabio. “We should allow him. Had it been the president was not sup­porting him, it would have been a different issue. By their rules, Akpabio is the highest ranking from the South-South. “The argument against the South having the Senate Pres­idency is balderdash. Muham­madu Buhari was president from the North and the Sen­ate President remained in the North for eight years and the Speakership for four years. “The Chief Justice of Ni­geria was Tanko Mohammed. What are we talking about? The office of the CJN is not on appointment nor elective, it is based on seniority”.