RAJI ADEBAYO, IBADAN The 2023 general elections have indeed produced winners and losers. During the electioneering campaigns in Oyo state, Governor Seyi Makinde, who was seeking a second term in office told the people of the state that seeking re-election was to ensure the consolidation of the accelerated development by his administration between 2019 and 2023. He confidently told his people: “I deserved to be elected again by the people of the state, with the achievements recorded by my administration across the four service point areas of education, security, health, and economic expansion through agribusiness and infrastructure.” According to him, new targets for the second four-year term would include the delivery of what he tagged “Omituntun 2.0,” which centres on bringing sustainable development to the people of Oyo State, recalling how during his campaign in 2018, he fashioned a roadmap for this purpose. While on the campaign trail, he assured that “Omituntun 2.0 is a film that will be a lot better, sweeter and more effective when compared to Omiuntun 1.0.” Based on the experience garnered in those four year, he said the new roadmap this time around “is for sustainable development 2023-2027,” drawing attention to infrastructure targeted at economic expansion programme which has resulted in over 500 kilometres of road either being completed, or under construction. Makinde noted how his administration, as part of its determination to boost the Oyo State economy, embarked on linking all of the constituent five zones with quality road infrastructure take into consideration “their uniqueness and what they are bringing to the table for the overall development of the state. In the process, he enthused: “…we have succeeded in linking Ibadan to Iseyin. We are linking Ogbomoso to Iseyin and we are linking Oke-Ogun to Igbo-Ora to Eruwa; we are also linking Eruwa to Ibadan”. POLL Among infrastructure initiatives of his government, he said, are the 65-kilometres Moniya-Iseyin Road, while “works are ongoing on Ogbomoso-Iseyin, Oyo-Iseyin, Beere-Ona-Ara, Ajia-Airport Road with a spur to Amuloko, Bembo-Apata Roads and the dualization of the Ibadan Airport Road, among others”. The administration, he continued, worked assiduously to expand the economy of Oyo State by equipping the Ibadan Airport with a 500,000 litre aviation fuel storage and dispensing facility, in addition to its performance in the agribusiness sector, and several policy initiatives to encourage a business environment, especially those that are agribusiness-friendly. This, he said, has helped attracted massive investments to the state, such as the building of the second largest Sorbitol plant in the world by Psaltery Limited, No wonder, Makinde continued, Oyo State has been designated as an agro-processing zone by the African Development Bank (AfDB), noting as one of his administration’s success stories in the agriculture sector the fact that Oyo State recorded the lowest food inflation in the country last year, following which initiatives as the distribution of improved seedlings to 10,000 farmers. “You must have also heard about youths we sent to Nasarawa State to learn about modern ways of doing agriculture. We have also collaborated with IITA (International Institute for Tropical Agriculture) on the STEM Programme. In terms of physical development, we have converted the Fasola Farm Settlement to a Farm Estate. Eruwa Farm Settlement is on the line as well. On the environment and waste management system, Makinde said the government continues to search for a sustainable solution to the age-long problems associated with the environment. For him, the administration did not score 100 percent in waste management, promising to do the needful to solve the age-long issue over time, assuring that “we have the template. We are mobilising. In the area of job creation, Governor Makinde said his government “employed 300 environmental officers that will engage the people so that they can have the right mindset. The people need to change their attitude and when we meet in the middle, our problems will be less.” One other promise residents of the state will be hold Makinde to is the ongoing review of environmental laws expected to birth a cleaner state, and the removal of street beggars and destitute who he vowed would be moved permanently to one of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) Camps within the state as soon as possible. He warned lawbreakers to obey environmental and traffic laws, as violators would be unpunished under the Omititun 2.0. He also spoke of plans to fashion a permanent solution to the epileptic performance of the light-up Oyo project, an audit of which is ongoing, and the perennial traffic gridlock being experienced in recent months, due to the influx of people seeking a conducive environment in the state. For him also, during the first term, he said the administration “achieved 80 percent of what we promised to do for the people of Oyo State. This second term, I would like to assure us that we will do more. “People do say that second term governors don’t perform effectively, but we already came up with a roadmap for sustainable development of Oyo State, 2023-2027, and we will not relent until we achieve what we have itemised in the document”. In an apparent self-assessment of his performance, Governor Makinde boasted that when his performance is placed side-by-side those of his predecessors, his government has done well, urging the people not to entertain any fears, because he had indeed prayed that God should not allow his re-election succeed, if he would not leave a good legacy thereafter. The governor specifically promised that his second term will be “a lot better, sweeter and more effective” than the first, because “we will work harder for the people of Oyo state than we did in the first tenure. Prayer For Success Congratulating Makinde on his successful re-election, while reating to the governor’s plans, a former governor and Otun Olubadan, Chief Rashidi Ladoja, prayed for a successful tenure to enable Makinde meet the aspirations of his people. As Ladoja reminded Makinde: “By now, the campaigns are over, the outbursts are over, the various lies are over, the abuses are over, the curses are over, the deliberate misinterpretations are over and the jostling for spaces are over. “All the dramatis personae have quit the stage with their laurels and bruises, leaving you alone. What are now left are your promises and stark realities. May God help you succeed to the people’s expectation, your satisfaction and fulfillment in this selfless job before you.” Also advising Governor Makinde, the 2023 Oyo South Senatorial candidate on the platform of Young Progressives Party (YPP) in the state, Reverend Adenike Victor-Tade, popularly known as Mama Empowerment, urged him to reduce government bureaucracy and put an open-door policy in place to enhance fulfilment of promises made to the people as part of his Sustainable Development Agenda codenamed: “Omituntun 2.0.” She expressed readiness to help the state tackle unemployment pro bono within six months, through what she described as a revolving wealth approach to tackling the problem of youth unemployment, thereby making the youths productive members of the state, and in the process guarantee improved security. Adenike further charged Governor Makinde to look beyond partisan engagements and affiliations, because there are many experts and intellectuals outside of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party who could be brought on board to play various parts in the process of birthing a modern Oyo State now being championed by the governor. According to her, ”I want him to work on the unemployment problem we have, if his Excellency can minimize the unemployment problem in Oyo state, people will celebrate him more till his old age.” Also, the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Oyo State wing see the achievements the first term of the Makinde administration, particularly in the education sector as a major contributor to his success at the poll, stressing that the re-election was expression of the peoples’ perception, besides his numerous enduring and people-oriented policies and programmes. The NUT, however, challenged the governor to consolidate on his first-term achievements in the sector. Final Lines The May 29, 2023 swearing of Governor Seyi Makinde for a second four-year term, analysts believe, is an opportunity to prove that the electorate of Oyo State were right in committing their socio-economic wellbeing into his hands for another 48 months, being only the second person to enjoy such privilege since the days of the second republic Oyo State. Is Omituntun 2.0 a fluke? What will Governor Makinde’s scorecard and image look like when he hands over to his successor on May 29, 2027? Only time will definitely tell.