A food safety expert and Principal Partner/Executive Director for HACCP Academy Nigeria, ,Dr. James Marsh, has stressed the need for Nigerians to take the issue of food safety seriously. He stated this in an interview with Daily Independent, while he was speaking on the forthcoming World Food Safety Day which is being celebrated worldwide on June 7, with the theme; ‘Food Standards Saves Life’. He said it is very important to take food safety seriously that people are dying every day due to high blood pressure, stroke, cancer and that lots of these issues emanate from what people consume. “I was excited when I saw the theme late last year. In Nigeria we have standards, but the standard is very silent, the regulators are hardly enforcing them. Only when issues come up, that is when we run around. We need to save lives. He said that the food chain starts from the farms to the table, that hardly are the farmers sensitized. “The farmers are using chemicals at a high percentage, it’s leaving residual on the food. That is why the majority of what they export are being rejected and the majority of what the citizens are consuming. Nobody really regulates the food market. The mode of transportation is another, frozen food cannot be transported at the back of taxis, it cannot be transported at ambient temperature. It needs to be transported frozen. “The government needs to come back to the centre table because at the end, all of us eat and drink and the standards need to be upheld. Regulators need to enforce and make sure that the standard that has been set; even if they need to be re-modified they need to be followed. While speaking on the line up of activities to celebrate the World Food Safety Day, Marsh said that the food safety firm has lined up activities to mark the day. POLL He said that a few years ago, HAN had taken it upon itself to champion the celebration in Lagos State. He said there will be a visit to a notable farm, and a visit to school around Ejigbo to sensitise the students on the need to be conscious of the food they eat. Marsh also said that the team will visit Ogba abattoir to sensitise them. “We will partner with them because at the end they too will consume this meat. We want them to know the implications of their actions because food safety saves lives, but at every stage there are risks that need to be looked at. “We need to ensure they get it right and even after the world food safety day we will continue to assist them so that they can get it right,” he said. The food safety expert also said that the team will visit religious centres to sensitise them on food safety. On day six according to him, there will be a food safety awareness walk and on the seventh day which is the grand finale, there will be a symposium/ food festival where experts in the food safety industry will gather to brainstorm.