rophet Ade Ologbonyo is the planter of Christ Apostolic Church, BOANERGES, Ise-Ekiti in Ekiti. During his 14th anniversary celebration in Ise-Ekiti, he floated humanitarian programmes such as health outreaches. He spoke about issues relating to religion, politics and governance in Nigeria and the role of the Church. YAQOUB POPOOLA brings excerpts . We learnt that you recently embarked on an evangelical trip to Europe. Can you tell us for what purpose? Yes, I went to Rochester to make findings. I went on a research work on what will become of African churches in the next 200 years. The Rochester Church, with tourist centre which has been existing for over 2000 years was my case study. In this ministry, we have what I called “Project 100′. The vision came about six years ago, that where will CAC BOANERGES be in the next 100 years. We have to plan ahead. So, if am no more, whoever comes in will continue from wherever I stop on the same project so that they will not deviate from the primary purpose of this calling. What do you think should be the role of religious leaders in a society like ours ? Religious leaders should play a vital role in stamping out crime and criminality in the country. Sustaining and giving the people of a country a better life is not the responsibility of the government alone. Religious leaders should also be wary of the kind of message they preach to the congregation. Sometimes what some people hear makes them to do what is not right. Preach what is right for our youth to be able to live the life that is acceptable to man and God and for them to know making it in life is not a day’s job. If you look around here now, we are playing our own role. We have a school here at a very cheap rate, we also have a hospital here that could be accessed free of charge. We also give out things like grinding machine and others to empower people, so that they won’t go around begging. So if I have pastors of like minds in this environment, we would have made our own impact. POLL Also, the kind of message we are preaching must be changed, like preaching of prosperity, sudden wealth; somebody who is not working and has no known source of income suddenly by cars, build houses. If they bring you money you will not ask where they got it from and you will be prophesying they will get more tomorrow saying the source will not run dry. You are only encouraging internet fraud, kidnapping and other criminal acts. What is your opinion about Fuel Subsidy payment removal by the current administration? We should not expect magic from the new president, but I think he has taken the right step by removing the fuel subsidy. It is a perfect step by any Nigerian leader that will do right thing. Nigerians just need to be patient, and government too needs to keep negotiating and come up with palliatives to ease the pains of the fuel subsidy on the people. I think if we are patient with this new government, I think its body language is telling us that we have hope, if it is not about politics, so let’s keep praying for them. What will you suggest as palliatives to cushion the pains of subsidy removal? Let there be a price control policy, and a policy that will help government to monitor the activities of market women and other traders thereby stopping them from charging outrageous prices on their goods and services. This is in order not to bring more hardship to the masses. This will increase their purchasing power, and the money will trickle down to others within the society. Also, the government should come up with an economic policy that will stop traders and service providers from increasing prices of goods and services by 100 per cent whenever there is fuel issues. For instance, when President said in his inaugural speech that the fuel subsidy is gone, almost all petrol stations across the country, including in Ekiti State, immediately shut their stations and refused to sell to the people, but later started selling at unauthorised prices. So, first thing we need to do for the new government is to pray for them, that God should guide them right. Like the second stanza of our National Anthem says, “Guide our leaders right, help our youth the truth to know.” What advice will you give to Mr President as he prepares to form his cabinet? Nigeria is blessed with both human and natural resources. We have lots of qualifed individuals that can deliver excellent services to the nation. With young and vibrant people, Mr President can sit down, sleep and put people in positions and office and the country will be running well. Go to anywhere in the world you will see Nigerians doing well. Our youth are strong and not lazy. We need to give these good Nigerians a platform and enabling environment to operate. Not those that have been politicians since 1960 and they are still being recycled in power. They are old, let them go. Let us have fresh, vibrant brilliant persons, they can do a lot. He should allow and give them opportunity to serve. The federal government should also work on uniting the country. We are so divided already. He must bring the country back together. The Hausas shouldn’t see themselves as Hausas, ditto Igbos and Yorubas. We should all see ourselves as Nigerians first, forgetting our tribes and ethnic groups and where we are from. Secondly, Mr President should prioritise the security of lives and properties. It is the primary responsibility and first assignment of every responsible government. Nobody should be going about with the police and bodyguard in a society that is safe, but some people cannot do without this because of the security situation in our country. Security is important because should be able to sleep with their two eyes closed. He should as well work hard to fix the country’s economy which is in shambles. Since the fuel subsidy has been removed, palliatives should follow immediately to reduce its harsh effect on the people. What approach would you suggest to Mr President to adopt on issues bothering on nation’s unity? I will advise Mr President to engage the agitators. Let him invite the leaders of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu and Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho to a roundtable meeting to unite the country. Every available group within the system would want to have influence and adequate representation. Lots of influence will be coming from the politicians, traditional rulers even from the religious leaders too. We need to keep praying for him that God will guide him right to appoint the right people as members of his cabinet. Proverb 29 verse 2 said when the righteous are on the throne, people will enjoy but when the wicked are on the throne, the people mourn. To lead requires wisdom. This is not ‘God says’, it is my personal opinion as a citizen and as person who wants his country to move forward. That was what late president Yar’Adua did for the Niger Delta boys when he gave them amnesty and they immediately sheath their swords. The people locking people in and holding them hostage in a democratic dispensation is not right, we are not in the military era. I believe within this short while, if we are patient with Tinubu and praying for him and he has good advisers around him, because he can’t be all in all, having good ministers to work with and state governors are supporting him”. How would you rate Tinubu’s Presidency in the last few weeks? I am not a politician and I will not be unless God said so. But the body language of Mr President and most of his antics since assumption of office indicates that we have a hope. If he continues like this without deceit, things will get better . Recently, he invited traditional rulers from across the country to talk to them. Those are the steps a good leader should take. He is not the president of just APC or PDP but the president of over 200 million people, and he needs to carry everybody along People often say Nigeria’s democracy is too expensive. Do you agree with this claim? Yes,one of the things I want this new government to do is to cut the cost of governance by reducing the salaries and the money that is going into politics. The money being expended on the politics and politicians is too much. How can you be paying a professor N30,000 and a school certificate holder will be getting N15 million at the end of the month. Let us make the positions a part-time thing and start giving them N20,000 sitting allowance. It is because of the huge salaries and other entitlement, that is why some are ready to kill to get to the position. Ditto to the governors. After leaving office, they get houses, cars, take gratuity and pension for ruling for eight years, this is outrageous and bad. If they want to rule us let them rule and leave not that they leave will continue taking away our resources. The State and National Assemblies are working toward having the same thing. I believe that this government has a lot of work to do. Though we don’t expect magic or anything sudden. Let give the government time to see what they want to do. If you look at the time he was the governor of Lagos State, the set of people he appointed then were better. The people that worked with him did their best. We are praying for him because he is now President of Nigeria and not Lagos. We have over 250 ethnic group in Nigeria and over 300 languages.