…Debunks Social Media Report About His Appointment The immediate past Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike has said that he got a hero’s reception after handing over as governor, because of his performance in eight years. Wike while speaking in an interview with journalists on Tuesday noted that the reception he received from his kinsmen and Rivers people after he handed over was an appreciation for his excellent performance. “Nobody handed over to me when I took over as governor. So, I didn’t know what it was like until that day that I handed over the office to my predecessor. I have never witnessed a handover ceremony. “When I handed over the flag of the state and documents to my predecessor and he saw me off. When I became emotional when I saw people shedding tears, I was touched. But that didn’t bother me much when I left the stadium and saw the huge crowd on the road and I came down from the car and saw the wild jubilation. He added, “It meant that people appreciated that I made a difference in their lives. It had never happened in the history of the state that people would come out jubilating over somebody who is exiting the office. “When it is towards the end of your tenure normally you don’t see anybody coming to you, but in my case it is different. Even as I speak to you, you will think that I’m still in office. “I think it is because of the way that I improved the infrastructure in the state, so people can see. It is not about stories or politics, it is about what people can see in Rivers State. Port Harcourt has changed. POLL “People can begin to wonder if Port Harcourt can be like this. The greatest thing any politician can have is when his people come out to receive him, to say “Our son you have done well, we appreciate you. You didn’t disappoint us” “The day I got to my village and my father came out to receive me, you could see the joy. How many Governors have experienced that? They spread wrappers on the road and asked me to step on them. It is a triumphant entry and a hero’s reception. Meanwhile, Wike has dismissed social media reports that he has been penciled down for a Ministerial appointment by President Bola Tinubu, stressing that the President has never had such a discussion with him. He however said that he mustn’t be a minister to contribute to the progress of the country, pointing out that even if he has to consider any offer in the future, it is something that he would discuss with his family first.