Prof. Andy Egwunyenga, Vice Chancellor, Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka has emphasised the need for character building, the dignity of labour, self-discipline, sacrifice, integrity and good time management among students and young persons in Nigeria to enhance their future. Prof. Egwunyenga said this at the Orientation exercise organized for the 3rd Cycle of the beneficiaries of Delta State University, Abraka, Students Work-Study Scheme, comprising Student Ambassadors, Computer Operators, Sanitary and Environmental Technicians, who complement the University workforce while earning income to improve their finances. Prof. Egwunyenga called on the beneficiaries not to look down on whatever they were doing, rather they should pride themselves as they were contributing to their future, adding, “the little thing you are doing adds a lot to our University. You have taken the right decision, I urge you to do it with seriousness. You are making more impact than those who are writing behind the curtains. What you are doing is the core of what development is all about”. He explained that the programme would continue to be expanded and fully integrated into the University system. Prof. Egwunyenga, a Pathologist and Entomologist inaugurated and congratulated the 94 beneficiaries, who are mostly young ladies, for their commitment and belief in self dignity. He promised to increase the number of beneficiaries to 150 in 2023/2024 academic session. Also speaking , Prof. Ochuko Anomohanran, Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academics) and Chairman of the Scheme expressed appreciation to Prof. Egwunyenga, who he described as “God fearing and the Gideon of our time,” for establishing the Scheme. He regretted that one of the developmental challenges in the Country was lack of continuity, even of good ideas, but was optimistic that the DELSU Students-Work-Study Scheme would be sustained, noting that it was comparable to what obtained in the developed countries of the world. POLL Prof. Anomohanran explained that willing students who are indigent should not be allowed to suffer academic deprivation on account of their financial status. He commended the selection team for doing a thorough job by selecting truly and needy indigent students, he charged the beneficiaries to endeavor to adroitly combine their work with their academic commitment in order to equip the student-workers with what they needed to be successful. The Student-Affairs Unit, organizers of the event, put together some lectures to that effect. The Dean of Students Affairs, Professor Chukwujindu Iwegbue provided a framework for the ‘Essence of the Students Work-Study Scheme.’ The Director of Works and Services, Engr. Anthony Igbeka provided an insight into ‘Works Ethics’ while the Director of the University Health Services, Dr. S. O. Onakughotor, represented by Mrs. E. N. Igbeka, gave hints on how the student-workers would be ‘Safe at Work’.