LAGOS – Online voting has commenced for the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award 2023 (NHEA) for nominees who were able to scale the first round of assessments by the NHEA Jury, according to organisers of the award. Duchess, Cedarcrest, AXA Mansard, Total Health Trust, GE, JNCI, UBA, Access Bank, Echolab, Pyramid Diagnostics, and over 100 other organisations and individuals have been nominated. Speaking on the nomination and voting, Moses Braimah, NHEA Director of Communication, Marketing & Strategy says, “Nomination closed on May 23, 2023, with so many surprises and excitements. “We are now at the final stage where voting has commenced by the public and some categories of shortlisted nominees are being visited by our team of inspectors to verify claims made by nominators for nominees.” Vivian Alikali, NHEA Executive Secretary, says “The voting process requires the potential voter to visit the NHEA voting portal to register in order to create an account, which is then authenticated via the email provided by the registrant. After successful registration, the voter can then begin voting after login.” Voting will end at midnight on June 20, 2023. Winners will be announced at a grand ballroom ceremony on Friday, June 23, 2023, at Eko Hotel & Suites Victoria Island, Lagos.The NHEA Jury shortlisted nominees from over 30,000 nominations that were received. Other nominees that made it include, Anambra State, Kano State, EHA Clinics Kano, Evercare Hospital, Save a Life Hospital PH, Clinix Healthcare, Pyramid Diagnostics PH,Clinix Healthcare, MeCure Healthcare Limited, Hygeia HMO, Advantage Health, Mobi Health’ and Nordica Fertility Centre. Others are Dee Medical Centre Jos, Renal Dialysis Centre, St. Nicholas Hospital, Zenith Medical & Kidney Centre Abuja, Eye Foundation Hospital, Tulsi Chanrai Foundation Eye Hospital Abuja, First Mobile Dental, and Beaconhill Smile Clinic. In addition are, Choice Dental, Lakeshore Cancer Center, NSIA Luth Cancer Center. Astella Physiotherapy Clinics, Enugu, Crown Healthcare, PPC Limited, GE Healthcare, Healthplus, Medplus Pharmacy, Ecomed, Emzor, GSK Plc, MyMedicines, and Mpharma, among others. POLL Addressing a press conference to announce the commencement of the online voting, Dr. Anthony Omolola, Chairman, NHEA Advisory Committee, noted that the award has improved standards of healthcare delivery in the private sector by 95 percent. Omolola urged the new administration in the country to work towards achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC). He said the government must provide the enabling environment to attract Nigerian health professionals overseas as well as end migration of those in the country abroad. Speaking, Dr. Wale Alabi, Executive Director, NHEA, also urged the government to focus on the revitalisation of Primary Healthcare, PHCs. Alabi said the country has enough PHCs, and Tertiary hospitals, hence, the need to build the capacity of those professionals in the Tertiary and PHCs in specialised care. Encourage them by providing better working conditions. Speaking, Pharm Gbenga Olubowale recalled that the COVID era exposed the inability of the country to meet the drug needs of Nigerians, particularly, when some drug-producing countries stopped exporting. “As of today, Nigeria is only able to manufacture about 45 percent of our drug needs. We cannot leave our drug security in the hands of Asians or Westerners. These are very key. The new government needs to do anything possible to ensure local drug manufacturers remain in business. What are the things we need, finances, what stop us from having a special facility; like we have Bank of Industry, we can have a Health bank where by it will be a facility that understands how the health sector works.” The award is aimed at recognising and celebrating the achievements of personalities and organizations who have contributed immensely to the growth and development of the Nigerian health sector in the last year. Similarly, it will recognise the rapid growth of Nigeria’s healthcare sector, the role of technology, and the capacity of organisations and individuals to influence and set new performance standards in Nigeria and beyond. NHEA, the Oscar of Nigeria healthcare is supported by PharmAccess Foundation.The award is organized by Global Health Project and Resources (GHPR) in collaboration with Anadach Group, USA.