Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, the immediate past Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, has distanced himself from some articles purportedly written by some individuals as responses to Oba of Benin’s inquiries about his (Agba) stewardship as a minister. He said those writing such articles that were trending online were not known to him (Agba), nor did he sponsor any article or commission anyone to reply to the Oba whom he described as his father. Ewuare II had, during Agba’s visit to the Benin throne on June 15, questioned the former minister about his stewardship in the state. Agba, in a statement signed and made available to newsmen in Benin, Thursday evening entitled: “Disclaimer Notice”, said: “I do not, I repeat, I do not, and I will not have any disagreements with His Royal Majesty, Oba of Benin Kingdom, on any matter whatsoever.” Agba’s statement read in part: “I would like to address some commentaries and articles that have come to my attention, purportedly in response to the questions I received from our esteemed Royal Father, His Royal Majesty, Omo N’oba N’edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare ll, Oba of Benin Kingdom about my stewardship.” He continued: “Let me make it clear, without any doubt, that the commentaries and articles that have surfaced are neither sought nor sponsored by me. It is not my nature to join issues in public with our royal father. He is not only my father but also the father of all of us in Edo State.” According to the former minister, unaware to the public, after the public meeting where the Monarch raised some questions about his stewardship, he later met with the Oba in private wherein he (Agba) clarified some of the issues raised by the Oba. “However, unaware to most of them, later that evening, His Royal Majesty graciously granted me an opportunity to privately discuss and address those concerns, allowing me to provide clarifications and answers. Especially regarding how the provision for the storage of the artefacts was captured in the Budget, for which I apologized and clarified that it was not my intention,” he stated. POLL He, therefore, advised, “those who insist on writing articles and commentaries, attempting to politicize the situation” to “discontinue this fruitless pursuit.”