The National Publicity Secretary of Middle Belt Forum, Dr. Isuwa Dogo has said that the top national appointments made by President Bola Tinubu are quite commendable. Dogo told Daily Independent that those alleging that Tinubu is lopsided in his appointments are not objective. He said that national appointments are different from personalised appointments where the President is at liberty to choose those who are close to him. He said, “When it comes to personalised appointments, the people that will work with you, are those people that you know. For example the chief of staff, special adviser on media and communication etcetera. There are also national appointments, like the chief of army staff, chief of defense staff, chief of Air Staff, etcetera. The chief of defense staff is from southern Kaduna in the North-West. In fact the majority of the five top positions are not from the South-West. “I know that the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP) is from the South-West. Of the seven top appointments, you have some from the North-West, South-East, South-South and the South-West. So, these are the kind of things that you look out for. So for personalised appointments, it is almost impossible you won’t look for people from your area who are close to you. Speaking further, Dogo said, “Some of the statements that he is lopsided in his appointments are not entirely correct. The seven national appointments made by Tinubu are commendable and not lopsided. “The special advisers are personalised appointments and if he doesn’t know you why should he appoint you as a personal adviser. Again the top seven appointments that he made most of them are Christians. If they were Muslims I am sure that the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) would have cried out. On the sack of Bawa and Emefiele, he said, “The decisions he has taken so far in respect of Godwin Emefiele, the former Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Abdulrasheed Bawa, former chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) are the right. POLL “If he decides to appoint an EFCC boss from the South-West, what is wrong with that? Remember that since the creation of EFCC, nobody outside the North has ever been chairman of the Commission. In fact most of them have been from the North-East” he said.