ABUJA  – President Bola Tinu­bu on Thursday met behind closed doors with Akwa Ibom state governor, Umo Eno of the op­position Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at Presidential Villa, Abuja. After the brief meeting Eno explained that he was at the seat of government to con­gratulate the President on his electoral victory and to seek a bipartisan collaboration with the President now that the elections are over. He said, “We came to visit the President, to congratu­late him on the election and his swearing-in and to pledge our support, our commitment and our loyalty to the Presi­dent and the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Politics is over and governance has started. “So Akwa Ibom is an inte­gral part of Nigeria and we have to work with the federal government to ensure that Akwa Ibomites will see the benefits of democracy and we cannot do that if we work standing apart. “And so we came to visit the President like I said, to con­gratulate him and pledge our support to work with him and our commitment as a state so that Akwa Ibomites will derive the full benefit of democracy. Explaining further the governor said: “There are lots of things we expect from the federal government and it’s only with that cooperation that we can work together and achieve the common good, whatever I know I can do, to bring the dividends of democ­racy to my people, I will do it. Thank you so much”. Asked if he made some requests on Mr. President during the meeting especial­ly on the poor state of federal roads like Ikot Ekpene-Itu- Calabar road, Eno said: “Of course, as we talked about the road you have just mentioned the Calabar-Itu road. “We will need the President to help us intervene and let’s get that road finished. We talked about our Ibom Deep Seaport, we will need the President to also intervene and let’s get the Seaport up and running”. POLL “I also also mentioned to him the export license, the free zone for our airport, so that the maintenance, repairs, and overhauling facility there, we will be able to bring in spare parts to service the airplanes.”