Says TC Chairmen Are Not Independent AWKA – Professor Dennis Aribodor, an indigene of Azia in Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State has asked Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo to fulfill his campaign promise of conducting local government elections one year after his assumption of office. Aribodor who held Soludo by his words, said the governor made a categorical statement that he would conduct local council elections after one year. But according to him, it appears to be an ironical statement following the continuous and persistent recycling of Transition Committee Chairmen whom he said have no constitutional powers to perform creditably and not independent and intrepid enough to fight insecurity at the grassroots level. He said the governor promised Ndi-Anambra during his inaugural address on March 17th 2022 that he would conduct local government elections. Aribodor stated that Gov. Soludo has spent one year and some months in office yet no signs of conducting local government elections. Aribodor however posited that it was time Gov. Soludo started planning towards the conduct of local government elections to address Insecurity and infrastructural decay in the hinterlands. He said, ” Soludo should give Ndi-Anambra elected chairmen persons to take care of the local government areas so as to ensure that the local government system in Anambra State comes to life.” The Professor of Public Health Parasitology of Nnamdi Azikiwe University and former Secretary-General of Azia General Assembly, stressed that because transition committee chairmen were not duly elected, they are not independent but at the Beck and Call of those who appointed them, adding that if the local governments have elected mandates, they would think more broadly as well as consult more widely in addressing local issues. POLL He said one year is gone already and Soludo has less than three years to preside over the affairs of Anambra State. That he should make efforts to conduct local council polls so they would have mandate of the people to administer the local government areas in the state. He observed also that Ihiala local government area appears to be the headquarters of Insecurity in the state but expressed optimism too that the menace can be addressed with officials duly elected by the grassroots dwellers. He said, “I expect that before the end of the governor’s two years, he should conduct local government elections. ‘ Aribodor also disclosed that because the independence of the legislature is now sacrosanct, it is expected that the Anambra State House of Assembly will synergise with the Executive arm to do good for the state. He therefore charged the already constituted 8th assembly to embark on people-oriented legislations as well as better oversight functions for the good of the common man in Anambra State. Aribodor equally charged the legislature to ensure that Anambra Local Government System is running on democracy because they themselves as lawmakers acquired their positions by elections. That Anambra State should conduct local government elections to engender more development in the grassroots.