LAGOS – The Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise, CPPE, has emphasized the need for the acceleration of the Presidential Power Initiative to upscale power supply in view of the recent removal of fuel subsidy in the country. Its Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Muda Yusuf, who said this in a statement, also maintained that state governments and private investors should be supported to leverage the decentralization power supply and off grid power solutions. He also said, quick wins in the power improvement strategy should be implemented immediately. “This would reduce the demand for petroleum products (petrol and diesel) for purposes of electricity generation by households and businesses. “Government must put an end to the pricing of gas in dollars for domestic use, especially for manufacturers. Necessary urgent steps must be taken by government to put an end to this dollarization framework to ensure a moderation in energy cost for the manufacturing sector,” he said According to him, government should consider abolition of all forms of taxes and import duty on renewable energy equipment to boost the adoption of renewable energy by households and small and medium scale businesses. He said, such waivers would make renewable energy adoption affordable, adding that the reduction should cover relevant equipment like solar panels, inverters, batteries. He reasoned that this would make citizens less reliant on the electricity grid. POLL The head of CPPE implored government to take urgent steps to reduce the cost of cooking gas to households. The recent reduction in the cooking gas price is laudable, he said, but the price reduction trajectory should be sustained to ease pressure on households and prevent deforestation. He said, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited should sell petroleum products at a price which is 10% less than that of other private sector marketers. He explained that this is to demonstrate the desired social sensitivity by the government in this transitional phase of the subsidy removal. He added: “It is also of great symbolic significance to do so. Government must be seen to be concerned about the social outcomes of this reform. This is without prejudice to the new status of the NNPC as public Limited Liability Company” Speaking further, Yusuf stressed that all agricultural inputs – machineries, agrochemicals, fertilizer, etc. should attract zero import duty and zero VAT, adding that this would boost investment in agriculture, especially commercial agriculture. As part of the palliatives, he suggested that generous tax and other fiscal incentives should be provided for private investors in healthcare with a view to conserving foreign exchange through a reversal of the growing medical tourism in the country. Calls for generous tax and other fiscal incentives are being suggested to be given to private investors in education to enable the private sector complement the efforts of government in providing quality education, especially at the primary and secondary levels. Also, generous tax and tariff concessions were cited as part of what can incentivize rapid growth in investment in refineries. “The outlook for growth in refineries investment is very bright given the elimination of fuel subsidy. This is also in line with the commitment to promoting competition in the petroleum downstream sector,” Yusuf said. Suggestions for gross monthly salaries of N200,000 and below earner were asked to be exempted from payment of Personal Income Tax (PAYE) to give the low-income earners some room to improve their spending capacity and reduce poverty. Strong advice was given to the government to immediately entrench competition in the importation and refining of petroleum products in order put an end to the current monopoly structure of supply of petroleum products in the country. He suggested that employers, especially thriving medium and large enterprises, should be persuaded by government to provide buses for their employees, if they are not already doing so. “This would complement the intervention of government in this respect. Where possible, employers should provide lunch vouchers for their staff,” he added. Reduction of the number of days workers would be required to be physically present at work. We need to entrench remote working culture in the public and private sectors, where practicable. Employers should leverage technology in their operations as the nature of work is changing globally. The private sector has a responsibility to provide palliatives for their employees. “Government should prevail on private sector employers, especially the medium to large enterprises, to complement the efforts of government in the introduction of measures to cushion the negative social effects of the subsidy removal outcomes. It should be a call to give capitalism a human face.”