Dr. Peter Mbah, Enugu State Governor, has used the op­portunity of the Eid-el-Kabir festival to visit the Muslim Ummah at the Islamic Centre, Uwani and Central Mosque, Owerri Road, Enu­gu, to celebrate with them. Mbah, who reiterated that Enugu State was for ev­erybody, recommitted to his campaign promises, stressing that Enugu metropolis would begin to enjoy pipe borne wa­ter again within the next 150 days. This was even as the Muslim faithful in the state commended the governor for tackling insecurity head-on, adding that they were impressed that he identified and celebrated with the entire Muslim Ummah. Describing Enugu as a foremost cosmopolitan city in Nigeria, Mbah said: “You are an integral part of us. When you are cele­brating, we are celebrating, and when you are in pain, we are also in pain because in Enugu State, we are one people. “You will see in Enugu peo­ple from the North, West, Mid­dle Belt, and the Niger Delta that the umbilical cords of their great grandparents were buried in our soil. “So, as we are getting ready to constitute our government, you can be sure that you are all going to feel a sense of be­longing and being part of this government. Mbah reiterated that the ban on Monday sit-at-home had come to stay because it was not in the character of the Igbo people, whom he described as highly industri­ous and enterprising, to sit at home on the most productive day of the week. He commended the Mus­lim, Northern, Yoruba, and other ethnic communities in Enugu for their support during the campaigns and their maximum cooperation with his administration, es­pecially in the war against insecurity. POLL He promised the immedi­ate renovation of the primary and secondary schools at the Islamic Centre, Uwani, Enu­gu, to ensure that the students attend school in a safe and conducive environment. On his campaign promises, he said: “We are mindful of all our campaign promises. They are hung by bedpost like an al­manac. So, I am reminded of them everyday when I wake up. “We are aware that we have just about 150 days left for wa­ter to flow in your homes; and by the grace of God, we will not fail you.” “Those promises we made to clean up Enugu, I am sure you can see that Enugu State is becoming cleaner again. You are going to have light everywhere. We are working on all that. We are tackling the security challenges frontally. Everything we have said to you during the campaigns, we stand by it”.