LAGOS – The Federation of Informal Workers’ Organisations of Nigeria (FIWON) has called on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to reverse the recent announcement on May 29, 2023, that subsidies on Premium Motor Spirit, a major energy resource, be removed. This is as the Coalition for Revolution (CORE) stated that the government acted illegally by removing subsidies before June 2023. FIWON, in a statement made available to Sunday Independent, recalled that in apparent deference to Tinubu’s declaration, the Nigeria National Petroleum Company Limited had announced an upward price adjustment in petroleum pump price from N194 to N537 per litre, an average of over 170% per cent increase! The union, in a statement signed by its General Secretary, Comrade Gbenga Komolafe, at the weekend, recalled that just over a year ago, the price of diesel, another source of energy for small and medium enterprises in Nigeria was also hiked from N312 per litre in January to N800 in March, 2022 indicating a 100% increase. It said: “Since then, most small and medium enterprises have been struggling while many have closed down worsening the unemployment scourge in the country. “The petroleum price hike on the one hand is going to immediately exert a most devastating impact on the nano and micro enterprises in the informal economy which largely rely on petroleum as the primary source of energy for production and service delivery. “Coming just a few months after the disastrous currency redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which actually dealt a death blow on micro-enterprises in the informal economy and the intensely damaging effects of the lockdown measures adopted by government with ineffectual palliatives for poor working people in the informal economy.” The union also stressed that the livelihoods of informal sector workers were shut down for weeks during the Covid-19 pandemic crisis just a few years ago. POLL It added: “The latest subsidy removal and consequential hike in the pump price of petroleum is yet another attack on the livelihoods and survival of working people in the informal sector. The sector currently employs over 70% of the Nigerian working population. “The entirety of the members of the Federation of Informal Workers’ Organisations of Nigeria (FIWON) therefore calls on the Federal Government and President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to immediately reverse the price hike of petroleum while a vigorous review of not only the pricing, but the entire governance structure of the downstream sector of the Nigerian oil and gas industry be undertaken.” This, it maintained, would unravel why Nigeria had remained the only OPEC country dependent on imported refined petroleum products, the bloated, clearly over invoiced subsidy regime on petroleum products by those it termed as notorious ‘cabal’, monetarist policies. It stated that the government should stabilise local pricing of imports, “otherwise, we would have to live with incessant increase in fuel pricing to reflect ever changing forex regimes, and other critical issues that the new stance of the Federal Government necessitate.” The union said it looked forward to the process of dialogue and a more inclusive policy framework on the oil and gas sector governance, even as it expressed support for the actions being taken by trade unions, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Civil Society Organisations over the issue in defence of the basic interests of all Nigerian working people. Also, Comrade Baba Aye, Co-Convener, the Coalition for Revolution (CORE), said he stood with the Labour Movement on its stand on the subsidy removal, adding that a court order on NLC and TUC not to embark on strike was setting a dangerous precedent. Baba Aye, a seasoned activist and unionist, maintained the removal of subsidy by the Federal Government before June was illegal, adding that “the government itself acted against the law, since the removal of the subsidy before the end of June is a breach of the 2023 Appropriation Act!”