And it is the process of ripping-off government by nefarious businessmen that is the key factor fueling the ballooning of the volume of petrol purportedly being used by motorists in the country between 60 and 66 million. Without subsidy, the volume of petrol imported into Nigeria may actually be half of what is being bandied by the agencies in charge-NNPC and its subsidiaries/affiliates involved in oil/gas assets management. Arising from the fraud (volume gauging) inherent in the subsidy driving the smuggling of the products across borders which is at least sometimes four (4) times more expensive in neighboring countries, the quantum of funds applied in sustaining it also rose dramatically from N307 billon in 2015 to between N4 and N6 trillion in 2022. That simply means that the exponential increase in the quantity of petrol claimed to be consumed in our country is driven by the N4 to N6 trillion that was sunk into sustaining the wrong-headed policy last year alone and N3.5 trillion from January to June, this year. And going by the figures above, it would amount to nearly N10 trillion that has literally been flushed down the drain between 2022 budget and half of 2023 ending next month, June when the incumbent government is supposed to end the economically destructive petrol subsidy regime. Cumulatively, the humongous quantum of funds estimated to be in the neighborhood of N10 trillion budgeted in 2022 and 2023 as petrol subsidy are part of the estimated $15 billion believed to have been the sunk fund on subsidizing PMS in the past decade or so. Drawing from the statistics that the estimated N6 trillion expenditure on petrol subsidy in 2022 national budget outstrips the entire income/revenue of N5 trillion generated from petroleum by our country last year, the concept of implementing petrol pump price subsidy that has literally gobbled up our country’s entire revenue moves from the realms of absurdity to sheer lunacy by our leaders. And that is underscored by the fact that no reasonable justification could be adduced for such irrational policy that has practically kept our country on a ruinous path. POLL Is it not depressing how strong headedness about terribly wrong policies such as subsidizing petrol pump price and propping of the value of the naira against foreign currencies have prevented our country from truly becoming the giant of Africa, not just in name but by its positive impact on the entire continent by unleashing its huge untapped potentials as the establishment of Dangote refinery has capacity and ability to end food and energy insecurity on the continent? It is in the light of the above that it is such a welcome relief that the coming on stream of Dangote refinery can be deemed as a panacea to the myriad of socioeconomic ills that have been dogging and have therefore stagnated our country. Put succinctly, apart from the narrow perspective of the possibility of steady supply of refined petroleum products in Nigeria to ease the pains suffered by the hapless masses that have been enduring endless search for petrol in retail stations that could last for days and even weeks staying on queues to purchase the commodity which is the prism from which most analysts have been considering the arrival of Dangote refinery on the Nigerian and indeed African oil/gas landscape, the focus of this essay is on the all-encompassing impact of Dangote refinery and petrochemicals plant on the economic, social and political environment in Nigeria and indeed the continent of Africa. To drive my point home, I intend to put into array, how Dangote refinery and petrochemicals plant can be linked to the improvement of social, economic and political fortunes of Nigeria and Africa as a whole. But before doing that, I would like to crave the indulgence of readers to allow me first of all dwell on how the other positive factors which the crude oil refining behemoth could engender, appear to have eluded some of those in the corridors of power. Apparently, apart from members of the public, a lot of government officials were also ignorant of the intention of the Buhari government to fall back on Dangote refinery to make up for the lack of products from the four (4) government owned refineries built in the mid-1980s under the watch of President Buhari in his first incarnation as military head of state, 1984-85. The refineries located in Port Harcourt, Rivers State; Warri, Delta State and Kaduna, Kaduna State have been out of production for at least a decade. That is despite the billions of naira that have been invested in multiple turn-around maintenance, TAM, over the years, including an ongoing turnaround maintenance procedure in both Port Harcourt and Warri refineries. Soon, the Port Harcourt and Warri refineries undergoing refurbishment would be in operational condition and given that government really has no business being in petrol refining business, it is expected that they would be farmed out as concession to private sector operators or sold outright as President Olusegun Obasanjo had done in the twilight of his administration in 2007 by selling the Port Harcourt refinery incidentally to Dangote Group but the sale was rescinded by his successor. Since it is the unproductiveness of the aforementioned refineries arising from the mismatch of applying civil service bureaucracy and mentality of inefficiency in operation of petroleum processing and distribution that should be driven by the ethos of efficiency intrinsic in the private sector, is the reason that our country has been importing petroleum products from European, Indian and South American based refineries to meet its needs. And it is a situation that has been made worse since 2017 when the importation of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, and kerosene became the exclusive preserve of NNPC Ltd, making it a monopoly and thus inflicting associated negative effects on the economy. But with the arrival of Dangote refinery in the petroleum downstream sector, it is envisaged that the NNPC Ltd monopoly would be broken as the distribution of petroleum products would become open to all Nigerian entrepreneurs that are interested and have capacity to engage in the business as they would no longer be any need to import refined petroleum products. In fact, it is the position of CBN Governor Emefiele that the import bill of Nigeria for petroleum and fertilizer is in the range of $26 billion annually. Hopefully, with the advent of Dangote refinery and petrochemicals plant, the high cost of foreign imports of petrol and fertilizer would be drastically reduced as most of our needs for those commodities would be met locally. If that becomes the case, then medium and small scale entrepreneurs that abound in our country and are yet to attain their full potentials would be unleashed and their activities would boost the economy in terms of GDP and GNP. As elementary economics teaches, it is small and medium scale entrepreneurs that are the backbone of most economies of the world. For that reason, the authorities should harness the benefits inherent in the engagement of SMEs as the backbone of prosperous economies by enabling them engage in oil/gas trade when the monopolistic role of NNPC Ltd in the importation of petrol is discontinued. It is gratifying that the emergence of Dangote refinery which is in-country would fill the gap by putting an end to the stranglehold of NNPC Ltd on refined petrol importation and distribution. So, just as fast consumer goods manufacturing corporations like Lever Brothers, Coca-Cola, PZ Cussons, Flour Mills of Nigeria, Dangote Cement etc appoint distributors to take their products to the last mile, Nigerian entrepreneurs can procure petroleum products PMS, DPK, aviation fuel, AGO and other derivatives from Dangote refinery for retail to all Nigerians down the value chain. Clearly, the strength of the emergence of Dangote refinery and petrochemicals plant lies in the fact that its positive effect extends far wider than being a game changer only in the petroleum market because it has the capacity to impact the entire economy of Nigeria and even Africa as a whole. But the likes of former Finance Minister, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, for instance, did not see the advent of the first privately owned major crude oil refinery (Dangote) as a panacea since it is poised to be a mere counterforce to the impending petrol subsidy removal as it would at least guarantee adequate and regular supply of petrol in our country. Hence the former minister was focused on the disbursement of the $800 million loan from the World Bank to the Federal Government which she said is being targeted at providing palliatives that would serve as cushion to the poorest of the poor in Nigeria against the negative effects of petrol subsidy removal. Beyond the nebulous social safety schemes for the poor that is fraught with fraud, what should be celebrated is the welcome relief that petrol from Dangote refinery would soon be available to Nigerians (when it goes into active production in the next couple of months) resulting in sufficient petroleum products being supplied into the market, thereby saving the masses the hardships hitherto suffered while trying to find it. A cost/benefit analysis reveals that with Nigeria having a functioning in-country privately owned refinery, the shipping and other costs such as logistics and storage of refined products incurred and which are usually passed to the consumers when the commodity is imported from abroad would be saved. And that is where the direct benefits ends. The rest is indirect benefit to the economy since the coming on stream of Dangote refinery does not mean that petrol pump price would drop in any significant way even if subsidy is not removed. It is a point that was emphasized by Mr. Mele Kyari, the Chief Executive Officer, CEO, of Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd in his speech at the Dangote refinery launch last Monday, May 22. And as the CBN Governor Emefiele also emphasized, only about 20% of the cost of petroleum products may be saved arising from the fact that there will be no need to store products and engage in other logistics activities which is currently part of the cost dynamics of petrol import and distribution in our country. Going back to the linkage between Dangote refinery and the social, economic and political well-being of citizens of our country and Africans as a whole, it is trite to restate the fact that with the refinery coming into the energy security mix, refined petroleum products would be available on a steady stream of supply and the misery of pinning away in search of the product which had become a perennial experience for Nigerians would be consigned to the dustbin of history. During the last petrol scarcity in the last quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year, it may be recalled that a viral video of a lady who due to the frustration of not finding PMS to purchase went berserk in a petrol station in Ikoyi where she stripped herself naked after alighting from her car and getting hysterical. That video trended heavily in the social media. Avoidance or prevention of the reoccurrence of such situation which would be made possible via sufficient supply of petrol from Dangote refinery is by implication one of the positive social impact and linkages to society. So also would our crude oil that is sometimes stranded in the international market when sometimes we are faced with the challenge of lack of buyers as reflected by a country such as the USA that has been a traditional buyer of petroleum from our country currently pivoting to or patronizing other sources of energy. Going forward, a significant volume of our crude oil would be processed by Dangote refinery which has the capacity for processing enough volume to meet our local demand and also export as refined products, not crude oil which has hitherto been the case. As such, meeting our OPEC quota would no more be such a constraint when our crude oil production is ramped up in the new era as enunciated in Renewed Hope 2023 manifesto of the new administration. On top of the benefit of exporting refined petroleum products to earn more foreign exchange, it is envisaged that the gigantic industrial complex located smack in the heart of Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos State, covering an area said to be seven (7) times the size of Victoria Island, would create a humongous number of direct jobs at least during the initial stages numbering up to 100,000. According to sources within the refinery, about 10,000 has already been generated during the construction stages. More would be created through the value chain of distributors that it would attract thereby reducing unemployment in the country currently at an alarming rate of 41%. It is also in a position to boost the aggregate Gross Domestic Product, GDP, of our country presently at N51.24 trillion and growing at 2.3%, according to statistics from National Bureau of Statistics, NBS. It is a no brainer to also state that the presence of Dangote refinery would also lead to prosperity and well-being of Nigerians currently mired in poverty more than at any other time in the history of our country, except during the civil war, 1967-70, due mainly to the foolhardiness of applying more than our country earns as oil revenue on subsidy for petrol. That to me is the economic content and linkage that Dangote refinery would be bringing to the table. Furthermore, the presence of additional people in employment in Nigeria would enable our country free itself from being the poverty capital of the world which is an unenviable title that it inherited from India a couple of years ago. As studies have proven, when citizens are productively engaged and prosperous, the type of ethnic and religious differences currently tugging at the heart of Nigeria’s unity would diminish. And Dangote refinery and petrochemicals plant is being touted as being able to create as many as 300,000 jobs when it is fully on stream. That implies that as a result of being enmeshed in work provided by industries such as the ones springing forth from the birth of Dangote refinery, the number of Nigerians that would be seeing each other from the lenses of tongue, creed and faith which breed hate that has been the trigger for the conflicts and crisis bedeviling our beloved country, would be drastically reduced. So, reducing or eliminating ethnic supremacy or dichotomy and the resultant strife are the gains from political angle arising from the presence of Dangote refinery in our country. By and large, Dangote refinery and petrochemicals plant is poised to be an omnibus of sorts that would give birth to multiple endeavors including packaging materials which would be revealed sooner or later. Just as I was wrapping up this article, I received from a friend a social media post which goes thus: “Dangote came into sugar production and the price never come down, today a bag of sugar is N41,000. “Dangote came into cement production and the price never come down, today a bag of cement ranges from N4,500 to N5,500. “Dangote came into noodles and spaghetti production and the prices of noodles and spaghetti never come down, today the price of 1 (pack) of noodles rose from N30 to N120 and price of 1 spaghetti rose from N60 to N600.