LAGOS  – Hoodlums suspected to be cultists have again unleashed terror in the Ijoko-Ogbayo area of Ifo Local Government of Ogun State, where six persons were said to have been slaugh­tered during the attacks which occurred between Tuesday eve­ning and early hours of Wednes­day. Eyewitnesses said that the Wednesday incident occurred between 7.30 p.m. and 8 p.m, when the hoodlums unleashed the attack along the rail line at Ogbayo bus stop, under the over­head bridge. It was gathered that four per­sons were killed in the process, as the incident forced hundreds of people around the vicinity to scamper for safety. Traders under the bridge and shops around the area hurriedly closed and fled. Vehicular move­ments were said to have stopped and the commercial operators abandoned the area. The buses, tricycles and mo­torcycles which ply the major garage (Ogbayo) had to disap­pear for fear of being killed or maimed. Ogbayo garage in Ijoko, which services passengers and vehicles coming from or going to various places such as Osho­di, Agege Iyana Ipaja, Abeokuta, Idiroko, Otta, Agbara through Sango was deserted. It also affected services along the Iju-Ishaga, Agbado- Crossing and Oke-Aro, Berger axis of La­gos and Ogun State, through Agbado. So many residents returning from work and businesses were said to have turned back to pass the night with friends and rela­tives to avoid being trapped in the web of attacks. POLL Another eye witness identi­fied as Tunde, who was coming from Ogbayo towards Oja-Ijoka, was panting as he was running to a safer place. He told our reporter and oth­ers who were equally running even though they did not know what actually transpired that: “They are fighting seriously. I saw four people already dead.” Vehicles coming to Ogbayo from Agbado-Crossing had to forcefully stop at Abule Ijoko and refused to proceed further due to the crises. Further investigations re­vealed that there was another attack at the same rail crossing and Gas line areas of Agbayo where two persons were killed in the early hours of Wednesday. Another witness who does not want his name in print told our reporter on Wednesday af­ternoon that the corpses of the two people killed in the early hours on Wednesday lay at the scene till afternoon when secu­rity operatives came to remove them. Some of the residents on Fri­day morning said they were sup­posed to have left their homes for business and work before 5 am, but due to insecurity and inabil­ity to get motorcycles and tricy­cles to take them out to the major bus stop, they came out very late. They further stated that prior to the incident, buses and mo­torcycles start plying the area as early as 4 a.m. Others had to hurriedly return from their businesses and work early, as failure will result in not being able to get to their destinations except, they are not using public transport. All the efforts made to ascer­tain the extent the police went into making arrests, preventing the further occurrence and en­suring the security and safety of the people proved abortive. Investigations revealed that the Agbayo area of the state falls under Sango -Ota Area Command. When our reporter visited the Area Command at Sango on Thursday and sought to see the Area Commander, to comment on the incidents, he was told that the Area Commander was not in the office.