The winner of the maiden edition of Nigeria Scrabble Federation, NSF Engineer Toke Aka Jubilee National Scrabble Championship, Nsikak Etim has assured that Team Nigeria will conquer the world again at the WESPA Championship next month in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA. Etim stated this after dominating the 32-man field in the Masters category at the Jubilee Championship at the weekend in Abuja. “We have a very strong team made up of young talented and experienced scrabble players that have the mental, physical, and psychological strength to cope with the world championship task.” The former African Champion said. Etim added that most members of Team Nigeria are used to tough competition and their preparation is another key factor. Nsikak Etim, Enoch Tochukwu Nwali, Oluwatimilehin Doko, Wellington Jighere, Oghenekaro Paul Eta, Oshevire Avwenagha, Prince Osahon Omosefe, Dipo Akanbi, Olatunde Oduwole, Femi Fashina, Bright Idahosa, Dennis Ikekeregor and Tuoyo Mayuku are members of Super Scrabble Eagles of Nigeria. Etim won 10 out of 12 games with a plus 753 cumulative points at the Engineer Toke Aka Jubilee National Scrabble Championship to take the top honours at the expense of Emmanuel Umojose with 9 wins with 906 cumulative points. Godwin Victor came third with 9 wins just like Emmanuel Umojose but with a lesser cumulative points of plus 392 points. The one fondly called the Malaysian Prince, Oghenekaro Paul Eta was 4th and Wellington Jighere 5th. Multiple National Sports Festival gold medalist Akpos Best Malafakumo was the best female player in the expanded Masters event. She finished in the 8th position with seven wins and a draw with a cumulative points of plus 193 ahead of Oshevire Avwenagha. POLL That best showing by an Intermediate player also fetched Akpos Best Malafakumo a full sponsorship by the President of Pan African Scrabble Association (PANASA) Adekoyejo Adegbesan, to the inaugural PANASA’s President’s Cup in Lagos come August. The Bayelsa State born scrabble amazon is now back in the Masters category after picking up 59 NSF rating points. She started the Engineer Toke Aka Jubilee National Scrabble Championship on 1386 points and with plus 59 points secured in Abuja her is now with 1445 points. Akpos Best Malafakumo climbed 30 places in the national ranking from 90 to 60. Tunde Saporu, the 2022 National Sports Festival gold medalist in the Opens category took Intermediate event diadem and the University of Lagos (UNILAG) student was also rewarded with a PANASA President’s Cup sponsorship and he has was the biggest mover in the automated NSF rating system. Tunde Saporu jumped from 250 spot to 192, a leap of 58 places. It’s note worthy to state that Nsikak Etim has been seating on the number ONE spot of the ranking since the end of January this year. He currently has 1836 points 76 points ahead of Emmanuel Umojose who is on 1760 points as National number 2. Dokun Esan won the Veterans category, ahead of Clement Ologungbiri and Azu Ogbogu. Eight years old Saviour Onazi won the best young player of the Championship with five wins in the Intermediate event. Over two million naira was shared as prize money by all the winners. The winner of the Masters category Nsikak Etim got three hundred thousand naira, the winner of the Intermediate event, Tunde Saporu smiled home with one hundred and eighty thousand naira and Veterans category winner got a hundred and fifty thousand naira.