 Okey-Joe Onuakalusi, the lawmaker representing Os­hodi/Isolo Constituency 2 at the Green Chamber of the National Assembly (NASS) has said he would partner the government of Gover­nor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State for the develop­ment of the constituency. The lawmaker, who got to NASS on the platform of the Labour Party (LP), told Daily Independent that he wouldn’t hesitate to reach out to Lagos State Govern­ment and partner with it, stressing that political dif­ferences won’t be a barrier to delivering the dividend of democracy to the citi­zens. Speaking further the law­maker said, “Once you are elected to serve, you’re no longer in partisan politics. All we need is governance and governance has to work. Even though we are com­ing from different political parties, the most important thing is what constituency projects you are bringing to your constituents. “After the inauguration, we had a discussion with the governor of Lagos State and I told him that we are ready for a strategic partnership that would promote Lagos State even though we are from different political par­ties. “Whatever programme that we want to push from Abuja which will be for the common interest of Lago­sians, I’m available to do it. We won’t compromise our position as Labour Party legislators.” On his plan to fulfill his campaign promises, he said, “I have mapped out roads for construction and rehabilitation. If you go to my constituency, we com­missioned eight roads in December last year, done by individuals. The ones in the Okota axis were individual­ly built as well. Those that fall under category B of the roads, I will take them to the state governor and tell him, ‘These are the roads that need your attention. All the roads built in Greenfield Es­tate were done by the land­lords. All the roads built in Canal Estate were done by the landlords. At the back of Century Hotel, all the roads constructed there were done by the landlords.” He added, “We also have some bad roads in the Ejigbo area of my constituency. We will list the roads that need attention, and the drainages as well. I will forward them to the governor. I won’t say that I won’t approach him for infrastructure develop­ment because he is from a different political party,” he said.