No fewer than 42 Financial officers of the Bauchi State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) in the North-East zone have commenced a five day training on Financial Management in Universal Basic Education (UBE) delivery. The Executive Secretary of UBEC, Hamid Bobboyi, who was peaking during the flag-off of the training in Bauchi on Tuesday, said that the training became necessary considering the fact that there were cases of financial infractions committed by SUBEBS. He stated that the training was to ensure efficient and effective financial management of the Universal Basic Education intervention fund for the attainment of the desired results in all the states of the federation, adding that the training was taking place in all the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. Represented by Mr Bala Zakari, the Deputy Executive Secretary, Technical North, UBEC, Bobboyi explained that at least seven financial officers of SUBEB were selected in each of the six Northeastern state of Bauchi, Borno, Taraba, Adamawa, Gombe and Yobe. “This gathering is very crucial because it provides a platform for the critical stakeholders in the UBE finance corridor to acquire the knowledge for understanding the importance and impact of Financial Management in UBE delivery. “Sequel to the routine observations and findings in the reports of financial monitoring exercises carried out in the 36 States and the FCT, the Commission discovered various financial infractions committed by SUBEBS. “We felt the need to ensure sound financial management of the FGN-UBE Intervention Fund and minimise infractions, bridge the knowledge gap and capacity deficit, through training. “Financial management is one of the most important success drivers in any organization, therefore, you need adequate knowledge of financial management like strategic planning, organizing and controlling of financial resources,” he sai POLL While urging the participants to pay attention and participate actively so that the objectives of the training could be actualized, the Executive Secretary assured that at the end of the training, participants would be exposed to sound financial management of the UBE Intervention Fund, thereby reducing to the barest minimum financial infractions and ensuring Value-for-Money. Also speaking, the Chairman, Bauchi State Universal Basic Education Board, Abubakar Dahiru, congratulated the participants for being selected for such an impactful training. He thanked the UBEC Executive Secretary and the entire management of UBEC for selecting Bauchi state as the host state for the training. Speaking on behalf of the participants, Malam Hassan Mohammed, also lauded UBEC for organising the training and promised to listen attentively and make effective use of knowledge acquired during the training.