ABUJA –  A former Senator representing Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate, Shehu has lamented over eight years of misrule and bad governance of the ruling All Progressives Congress  ( APC ) government in the state. He also expressed worry over the spate of attacks on him by his political opponents in the state The former Senator disclosed this on Thursday while speaking to journalists  in Abuja. The former lawmaker said that no amount of threats or intimidation would stop him from speaking truth to power. He accused his political enemies of sponsoring an investigation into his academic credentials with the view of prosecuting him and ejecting me from the Senate. He also lamented over the attack on his campaign office before the general elections. According to him ” Gunmen attacked my office and APC thugs were used to trail me wherever I went. ” They also ordered the military to arrest one of my Aide, Bashir Ahmad in 2017. Bashir was tortured by soldiers to implicate me in a murder case I knew nothing about. The police declined the case when it was evident that it was political” While commenting on former Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s administration in the last eight years Sani said El-Rufai left a legacy of debt and unending terrorist killings and abductions in the state. POLL He described the eight years tenure of the Governor as a waste that was characterized by affliction, pure evil, and tyranny. He accused the Governor of promoting religious fanaticism and bigotry with the disdain and degrading treatment meted out to the people of Southern Kaduna while in office. The lawmaker cautioned President Ahmed Bola Tinubu against unholy romance and interaction with the former Governor. ” Elrufai supported Amaechi in the Primaries and not Tinubu. And during the Presidential election,Elrufai only concentrated on his son winning the House of Reps ticket and allowed Tinubu to lose. El-rufai in Tinubu’s cabinet will be like a snake in the room. ” Elrufai’s exit is an affliction gone; Tinubu should be careful not to bring close to him a habitual and career Judas”. Sani added.