Nicolas Pepe’s Arsenal career finally looks set to be brought to an end this summer as the club reportedly attempt to line up suitors for the outcast. Pepe remains Arsenal’s record-signing after they forked out £72million on the winger in 2019, but he appears to be edging towards a permanent move away from the Emirates. Mikel Arteta’s side finished second in the Premier League standings behind Man City and have no plans to re-integrate the forward into their team next season, according to the Telegraph. Pepe spent the duration of the 2022/23 season on loan at Ligue 1 side Nice, but despite his spell in France coming to an end, doesn’t appear set for an Arsenal revival. The 28-year-old has just one year remaining on his deal and will likely leave for a fee much smaller than what Arsenal paid four years ago following a difficult time in London. Pepe was expected to be the answer to Arsenal’s attacking frailties when he arrived under previous manager Unai Emery but failed to match the potential that he had initially shown at Lille. The Gunners now apparently want him gone as a matter of urgency in the summer and are even considering terminating his contract if a buyer isn’t found. Pepe is one of Arsenal’s highest earners, taking home a reported £140,000-per-week despite his last appearance for the club coming in a 5-1 Premier League win over Everton in May 2022. POLL Potential suitors may be hard to find given Pepe’s salary, with Nice said to be uninterested in pursuing a permanent deal for the attacker following a loan spell that saw him eight goals in 28 games for the French club. The Ivory Coast international previously stated he felt he could have had an impact in Arsenal’s race for the Premier League title and admitted it was Arteta’s decision to send him out on loan. ‘I don’t know what Arsenal want to do. I still have a lot of friends there. I could have been important for this club, but it’s the manager’s choices,’ Pepe said in April. Meanwhile, Pepe’s record-breaking arrival looks set to be usurped by Arsenal’s pursuit of West Ham and England midfielder Declan Rice. The Gunners are preparing a £90m offer for the Hammers captain ahead of the summer transfer window opening on Wednesday.