The Solomon Ehigiator Arase Foundation will hold its 2nd Annual Lec­ture Series/ Scholarship Awards today in Benin, Edo State with 24 children of deceased Police Officers of Inspectorate cadre and other ranks who died in the line of duty, including indigenes of the seven local government areas of Edo South Senatorial District scheduled for scholarship grants. 12 children from deceased Policemen and 12 from indigenes of the zone will be beneficiaries of the scholarship. The Foundation is the brainchild of Dr. Solomon Arase, CFR, retired Inspector General of Police and Chair­man of the Police Service Commission. It is celebrated on the occasion of his birth­day in appreciation of God’s infinite grace and ineffable love for him and his family. The theme of this edition is “The Benefits of ADR in civil and criminal cases by Law Enforcement Agencies in Nigeria” and the paper will be presented by Omonuwa Omoruyi, OFR, a Senior Ad­vocate of Nigeria. The Foundation is expect­ed to afford many children of deceased Police Officers of the Inspectorate cadre and below and indigenes of the zone who are desirous and determined of conquering the vagaries of life through educational pursuit and at­tainments to be reached and positively touched. “The Foundation is thoughtfully structured to provide unparalleled op­portunities for outstanding students whose personal cir­cumstances might otherwise deny them the chances of fur­thering their education. “The scholarship grant is carefully considered with components that will provide the mental structures to nurture, encour­age and assist the awardees complete their graduate/ post-graduate degrees, devel­op life skills, cultivate career ambitions, and embark on a lifetime journey of self-dis­covery and excellence “. The Board of Trustees of the Foundation has also de­cided to monitor the careers of some of these children while in secondary school so as to support those who may not have the resources to pay for their WAEC and NECO ex­aminations that qualify them for the scholarship. The Foun­dation will from the next edi­tion pay these examination fees for these categories of children. The first edition of the an­nual lecture series took place last year with the theme ‘Cit­izens Inclusion in Security Management- The Edo State Model where issues, challeng­es, and future perspectives of community engagement and partnership in security provi­sion in the society were inter­rogated. Eight students from seven local government Ar­eas of Edo-South Senatorial District with seven studying Medicine and one law plus three that were selected for this year will make up the 12 recipients of the scholarship from the Senatorial District. Dr. Arase had earlier in­troduced this scholarship scheme while in service as the 18th Inspector General of Police eight years ago but it was not sustained immediate­ly after he left office.