IBADAN  – It was a moment of confession at the Oyo State Police Com­mand Headquarters, Eleyele, Ibadan, the Capital City of the state, as some suspected armed robbers that were arrested for their alleged involvement in various crimes narrated their ordeals to journalists. No fewer than 21 suspected criminals were paraded by the state police commission on Friday over various crimes committed at various locations in Ibadan. While parading the suspect­ed criminals at the Command’s Headquarters on behalf of the State Police Commissioner, CP. Adebowale Williams, the state Police Public Relations Officer, SP. Adewale Osifeso stressed that the Command through Smart Inter-Agency Collaborations and dogged determination has never re­scinded on its oars to ensure that the state does not become a playground for hoodlums and sinister-minded individuals. He said, “On 14th May, 2023 at about 0400hrs a group of armed robbers invaded Apaatuku/On­ireke at Akobo area in Ibadan and robbed residents of their valuables. The assailants killed one Makanjuola Ogedengbe ‘m’ and raped his two daughters aged 14yrs and 10yrs respec­tively during the incident.” “The case was transferred to SCID Iyaganku for discreet investigation,” he added. “During the investigation, it was revealed that one Ibrahim Rasaq ‘m’ 31yrs, one Abiodun Olalekan ‘m’ 32yrs, and one Abolade Morenikeji ‘m’ 34yrs, who were earlier arrested in connection with the armed robbery operation at Sawia Es­tate at Ogbere in Ibadan, which was reported on 16 April 2023, are the same gang who invaded Apaatuku/Onireke communi­ty. “The two raped daughters of the deceased were allegedly raped by Abolade Morenikeji ‘m’ and one Sodiq ‘m’ respec­tively. The said Sodiq, who was the group’s alleged leader was killed in the operation by the community security guards. The assailants also shot at the community’s night guard who is currently receiving treatment.” POLL “On 16/6/2023 at about 03300hrs, one Adebayo Salami ‘m’ who is a major receiver/ informant of the group and landlord at Ajara Olohunda, Akobo in Ibadan was arrested in connection with the case. During interrogation, he con­fessed to having invited the group for the robbery operation at the Apatuku area where one Makanjuola Ogedengbe ‘m’ was killed and his two daughters ages 14 and 10 were defiled by the robbery gang during the operation.” Names of the suspected armed robbers according to the state Public Relations Offi­cer, are Ibrahim Rasaq, (male), aged 31; Abiodun Olalekan (male), aged 3; Abolade More­nikeji (male), aged 34; Adedayo Salami (male), aged 40, while the exhibits recovered from them are one cut to size locally made double barrel pistol. While speaking with jour­nalists on behalf of the other group members, Abolade Morenikeji said, “I’m Abolade Keji, aged 33, I’m from Ibadan, we went to Olohunda/Akobo side in group to rob. “Though I’m not the one that shot the person, unfortunately, the person died, it was our gang leader Sodiq that shot the per­son to death, and the security in that area also neutralised him too.” “That operation was my second operation, I’m one of the people that raped the girls of the deceased but it was the work of the devil, Sodiq was the guy that killed the man, I was outside by the time Sodiq shot the man. It was the work of the devil,” Morenikeji said. Similarly, another set of sus­pected armed robbers namely, Irale Emmanue (male), aged 38, Olayinka Olawoyin (male), aged 22, Ibrahim Sheriff (Male), aged 35, Ibrahim Azeez (Male), aged 32, Ayodele Joyce (Male), aged 24, Dauda Moshood (male), 40, and Olaoti Yekeen (Male), aged 54 was also parad­ed, while three locally made single barrel guns, three shells of expended cartridges, one cutlass, and one tricycle were recovered from them.