…Urges Udu people to close rank behind the new PG President General of the Urhobo Progress Union Worldwide, Olorogun (Barr) Ese Gam Oweh, has congratulated Mr. Austin Emaduku on his emergence as President General of the Union of Udu Communities, describing him as the popular choice of Udu people whom the UPU will work with as the authentic PG of Udu Kingdom. The UPU President General stated this when the Austin Emaduku-led UUC executives and Presidents of 23 Udu Communities paid the Urhobo Progress Union leadership a familiarization visit at the Urhobo Cultural Centre, Okere-Urhobo in Warri, Delta State. Olorogun Ese Gam Oweh appreciated Mr. Austin Emaduku for his sense of organization in mobilizing 23 community presidents and his UUC executives at such short notice for the visit, foreclosing any recognition for any faction in the leadership of the Udu people. He noted that leadership was about the people and that once the communities that make up the polity withhold their loyalty from you, there is no way one can assume leadership over them, stressing that with the passionate display of solidarity and support for the Austin Emaduku-led leadership of UUC, that matter was closed and that there was no need to alter what the people have decided. He promised to pay a visit to Udu Kingdom so as to help sort out issues from the last Udu Congress for peace to reign, assuring that he was not going to entertain any other person in the name of UUC leadership outside Austin Emaduku, urging all Udu people to build synergy behind the new PG. Earlier in his remarks, the President General of the Union of Udu Communities, Mr Austin Emaduku appreciated the UPU leadership for the hands of fellowship extended to him and his executive, stressing that the principal reason for the visit was to introduce the new leadership of the Union of Udu Communities to UPU. He also introduced presidents of the 23 Udu communities who accompanied him on the visit to the UPU leadership including Mr. Festus Oshemughe, President Emadadja Community; Peter Eme, President Okolor-Inland Community; Pastor Great Nyekigbe, President Ujevwu Community; Deacon Joseph O.M Eni, President Ogbe-Udu Community; Midwest Wetah, President Egini Community; Comrade Joseph Eyovwerhuvwu, President Oghior Community; Alfred Omorere, President Okolor-Uburhie Community; Mr. Philip Egben, President Ukperheren Community; Bishop Godstime Miro, President Egiegi Community; Engr Akuya Fidelis, President Owhrode Community and Efe Ebah, President Ekrota Community among others. POLL He assured that Udu would be participating in all UPU-organized events with full force as the Udu people were upbeat about developmental issues in the land. Olorogun Vincent Oyibode, immediate past DESOPADEC Commissioner, who also accompanied the UUC leadership on the visit thanked Olorogun Ese Gam and the entire UPU Executives for standing for what is right, assuring that Udu was on the path of progress under Mr Austin Emaduku. He disclosed that all Udu leaders from the 7 ruling houses in Udu were with Mr. Austin Emaduku as the authentic UUC President General.