LAGOS – The Okun council of traditional rulers has commended Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State for his outstanding performance as the governor of the state, stressing that the number one citizen of Kogi has etched his name in gold in the hearts and history of the Okun people. A press statement made available to journalists on Thursday noted that Bello received the Okun area traditional council at his residence in Okene, led by the Obaro of Kabba, His Royal Majesty, Oba Solomon Dele Owoniyi. Governor Bello used the opportunity to extend his heartfelt congratulations to the people of Okunland and the entire Kogi State on the recognition of Kogi State University, Kabba by the National Universities Commission (NUC) and other relevant tertiary education authorities. He said the establishment of a university in Okunland is a sweet fulfillment of the age-long desire of the people. The Obaro of Kabba noted that the purpose of their visit was to express gratitude to the governor for his remarkable efforts in developing Okunland, particularly the establishment of a state-owned university in Kabba. Oba Solomon Owoniyi stressed that the visit coincided with the holy Sallah, and it was deemed necessary to extend their heartfelt appreciation to God for using the governor as an instrument to bring the Kogi State University to fruition. Owoniyi further stated, “Since the 1980s, the people of Okun have yearned for a university, but various challenges prevented its realisation. “However, our responsive governor, with unparalleled speed and zeal, diligently facilitated the establishment of the university through the necessary state and federal processes. POLL “Today, we are overjoyed and grateful for the actualisation of the university, making it the 62nd state university and the 265th in the country,” he said. The Obaro assured that Okunland possessed a wealth of professors who would collaborate with their counterparts from other parts of the state to ensure the optimal functioning of the university. The traditional rulers in Okunland pledged to provide a conducive environment for the smooth operation of the university. The Obaro appealed to well-placed Okun sons and daughters to contribute their quota towards the resounding success of the institution. Expressing deep appreciation, Obaro acknowledged that Governor Bello has etched his name in gold in the hearts and history of the Okun people. He expressed gratitude and promised continued support, loyalty, and alignment with the governor in his future endeavors, even beyond his tenure. The Council pledged unwavering loyalty to the governor and his administration and vowed to work closely with him as preparations for the next gubernatorial election commence. “It is noteworthy that in May, Governor Yahaya Bello, through the state executive council, announced plans for the establishment of the third state-owned university, to be situated in Okunland, within the Western Senatorial district of the state. “Following the committee’s recommendations, which was endorsed and recognised by the NUC on June 26, 2023, the establishment of the university was confirmed,” the statement added.