A group of Abuja-based youthful professionals from Ondo South Senatorial District, under the aegis of Ondo South Youthful Professionals (OSYP), have advised Honourable Tajudeen Adefisoye to drop his gubernatorial ambition and pursue ministerial appointment instead. The group appealed to the immediate past legislator who represented Idanre/Ifedore federal constituency of Ondo State at the 9th National Assembly to give-up his gubernatorial ambition in the interest of unwritten rotational agreement which exists amongst the three senatorial districts of the Sunshine State. This position was made known on Friday during a strategic political discussion titled ‘Ondo 2024 Governorship Election : Roles of Youthful Professionals’. The event was held at the Ritman Hotels in the Asokoro area of the Federal Capital Territory. The group’s Coordinator, Engr. Kingsley Maggie remarked that it had become a general and acceptable consensus that the next governor of Ondo State should come from the southern senatorial part of the Sunshine State. He therefore advised Hon. Tajudeen Adefisoye who is from Idanre Local Government Area in Ondo central senatorial district to shelve his gubernatorial ambition in the overall interest of equality, togetherness and sense of belonging amongst the three senatorial districts of the Sunshine State. Maggie said, “We are aware that Hon. Tajudeen Adefisoye (Small Alhaji) has already declared interest to contest the governorship election of Ondo State. It is within the constitutional right of Small Alhaji to seek any elective position in Ondo State and in Nigeria at large; but he needs to bear in mind that we have an unwritten rotational agreement that exists among the three senatorial districts of our state. “While we are aware of the popularity of Small Alhaji among the youths of Ondo State, the young man should please allow the unwritten rotational agreement to remain respected. “We also salute the courage of Small Alhaji to have declared his intention to contest the 2024 governorship election. We are proud of his gut as a youth as well as his rise and achievements as a politician. Instead of planning to contest the 2024 governorship election, we will advise him to shift his attention towards a higher national service to Ondo State and Nigeria in a different capacity.” Meanwhile, Maggi also opined that Ondo south senatorial district should be given all necessary support to produce the next governor of the state while the ministerial slot for Ondo State should be conceded to Ondo central senatorial district where Hon. Tajudeen Adefisoye comes from. POLL Maggie particularly encouraged Adefisoye to push for the ministerial slot or any other federal appointment in place of the governorship position. He further stressed that it would not be a bad idea if a fellow youth from Ondo State is chosen as a minister or head of an important federal government parastatal. “As fellow youths like Small Alhaji, we will appeal to him to allow the southern senatorial district take its turn on the governorship while he shifts his attention towards the ministerial slot for Ondo State. It is already a settled issue that Ondo south senatorial district is to produce the next governor of our dear Sunshine State. Although we are aware that some APC big wigs in Ondo State have been talking to Small Alhaji since he made his governorship ambition known. “The young man is undoubtedly qualified to represent Ondo State, even as a minister or in any other capacity at the federal level. But as things stand today in our state, both Ondo central and northern senatorial districts should be encouraged to support Ondo south senatorial district to produce the next governor of our dear Sunshine State,” Maggie added.