IBADAN  – The 2012 intake of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have called for the intervention of President Ahmed Bola Tinubu; the Senate President, Senator Godswill Apkabio; the Speaker House of Representative, Rt. Hon. Abass Tajudeen, over delayed promotion which they tagged career stagnancy. The concerned NSCDC 2012 HND Recruits speaking on condition of anonymity during their recent engagement with journalists stressed the need for the Tinubu-led administration to wade into their matter. They said, “We are using this medium to call the attention of Mr. President, Bola Ahmed Tinubu; the Senate President, the Speaker, House of Representatives; the Head of Service and all well-meaning Nigerians to look into our issue in Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps. (2012 HND holders’ intake).” “The question begging for answer from whom it may concern is why are the 2012 intakes, who are HND holders in NSCDC, being badly treated compared to their mates in other sister agencies under the same Ministry of Interior? “We were recruited into the NSCDC in the year 2012 with the rank of Inspector of Corps (Level 7) along with NCE holders. We wrote the Confirmation and Promotion (Compro) exam in the year 2014, the statutory year to be confirmed according to Public Service Rules, but we were not advanced, properly placed or promoted after passing the Compro. “Fast forward to 2016, there was a replacement exercise and all officers recruited then as Assistant Superintendent of Corps II (ASCII) were all given an automatic promotion to the next rank while all HND holders recruited in 2012 still remained on the Inspector level, (level 07).” “It is a pity that HND holders recruited since 2012 were still Inspectors until 2018 when NSCDC just implemented the removal of the HND/ BSC dichotomy, the same that was implemented in other para-military agencies under the Ministry of Interior since the year 2016, (two years earlier).” “It has been observed that the majority of our B. Sc. holder counterparts that we were recruited together in the year 2012 are now hanging the rank of Superintendent (Level 11) while up to 95% of us, HND holders are still hanging one star ASCII (level 08) up till now, 2023. After being denied promotion exams for many years, the year 2022 made it the 4th consecutive year that we had been writing promotion exams to no avail. All other categories of personnel, that came into the system with SSCE, NCE, and Trade Test Certificates had been writing promotion exams as and when due except the holders of HND Certificates.