ABUJA – The Social Democratic Party (SDP) has warned sternly that nobody has a monopoly of violence. This came amid an increase in politically motivated violence linked to the November governorship election in Kogi State. The party while reacting to the alleged attack on Muritala Ajaka, its governorship candidate in the poll, said that it was “worried by the rising tension and cloud of insecurity that is gathering in the Kogi political landscape ahead of the November 2023 Gubernatorial election and we are responsibly mindful of the fact that it is the statutory duty of government to ensure the safety of lives and property of citizens nationwide including in Kogi State.” It also frowned at remarks by the state commissioner for information, Kingsley Fanwo, that the party’s governorship hopeful masterminded an attack on the June 3 convoy of the State Governor, Yaya Bello, at Lokoja, the state capital. The SDP said that it had submitted a comprehensive petition on the attack to the Office of the President and heads of Security agencies,” as it asked President Tinubu to order the Nigerian Police to investigate the assassinations attack on its governorship candidate and end the atmosphere of insecurities in the state. The opposition party considers the situation in the state as “inimical to democratic consolidation, peace and human security”. At a news conference in Abuja, Shehu Gaban, SDP national chairman, urged the President, Bola Tinubu, and Heads of security forces to wade into the matter. Gaban stressed, “Our Party, the Social Democratic Party, is faced with the inexplicable criminal state-sponsored assassination attempt on the life of Alhaji Muritala Yakubu Ajaka, the Governorship Candidate of our great party, SDP. POLL “The Party is worried and much concerned about illegal deployments of State apparatus and quasi-security bodies by His Excellency, Mr Yaya Bello, Governor of Kogi State to intimidate our Governorship Candidate, members in Kogi State. “This is in clear violation of the Electoral Act and the rule of law and in clear conflict with the position reached at the meeting of Thursday, 17 November 2022 with all the registered political parties and all the Heads of Security Agencies in Nigeria including the Nigeria Police. Above all, it is an unwarranted violation of human rights as well as a grave threat to human lives. “That, contrary to the false claims in the media by the Kogi State Commissioner for Information, Alhaji Muritala Yakubu Ajaka was the real target and victim of the pre-meditated assassination attack. “Also, we have found that reliable independent investigations, as well as incontrovertible video and photographic evidence, put a lie to the spurious claims of the governor. The evidence has confirmed and presented Governor Yahaya Bello as the mastermind of the attack. “The National leadership of the SDP, therefore, hereby wishes to make the following submissions on the ugly incident of June 3, 2023, in Kogi State. “That the narrative that was pushed into the public space which presented Governor Yahaya Bello as the victim of the attack is false, callous and a condemnable mockery of the collective sensibility of the Kogi people and Nigerians in general, given the well-established and documented ignoble antecedents and violence orientation of the Governor. “That Candidate Ajaka complied with all the procedures and requirements of the law before setting out on Saturday, June 3, 2023, to embark on his scheduled simple and private courtesy calls on, and consultations to some traditional leaders across the State. ”That Candidate Ajaka acted within the ambit of the laws guiding the election, and that there is no denying the established fact that the attack on Candidate Ajaka and his convoy was aimed at physically eliminating him from the race He noted that “the sarcasm and allegory of the “lion and antelope” of the Governor are odious, reckless, primitive, vexatious and condemnable, and the President should caution and call him to order, and be made to know that, going forward, he will be held responsible for any break down of law and order, or the loss of any soul in Kogi State before, during and after the governorship election. He made it clear that the Party would “press criminal charges against the thugs and individuals who were identified to have carried out the shooting attacks, the damages done to several vehicles and the act of arson on two vehicles by the governor’s squad who unleashed the terror attack on our governorship Candidate”. The Party advised the federal government to “do all that is necessary to ensure that Kogi State is made safe for all its citizens and other Nigerians who are domiciled on its territory, and to create a congenial environment to guarantee a peaceful election and credible outcome” He vowed that the SDP would not succumb to any form of intimidation and harassment from the governor’s camp or any quarters in the course of the governorship election and future political process”.