ABUJA – There is palpable confusion and anger in the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) following the ex-Minister of State for FCT, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu’s outright refusal to return the official SUV Prado Jeep, said to be worth about N200 million, she used during the period she enjoyed some constitutional privileges. This development comes three weeks after President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration was constitutionally dissolved. Worryingly, two of her aides, Special Assistants on Special Investment Programme (SIP) and Special Assistant on Climate Change, are still sitting tight, holding official office spaces illegally. An insider Source expressed dismay that the ex-Minister of State could still be illegally holding on to the government property, after her ego-trip silent war with the FCT senior Minister, which almost crippled the administrative productivity before the expiration of their tenure. Investigation showed that a few months before May 29, the ex-Minister of State had abandoned her constitutional responsibilities at the FCT, as she intensified lobbying for reappointment. However, some Management staff of FCTA who pleaded anonymity, expressed shock that with the fleet of exotic cars owned by the ex-Minister, she would still be holding on to the government’s car. It was learnt that tradition demands that the car be returned immediately after vacating office so that it can be serviced and made ready for other official engagements by the incoming administration. On her aides who are still occupying official office spaces, the source said that the Special Assistant on SIP came from the private sector while her counterpart in Climate Change is on secondment staff from Development Control Department under Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) of FCTA, and was supposed to have gone back. POLL The source said that their continued occupation of the official office spaces is a pointer to the speculation that the ex-Minister was lobbying to come back to FCT as a Minister. The source added, ” If President Bola Tinubu could approve the dissolution of all Boards and Parastatals of Federal Government, why should ordinary aides of an ex-Minister be doing within an official office space ?” ” The Ex-Minister has shown the level of her greed by holding on to the SUV she used as a Minister.  That car is among the least in the fleet of her personal cars, so why is she refusing to return it ?”. It was also gathered by this reporter that at the twilight of her tenure, she was busy mopping up every opportunity around her to the disadvantage of even her close aides. The investigation also revealed that the FCT Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board had serious logistics glitches in preparing for the 2023 Hajj, because the ex-Minister hijacked almost all available Hajj slots, and allegedly used them to lobby Tinubu’s close allies, for appointment purposes. Efforts to get her reaction on why the car has not been returned and on other issues, proved abortive as she allegedly travelled out of the country. Also, some close aides refused to comment on the matter.