A sudden break-up can bring even the strongest heart to despair. Yes! Strong-hearted Mike did really cry. He was in a state of despair after the girl he had come to love left him for another man – his club member. The girl made him love her and left him wanting more of her when she left him. From his story, the weeping lasted only a fortnight, he got over it and moved on like it never happened. He shared some of the crazy things he did in those moments. “My ex is a beautiful girl, the type any man would want to be with. She has flawless skin, you know that kind of ‘ajebo’ look. She has beautiful curves, pretty eyes, and a charming smile. She was the one that actually approached me for us to date. I was surprised when she walked up to me in a social club get-together – we are in the same club. I had been seeing her around whenever we had a meeting but we never spoke. I am a very reserved person and not really sociable. “I was glad when she came forward and asked me to be her friend. I had never seen such boldness in my life. In fact, no woman had ever asked me out. At first, I thought she was a flirt trying to get men’s attention. I didn’t take her seriously. Even after we started talking, she was the one in control of the relationship. She did all the calling and checking-ups. “Later I fell in love with her because she was not just beautiful and sexy, but she was also caring and a goal-getter. She pushed me to be a better me and always urged me to develop myself. At that point, I was afraid to lose her. Then she started acting up. Maybe she was bored or tired of being with me. She stopped being that caring and loving girl she used to be. I was then the one making all the efforts to keep the relationship, and it became tiring. Then not long after she left me for another guy in the same club, but she told me at first that they were just friends and later, when we broke up, I found out she was dating the guy. “For three days, I was indoors, with no food, and no reason to live. My guys came around and finished my food. I called her more than 46 times and even told one of my female friends to beg her for me. She was now forming celebrity. I was playing countless clips of our previous call records, and she returned my house key through a friend. I made a two minutes apology video with tears in my eyes and sent it to her, but she saw it and never replied. She later blocked me on all her social media platforms. After two weeks, I found the courage to let go. Later she told me she was sorry that she wanted to test me. I told her let’s turn the test to reality. She became uncomfortable and was like a stranger to me.” Dear Mike, I hope you have forgiven her completely because your healing starts when you forgive her. It’s okay if you don’t want her again in your life but no grudges. If you asked me, I think she left you deliberately but didn’t get what she was looking for on the left side, reason she quickly came back to you with the excuse, it was a test. Such a girl may not be trusted because she might behave in such a manner again. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions, and share your own experiences too.