LAGOS – As part of efforts of the Narendra Modi’s government towards strengthening bilateral relations between India and Nigeria, Minister of Defense, Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh Ji, has visited Nigeria. Convener, Overseas Friends of Bharatiya Janata Party (OFBJP), an India support group, Nigeria chapter, Sanjay Srivastava, disclosed this in a statement made available to Daily Independent in Lagos. Srivastava said that a meeting was organized by the Indian High Commission in Abuja to welcomeSingh Ji, adding that it provided an excellent opportunity for the Diaspora Indians in Nigeria to engage with the Minister of Defence, as well as to seek means of fostering better relationship between the two countries. He said that Singh Ji visited Nigeria as state guest to attend the inauguration ceremony of Nigeria’s President, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Srivastava, while highlighting the achievements of the Modi government, said that it is working very hard towards strengthening the bilateral relations between India and Nigeria, even as he commended the efforts. According to Srivastava, “Singh Ji’s role in shaping India’s national security policies and strategies is crucial. “The meeting with him was a moment of admiration, delight and enthusiasm for Team OFBJP Nigeria and the Indian community in Nigeria.” The OFBJP’s convener stated that the Indian Diaspora’s vibrant presence and contributions to the development of both countries play a significant role in promoting trade, commerce, and cultural exchange between the two nations. POLL According to Srivastava: “Shri Rajnath Singh Ji’s guidance to Team OFBJP Nigeria reflects the importance of dialogues and collaborations with the Diaspora’s to enhance cooperation and address common challenges. “The exchange of ideas and experiences can lead to innovative solutions and foster a sense of unity among the Indian Diaspora while maintaining strong bonds with their homeland.” While commending the OFBJP activities, which he noted, make them goodwill ambassadors, Srivastava stated that the minister appreciated the efforts of Team OFBJP Nigeria and the Indian Diaspora in Nigeria. He said that the activities further emphasize their valuable contributions to the vision of a strong and prosperous India.