ABUJA – The Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, says the removal of subsidy by the President, Ahmed Bola Tinubu is a welcome development that is long overdue. National Publicity Secretary of PANDEF, Ken Robinson stated this in an interview with newsmen via telephone from Port Harcourt, the Rivers state capital. Robinson explained that the racketeering in the petroleum sector was overwhelming, stressing that the pronouncement by President Tinubu in his inaugural speech was done at a wrong time because there weren’t palliatives in place to cushion the effects on the citizenry. The National Publicity Secretary further stated that the President should have attended to other pressing issues in the country instead of announcing the removal of subsidy, knowing the mood in the country. He emphasized that he should have engaged stakeholders and Labour leaders to work out modalities that will alleviate the plight of Nigerians before saying subsidy is gone. Robinson reiterated that former President Goodluck Jonathan proposed the removal of subsidy but it kicked against, as he added that if that was done the refineries would be functional at the moment and funds for subsidy would have be channeled to others sectors Speaking on the zoning of Principal offices in the 10th National Assembly, Robinson said PANDEF has no problem with the nomination of ex Akwa Ibom State governor and former minister of Niger Delta affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio by the All Progressive Congress, APC, National Working Committee for the Senate Presidency According to him, the forum hailed the decision of the ruling party to micro-zone the position of the Senate Presidency to the South – South region, as he maintained that since after the expiration of the Shagari’s administration the region has always occupied a lower position. POLL “The last time the zone hold such position was in 1983 after that we have been holding lower positions like deputy speaker and deputy senate president” Robinson who said for fairness and equity it is proper for the zone to produce the next Senate president noted that Akpabio’s nomination was a welcome development and should be supported to clinch the position. “For fairness and equity, it is proper that the South -South produce the next Senate president” While commending the leadership of the All Progressive Congress, APC for zoning offices of the principal officers of the 10th National Assembly, it urged the party to equally respect rotation of other positions in subsequent appointments. “The party should also respect rotation of other positions. We have commended the leadership of the party for micro-zoning it to the South-South zone” he stressed. “PANDEF on 13th of April this year issued a press statement that the South-South region deserves the position of the Senate president. Meanwhile, the forum has called on President Tinibu to tackle the triple problems of insecurity, economy and alienation and division in the country. “He has to put structures in place to unite us because we have never been divided like this,” Robinson added.