…As Obasa Pledges To Serve With Humility, Honesty, Dedication Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday inaugurated and issued the proclamation of the functionality of the 10th Lagos State House of Assembly. Speaking during the Proclamation/Inauguration ceremony at the Assembly Chamber, Ikeja, Sanwo-Olu said that the proclamation symbolized not just the continuity of the democratic journey, but also the vital role of legislative power in Nigeria’s system of governance. He said that the Legislature, an indispensable pillar of democracy, played an essential role in the journey of Greater Lagos. According to him, the Legislature is the embodiment of the hopes and aspirations of the people, a crucial partner in the quest for good governance, and a custodian of shared democratic values. Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa, has pledged his commitment to serve the House with humility, honesty, and dedication. Obasa made the pledge after being elected as the Speaker of the 10th House of Assembly at the Assembly complex in Lagos Tuesday. He described the event as “historical in the sense that it is the day I set the pace as the first legislator to be elected a record six times and the first to be Speaker for three consecutive terms in Nigeria.” POLL The Speaker urged his colleagues to join “him in this commitment, and together we shall leave a legacy of excellence that generations yet unborn will be proud of.” He promised to work tirelessly with his colleagues to continue to uphold the legacy of excellence for which the Lagos State House of Assembly is known. On the issue of the removal of fuel subsidy, he urged Nigerians “to embrace this policy as it has a lasting positive effect on all of us and our country.“We can take a clue from the introduction of the mobile communications networks in Nigeria years ago and how they were beyond the reach of many citizens. Today, mobile phones are everywhere and calls are cheaper.” Governor Sanwo-Olu said that the Assembly was a testament to the strength of democracy and the commitment of Lagos residents to the pursuit of excellence. ”As we embark on this new journey, we are reminded of our shared commitment to bolster the prosperity of Lagos State and improve the lives of every Lagosian. ”As we inaugurate this Assembly today, you will also be conducting the election of the Speaker and other principal officers, a constitutional function that further demonstrates the strength of our democratic values. ”It is a significant event, reminding us that the principles of fairness, respect for majority rule, and protection of the rights of the minority are the bedrock of our democracy. ”I want to assure you all that as your Governor, I stand neutral in the selection process. My interest lies in how we can work together, irrespective of who assumes what role, to fulfill our shared responsibilities to the people of Lagos State. ”Each one of you, regardless of position, brings unique value and perspective to this assembly, and it is through our collective efforts that we will achieve the extraordinary. ”The emergence of the Speaker and other principal officers is a decision entrusted to you by the constitution. I trust that you will carry out this duty with the highest level of integrity and respect for democratic principles,” he said. Sanwo-Olu called on the 10th Assembly to ensure cooperation, dialogue, and mutual respect with the executive arm, for a Greater Lagos Rising. According to him, the Executive and the Legislature are partners in this democratic journey, and the shared goal is to create a Lagos where everyone thrives, where opportunities abound, and where cultural diversity propels all forward. ”I stand ready to work with the 10th Assembly, collaborating to drive impactful policies, and fostering an environment where the hopes and dreams of every Lagosian can be realized. ”As we embark on this journey together, let us remember the words of John Quincy Adams, ”If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more, and become more, you are a leader”. ”I believe in the leadership that will emerge in this 10th House of Assembly. I am confident that our collective efforts will usher in an era of unprecedented growth and development for Lagos State,” he said. Giving his welcome address, the Clerk of the House, Olamilekan Onafeko, said that the 9th Assembly was highly successful at carrying out its roles while congratulating Gov. Sanwo-Olu and the 10th Assembly lawmakers for their victory at the polls. Onafeko said the 40 members of the 10th Assembly comprised 20 lawmakers re-elected from the 9th Assembly and 20 new lawmakers. He urged the 10th Assembly to work collaboratively with the executive, to ensure dividends of democracy for the residents of the state. Pledging commitment to his new assignment, the Speaker said: “As we begin a new chapter in the history of this Assembly, I want to affirm my commitment to the principles of transparency, accountability, and good governance. “My goal is to ensure that every member of this Assembly is respected and valued and that we work together to provide effective representation for the people of Lagos state. “We must prioritize the welfare of our constituents and ensure that our policies and legislative framework are geared towards meeting their needs. Under my leadership, this House will operate an open and inclusive administration where all members are carried along and given equal opportunity to contribute towards the development of the state.”