The Director of Federal Capital Territory Administration, Department of Outdoor Advertising and Signage (DOAS), Dr. Baba Gana Adams was recognized for improved service delivery. The award of recognition was presented by the president of the Nigerian, Youth Organisation for Leadership and Right Activation (NYOLRA), Comrade Gambo Muhammed on Tuesday in Abuja. He said the award of ICON AND CYNOSURE OF GREATER NIGERIA as well as the Award of Vote of CONFIDENCE ON DOAS, was the recognition of drastic improvement brought to the FCT Agency by the director. The president of Nyolra, Gambo Muhammed, while identifying the criteria for choosing the Director, Baba Gana Adams, and DOAS as an Agency of FCT, said such recognition, was out of landmark performance which changed the face of DOAS from less performing agency of government to an active one as well as a rapid change in the revenue generation drive of the agency under the leadership of Dr. Adams. He hinted that the innovative training and re-training program introduced by the leadership of Baba Gana squared among other reasons. According to him: “This honor is a conceptualization by our organization to appreciate, eulogize and reward Nigerian leaders whose attributes, contributions and sacrifices are worthy of emulation. This is done in order to enhance good governance and leadership by membership in the society. Hence, after careful search you emerged as the most undisputable choice for the Nigeria Heroes Platinum Award as an Icon and Cynosure of greater Nigeria” and a “Vote of Confidence on DOAS” in recognition and appreciation of your tremendous strides as director, raising the fortune of the department in terms of revenue generation, from an insignificant department to one who generated in the excess of #500 million and has further set a target, despite the drawbacks to generate a billion a feast deserving of commendation”. POLL Responding to the award of recognition conferred on him, the Director, Department of Outdoor Advertising and Synages, Dr. Baba Gana Adams, while accepting the honor done on him and his organization said the award would help him and the staff to do more. He expressed joy over the recognition, saying such gives strength above some critics that never see any good thing in the work of DOAS, stressing that their negative energy also helps in shaping the policy implementation of the organization. He told the organizer of the award that the motivation to keep doing the right thing was drawn from his family members (the children), friends, and the innovative staff who always call his attention to every oversight in the course of duty. “I am motivated by the support I receive from my children who called my attention to necessary areas that need my attention, likewise my friends and the crop of innovative staff that have been doing the work with me. I also draw strength from the third estate of the realm whose projects are working always”. Adams, however, assured Nigerians especially the residents to make the territory one of the best cities to behold in advertising and signage management among the regulatory agencies in the world.