According to reports, Liverpool are plotting a ‘stunning hijack’ that would see them beat Chelsea and Arsenal in the race for Southampton’s Romeo Lavia. The Saints signed Lavia from Man City last summer, with the deal for him potentially costing £14m with add-ons. Southampton endured a nightmare season in 2022/23 as they finished bottom in the Premier League but Lavia was among their better performers. The 19-year-old is expected to secure himself a move to a Big Six club this summer. Man City have a £40m buy-back option for Lavia, but he is likely to join one of their rivals before next season. According to Football Insider, Chelsea have ‘been the frontrunners’ in the race for Lavia but Liverpool are ensuring that a ‘stunning hijack could be on the cards’. The Reds have ‘contacted’ Southampton to ‘register their interest’ in the midfielder. Liverpool are ‘looking to add a central anchorman to the capture of Alexis Mac Allister’, who has reached a ‘full agreement’ with the Premier League giants. Arsenal are also ‘keeping tabs’ on Lavia’s situation at Southampton but he is now a ‘firm target’ for Liverpool. Borussia Monchengladbach star Manu Kone is another player Liverpool are being linked with. German journalist Christian Falk thinks Jurgen Klopp sees the midfielder ‘as a replacement for Jude Bellingham’. POLL ‘Jurgen Klopp and Liverpool see Manu Kone as a replacement for Jude Bellingham, who is going to Real Madrid instead of England,’ Falk wrote for Caught Offside. ‘Liverpool have already contacted Koné’s management and expressed interest. The intentions of the Reds are “real and big,” so say the people surrounding the Frenchman. ‘A possible fee for the defensive midfielder should be between €40-45m, that is what Gladbach hope. Before Liverpool were interested, €30m was still under discussion. Koné’s contract with Borussia runs until June 30, 2025.’ As for the deal for Bellingham, Falk adds that Dortmund will ‘only receive a fixed fee of €100m plus around €20m in possible bonuses’ from Real Madrid. ‘Jude Bellingham is on the verge of a move to Real Madrid. The clubs still have to agree. BVB will get a smaller transfer fee than expected!’ Falk added. ‘Instead of surpassing Ousmane Dembélé’s record sum (€140m to Barça), Borussia should “only” receive a fixed fee of €100m plus around €20m in possible bonuses. ‘The hoped-for €150m will not be there because Bellingham only has two years of his contract remaining. Discussions between all parties are respectful. ‘Real and Dortmund have very good relations. In addition: Bellingham, who had to pass the past games with knee problems, should possibly be operated on in the near future. The diagnosis “chronic bursitis” is in the room.’