Following the increasing digital threats in our highly connected world, Hagital Consulting decided to embark on an intensive six-month cybersecurity training programme to arm individuals with the necessary knowledge and skills to combat the challenges. Spokesperson of Hagital Consulting, Omiyale Yomi, who made this known in a statement, said the programme will begin on Monday 3rd July, 2023 and it’s aimed at enhancing individuals’ ability to protect computer systems, networks, and digital information from unauthorised access, damage, theft, or other cyber threats. According to the spokesperson, “Cybersecurity is essentially about implementing measures that ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information in cyberspace. “Our classes are ideal for the working class as they take place in the evening at 7 PM, three times a week – Monday, Thursday, and Saturday. Each session runs for two and a half hours and all sessions will be recorded for future reference. “Considering the varying skills and interests of individuals, the course offers an understanding of both technical and non-technical paths in cybersecurity. This comprehensive approach ensures a broad spectrum of job opportunities are available to students after the training. “After the completion of the training, students can enter various roles, including Incident Responder, Threat Intelligence Hunter, Junior Penetration Tester, Security Operations Center (SOC) Analyst, Cybersecurity Engineer, Security Auditor, and Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) Analyst. “The goal of our training isn’t just to impart knowledge; we aim to create industry-ready professionals,” said one of the tutors who boasts a 17-year experience in the cybersecurity field. “Hence, we have incorporated employability readiness training, which includes interview preparation, CV revamp, LinkedIn optimisation, and Upwork mastery into our curriculum.” “The team of tutors at Hagital Consulting bring extensive experience to the table, with individual experiences spanning seven, five, and seventeen years in the cybersecurity field. With their deep knowledge and practical know-how, they are set to equip their students with the skills required to navigate and combat the evolving landscape of digital threats. POLL “This training represents a significant opportunity for individuals looking to break into the field of cybersecurity or enhance their existing knowledge and skills. The blend of technical and non-technical cybersecurity paths, coupled with the addition of employability-readiness training, makes this programme a comprehensive approach to tackling the cybersecurity challenges of today and the future”, it added.