This piece, sourced from Archives Siaka-Momoh is published here to refresh our memory on Nigeria’s power problem now that the issue is trending following the signing of the Electricity Bill 2023 by President Bola Tinubu. It is clear here that it was pointed out earlier that our power pig-headed problem revolves around the trio of generation, transmission and distribution. Malcolm Fabiyi PhD, who coordinates the Governance Advancement Initiative for Nigeria (GAIN) poll, who has served as a Visiting Professor at Lagos Business School and previously worked as a managing consultant with McKinsey & Company, stretched the argument by asking “Why is the Nigerian power sector plagued by issues that do not seem to exist in any other nation – sabotage of gas pipelines, sabotage of generation, transmission and distribution equipment, and intractable labour crises?” For the don, we have three challenges: sabotage generation, distribution and transmission equipment, security of gas transportation pipelines and time for completion of large (100 – 1,000 MW) projects. He argued it would make sense that the only people willing to take the risk of attempting to sabotage high voltage power generation, distribution or transmission equipment would be those that have a lot to gain, or lose, from changes in the sector- that is, stakeholders in the sector. For security of gas transportation pipelines, he put up the same argument: “Who would want to blow up a pipeline? The answer is simple – economic or political stakeholders who will benefit from an epileptic power sector, or gain from the failure of the Buhari government. The list of political stakeholder suspects is long: Boko Haram insurgents, Niger Delta militants, political enemies of the administration, aggrieved people from communities affected by the pipelines, etc” Fabiyi explained Nigerians buy about $500 million (about N100 billion) worth of electrical generating equipment per year in an industry with annual global sales of about $18 billion i.e., we are 3 per cent of the global generator market by consumption! He said we also consume about 23 million liters of diesel and petrol per day exclusively for private power generation, costing a staggering N600 billion per year. “This implies that there are Nigerians that are making almost N700 billion a year of wealth from their investments in the private power generation market. They will be the major economic losers if the government is successful in creating a strong, robust, reliable public power sector,” he said. He said the political losers are those with a vested interest in seeing the failure of this government. “Success in the power sector will be a crowning achievement for the Buhari administration. It would benefit majority of Nigerians, and have a significant booster effect on the economy,” he argued. And regarding time for completion of large (100 – 1,000 MW) projects, he argued Nigerian power projects are grand schemes which take long time to complete. Proposed Solutions Fabiyi proffered: “Any solutions that will provide long lasting solutions to the power sector problems in Nigeria must necessarily address the following: (i) satisfactorily and equitably resolve the concerns of all stakeholders (ii) devise strategies that effectively mitigate sabotage (iii) include a portfolio of short term projects that deliver tangible results in a timely manner of less than a year (iv) create a platform for system wide infrastructure development in ancillary sectors like transportation (v) directly facilitate economic multiplier effects and job creation.” POLL To be specific, his three solutions include: Gas Based Power Plan Must be supplemented with LNG & Rail Transportation Strategy; localize Power Generation, Transmission & Distribution to save time, and enhance security; stakeholder inclusion needs to be enhanced. He summed up: “As the recent challenges experienced in the power sector demonstrate, there will continue to be major consequences for systematically ignoring the interests of stakeholders in the current private power market and not developing alternative strategies to address the security vulnerabilities of a gas driven strategy for power generation”. Two steps taken recently by the Federal Government recently are attempts to address the power issue in question. One is legalizing illegal refineries in the Niger Delta by establishing modular refineries so that they Niger Delta militants can participate in legal refineries. Two is the N701 billion approved by the Federal Government for the Nigeria Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) as Power Assurance Guarantee. With the sum payment for the evacuation of electricity produced by Generation Companies (GenCos) to the national grid will be guaranteed. NBET is the government’s own company – the bulk electricity trader that buys power from the Gencos. The liquidity problems that have characterised the market have affected NBET’s ability to deliver on its PPP obligations through the Gencos. A good start this is. But we are however waiting for successful implementation of the schemes. Meanwhile our businesses are stuck in power supply trap.