ABUJA – The Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), in collaboration with eHealth Africa and the Civil Society Legislative Advoca­cy Centre (CISLAC), has begun the process for the development of an Integrated Food Fortifica­tion Compliance Framework de­signed to address micronutrient deficiencies in Nigeria. While delivering his welcome address at the weekend at a we­binar event, the Chief Executive Officer of the NESG, Mr Laoye Jaiyeola, said that malnutrition deficiencies are of great concern to the NESG, with 20.5 million new babies and 14.6% having low weight at birth and one out of five children experiencing stunted growth in Nigeria. Jaiyeola revealed that the COVID-19 pandemic further ex­posed the economic vulnerabil­ities of African countries as 155 million people have been pushed into extreme poverty globally. According to him, “In Nige­ria and the rest of Sub-saharan Africa, micronutrient deficien­cies are common among the peo­ple due to over-farmed, depleted and nutrient-lacking soils, low nitrogen in most African soils, high soil acidity, an infestation of crops by pests and diseases, and the adverse effects of cli­mate change. He underscored the need for stakeholders to continually ramp up food fortification to ensure that people don’t just eat but eat well in a way that reduc­es micronutrient deficiencies. During the panel session, Senior Technical Specialist for Quality and Safety, Global Al­liance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN), Mr. David Morgan, stat­ed that micronutrient deficien­cy in Nigeria is significant and the national food consumption survey shows there is a massive burden of waste in children in Nigeria, with vitamin A defi­ciency and anaemia being more prevalent among children. Morgan noted that some of the challenges related to food fortification compliance include an absence of clear communica­tion of requirements from reg­ulators for smaller industries, the cost of food fortification, monitoring of production, and access to trusted, reliable, and affordable testing for regulators and producers. He affirmed that dialogue and improved communication are straightforward ways to im­prove Nigeria’s food fortification systems. POLL In his remarks, Dr Adeyemi Opeoluwa, Deputy Director of Scientific and Head of Business Development at the Institute of Public Analysts of Nigeria, said there was need to tackle poverty to improve the country’s mac­roeconomic indices, noting the need for support and collabo­ration among government, the private sector and institutes to improve on these indices. He further urged all stake­holders to consider Nigeria’s po­litical and cultural dimensions when enacting policies. Also speaking, the founding Director of Praisegate Services and Consult, Dr Victor Ajieroh, stated that with a population of 200 million, with conservative estimates, only 100 million peo­ple can have access to fortified foods through oil, salt, sugar and other food vehicles. He explained that by ensur­ing more people have access to fortified foods, the health of the nation would improve. Ajieroh reiterated the im­portance of the private sector in ensuring that their products conform with government-set fortification standards, noting that food brands should embody values and aspirations that in­spire change.