LAGOS – Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has sent his congratulations to Senator Godswill Akpabio on his victory and election as the President of the Senate of the 10th Senate. The governor in a congratulatory message, commended the flawless and peaceful conduct of the election, which according to him stand as a testament to the commendable workings of internal democracy within the National Assembly.  Governor Bello firmly believes that Senator Akpabio’s extensive experience as a former Governor of Akwa Ibom State and Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs will enable him to effectively lead the 10th Senate, fostering a harmonious relationship with the other arms of government for the greater good of the nation.  In a similar vein, Governor Bello extends his heartfelt congratulations to Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas on his well-deserved election as the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives. The governor acknowledged Abbas’ distinguished presence in the parliament, which has equipped him with the necessary knowledge and understanding to fulfill his responsibilities harmoniously, always keeping the national interest at the forefront.  Bello believes that Akpabio and Abbas, in their respective leadership positions, will work closely with their colleagues and other arms of government to ensure effective governance, drive meaningful legislative reforms, and contribute to the progress and development of the nation.  He also extended his congratulations to Senator Barau Jibrin and Rt. Hon. Benjamin Kalu as well, on their well-deserved election as Deputy President of the Senate and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively.  The governor expressed optimism that their tenure will be characterized by remarkable achievements, uncommon progress, and positive impact on the lives of Nigerians.  Recall that in the election, Distinguished Senator Godswill Akpabio secured an impressive 63 votes, defeating his closest rival, Senator Abdulaziz Yari, who garnered 46 votes. Similarly, Tajudeen Abbas emerged victorious with an overwhelming 353 votes, surpassing his rivals, Rt. Hon. Idris Wase and Aminu Jaji, who got 3 votes each.  Governor Bello wishes all elected officials success in their new positions and assures them of his unwavering support and cooperation in their effort to enhance the welfare and prosperity of the country and its citizens.