General Sani Usman (retd), former director of Army Public Relations, in this interview, speaks about the sack of service chiefs and employment of new ones by President Bola Tinubu. He looks at the challenges facing the new security chiefs, sets an agenda for them, and charges them to ensure inter-agency collaborations in information gathering and dissemination. He talks about the roles of the public in ensuring that the service chiefs succeed, and urges the President to give them free hand. CHIBUIKE CHUKWU brings the excerpts What is your take on the sack of the former service chiefs and appointment of new ones by President Bola Tinubu? Change of service chiefs was expected given the tradition and we knew such a thing was going to happen but it was about when and that was why we weren’t surprised at all when it happened. Take a look at the selection of the service chiefs and others…. There was diligence in selecting those that have been appointed, cutting across all the security architecture right from the National Security Adviser down to the Chief of Defence Staff, the service chiefs, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), the Comptroller General, Customs and of course Chief of Defence Intelligence. These are people personally known to me. They have actually performed well and I think that is why they were selected. What do you think are the expectations from these new service chiefs? What is expected of them right now is to bring their wealth of experience and consolidate on whatever gains we have achieved. Most importantly now is to improve in the inter-agency cooperation and collaboration, and intelligence gathering and dissemination. They should engage in cross fertilization of ideas in dealing with security challenges. But you know all these things are dependent on the strategic directive of the commander in chief and I am so sure he would definitely give them free hand to do their jobs to enhance the security of this country. What will you like to see from these service chiefs towards deepening security in Nigeria? POLL What you should understand is that we are still in the period of transition from Buhari to Tinubu and there were so many committees and those committees did a diligent job, so I believe these ones appointed already have their jobs cut out for them. But beyond this, I believe every Nigerian has high expectations from them because the Nigeria of those days is not the Nigeria of today. Like before the advent of insurgency, not only did Nigerians sleep with both eyes closed but they could go wherever they wished to go regardless of what time of the day or night. But it is not like that now, so it is the hope of Nigerians that we go back to that era but a lot of things have to be done so the newly appointed security chiefs have this onerous responsibility to meet the security needs of Nigerians. Like I said, that depends on the grand directive of the President. Do you think Nigerians have roles to play in order to assist the security chiefs? Most importantly is the involvement of the components of the Nigerian society because security is something that must be all-involving. There must be collaboration; there must be cooperation, not necessarily from the various security architecture but from all the components of the Nigerian society. Everyone must be carried along. The issue of security is not only about physical security, we have to think of job security and all that makes the social economic well-being of Nigerians watertight so that they will contribute meaningfully to national development. So it is a matter of carrying everybody along. How do you think the President should relate with the service chiefs in order to send positive body language for them to perform? I think the president has clearly demonstrated sincerity of purpose. He has a firm grip of the process. Look at the appointment of the national security adviser; he is someone who is going to coordinate that aspect and he comes from a background that is really impeccable. In Tinubu, it’s a question of bringing in people who he feels are going to work for him. It is a question of giving directives to them. But like I said earlier, until you empower Nigerians to contribute meaningfully, you are still going to have security challenges and that is exactly what happened in the past. Security chiefs are basically one component of Nigerian security architecture; the bottom line is average Nigerian. Do you integrate him/her into security architecture? What is their level of security education? What is the level of their social/economic well-being? What is the level of delivery of good governance? These are necessary. Take for instance we have three levels of government; the federal, the state and the local government and we know the local government is comatose even though it is very pivotal to the issue of security because security issues are local and they could have been dealt with at the local stage before moving to state and then federal. The President has a general overview of everything that is going on in the country and he is assisted by the national security adviser. But we still have to ask to what extent will the security chiefs cooperate among themselves, especially in being proactive in dealing with intelligence and other matters that count. It is also not only dealing with what type of security architecture but including a good criminal justice system in the country. Take for instance what is the level of cooperation between the police and the correctional services and even the federal road safety. Also to what extent do you synchronize local security outfits like Amotekun, Hisbah and a host of them with the conventional police system to achieve results so that you have accurate and timely intelligence? Of course there is also the issue of welfare for security. There is the issue of training and there is the issue of doctrine as well as the issue of logistics that will enable them to move whenever there are challenges. What advice do you have for the security chiefs for them to see early warning of security threats? They are highly experienced and they have been in Nigeria. They know the challenges and if there is any problem, they know where it is coming from. I think the best thing is to have high hopes and expectations and ensure that we support them to succeed. So having said that, in supporting them, every component of the Nigerian society has a role to play. Apart from enjoying privileges as Nigerians, we have a role to play also to build the country. We have to take ownership of the security of the country in the sense that we contribute positively. It is not just enough that we see something and fail to say something or report to appropriate security agencies. This is where our role comes in. The Nigerian Army has a call centre but we have to improve on responses and emergencies and improve in the collaboration system once anything happens or even before things happen. Take for instance in the UK, an ambulance is just fifteen minutes away; yes we may not get to that stage at the moment but we must improve. If there were distress calls, how would you respond to them? You have to orientate the people and to what extent are the people going to support? Do they know their roles in such situations? The Nigerian general public has a tremendous role to play within our environment to ensure that if there are untoward things, we will be able to notice that and report appropriately. Security should be a collaboration among the various segments of the Nigerian society not necessarily about the security forces. Yes they (security forces) have the lead with strategic directive from the government but the Nigerian society has responsibilities also; but then we have to empower them through security education and good economic well-being so that they can respond to all these things. And most importantly, I talked about our criminal justice system. What is the state of our judiciary in this regard in case there are arrests and prosecutions? There should be continued collaboration among the security agencies. That is why I made mention of the relationship between the police and the correctional services which is the last in the criminal justice system. I will also mention that they should have data. To what extent have they leveraged on telecommunications to improve data gathering of Nigerians? In 2019, we made a recommendation after interrogating the internal security framework and community policing in Nigeria at the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies that even at our entry and exit at airports. Let there be one single security agency and at the same time taking advantage of technology. By the time the immigration is loading your passport in the computer, whoever that is at the Defence headquarter, Correctional services, NIA etcetera will see it and if you are among the people that have been flagged, they will raise an observation. In other words, you have a multiplicity of agencies and it is not only the airport but other areas. So it is very important to have all these things in place in this 21st century. To what extent have we been equipping the security agencies to meet these challenges in this 21st century? This is because we have moved beyond armed robbery and now it is the issue of cyber insecurity and what have you. These are issues we have to bring into consideration in dealing with security issues right now and to engage their collaboration and cooperation for the peace and security of Nigerians.