President Bola Tinubu has insisted that there is an urgent need to stop the bleeding in the nation’s financial system through speedy actions, even as he said that he decided not participate in the arbitrage entrenched in the country’s commercial system in order to rescue the country from collapsing. President Tinubu stated this on Thursday in Lagos at a state banquet organised for him by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Tinubu, who arrived at the Lagos House, Marina, at about 3.40pm, after his visit to Ogun State, said: “We need to stop the bleeding of our finances through speedy actions, of fuel subsidy; we had no choice from there. We must reengineer the effectiveness of control and management of our resources in order to meet the obligation owed to Nigerians by politicians.“We are on and I am standing here reassuring you that I will not relent on working with all of you with available resources. ‘’You can afford to go under, you can afford to be Father Christmas to neighbouring countries. We can’t just afford the petrol subsidy and it is getting a hold on the foreign exchange. I could say I want to share in the benefits and participate in the arbitrage but God forbid. No. that is why you elected me, you chose me to bring about changes that will benefit not only you but also you grand-children and our tomorrow.’’ After receiving a gift of Adamu Orisa Symbol from Governor Sanwo-Olu, President Tinubu, who thanked and commended everyone who believes in the positive Nigerian project with him, while promising to bring about changes that will benefit all, operate an open door policy and as well re-engineer the financial system of the country to enviable heights. The host, Lagos State Governor, Sanwo-olu, promised to join hands with the President’s administration in rebuilding Nigeria to an unprecedented height. Dignitaries at the event included Vice President Kashim Shetimma, First Lady, Oluremi Tinubu, who arrived about 4.17pm, National Assembly members, led by Senate President Godswill Akpabio and House of Representatives Speaker Tajudeen Abass. POLL Others included Governors Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Hope Uzodimma (Imo), Abdullahi Sule (Nasarrawa), Babagana Zulum (Borno), Alex Otti (Abia), Fr. Hyacinth Alia (Benue), Bassey Otu (Cross River), Duoye Diri (Bayelsa), Yahaya Bello (Kogi) and Acting Governor Lucky Aiyedatiwa (Ondo). Former Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, also a former governor in the state, Lagos State Deputy Governor, Obafemi Hamzat, former Governors Akinwunmi Ambode (Lagos) and Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano) and former Lagos Deputy Governor Femi Pedro, were also at the event. Business leaders were led by Aliko Dangote and Alhaji Rasak Okoya. Royal fathers of Awori extraction were also present at the grand reception.