LAGOS  – Airtel is stepping up its investments to gain a foothold in the Nigerian telecoms market, which is contested by MTN, Globacom, and 9mobile. The company claims to have invested around $10 billion in its Nigerian operations over the past ten years. Airtel Nigeria, a subsidiary of Airtel Africa, plans to invest $700 million annually over the next three to four years to roll out its 5G network, install fiber optic cables and build data centers. This was revealed by Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman of Bharti Airtel, the parent company of Airtel Africa, during his meeting with Nigerian President Bola Ahmed Tinubu on Monday, June 19. This initiative is part of Airtel’s ambition to reinforce its growth strategy in Nigeria by meeting the growing demand for high-speed connectivity. The company wants to accelerate the rollout of its 5G network to remain competitive with rival MTN, which launched its commercial ultra-broadband services in September 2022 and whose network already covers 13 cities in the country. The subsidiary of South African multinational MTN Group is aiming for a 10% coverage of the Nigerian population by the end of the year and nationwide coverage by 2025. This investment should also enable Airtel to strengthen its position in the Nigerian telecom market. The company controls 27.01% of the national mobile subscriber base, according to the latest data from the regulator. Competitors 9mobile, Globacom and MTN have market shares of 6%, 27.28%, and 39.70% respectively. Early this week, Airtel Nigeria launched its commercial 5G services. POLL The service provider assured that it will be offering cutting-edge technology, which promises to revolutionize the way Nigerians stay connected. The 5G network is expected to offer faster download and upload speeds, lower latency, and more reliable connectivity, providing Airtel customers with a seamless and enhanced digital experience. Carl Cruz, Airtel Nigeria CEO, while ommenting on the launch, said: “5G is a completely new experience that supercharges cloud computing, telemedicine, self-driving cars, cloud gaming, Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (AR & VR), Internet of Things (IoT), Smart homes, and so much more. While we may think that 4G is a remarkable improvement on our internet experiences, 5G completely opens a new vista where anything and everything is possible. Right now, with 5G, we can only be limited by the limits of our imagination.” Cruz also described a link between the 5G launch and the company’s current marketing campaign, A Reason to Imagine. “If you go by our recently-launched brand theme – A Reason to Imagine – you will notice that it fits perfectly with this paradigm shift. With 5G, it is more achievable to empower creatives and entrepreneurs in tech, medicine, fashion, retail, communications, and media to bring executive more adventurous ideas. 5G ushers in a new era of collaboration that breaks boundaries and presents a new wave of economic benefits for this generation and the next, and we cannot wait to see how young people all over the country explore this new world of instant and unbroken connections to unleash a revolution in creativity,” he said.