Chelsea are interested in signing Southampton’s teenage midfield starlet Romeo Lavia but face having to pay a massive fee, according to reports. The west London club are looking to overhaul their midfield this summer with Mason Mount and Mateo Kovacic – who are both out of contract in 2024 – expected to be sold while N’Golo Kante’s deal expires at the end of this month. Mauricio Pochettino had identified Sporting’s Manuel Ugarte as the ideal signing to partner Enzo Fernandez but Chelsea were gazumped by Paris Saint-Germain at the eleventh hour. That has seen the Blues’ hierarchy quickly revise their transfer plans and they will now reignite a move for Brighton midfielder Moises Caicedo. The Seagulls will demand a fee of around £80million for the Ecuadorian, while Arsenal – who, like Chelsea, also bid for the midfielder in January – are ready to make a swoop of their own. But Chelsea will need more than just Caicedo if three senior midfielders all leave this summer and the Daily Mail are reporting that Lavia is also on the club’s wish list. The 19-year-old enjoyed an excellent, breakout season in the Premier League despite Southampton’s relegation, impressing with his precocious poise on the ball and press resistance. He is ‘admired’ by Chelsea’s recruitment team and could be the ideal complement to Fernandez and Caicedo, though he will not come cheap. POLL Southampton view the former Manchester City starlet as their most sellable asset and will demand as much as £50million for the Belgian teen. As part of the £12.5m deal that saw him move to the south coast, City included three quite significant clauses, the first of which allows them to match any bid that comes in for the player. They also inserted a buyback clause – thought to be around £40m – while the third clause entitles them to 20 per cent of any future sale, meaning they would receive £10m if Chelsea paid £50m for Lavia. Southampton know there is plenty of interest in the youngster, with Liverpool also keeping tabs on him, though the Merseysiders are currently prioritising a move for Alexis Mac Allister. Chelsea, meanwhile, need to sell a host of players before they can press ahead with the squad overhaul and the likes of Ruben Loftus-Cheek and Conor Gallagher are also expected to be sold if decent offers are made.