ABUJA – The Federal Government has reaffirmed its commitment to promote Operation Feed Yourself by helping households to access information and inputs that will encourage them to produce food around their houses to feed their families. Engr. Nebeolisa Anako, Permanent Secretary of Budget and National Planning stated this at a Retreat of Zonal Permanent Secretaries, Directors, and Management Staff of the Budget and National Planning Arms of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget, and National Planning on the implementation of the Food Systems Transformation Pathways in Nigeria held at Uzanu Farm Etsako East LGA, Edo State. The Permanent Secretary who was represented by Dr. Gloria Ahmed, a Director in the Ministry, said the Federal Government through NiMet and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), regularly collects and disseminates information through radio and other platforms about weather patterns and soil properties and best practices for crops, livestock, aquaculture, and poultry production. Speaking further, the Permanent Secretary said the States establish farm settlements/estates made up of groups of smallholder producers, including women and youths, who use estates to increase input supply, machinery hire, extension, and other services, and market access and farm settlement estates to include all basic amenities, including the internet to discourage rural to urban migration. He pointed out that the main objective of the retreat was to provide a platform for a coordinated approach in the implementation of food systems transformation pathways and to brainstorm on how the country will have a successful outing at the upcoming Stock Taking Session (STS) in Rome, which is scheduled from 24th – 26th July 2023. A statement from the Ministry of Budget and National Planning quoted Anako as saying that the Task Team had produced the 2023 Action Plan with 10 implementable activities within the pathways including the 2022 low-hanging fruits. He also explained that the team was working with the Technical Working Group (TWG) of stakeholder MDAs at the Federal level to develop a robust costed Implementation Strategy as well as Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for all the priority actions in the pathway, stressing that the Strategy document had also elicited inputs from all states to ensure inclusiveness before it is eventually completed. He also stated that the 2023 Action Plan was produced to ensure continuity from 2022 programmes and to be able to produce Country Report ahead of the global stocktaking event coming up in Rome in July 2023. POLL He emphasised that “the implementation requires the commitment of all of us to sustain the commitment of Nigeria to the transformation of food systems in the spirit of achieving the National Development Plan 2021-2023; Nigeria Agenda 2050; African Union Agenda 2063 and UN Sustainable Development Goals Agenda 2030”. In his remarks, the immediate past Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, pointed out that the “Food System is not just about the production of the food but has to do with the processing, transportation, and consumption of it. He added that the pathway has to do with “how we grow the system itself to ensure that there is sustainability and our people eat nutritious food and healthy.” Agba stated further that “it is high time for Nigerian youth to change their mentality about farming,” adding that farming is considered as a vocation for the poor people, of which farmers are the richest in the world. “The more we all engage in farming, no matter how big or small even just in our garden goes a long way because we can never go wrong with food,” he said. In his presentation, the National Convener, Dr. Sanjo Faniran while justifying the need for food systems transformation in Nigeria, stated that the national supply of nutrition food is not sufficient to meet the need of the people. He noted that about 88% of children under two years of age with 44% of women are suffering from malnutrition. Faniran stated that the government would provide an enabling environment for the youths and women who are interested in farming and food systems as well as the vulnerable groups. He added that in the farm estate, there is an integrated approach for a food system that includes planting, logistics, and nutritious components, urging people in the urban areas to make the best use of their backyards for food production.