….Calls On Estate Developers To Priorities Tree Planting, Greening The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Mr Olusade Adesola has hinted that, efforts will be reinvigorated to implement extant policies on tree planting and greening in the nation’s capital. While calling on all residents especially estate developers to make sure that provisions made for tree planting and greening are giving priority as they develop lands allocated to you. Adesola gave this hint at an event organized by the Department of Parks and Recreation to commemorate this year’s World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought the theme: “Her Land, Her Rights”. This is quite pertinent and timely as it underscores the fundamental importance of securing and empowering women’s rights to land. According to him:” We also recognize the importance of tree planting in the battle against desertification and drought and have each year marked the 17th Day of June by drawing attention to this activity. “The FCTA remains committed to the implementation of the 2019 FCT Park Policy, Section 1.1.5 which states that the Abuja Master Plan and Land Use Plan predicated the Green/Garden City concept for the FCT and made provision of about 33% land for Parks, Green Areas and Open Spaces. “I am truly delighted to be here today as we come together to commemorate the World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought, a momentous occasion that calls for our collective commitment to address the challenges of land degradation and the growing threat of drought. “This day, June 17, was proclaimed by UN General Assembly resolution on January 30, 1995, when United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and Drought was drafted. The Day has been set aside to raise awareness on the prevalence of desertification and drought, highlighting methods of preventing desertification and recovering from drought. It is my honour therefore to welcome you all to this very important occasion. POLL “It is worthy of note that desertification and drought are associated with challenges such as reduced global food production, increase in hunger, disease and malnutrition that has led to global conflicts and crisis”. He continued:”It is no secret that a lot of conflicts on the African continent and other parts of the world have been linked to desertification and drought occasioned by climate change and unwholesome human activities, forcing populations to continuously migrate in search of greener pastures at other locations with resultant conflict with original inhabitants as frequently witnessed in many parts of Nigeria. “The need therefore to confront the challenges of desertification and drought has not been greater and it is quite heart-warming to note that governments around the world have realized this and are taking very concise measures to confront and control it. “It is an undeniable fact that women play a pivotal role in sustainable development, particularly in the realm of land and natural resource management. “Yet, all too often, women face significant barriers that impede their access to and control over land. This hinders their potential to contribute fully to the achievement of gender equity and economic growth. “By focusing on women’s land rights, we recognize the intrinsic value of ensuring gender equity in all aspects of society. When women have secured rights to land, they are better positioned to make sustainable land management decisions, promote agricultural productivity, and enhance the resilience of communities in the face of climate change. “This is especially relevant in our local communities where women are the mainstay of many economies through subsistence farming to managers of fortune five corporations. “When women have access to land, it leads to improved access to education, healthcare, and economic opportunities for themselves and their families. It will strengthen the social fabric of communities and foster more inclusive and equitable societies. “In the Federal Capital Territory Administration, we will continue to encourage our local communities to ensure that women have equitable access to land in our overall fight against desertification and drought and remain committed to implementing policies and initiatives that promote gender equality, and empower women as key stakeholders in land management. “On this World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought, let us renew our commitment to positively empowering women and improving their access to land. Let us acknowledge that gender equality is not only a moral imperative but also an essential driver of sustainable development. “Let us seize this opportunity to raise awareness, foster dialogue, and take concrete actions that safeguard women’s land rights”. Adesola thanked the Department for supporting the growth of the tree I planted last year. However, it is my wish going forward that the venue of this events with will be moved round the FCC to achieve spread. Furthermore, i would wish to see the Department actualizing the initiative started in 2021 to line the Airport Road in its entire length by plants to be achieved through partnership with the Private Sector. “It is on this note that I once more congratulate you all on the commemoration of this special day and urge you to spread the message of ensuring a green, beautiful and environmentally friendly capital city”, he said.