BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI The liberalisation of exchange rates last week has brought the issue of the ban on access to dollars placed on 43 items by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) back on the front burner as analysts believe that liberalisation should unfreeze the ban and allow these items to benefit from the liberalised foreign exchange market. In a statement, the CBN restated that the ban on importers of 43 Items from accessing Foreign Exchange from the official window remains banned from the Investors and Exporters (I&E) window. This means the restriction of foreign exchange allocation for the importation of the 43 items still stands. “The status quo remains on the 43 non-eligible items. The items are not permitted to be funded from the I&E window,” the CBN said. The apex bank had Wednesday announced the collapse of all forex windows into the Investors & Exporters (I&E) window in its efforts to unify all segments of the Nigerian forex market. “All transactions will now be done through the Investors and Exporters (I&E) window, where the exchange rate will be determined by market forces. Applications for medicals, school fees, BTA/PTA, and SMEs would continue to be processed through deposit money banks,” the bank said in a statement. In a circular issued on June 24th, 2015, the CBN banned importers of certain items from accessing dollars from the official market, a move aimed at preserving the country’s foreign reserves. POLL The bank said these items were “Not Valid for Foreign Exchange” because they could easily be produced in Nigeria rather than being imported into the country. The list, which initially comprised 41 items, has since grown to 43, including widely consumed staple foods in the country. Some of the affected items include rice, cement, margarine, palm kernel, palm oil products, vegetable oils, meat and processed meat products, vegetables and processed vegetable products, poultry, tomatoes/tomato paste, soap and cosmetics, and clothes. Other items include private airplanes/jets, Indian incense, tinned fish in sauce, cold rolled steel sheets, galvanised steel sheets, roofing sheets, wheelbarrows, head pans, metal boxes/containers, enamelware, steel drums and pipes, wire mesh, steel nails, wood particle boards, and panels. Foremost economist, Dr Ayo Teriba believes that liberalisation should give room for to all in participating in the foreign exchange market without discrimination. He said, “So, you liberalise the source of supply but you have not to liberalise the demand end of the market and you still want to hold on to the list of 43 banned items. “The idea is for a unified exchange rate. If you are still saying that some products are legitimate items are eligible while some legitimate items are not eligible then you are pushing some transactions outside that market. So, you are not going to have a unified exchange rate. “If you liberalise, it is not your business who I sell to or what person who bought uses it for as long as it is not contraband. “If they keep this, the CBN is still working in the shadow of Emefiele’s regime. If the government wants to clean the table, it has to be a clean sweep at the leadership of the CBN. The ban on 43 items must go. “If you are liberalising the foreign exchange market you can’t discriminate, the BDCs should be carried along. Otherwise, you will not have a unified exchange rate. Unless everybody eligible to transact can transact in one market, you are not going to have a unified rate”. He concluded that the willingness to unify is what is important. “The CBN is still holding to the past and the new regime will ensure that the past becomes the past if we want to enjoy the benefits of unification. You must liberalise both ends of the market. You must liberalise the supply end and the demand end. You can’t exclude any legitimate transaction; you can’t exclude any legitimate agents who have been licensed by the government”. In his contribution, Cyril Amkpa, an Abuja-based economist, said the insistence of the CBN on the banned items is discriminatory and negates the idea of a liberalised foreign exchange. He said, “I think the CBN should once and for all remove the ban on access to forex placed on importers of the 43 items to ensure a level playing ground in the market. At this stage, nobody should be scared of what anybody wants to do with dollars. It should be a free market. “As we are gradually inching towards a free float foreign exchange market, there should be no restriction. The make should allow free entry and free exit. If this continues, I think the CBN is not sincere with this new government who wants to see a free flow market without government hindrances”. Another analyst, Dr. Rasheed Alao of the Department of Economics, Adeyemi University of Education, Ondo, said the beauty of a liberalised market is to allow participants the privilege of a free market. “When you restrict some people from taking part in a liberalised market, it is no longer a liberalised market, it is still a market for an arranged set of privileged people. We should also allow the Bureaux de Change operators to freely participate. If this did not happen, then, it is not a liberalised market and there is no hope for a free float which will lead to full unification of exchange rates.” Speaking on the liberation of the foreign exchange market, Dr. Muda Yusuf, The Director and Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) said the liberalisation will boost the remittance of exchange rate surplus to the federation account by the CBN. He lauded President Tinubu’s bold reform, stating that the liberalisation of the foreign exchange market would unlock the huge potential for investment, jobs, and capital flows that would positively impact investor confidence. The commerce and industry expert however clarified that forex rates unification is not a currency devaluation policy, but a pricing mechanism that reflects the demand and supply fundamentals in the foreign exchange market. The rate unification does not imply that rates will be the same in all segments of the market. The objective is to ensure that differentials are very minimal, possibly between 5-10 percent.” “It is a framework that allows for flexible rate adjustments as and when necessary. It is a model that is predictable, equitable, transparent, and sustainable. It is a policy regime that would reduce uncertainty and inspire the confidence of investors. It would minimize discretion and arbitrage in the foreign exchange allocation mechanism,” Yusuf explained. The benefits of a unified exchange rate regime according to Yusuf are that “It enhances liquidity, and reduces uncertainty in the foreign exchange market and therefore enhances the confidence of investors.” He adds: “It reduces opportunities for round-tripping and other sharp practices. It would increase disclosures concerning export proceeds and compliance with non-oil export declarations, especially the non-oil export documentation.” Significantly, in a recent projection, the global investment bank, Morgan Stanley, stated that the Naira is expected to appreciate at the parallel market rate in the aftermath of the liberalisation of the foreign exchange rate. The bank stated this in a publication titled Nigeria Sovereign Credit Strategy ‘No Longer Pumped’. The report suggests that as more flows are redirected through formal banking channels, the unit will experience appreciation in the near term, leading to a convergence between the I&E rate and the parallel market rate. It said that the official naira exchange rate to the US dollar would steady in the months ahead. The bank views the recent policy announcements as positive surprises, supporting a constructive view on Nigeria’s sovereign credit. However, the multinational financial services firm expects the local currency to jump to at least the rate on the black market following initial pressure from a monetary policy reset. In a statement at the weekend, the Resident Representative for Nigeria of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Ari Aisen, expressed the organization’s support for the unified exchange rate. He also assured of the IMF’s support in implementing foreign exchange reforms in the country. The statement read, “The Fund greatly welcomes the authorities’ decision to introduce a unified market-reflective exchange rate regime in line with our long-standing recommendations. We stand ready to support the new administration in its implementation of FX reforms.”