The Helpline Foundation for the Needy Abuja has finalized plans to roll out the drums to commemorate its 20th anniversary. It has scheduled a series of empowerment programs to begin on June 23rd at the Abuja International Conference Centre to coincide with International Widows Day. According to a pre-event statement signed by the Foundation’s founder, Dr. Jumai Ahmadu, and released to the media over the weekend, some of the activities will include the empowerment of 200 widows, particularly the recognition of 20 of them for overcoming all odds and breaking down barriers to lead a respectful life. Others include the publication of a book titled Rise from the Ashes: a Compelling Tale of Women Journeying Through Widowhood, as well as an Ajadu show, which is a documentary that will bring to bare the ordeal of widows. The book, also an expose on the harrowing experiences widows go through, is meant to erase wrong perceptions many hold about widows so they can be treated better. Climax of the 20th anniversary celebration is slated for December with a series of activities for vulnerable people and special recognition of all those who kept faith in the Foundation over the years. Helpline for the Needy Abuja was founded as a charity organisation in 2003 with the mission to advocate for and carry out upliftment of women and children. In its two decades of existence, the non-profit making organisation has been in the forefront, catering for vulnerable women, especially widows who are stereotyped and marginalized. POLL Thousands of widows have therefore benefited directly from the Foundation’s interventions through trainings, skill acquisition and financial empowerment. Its non-profit revolving loan scheme has impacted over 700 women across 30 different clusters in FCT, Kogi, Nassarawa, Kaduna, Niger and Enugu states. The statement reveals that the Foundation is currently working on empowering widows through aggressive partnerships to enable donors and partner organizations adopt some communities and fund the scheme. It added: “Every year, we bring together widows and needy, especially during Christmas and Sallah, where they sing, dance and are given foodstuffs and money. These gatherings help them socialise and provide relief for many of them”. It would be recalled that the International Widows Day is a day set aside by the United Nations Organization “To draw attention to the voices and experiences of widows and to galvanize the unique support that they need”. This year’s Day is celebtated with the theme: “Innovation and Technology for Gender Equality”.