AKURE – In a further move to drive awareness on child rights, protection and safeguard, the Westminster Founda­tion For Democracy (WFD), in collaboration with Ondo State Agency Against Gender-based Violence (OSAA-GBV), on Thursday, launched a website for en­lightenment on the VAPP Law. The website was designed to provide a platform for stu­dents and the public to learn about child protection and safeguarding in the state. The Country Director of WFD, Adebowale Olorun­mola, explained that the platform is meant to provide an avenue for the teachers, counsellors and students to get themselves acquainted with the law. Addressing school coun­sellors, teachers, civil soci­ety organisations and offi­cials from the state Ministry of Education, Mr. Olorun­mola urged the attendees to propagate the link through the Parent/Teacher Associ­ations. In his address, the state Commissioner for Education, Femi Agagu, who was rep­resented at the event by the Director, Science and Tech­nology, Mrs. Ademuyiwa Olu­funke, said, “the launching of e-learning platform for child protection and safeguarding marks a significant step in our collective efforts to en­sure the Safety and well-be­ing of our most precious re­source: our children. “In this digital age, where technology has become an integral part of our lives, it is imperative that we adopt and utilize its potential for the betterment of our soci­ety. You will agree with me that the world has witnessed unprecedented advance­ments in connectivity and access to information. “Therefore, through this innovative platform, par­ents, teachers, caregivers and professionals will have the required expertise in recognizing, preventing and responding to child abuse and neglect “The launch of this e-learning platform is a call to action, to engage, educate and empower ourselves and others to safeguard and pro­tect the at-risk and vulnera­ble children. Together, we can create a society that not only cherishes and nurtures its young ones but also actively protects them from harm.” POLL Dr. (Mrs.)Ayodele Oluto­la, a counsellor in one of the public schools in the state, noted that counsellors had been assigned to teach dif­ferent subjects in schools, thereby leaving no time for them to counsel students who need their help. 