Mr. Adewale Oyerinde, Director-General of the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), in this exclusive interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on fuel subsidy removal, insecurity, unemployment refineries and other issues that are central in the Nigerian economy. Excerpts: The recent statement made by president Bola Tinubu at his inauguration has created a sort of high tension in Nigeria. One of the aspects has to do with fuel subsidy removal, and Nigerians are not happy that the government came up with such policy with no plans to caution it. What is the NECA’s position on this crisis sir? Well, for us it is more of a reality that was dawn on Nigerians at this point in time. There is consensus that subsidy should be removed. What precedes or what come before or after the consensus is what the Federal Government has not really agree on. In the 2023 Appropriation Act made provisions for the funding of the subsidy regime on PMS till the end of June, 2023 The discussions were already on and understanding reached with government on the conditions precedent before the withdrawal of subsidy on PMS Nigerians are saying that it is unfair for the government to knowingly take action that will inflict pains on the populace and workers without putting adequate safeguards in place I think there is a subsisting judgment of the Court that voided the powers of the Nigerian state to deregulate and fix prices of petroleum products in the Country. One of the worries the stakeholders have complained about is if it till end of June then why do we start it now? POLL Why did Mr President made that comment knowing that there are so many unscrupulous Nigerians that will want to take advantage of that comment. And that is what we saw a day or two days after, as fuel queues everywhere, just a pronouncement people are already taking advantage and leveraging of that comment. The expectation is that before we will get to that point of coming to that definitive pronouncement because whether we like it or not that comment came from the president and people will naturally react to it The President should have step up stakeholders’ engagement with immediate and short-term measures that would mitigate the pains of the sharp increases in transportation and feeding costs on the citizens because for now, food and transportation account for over 50% of the household budget of the populace as as result of the subsidy removal Our concern is that we are just coming from a not so good place where the economy is standing on one leg so the masses are not in a very wealthy place, the disposable income of workers is been eroded by inflation. A lot of things are not working the way they should work between the context of the cost and standard of living and what we should have done is to take a strategic step towards that end of removing subsidy if we had embarked on massive stakeholder’s engagement to explain the reason why, it is not enough that we should remove subsidy. Are you of the school of thought that subsidy must go? Yes. I am of the school of thought that subsidy should go because it is not really helping anybody, but there should be a strategic way to engage the critical stakeholders that this may affect like the employers, the workers and the entire citizenry. It is unfortunate that analysts tend to focus fuel subsidy removal on just the implication for workers, but as an employer of labour, the increase in fuel price will affect my cost of doing business, will affect my cost of production, there is tendency for my organization capacity to produce will be low and peradventure I am able to produce, I also run the risk of unsold stock. This is because from the other side the workers or the masses disposable income will probably be less because goods and services as we see them in the last two days they will sky rocket in prices, and so if the masses/ workers disposable income is low, then their ability to buy the product that I have produced is also tending to be low, and so who will buy my stock? So, it becomes jeopardy for the employers, and so we feel the engagement that is going on now with labour I think the engagement should have been far reaching and even wider than that. In a nutshell, I said it is good we have to remove subsidy, but the process of removing subsidy is not what only the government can manage, all the stakeholders will have to sit down and manage that process and also answer dispassionately very tough questions why exactly are our refineries not working. We expected that Federal Government to explained to Nigerians if there is massive work on the refineries and that hopefully the refineries will come on board very soon and the information will help to assuage the mind of Nigerians and government will get more citizen consensus through that process. . High unemployment is a major socio-economic concern, especially for the youth. What specific measures would you want a new government to take towards addressing this? Before you deal with the issue of unemployment, there are certain fundamentals that you have to address. We need to ask: What are the main causes of unemployment? How can we generate employment? First, jobs don’t grow on trees. So, where will jobs come from? Jobs will come from existing businesses or new investments; those are the two critical areas where jobs come from. We should also ask, “Why are we having an increase in the unemployment rate? For me, either existing businesses are retrenching or there are no new investments. Don’t forget that schools are churning out thousands of graduates yearly that must be absorbed in the labour market. So, either the existing businesses are not employing or are retrenching, or there are no new investments to create new jobs. If this is happening, what are the causes? It could be that the business and regulatory environments are not favourable to businesses. It is also possible that monetary and fiscal policies are not supporting the growth of businesses. It could also be that certain inherent issues in our environment are scaring away foreign direct investments. Once these parameters are trending in the negative, we will continue to see a high rate of unemployment. So, what should we do? One, a deliberate attempt to make sure that fiscal and monetary policies speak to growth. You cannot squeeze the economy while trying to expand it at the same time without pro-growth policy Are you saying a pro-growth policy will do the magic? Yes, let us have a pro-growth policy that makes paying taxes and sustaining businesses easy. There is a government policy on ease of doing business, but how are the regulatory agencies helping out in that direction? It is one thing to register a business; it is another to have a conducive environment to grow that business. So, you have in the same system one policy enabling the start of a business and several other hurdles working against the sustainability of that business. So, what kind of regulatory environment are you expecting to see? As a business community, we interact with agencies from all strata of the economy because some play the role of regulation within the context of an employer-employee relationship; others regulate within the context of what you bring in, that is, the capacity of what you import, while others carry out regulatory roles within the capacity of the quantity and quantum of certain chemicals that you use in certain productions — like the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC).So, we relate to many of them at different levels. And for agencies whose main functions and roles are to regulate, the moment they cross the border of regulation to begin to focus on revenue generation, for whatsoever reason, then there’s a problem. The measure of their success as regulatory agencies shouldn’t be based on how much money they bring in, but on how many businesses they have helped succeed and grow within the framework of their regulatory functions. When the dynamics of their operation change from pecuniary interest to helping businesses survive and promote responsible enterprise, they have missed the point. Unfortunately, we have noticed over time, that some regulatory agencies tend to be more interested in sanctioning businesses in order to be seen to be working with the government. But, as an organised private sector body, we feel that their appraisal should be done based on how many businesses they have boosted. Organisations also face the same challenge when it comes to the business environment and the legislative powers of the National Assembly. In the 9th National Assembly, there have been lots of incursions hiding under Sections 18 and 19 of the constitution, which they claim give them the power to carry out oversight functions. But those sections give them the power to carry out oversight functions on agencies, parastatals, and organisations that the government appropriates funds for. The government does not appropriate funds for organised businesses; therefore, we don’t think they have the right to carry out direct oversight of private businesses. That’s the battle we’ve fought for four or five years now. We believe such actions are distractive to businesses; they don’t promote enterprise sustainability, but rather, they send the wrong signals to foreign direct investors. For investors that want to come to Nigeria, once they see the disruption that these activities are causing to business operations in this country, it becomes difficult for them to bring their funds to invest. Issues like the unwholesome activities of the Nigerian Customs are stifling rather than promoting businesses. We currently have a case in court against Nigerian Customs because of infractions that tend to create bottlenecks for businesses instead of encouraging enterprise competitiveness. As an employer, are you worried by current Nigeria’s high unemployment rate? Globally, it is agreed that out of every ten jobs created, the private sectors create at least eight or nine and when you are expected to do that and for certain reasons your capacity and ability to do that is compromised by factors beyond your control, then it is a source of worry for you. The level of our GDP growth is directly proportionate to the level of growth of organized businesses. While some complain of the high level of unemployment, you also have some agencies of government stifling ability cf businesses to generate employment. While the Ministry of Labour and Employment complaining of unemployment, you also find some agencies of the same government constituting nuisance to organized businesses through their activities. So, rather than promote businesses, they create bottlenecks for effective functioning of such businesses. Such inherent, systemic contradiction is also a serious cause of concern for us. Most times you have businesses closing down or relocation to other countries. What specifically are those contradictions? The contradictions stem from many areas. For instance, the style of regulation in Nigeria is concerning. Many a times you find regulators crossing their thresholds of regulation to income generation. Then, the dynamics of the organized businesses will change. The contradictions in the system are also a source of worry for us. It is quite unfortunate that sometimes there is also contradiction in government, even among operatives of the same government, we have regulators whose function is strictly to regulate; they are not meant to be income generating agencies. Rather than regulate and make the environment more friendly, they will rather create bottle necks like setting trap for businesses in such a way that you will be confined or constrained to pay fines, taxes or fees. Those are the inherent contradictions. The lack of alignment between the fiscal and monetary policies is also a process that is negating itself. Your fiscal policies will continue to neutralize your monetary policies. And it creates problems for businesses in the context of planning, also creates problem for the economy. An average investor who had faced regulatory challenges will tell potential investors about the tough environment in Nigeria. The investor will look for an environment where he can maximize profit, where the judiciary is working and working effectively so that if there are issues, he’s sure that the issues can be resolved by the court. World Bank ranked Nigeria as 131 out of the 190 countries of the world in ease of doing business. What should Nigeria do to improve ease of doing business? It’s not rocket science. What businesses need is input and that is within the context of raw materials. And because of natural conspiracy, some of those natural resources are not available here. You have to import them. Now, businesses need access to forex. We complain about the issue of forex but not realizing that we created the problem arising from forex. We are an oil producing country; we have our quarter that is given by OPEC. As part of those contradictions, we conspire with thieves to be stealing the oil. We created the problem of forex and subsidy. Those are the areas forex is being syphoned. It just takes some levels of political will. Provide input and make the policy environment friendly to drive business. Provide security and generally, let the salary of the citizens be able to take them home. When the disposable income of an individual is sufficient enough that is when he can think of patronizing businesses. If the businesses cannot sell, the products the businesses produce will probably begin to expire. If they are running to expiry, a fraudulent business man will neither change the expired date or leave those products and recirculate the same product to the economy. Unsuspecting Nigerians will eat the products and another health issue will arise. We create a system that makes us very unproductive. The long time solution to forex scarcity is when you produce raw materials in your environment. For certain reasons, you realise that government also creates a challenge and an environment that doesn’t make growing those raw materials locally attractive. The issue of standardization is also very germane because one of the issues we have, not only Nigeria, African as a whole, is not adding value to what we have to export. If we find it difficult to do the most basic of them, crude oil refining – we find it difficult to do, then how are we going to handle the more seemingly complex value adding for manufactured products? We find it difficult to maintain and sustain refining of crude. Then what’s the guarantee that we we’ll do that for products like cocoa and tomatoes, for instance? It is good for us to deal with the issue of backward integration, it is a direct way for us to reduce our propensity for forex. The more we seek forex the more damage we do to the value of the Naira. There have been calls for an upward review of the minimum wage. What is the position of NECA on this? The last national minimum wage was set in 2019 by the tripartite committee through the instrumentality of ILO Convention No. 26 (1928) (The Minimum Wage Fixing Machinery Convention). It is expected that negotiation for another national minimum wage would commence and be finalised by 2024. We urge the government not to wait till 2024 before the machinery to determine this is put in place. The committee should be immediately reconstituted and the process initiated. The earlier agreed N30,000 has been rendered insufficient because of rising inflation and a general increase in the cost of living. However, we must say that the private sector is currently paying far above the national minimum wage since we carry out negotiations and salary increases regularly through the instruments of annual collective bargaining exercises and performance appraisal increases.