ABUJA – Following a social media video that went viral featuring officers from the FCT Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS) the Direc­torate wishes to strongly condemn the motorist’s behavior toward an official who is on duty. The available information has it that the motorist perceived to be a service personnel threatened the unarmed officers of the Direc­torate with a pistol when he was cautioned for parking on a wrong location to pick passengers. The Director, FCT Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), Dr. Abdulateef Bello, in a state­ment made available to newsmen in Abuja on Friday, hinted that, the Directorate strongly condemned and will stop at nothing to prevent it from happening again. The statement reads: “The or­ganisation will make sure that jus­tice is done in this matter since it places a high priority on the safety and well-being of the officers and Men of the Directorate as well as that of every Nigerian. We want to equally assure the public that the Directorate has taken steps to launch a thorough investigation into the matter. We are working closely with relevant law enforce­ment agencies to identify the indi­vidual involved in order to bring him to justice. “The Directorate and indeed the Administration of FCT will take all necessary measures to protect its personnel and maintain a safe and secure environment for all residents. “The FCT Directorate of Road Traffic Services maintains a ze­ro-tolerance policy towards any form of violence or threats direct­ed at our officers. We strive to pro­mote a culture of respect, cooper­ation, and understanding between our personnel and the public. In­cidents like this underscore the importance of continued efforts to enhance awareness, education, and mutual respect on the roads. “We would like to extend our gratitude to members of the pub­lic who have shared information and expressed their concerns re­garding this incident. However, we still encourage anyone with addi­tional information or witnesses to feel free to come forward and assist in the investigation. Together, we can ensure that such behavior is not tolerated and that our roads remain safe for all users.