ABAKALIKI – A non-governmental organization, Salt Family Foundation, has cautioned the Association of Ebonyi indigenes socio-cultural in the Diaspora (AEISCID), and leader, Ambassador Pascal Oluchukwu, to desist from indulging in actions that are capable of creating unnecessary tension in Ebonyi State. The group handed down the caution in a statement signed by its Chief Supreme Leader (CSL), Chief Anasi Alvis and the Director of Media, Mr. Igiri Innocent, on Thursday, a copy of which was made available to our Correspondent. The group was reacting to a press statement credited to AEISCID and signed by Ambassador Pascal Oluchukwu, in which it called on the State Governor, Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru, to resign or take a firm control of the governance of the State. In the said publication, AEISCID alleged that the Governor, Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru, was still being controlled by the immediate past governor, David Umahi, citing the delay by the Governor to appoint his kitchen cabinets. The group, however, urged the good people of the State to ignore AEISCID and Mr Oluchukwu and continue to show love and support to the government Mr Nwifuru and to be patient as good things take time to manifest, and a new government, according to them, would require time to unveil its plans and policies for smooth administration of the State. The statement reads: “The attention of Salt Family Foundation has been drawn to a malicious and misleading publication on some national dailies credited to a faceless group so-called the Association of Ebonyi indigenes socio-cultural in the Diaspora (AEISCID), headed by one Mr. Pascal Oluchukwu. “It is pathetic to however say that a group that presents itself as a nonpolitical organization working for the interest of Ebonyians in the diaspora is dabbling into the shady politics of disorganizing a new government that has come to give a breeze of fresh air to the good people of Ebonyi. “The appointment of his special assistants on security is well received by Ebonyians and we know that the Governor is taking his time to assemble smart people as Commissioners which would come after the inauguration of the State House of Assembly. Ebonyians will not be distracted by a none registered group whose business is to fight every government in power. POLL “As a lawmaker, the Governor fully understands the principle of separation of power as enshrined in the Nigerian constitution and will at the fullness of time and in full constitution of the legislative arm of government, send names of his Commissioner nominees and other appointees to the House of Assembly for screening and possible confirmation. “Therefore, Mr. Pascal Oluchukwu and his association of rabble rousers and interlopers should desist from creating unnecessary tension in the State by dishing out malicious information against a government that is duly in charge of its affairs and is prepared to deliver good governance to the Ebonyi people. “We urge the good people of Ebonyi State to continue to show love and support for the new government and to be patient as good things take time to manifest, and a new government would require time to unveil its plans and policies for them.” Our Correspondent reports that Salt Family Foundation is a nongovernmental organization committed to ensuring the welfare of the good people of Ebonyi State and has affirmed its supports to the good intentions of the current State Governor, R.t Hon Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru to provide a better life for all Ebonyians.E