ABUJA  – The Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commis­sion (NUC), Prof. Abubakar Ra­sheed, has announced his resig­nation from the commission. This is coming after the NUC has approved the establishment of Kogi State University, Kabba, as the 62nd state university as well as the 265th university in the country. The Executive Secretary made this known in Abuja on Monday, when the state governor, Yahaya Bello, paid him a visit. Rasheed said that the commis­sion had on June 19, received a let­ter on the formal presentation of gazetted documents establishing the university. “I write on behalf of the NUC to inform His Excellency that with effect from June 26, 2023, Kogi State University, Kabba, has been established as the 62nd state university as well as the 265th uni­versity in the country. “NUC pledges its support to the university as we urge you to take full advantage of the insti­tution. “By this, the Tertiary Educa­tion Trust Fund (TETFund), Na­tional Youth Service Corp (NYSC) and the Joint Admissions and Ma­triculation Board (JAMB) are be­ing notified of the establishment of the university,” he said. Rasheed also informed news­men that he will continue lectur­ing at the Bayero University Kano where he was appointed from. POLL He said he had spent seven years as the executive secretary of the commission and needed to return to classroom. Bello, while responding, said that the university would be cit­ed in the Kogi West Senatorial District for fairness, equity and justice. He said that the university was established to satisfy the age-long desire of the Okun people of the state. He said the state had set out modalities to ensure the univer­sity starts on a good note, as re­sources had been set aside for its take-off. “In Kogi State, education is our heritage and education is what we are proud of, both within the state, across the country and globally. “When I came on board, we have only one university. We ran to the commission and we estab­lished the Confluence University of Science and Technology, Osara. “But something is necessary because we have a senatorial dis­trict in Kogi West and because we want every part of the state to be carried along. “We deemed it necessary to sit­uate the university in Okun land for the sake of our brothers there. “With over 600 professors in Okun land, we decided to estab­lish the university immediately,” he said. The governor said that the establishment of the university was not for politics as was being insinuated in some quarters but to address the educational desire of the people.