Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, (HURIWA), on Tuesday, tasked the newly appointed service chiefs, National Security Adviser and Inspector General of Police to hit the ground running immediately and subdue terrorists, bandits and vicious killer herdsmen mauling Nigerians to death in unimaginable numbers daily. HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, said the sacking of the service chiefs transferred by the Muhammdu Buhari administration is a welcome development, as they are total failures and old wines cannot be made to live in the new skin. The group said now that President Bola Tinubu has heeded the persistent demands by HURIWA and other well-meaning organisations and people at the forefront of calls for the reorganisation of the security apparatus, the newly appointed military chiefs must keep their eyes on the ball and bring in the much-desired change of peace and stability absolutely absent in the country at the moment which has been turned into a killing field by marauders and external and internal aggressors who work in collaboration. HURIWA’s Onwubiko said, “The sacking of the poorly performed service chiefs and their replacement is a welcome development that we, at HURIWA, has been trumpeting for years but the Muhammadu Buhari administration refused to heed the voice of reason. And so, during Buhari’s eight years administration, terrorists, bandits and killer herdsmen slaughtered over 55,000 innocent Nigerians whilst Buhari watched on. “Now that Buhari’s successor, President Bola Tinubu has dismissed the indolent service chiefs and unproductive NSA and IGP, the newly appointed ones must start work immediately and bring terrorism, banditry and herdsmen aggression under foot, make the country secure and peaceful for all Nigerians. “We note that the appointments to a great extent are in compliance with Federal Character Principles recognised by the Nigerian Constitution. However, the appointees must be fair and just and protect all Nigerians, regardless of tribe and tongue as well as regardless of religious biases. They should set a new record that there won’t be terrorist attacks any longer in Nigeria.” Three weeks after his inauguration, President Tinubu carried out a major shake-up of the security architecture in the country and fired all the service chiefs and appointed new ones. Those affected are Alkali Usman who was removed as the Inspector-General of Police (IGP); Lucky Irabor, sacked as the Chief of Defence Staff; Faruk Yahaya, retired as the Chief of Army Staff; Awwal Gambo, removed as the Chief of Naval Staff; and Isiaka Amao, retired as Chief of Air Staff.