ABUJA – A former Chief of Staff to the Imo State government, Uche Nwosu, has described the transmission of power by former President Muhammadu Buhari, to the current administration as worth celebrating. The former Chief of Staff who spoke on sundry national issues, also called for political power to be devolved further to local councils in order to bring democracy closer to the people. The ex-chief of staff equally called on the President, Bola Tinubu, to look beyond the “politicians in Abuja, and look directly to the villages and rural areas. That’s where the new face of democracy would come from.” Nwosu who dismissed calls for scrapping of Nigeria’s current presidential system for a parliamentary order said, “we should continue with the presidential system of government because it has united us. “During the parliamentary system of the government, everything was done almost by region. Whether you come from the north, east or west. But the issue of the presidential system of government has a way of integrating everybody. “You don’t talk about where you come from. What concerns everybody is the interest of the nation” He added that it is the responsibility of the government of the day to cut the cost of government, and not the system of government. On the President’s Democracy Day speech, the former Chief Administrator in the Rochas Okorocha government in Imo State commended the president for recognizing the rights of his opponents to challenge his victory in courts, adding that “he was patriotic.” POLL This is as he debunked claims that the speech was shallow, emphasizing on the President’s focus on security, electricity, education, roads, and hospitals, among others On the leadership tussle in the 10th National Assembly, he dismissed allegations that the executive was interfering with the selection of principal officers in the legislature, adding that it is obtainable in advanced democracies, as “it is about the issue of making the party look stronger.” He urged the 10th Assembly to be driven by national interest, and sectional interest, pointing out that they must “show Nigerians that they would uphold the trust bestowed on them.” While answering questions on the recent age increase for judges, the Founder and President of the Ogwunba Leadership Centre For Africa, hailed the decision, insisting rather that the government should focus more attention on the welfare of the Judiciary. He also called on Nigerians to support the government on the issue surrounding the recent suspension, and arrest of the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele. This he said as he pointed out that the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) should be allowed to interface in interrogating the embattled Apex bank Head. Accordingly, he expressed optimism in the ability of the President to unite the country.