The President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Joe Ajaero, has stressed the need for policies that would bridge the economic inequality gap to address the increasing rate of child labour across the globe. Ajaero, in Charts with Sunday Independent, stated that the call to action comes as a response to the alarming prevalence of child labour in many parts of the world, particularly in developing countries where poverty and inequality are rampant. He said the NLC recognises that economic inequality is a major contributing factor to the perpetuation of child labour, and therefore, “When families are struggling to make ends meet, children are often forced to work in order to supplement their household income. “This not only deprives children of their childhood and education, but also perpetuates the cycle of poverty and inequality”. Ajaero, while responding to the address given by the Director General of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), Mr. Gilbert Houngbo, on Child Labour Day, June 12, said that the issue of Child labour was a global phenomenon not peculiar to Nigeria alone. According to him, it is the degree and the dimension that vary from country to country, from state to state and from time to time. “So, I think whether it is this issue of child labour, we have made our own intervention trying to link it up or situate it with poverty, especially poverty of the parents. “We were clear on that. You know, the more the parents are poor, the more they will turn the children to breadwinners in families. POLL “I equally try to say that in a country where you have about 133 million people who are multi dimensionally poor, it will be difficult for you to give them pass mark on the issue of child labour,” he said. Ajaero said that some factors mitigating the issue of child labour in Nigeria include parents not working and some State governments not paying minimum wage. “Children will go out to the street, some to hawk, some to work especially in the construction industries where you see child labour very prevalent. “In such situation, even if you come up with legislation to outlaw child labour, and you are not doing anything to bridge the income inequality or the poverty level in the country, it will not have any effect”, he said. Ajaero emphasised that each country must come up with its own unique regulations with suitable remuneration and timing of conversion for the apprentice, which the ILO also considered during this year’s conference. Using Southeast Nigeria as an example, the NLC President stated that apprenticeship is as old as life in that region, and that it is an unwritten agreement that has served the people well.