ABEOKUTA – Ladi Adebutu the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Ogun State, has accused the police of covering up an investigation into allegations of vote buying and electoral violence against Governor Dapo Abiodun and the All Progressives Congress. Adebutu alleged that his party had six weeks ago petitioned the Inspector General of Police, demanding the investigation of Abiodun and the APC over allegations of vote buying to the tune of N3b, electoral violence and voters’ intimidation during the March election. Adebutu who spoke through the Media Director of his campaign organisation, Afolabi Orekoya in Abeokuta, on Wednesday accused the police of subverting justice by intimidating and harassing him. Adebutu said, “We have petitioned the Nigerian Police for the past six weeks, but we are surprise why the police has not opened up an investigation into our petition against Abiodun and the APC on the votes bought by them. “It is everywhere in the media that Governor Dapo Abiodun induced voters with tax payers’ money. “This is why they are covering up all the shenanigans and they have not allowed the police to do their job. “We are calling on the IGP to please in the interest of the good people of Ogun State allow this petition to see the light of the day, they should not cover it up, they should not suppress it. “We know all the moves the Governor have been making to ensure that all these investigations are not being carried out. POLL “We are appealing to the IGP to speedily allow thorough investigation into how Dapo Abiodun used about N3bn of tax payers’ money to buy votes in Ogun State with the help of One Card limited”. Adebutu, while reacting to a suit allegedly filed against him by the office of the Attorney General of the Federation at the Abeokuta High Court, described same as an abuse of court process. Adebutu explained that he was neither invited by the police nor served of any court document regarding the suit, saying the suit was a ploy by Abiodun and the APC to distract the Tribunal from doing its job. He debunked the report that he travelled out of the country to evade police arrest, saying he travelled on 25th April for usual medical route check-up after the election. “We are just seeing it also in the media and I will just want to make some points clear, Hon. Oladipupo Adebutu has not been served with any court document as regards any charges expect for the media trial that we are seeing all around to mislead the public and the Tribunal. “They (APC and Abiodun) are only trying to distract people and distract the judiciary from giving proper attention to the merit of the petition before them. “They should allow the Tribunal to do their job, this is an abuse of court process, they should allow the Tribunal do their job and at the end of the day we will know who actually perpetrated vote buying or not.”