Manchester United are not interested in a permanent deal to keep hold of Wout Weghorst, but Everton are considering a bid for the Burnley striker. The 30-year-old is due to return to Burnley after a surprise loan move to Old Trafford in January which saw him score two goals in 31 appearances, failing to find the back of the net in 17 Premier League outings. While Erik ten Hag appeared to value his contribution, Weghorst’s struggles in front of goal meant it was extremely unlikely the club would want to keep him on beyond this season. Everton, though, have problems up front and talkSPORT report that they are interested in snapping up the Dutchman if he is available. Toffees boss Sean Dyche was in charge of Burnley when they signed Weghorst in January last year so would know what to expect from the Netherlands international. With the persistent injury problems for Dominic Calvert-Lewin, Everton have struggled for goals and will definitely want reinforcements up front this summer. Weghorst will return to Turf Moor, with Burnley having gained promotion back to the Premier League under Vincent Kompany, so there remains the possibility that he could be back playing for the Clarets in the top flight again. Kompany said last week before Manchester City beat United in the FA Cup final: ‘He’s a player from Burnley football club who has played in the top four of the Premier League for Manchester United and also for Holland. POLL ‘The most important thing for me – and it’s a tough one for me to say obviously because of the Cup Final – is for him personally to finish the season on a high. But still, I want him to do well and we will have the conversation.’ In his brief spell with Burnley in 2022 Weghorst scored twice in 20 games before spending the first half of last season on loan at Besiktas, where he netted nine times in 18 appearances. He remains under contract with Burnley until 2025, so if they were to let him go this summer they would want a fee, although it would not be a big one as they only paid around £12m for him last year. (SOURCE: Metro UK)