AHMED MUSA A lot has been said about the unprecedented manner in which the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas and his Deputy, Rt. Hon. Benjamin Okezie Kalu emerged as presiding officers of the House on Tuesday June 13, 2023. It could be recalled that while Hon. Abbas polled a landslide victory with 353 votes to defeat his two opponents whose combined efforts could only muster six votes, his Deputy, Hon. Kalu had a free ride to the seat by emerging unopposed. Now Kalu’s emergence might seem like an easy catch to some armchair analyst or critic, but the reality staring everyone in the face on June 13th was that having done extensive campaign and consulted widely alongside the Speaker, members believed that any contrary nominations to challenge the Abia-born lawyer cum legislator would equally be trounced as witnessed in the election of the Speaker. The duo were the only ones who despite having the party’s endorsement and the support of the presidency refused to slow down in their campaign and consultation across party lines, using the bipartisan coalition of the Joint Task – 10th Assembly, as the vehicle of choice to mobilise support from far and near, not minding the backing of the establishment. Given their individual political backgrounds and legislative pedigrees, the current Speaker and his Deputy would be the last set of people to be cowed into submitting the institutional independence of the legislature, an institution they know is the only platform upon which the voices/ arguments of the common man are articulated and heard. Hon. Abbas, a crown prince of the Zazzau Emirates didn’t just come to reckoning by reason of his zone, North-West, but stands out as the most accomplished legislator of the 9th Assembly with 74 Bills sponsored and passed, out of which 21 became laws of the Federation. That was besides his intimidating academic credentials, as well as continental and global parliamentary exploits as alluded to by the immediate past Speaker and current Chief of Staff to President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila on May 17, 2023. Gbajabiamila who was before then hounded and disparaged in the media by aggrieved members of the then group of seven (G7) told the gathering of members-elect and journalists that his decision to support the candidacy of Tajudeen Abbas for the Speakership position was based on his (Abbas’) proven capacity to build on legislative gains recorded by his (Gbajabiamila’s) administration. This line was clearly restated by Speaker Abbas in paragraph 8 of his inaugural speech on June 23th. POLL Gbajabiamila told the gathering of then members-elect that Abbas was a man with tremendous capacity to lead. He said: “So, I decided to support a person that’s least close to me of everybody that is running because I saw in him a man with tremendous capacity.” “My point is, he quietly makes his impact, very quietly. When I found out that he had drafted and sponsored 74 bills, I said what kind of human being is this? I mean who does that? To draft and sponsor one bill can take a year, can take two years of thorough research. But to do 74, when you are not a bill factory. Not only did you sponsor 74 bills, you actually had 21 of them signed into law. “I nominated him for the membership of the African Parliamentary Union in 2019. But he got there and made a name for himself. He’s currently the Treasurer and he got that all by himself. But whenever I attend the conference of the Union in Rwanda, Uganda or Cairo or wherever, rather than the legislators from other countries coming around me, I noticed that I was abandoned. And they were all gravitating and were around, at each time, each conference, they gravitated towards Tajudeen Abbas. “Even the Speakers, and I enquired from the Speaker of Kenya one time and he asked me how long has Tajudeen been in Parliament? I told him. He said because each time his members come home, they keep talking about him. He ran on his own and became the Treasurer of the African Parliament,” outgoing Speaker said. He informed the new members of the demanding nature of lawmaking saying: “Perhaps in another year, many of you who are new will find out the rigours, the process, the legwork, the reaching across the aisle that you have to do to even pass one bill, let alone having 21 as laws of the federation.” “So Tajudeen is somebody I felt we could be proud of as members of the House of Representatives. That’s not to say that others don’t have capacity. But there’s capacity, and there’s capacity.” He also pointed out his preference for Benjamin Kalu as Deputy Speaker, saying that the outgoing spokesman of the 9th House has been nothing but excellent in the manner in which he defended the image of the House, a feat he said was an indication of his capacity to preside. “And in the South-East, I found Ben Kalu. Nobody else. And no one who has been a close observer of the proceedings of the last four years can say in all honesty and in good conscience that Ben Kalu does not have the capacity to be the next Deputy Speaker of the House. “Ben Kalu has defended the image of the 9th House in the most impressive manner. You can accuse him of anything but not lack of capacity,” Gbajabiamila stressed. Kalu, just like Abbas, stood out as the best performing first time legislator of the 9th Assembly with 48 Bills to his name. He also has a long political background as a grass roots politician who became a local government chairman in his 20s, a commissioner in his 30s and running a private legal practice representing multinational corporations of repute. The two are well knowledgeable enough to know that constructive dialogue and inclusive engagement with the executive branch will benefit democracy and promote national development more than any needless supremacy battle anchored on legislative ego and pomposity. This brings to mind the executive counsel of Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State on June 5, 2023 when he conveyed the backing of the progressive governors’ forum which he chairs to the Abbas/Kalu campaign team which paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja. When asked to comment on the allegation that the ruling All progressives Congress (APC) was imposing candidates on the rest of the House, he said: “There’s no such thing as imposition, it’s for the benefits of all of us, and the synergy will help us to achieve more for our people back home. If you say that it means you’re willing and ready to disagree with the majority including the government. We know you have the power of appropriation, but when you appropriate, what about cash-backing? “You certainly don’t want to go home after four years and tell your people you couldn’t achieve anything because you were not co-operating with the executive for their benefit, but when you work in harmony, you will reap the benefits of the cooperation and your people back home will be the better for it,” the Governor admonished. And the overwhelming confidence reposed in the Speaker and his Deputy by the lawmakers and by extension Nigerians are enough guiding principles to keep them on their toes by protecting the sanctity of the constitution as espoused by the Speaker in paragraph 6 of his inaugural address, saying: “I do not take this mandate bestowed on me as the Nigerian Speaker for granted… I shall operate a House that you all will be proud of. I shall be guided by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the House Rules…” If supporting competency and the ability to drive policies that can produce better outcomes for Nigerians who are their constituents in the new administration would amount to handing over the independence of the legislature to the executive. The 353 lawmakers who voted on June 13th would have seen beyond the need for any ego trips and fruitless confrontation, and couldn’t have been wrong with their choices of Abbas and Kalu as presiding officers.