ASABA  – Delta State Governor, Sheriff Oborevwori, on Monday stated that he never envisaged his swift political growth to the helm of affairs of the state. Speaking during his 60th birthday at the Living Faith Church, Asaba, Oborevwori stat­ed that he had no prior intention to go deep into politics. He acknowledged the support of the immediate past governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa and the for­mer Governor, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, saying that their show of love towards him has been priceless. He ascribed glory to God for his successful inauguration on May 29, 2023, even as he promised not to let Deltans down. According to Oborevwori: “I am grateful to God for His faith­fulness and sustaining grace, which has brought me here. My celebration is in two folds: to give God the glory for my successful inauguration as the governor of Delta State and to thank Him for life. “When I joined, I did not have the ambition to go so far in gov­ernment. By the opportunity giv­en to me by God, I found myself serving as Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly and now, the governor of Delta State. “I am who I am today by the grace of God. I also appreciate God for adding a year to me. In my years of unbelief and disobe­dience, He was guiding and pro­tecting me. I am healthy, strong and of a sound mind and it is the Lord’s doing, which is marvelous in my eyes”. He lauded traditional and re­ligious leaders for their prayers for the state, which he said, have ensured peaceful transition of administration. POLL He then appreciated the founder of Living Faith Church, Bishop David Oyedepo, for being a source of inspiration to leaders across Nigeria. Earlier, Bishop Oyedepo congratulated Governor Obor­evwori on his 60th birth anni­versary. Oyedepo, in a personal letter congratulating Oborevwori on his Diamond Jubilee Anniver­sary, prayed for the governor to be successful and impactful as he administers Delta State as governor. The cleric, who is the spiri­tual father of Governor Obor­evwori, noted that his triumph against all political battles were testimonies of God’s Hands upon his life and family. Oyedepo, in the congratula­tory letter, said: “My wife and I heartily congratulate you and your family on your 60th birth­day celebration and wish you many happy returns. “Obviously, the continuous open-doors granted to you in all areas of life is a testimony of the good Hand of God upon your life and may you jealously guard your walk with God all through your days. “As we all know, not everyone is ageing; while some are grow­ing into new realms of impact, others are simply ageing away by the day. “My prayer is that as your days are, so shall your strength be and may your light continue to shine more and more until the end of time. “Therefore, as you celebrate your Diamond Jubilee today, may everything about your life turn diamond, ranging from your spiritual life, health, and family, and all that pertain to you. “May your leadership era in Delta State be a most impactful and transforming one, in the Name of Jesus Christ,” Bishop Oyedepo prayed.