President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been called upon to regard strict adherence to the provi­sion of the law as the primary consideration in the appoint­ment of the next Inspector General of Police. A civil society organisa­tion, the Nigerian Civil Soci­ety Contact Group (CSCG), an amalgam of many non-gov­ernmental and civil society organisations, with a primary focus on good governance and human rights, made the sub­mission at a media briefing on Thursday. Tinubu is expected to an­nounce a replacement for the current IGP, Usman Alkali Baba, who should have exited office in March after reaching the compulsory retirement age of 60 years, but was retained by immediate past President Mu­hammadu Buhari. In the statement titled, The Next Inspector-General of Police Must Be Appointed Ac­cording to Law and in The Best Interest of Nigeria’s Security, Mr. Taiwo Akindolu, Direc­tor-General of CSCG, noted that while former President Buhari blatantly disregarded the provision of the law in the appointments of the three IGPs that served in his eight years in government, especially the current occupier of the office, President Tinubu must not emulate those unconstitutional steps that could re-ignite con­troversies and a judicial logjam that surfaced in the past admin­istration. Akindolu said the Police Act 2020 signed into law by former President Buhari clearly stipu­lates the requirements for the appointment of an Inspector General of Police, warning that any action outside of the provision of the law could breed controversy which the new government can ill afford. He reckoned that Section 7 Paragraph 6 of the Police Act 2020 says that the person to be appointed to the office of the Inspector-General of Police shall hold office for four years while Paragraph 2 of the same section of the law also states that such appointee shall be a senior police officer not be­low the rank of an Assistant Inspector-General of Police with the requisite academic qualifications of not less than a first degree or its equivalent in addition to professional and management experience. “We strongly advise Pres­ident Tinubu to uphold the rule of law in the appointment of a new IGP. The former Pres­ident was ignobly reputed for disobeying the law which he blatantly demonstrated in the appointment of Usman Baba barely one year after he signed the new Police Act into law. “As of the date of his ap­pointment, Usman Baba was 58 years old and stepped into an office with four-year tenure when he had just two years left in the service. POLL “His appointment has since been nullified by a High Court in Anambra State, and we could have avoided the national embarrassment if Buhari had done the right thing by obeying the law.