President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been called upon to focus his policies on the welfare of the citizenry to ameliorate the current economic hardship. Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Dorian Home, an orphanage based in Akure, Ondo State, Dr. Tolulola Bayode made the call yesterday while inaugurating the skill acquisition centre she built within the orphanage. She tasked the government at all levels to make the welfare of the citizens, particularly the underprivileged, to cushion the effects of the fuel subsidy removal. Empowering some widows, youths and vulnerable children with cash and some working tools, Bayode said if the underprivileged are given attention, they would be able to start their own businesses. She explained that there would be a drastic reduction in the crime rate in society. In commemoration of her birthday anniversary, the philanthropist distributed to the underprivileged consumables, 100 brand new motorbikes, 50 sewing machines, 50 wheelchairs, 50 hair dryers, and 50 grinding machines, among others. Fielding questions from newsmen, Bayode said: “This is actually what I’ve been looking forward to do, I want to be celebrating my birthday with the underprivileged so that they can feel among. I want them to know that they can also be felt in the society. “It is good to be with them because at the end of the day, they are what matters in society. If you have everything in this world and you keep celebrating with your rich friends, what gain have you,? don’t see any gain in it. I feel happy and I’m fulfilled. POLL “What motivated me into doing this is because, when you look at life, you will see that life itself is vanity,. If you have everything in this world, you are not taking it anywhere. I understand the real meaning of vanity upon vanity and I decided that this is what I will live my life for, which is humanity,I don’t want to live for anything else, I want to be for God and for humanity. “I’m not doing this for anybody to give me accolades, I’m only doing this to give my creator all the glory because, at the end of the day, we are here to celebrate God in me, I’m a child of grace. Looking at this environment, I build it through God’s grace and I’m happy about it.” The former Minister of State for Niger Delta, Chief Tayo Alasoadura, who craved the occasion, described Bayode as a rare gem. He stated that Tolulola Bayode was passionate about the vulnerable people and goes extra mile to assist them ameliorate their sufferings. Nollywood actress, Foluke Daramola, who was present at the event said: “i knew the celebrant through her philanthropic work. My foundation takes care of the elderly ones and she has helped my foundation on this same course.” The event was graced by dignitaries from all walks of life among who are member of the House of Representatives representing Idanre, Federal Constituency, Festus Akingbaso, former state Commissioner for Transport, Omoniyi Omodara and a host of thers.