The overwhelming presence of oil did act, indirectly, to deform the economy and national life. Privileged sectors of the population began to acquire the mining mentality of newly rich spendthrifts. The uninterrupted flow of dollars encouraged imports and expanded commerce to such a degree that the nation became primarily a consumer of foreign products. We began to appear too much like that chaotic California—the para­dise of adventurers and thieves—during the days of the gold rush.” Does the above quote by Rómulo Betan­court, former President of Venezuela 1945-1948, 1959-1964 not appear familiar as it is relevant to the present times in Nigeria? It is amazing that the comment made by for­mer President Betancourt on the state of affairs in his country, Venezuela, nearly sixty (60) years ago about the South American neighbor of the United States of America, USA, resonates with the current situation in our country as it fits easily with the current lamentations about the tragedy of oil curse in Nigeria which like Ven­ezuelan is very rich in oil resources, but very poor as a result of the recklessness of her past leaders, reflected by the mismanagement of the God given natural resource— oil in that country. But after being under the yoke of oil curse since oil was first discovered in Oloibiri in pres­ent day Bayelsa State in 1956, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu via his pronouncement in his inaugural speech on May 29, “petrol subsidy is gone”, appears to have come to the rescue of the long suffering Nigerian masses who instead of basking in the glory of oil wealth like Saudi Ara­bia, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, UAE, and the Scandinavian countries such as Sweden, Norway, Denmark etc., one hundred and thirty-three mil­lion of the over two hundred million population have been enduring multi-dimensional poverty as recently confirmed by a study commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Finance. Before going further to acquaint readers with the atrocities committed against the people of Nigeria by the leaders who got the policy of petrol subsidy entrenched in our country, it is of utmost criticality that the hidden but direct benefits of petrol subsidy removal policy that has been given a bite by the new administration are highlighted. That would enable readers appreciate the pet­rol subsidy removal decision as a harbinger of good things to come in Nigeria, if the current courage in leadership being exhibited by the incumbent President Tinubu’s administration is sustained. To start with, has anyone noticed that the volume of diesel, kerosene and aviation fuel etc consumed in Nigeria has not risen since the sale and distribution has been privatized and driven by the private sector? The reality is that since subsidy on the aforementioned petroleum products has been removed in the past five (5) years, the current cost in Nigeria is comparable to the price in neighboring countries. As such, there has not been any incentive to smuggle those products across our borders, hence the volume of import has remained constant and unambiguous. POLL But that is not the case with the quantity of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, or petrol which was still being subsidized and as such the volume has allegedly been growing exponentially from 33 million in 2015 to 66 million liters in 2023 with billions of dollars sunk into it. And the petrol subsidy misadventure that de­generated into an economic nightmare is a per­fidy which some pundits aver must have gulped a minimum of $15 billion in the past decade and at least ten trillion naira in the past 2 years alone, until Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu took charge as president on May 29. That is simply because the price of petrol in Nigeria is said to be about four (4) times the cost in our neighboring countries owing to its being subsidized in our country, so it is susceptible to smuggling across our borders. In other words, it is the cheap cost of petrol in our country that had been creating the incentive for the product to be smuggled across our borders into Cameroon,n Niger Republic, Benin Repub­lic, Chad etc, until the price got equalized as an aftermath of the famous May 29 Inauguration Day presidential statement, “petrol subsidy has ended”. Apparently, while Nigeria has been subsidiz­ing PMS for the whole of West Africa at a very huge cost to our country, nobody is smuggling diesel, kerosene or aviation fuel that are not sub­sidized hence their prices are at par with what obtains in neighboring countries. The Nigerian situation before President Tinu­bu’s intervention via ending petrol subsidy on May 29, echoes Venezuelan experience. Owing to the fact that the South American country is a practicing socialist country, she was offering cheap petrol to neighboring countries in South America and Caribbean with similar socialist orientation. That uneconomic approach to managing its natural resource endowment is the origin of its stagnation, if not the rot that it got stuck in for a long time. Due to the parlous state of the economy of that country despite being endowed with huge depos­its of hydrocarbon it was branded as a country suffering from oil curse. That is a similar road that Nigeria has been traveling since as far back as 1977 until President Tinubu put an end to it as soon as he mounted the throne of the leadership of our country. Although, it is just beginning to wean itself of that image by associating more with its neighbor, the United States of America, USA, which has turned to her for help by offering to optimally assist in monetizing its oil resources in the bid to reduce the price of petrol which was rising and creating challenges for incumbent Joe Biden’s administration politically. Owing to the high cost of petrol which stems from petrol subsidy removal, there are currently less vehicles on the roads. But the absence of vehicles on the roads with­out being replaced by mass transit platforms such as train and water transportation platforms, cannot be a good thing because it implies that the mobility of the masses has been impaired by the high cost of petrol. No matter the prism from which the situa­tion is viewed, it is a sign that the withdrawal of subsidy on petrol has forced some hardships on the masses, which is actually not the intention of government. As option for preventing folks from developing a feeling of denial by the new administration that has enforced petrol subsidy removal which some Nigerians deem as their entitlement, President Tinubu can explore re-enacting a scheme that was practiced in the past in major cities aimed at decongesting the roads of the huge traffic that was clogging them in the hey days of oil boom when there was too much petrol dollar flowing into Nigeria reminiscent of the Dutch disease and Venezuelan curse. The system that I am nostalgically recalling is the period that car polling, mass bussing as well as alternating the days that odd and even numbers registered vehicles can ply the roads. The motive then was to decongest the roads as the oil boom had translated into too many Nigerians being able to purchase cars that were clogging the roads, hence the authorities had to creatively find ways around the congestion. While not advocating the resort to those policies in the present time, one is extolling the remarkable fact that when the nation was challenged, innovative solutions were sort and applied. It is envisaged that ideas merchants are work­ing assiduously in the laboratories to come up with viable solutions to the hardships that petrol subsidy removal has created. Back in the days, the aforementioned buses conveyed workers from various strategic and far flung locations, for instance FESTAC and Sat­ellite towns which were the popular dwelling places of most civil servants to Tafawa Balewa Square smack in the middle of Lagos metropo­lis from where most workers proceeded to their respective places of work. One time Lagos State governor, Alh. Lateef Jakande, of blessed memory even took innova­tiveness a few notches higher by introducing water transportation when the state acquired and deployed ferries and Hoover crafts after constructing jetties in strategic locations where owing to the state being surrendered by water, transportation by water is most ideal. As more of us that are old enough to remem­ber may recall, Jakande was in the process of setting up a monorail in Lagos before the demo­cratic government of that time was terminated via a military coup d’état. Lagos State government, spanning three dem­ocratically elected governors, has been trying to resuscitate the Pa Jakande monorail initiative, with very minuscule success. Perhaps with President Tinubu unshackling Nigerian business environment which has had the toga of welfarist state, foreign investors may develop interest in staking their funds and exper­tise in mass transit infrastructure in Nigeria. If for nothing else, investing in mass transportation in Nigeria is viable because it is viable and the purchasing power exits. And the funds that would not be sunk into petrol subsidy can be applied in that direction as government enters into public private part­nerships, PPP, with willing investors. The Dangote refinery and petrochemicals company is a proof-of-concept of PPP of mega dimension. In an opinion piece that I wrote celebrating the commissioning of Dangote refinery last month, I suggested that the next major service required in our country that Dangote should set his eyes on is mass transit infrastructure such as the railway. I also recommended that fellow billionaires like Chief Mike Adenuga of Conoil Plc, GLO; Mr. Femi Otedola, former owner of Forte Oil and now founder of Geregu Power; Alh. Abdulsamad Rabiu of BUA Group as well as Tony Elumelu of Heirs Holdings, who are entrepreneurs that have been actively involved in investing in infrastruc­ture in Nigeria, should set their eyes on investing in the gas sector which is an asset that is wasting as it is by law being flared by the oil companies since it is a byproduct in crude oil production. With the investment climate in Nigeria be­coming more liberalized through the two deci­sions made within a space of two weeks of ascen­sion to the number one position in Aso Rock Villa by President Tinubu (removal of oil subsidy and naira subsidy and freeing up the electricity pro­duction sector for private sector participation) it would not be too difficult to secure the interest of foreign investors to partner with Nigerian inves­tors in harnessing our wasting natural gas asset. Especially now that Russian supply is tight and an alternative is badly needed in Europe. Returning to how succor can be rendered to the masses who are bearing the hardships arising from petrol subsidy removal, one is not unaware that it is not all states that are financially viable to lay out the robust transport and logistics infra­structure introduced in Lagos State as referenced above. That is because most states would ill afford or would struggle to provide similar robust trans­port bulwark required. In any case, the number of people in the finan­cially challenged states that need mass transit are actually nothing compared to Lagos State’s popu­lation estimated to be 15 million while the other states are only between 3 and 7 million people. So, as a fall back, the not so buoyant states can work towards providing such platforms with the support of the Federal Government which would be drawing from the pool of funds that would have been sunk into petrol subsidy scheme.