JOS – A former Comptroller of Customs Service and All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Plateau State, David Victor Dimka, has expressed appreciation to President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the appointment of Senator George Akume as Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). Dimka also commended President Tinubu for appointing Speaker House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila as Chief of Staff and as well former EFCC Boss Nuhu Ribadu as NSA. Dimka in an interview with Daily Independent on Tuesday in Jos on the appointment of these key principal officers to the President and federal Government, said with these appointments, President Tinubu’s administration has hit the ground running. Dimka hinted that the appointment of George Akume as SGF from Benue state in the North-Central geopolitical zone should be commended and appreciated by his kinsmen, the people of Benue state and the people of Benue and Nigeria as a whole. He commended President Tinubu for putting the right peg in the right hole. Dimka added that President Tinubu made the right choice, considering the pedigree of Senator George Akume as an astute administrator who rose through the ranks to become permanent secretary of the Government House in Benue state. Dimka stressed that Akume later in life rose to become Governor of Benue State and Senator of the Federal Republic and Minister Of Special duty Under the administration of the immediate past President of Nigeria Mohammadu Buhari. He also commended President Tinubu for the appointment of speaker Femi Gbajabiamila as his Chief of Staff. POLL Dimka describes Speaker Gbajabiamila as the right man for the job. He noted that Gbajabiamila has made his mark at the National Assembly having held the position of House leader at the House of Representatives in 2015 till 2019 and eventually got the seat of speaker House of the Representatives and Chief of Staff to President. According to him, Gbajabiamila would by the grace of God perform credibility well in directing the affairs in the office of President Tinubu a right. Dimka added that the appointment of Nuhu Ribadu as National Security Adviser (NSA) was done on merit by Mr Tinubu. According to him, Ribadu’s days in EFCC bear him testimony that if given the right job, he would perform wonderfully well in this new assignment.