Tough time awaits traffickers of illicit drugs between Nige­ria and India with a historic signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Na­tional Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, and the Nar­cotics Control Bureau of India in Abuja on Wednesday, June 14, 2023. Chairman/ Chief Executive Officer of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd) who signed the MoU on behalf of Nigeria’s premier anti-nar­cotics Agency said the move represents a robust partnership in the effort to exterminate in­cidences of drug abuse and il­licit drug trafficking in the two countries He said, “This bold step taken by the two agencies is an affirmation of our foresight and commitment to the task of ensuring the safety of our citi­zens and the global community at large. Today’s development constitutes a fundamental step towards positioning the two countries, India and Nigeria, at the forefront of confronting and dismantling transnational drug trafficking networks with brazen capabilities of outma­neuvering legitimate drug law enforcement. “With our understanding of the changing dynamics of the illicit drug problems, locally and globally, every major organisa­tion around the world working assiduously to curb the menace knows that working with part­ners greatly helps in address­ing the trafficking and abuse of narcotic and psychotropic substances. The governments of both countries remain com­mitted to eradicating the prob­lem posed by illicit substances, notably synthetic opioids and Amphetamine Type Stimu­lants (ATS) which pose a potent threat to our citizens.” While acknowledging the courage exhibited by the two agencies in the course of past meetings that culminated in the MoU, Marwa stressed that the partnership will impact greatly on efforts to prevent “illicit traf­ficking in narcotic drugs, psy­chotropic substances, precursor chemicals, and related matters” between the two countries. In his remarks, the Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria and Head of the Indian delega­tion, Ambassador Shri G. Bal­asubramanian who signed on behalf of his country, noted the enormous negative impact of drugs on global financial and political systems, adding that proceeds of drug trafficking are often directed towards ter­rorism financing. The Indian high commis­sioner observed that drug trafficking does not only affect the health of the individual that consumes it but equally the economy of the country as well as national security. He ad­vised that both countries should take advantage of their similar demographic advantage to address substance use prob­lems. He noted that the liberal trade relations and education­al advantages enjoyed by both countries have been negatively applied to the further criminal drug trade, urging that all hands must be on deck to ensure that merchants of death do not succeed in their evil trade. He pledged the commitment of the Indian Government to ensure the enforcement of the provi­sions of the MoU.