LAGOS – The Election Tribunal has subpoenaed the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) to submit its result verification portal back-end server for forensic analysis after it failed to tender Sanwo-Olu’s certificate in court. The Lagos State governorship election petition tribunal on Sunday ordered WAEC to submit its result verification portal back-end server and other information technology infrastructure for forensic analysis. A press statement on Monday made available to journalists noted that the order is contained in the subpoena issued on Sunday on the request of Dr. Abdulazeez Adediran popularly called Jandor/Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to further prove their allegations that Governor Sanwo-Olu lied on oath in his 2023 form EC9 by presenting a forged certificate to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in 2019. Recall that one of the grounds of JANDOR/PDP’s petition to the election tribunal was that Sanwo-Olu lied on oath in the form EC9 that he has never submitted a forged certificate to INEC before. However, a check in his 2019 Form CF001 revealed that the purported statement of WAEC result, Sanwo-Olu claimed he sat for in 1981 in Ijebu Ife Community Grammar School was confirmed to be invalid on the WAEC Result Verification Portal. “While responding to JANDOR/PDP petition, Governor Sanwo-Olu didn’t attach the purported WAEC certificate to counter JANDOR/PDP claims, but the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the 4th respondent attached a printout from the same WAEC portal which hitherto confirmed Sanwo-Olu’s purported WAEC result to be non-existent,” the statement added. JANDOR/PDP in their reply to Sanwo-Olu and APC response, challenged the integrity of the sudden appearance and upload of Sanwo-Olu’s WAEC result on the verification portal and subpoenaed WAEC to come and tender the said 1981 WAEC certificate under oath in court. According to the statement, the WAEC representative who was bid to be in court last week in the oath of witnesses deposed to, and sighted said, “I am unable to tender the duplicate copy of the May/June 1981 G.C.E. ‘O’ Level certificate of one SANWO-OLU BABAJIDE OLUSOLA.” adding that the Council does not produce counterpart copies of candidates’ certificates nor retain duplicate copies of candidates’ certificates” POLL “However, a check on the WAEC website revealed that in the event of loss of the WAEC certificate, the council issues an attestation in the form of a CTC, but none of such was issued by WAEC to ascertain the claim of Babajide Sanwoolu, hence the order of the court that WAEC should submit it back end-server and other information technology infrastructure for forensic analysis. This exercise will expose the date and time the sudden appearance of Governor Sanwo-Olu’s purported 1981 WAEC result was uploaded, as the same result wasn’t there as of APRIL 7th, 2023 when JANDOR/PDP filed their petition at the tribunal,” the statement read. The tribunal resumes Monday, June 26th, 2023.