Many people experience di­etary and health difficul­ties. Probably because of their ages and past lifestyle, they become afflicted with ailments that require them to avoid certain meals and to take certain medications. One of such persons is Mrs Iyekelpolo Ama­dasun (not real name), former banker who trades at the Vegetable Market in Benin City. In 2001, she was examined and found to have high blood pressure, heart disease and diabetes, ailments that prevented her from working regu­lar routines. Her doctors advised her to avoid meat, sugary substances and for her to reduce intake of salt. Mrs Ama­dasun told WADONOR that she reacted to the medications that her doctors gave to her for high blood pressure and dia­betes, and therefore began a search for a plant-based or organic remedy to her ailment. But Mrs Amadasun is not the only one with this kind of problem. Many Nigerians in their mid to late 50s share similar health conditions. A former gov­ernor of Edo state was diagnosed with similar ailment as Mrs Amadasun. Seeking treatment, this individual trav­elled to the United States. WADONOR learnt that while he was there, friends and relatives offered him a plant-based medication from a monastery located in Ewu in the state where he had been governor. After the former governor applied this medication, he reported sig­nificant improvement in his condition. He discarded the treatment he looked for in the US, returned home and has recovered considerably. WADONOR learnt that since coming back home to Nigeria, this former governor visited the Ewu Monastery and has made signifi­cant contributions to the development of that Herbal Clinic. Based on this story of the remark­able recovery of this former governor, WADONOR visited the Ewu Monastery in Edo State in 2022. It is located on a mountain in a monastery in Ewu. While there for three days, we found Benedic­tine Monks offering prayers round the clock. The prayers are accompanied by very poignant music from locally made harps. But apart from offering prayers, and playing good soulful music, the monks have set up a herbal clinic, Pax Herbal Clinic, from where they carry out research and produce organic med­icines which take care of the kinds of ailments – prostate cancer, diabetes, high blood pressure, malaria, hypertension – peculiar to an African environment. WADONOR learnt that after significant improvement in his health condition, the former governor visited the monastery, and assisted with building a world class laboratory, and research centre at the Benedictine Monastery. Rev Father Anselm Adodo is director of the Pax Herbal Clinic. In an interview he granted WADONOR, he said that just as there is English, Chinese, Russian and American medicine and drugs, there is African medicine and drugs. ‘For de­cades, our people have harnessed the power of leaves and herbs for the suc­cessful treatment of some of the con­ditions that orthodox medicine has not been able to handle’, he said. The bane of African medicine has been the inability of the local practitioners to document their work, successes and prescriptions and dosages. He said that the existence of the Pax Herbal Clinic is to correct that problem and establish Africa medicine as an important sector in the health care delivery sector in Nigeria and Africa. To say that the Pax Herbal Clinic is a wonder to behold is an understatement. Rev Father Adodo granted WADONOR unfettered access to the facility, where we found the research, production, packaging, distribution and marketing of herbal medicines in one of the clean­est, safe and hygienic conditions as could compare with any facility anywhere in the world. Together with four other herbal medicine practitioners the Rev Father also runs consultant clinics as well. ‘We don’t just make prescriptions. Most of the patients we see carry out tests in regular hospitals to determine what exactly is their ailment. From the tests that they have carried out in a reg­ular laboratory, we prescribe our herbal products. Most of the patients that have taken our products often get well, and there is a lot of evidence from the tests that they have carried out after they have used our herbal products’, Father Adodo told WADONOR. But apart from the production of herbal medicines, Rev Father Adodo has carried out extensive work in re­search and publication. Till date he has published no less than five volumes of work, given numerous lectures locally and internationally and granted inter­views to international media organisa­tions. For WADONOR, cultural voice of Nigeria, what probably is the greatest selling point of the research institution of the Pax Herbal Clinic is its mushroom culture section. For people like Mrs Amadasun who can no longer eat meat, the Pax Herbal Clinic has a laboratory that provides an alternative: mushrooms. While most of the materials for organic medications are sourced from nearby plants such as pawpaw and cashew and bitter leaves, others are very difficult to get. Like mushrooms – mushrooms are delicate, sensitive and take a very long time to mature. But not all not all mushrooms are edible or can be used for the prepara­tion of medicines. Of the two types that are not even readily available, only the portobellos are edible.