CHIBUIKE CHUKWU Separation of power is enshrined in the Nigerian constitution with the three tiers of government expected to function independently, although with intent of ensuring checks and balances on one another. The checks are to ensure non-deployment of arbitrariness in the use of powers to the detriment of the citizenry. There is also the need for a harmonious working relationship among the three tiers. In the ninth Senate, which to so many Nigerians would go down as the worst since the country democratic governance. So much was not really expected from it because the then Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, expressly said he would approve anything thrown at them by former President Buhari. The last National Assembly failed in all areas to hold and enthrone the independence of the legislature and was seen as an appendage of the executive, leading the country, as of today, to unprecedented debt. It ‘connived’ with former President Buhari to unabatedly acquire loans with little or nothing to show for the borrowings. The popular verdict is that the ninth National Assembly accomplished very little and became almost an extension of the presidency. Among its many sins are its unguarded approval of loan requests from the President, lack of rigour in screening nominees, incompetent oversight of public agencies, and the enabling of official profligacy amidst mass poverty in the land. These were and still remain implacable witnesses to its abysmal outing. The most enduring characteristic of the ninth NASS, to the dismay of Nigerians, was its abject acquiescence to Buhari, appearing to forget that it is an independent arm of government with an outsized role in exerting the sovereignty and overall interest of the people as the bedrock of democracy. POLL This justifiably earned it the very unpleasant name of “rubber stamp.” Cementing this reputation, the parliament was considering another World Bank loan request of $800 million from Buhari’s government less than one month to its exit date. Considered the cornerstone of democracy as the direct representatives of the people, strong parliaments, declares the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the global association of parliaments, are essential for development. Its primary functions are to represent the people, make laws and oversee the government through hearings and inquiries. In a presidential system of government like Nigeria, where the President wields enormous powers, the independence, rigour and commitment of the legislature to ensure that democracy in practice, delivers a “government by the people and for the people” is of utmost importance. The ninth NASS fell short of this onerous responsibility. However, there were some upright, service-oriented individuals in the two chambers, but they were a minority. Lawan and Gbajabiamila however adjudge the NASS to have performed very creditably. The former Senate President boasted of the bills passed. On paper, this looks impressive. Of the 874 bills introduced in the Senate, 162 were passed as of July 2022. This is a record in the Fourth Republic: the Fourth Assembly passed 31 bills, the Fifth Assembly 98, the Sixth Assembly 52, the Seventh Assembly 60, and the Eighth Assembly 74. Impressive as this may look on paper, of what importance are the bills to the average Nigerians whose future the last administration seemed to have mortgaged through unwarranted borrowing with very little or nothing on ground to justify that. The ninth Assembly was a mockery of what the real National Assembly should. It failed to deploy the rigorous efforts that distinguish independent parliaments; in-depth intellectual debates, agenda-setting and incisive scrutiny of government activities. Screening of ministers and other nominees by the Senate were mockeries of parliamentary supervision. The ninth Senate toed the repugnant path of ‘bow and go.’ This enabled Buhari to elevate many incompetent persons into public office. Despitecredibleallegationsof partisanship, Lawan ensured that Buhari’s nominees as Independent National Electoral Commission commissioners were confirmed. This further eroded confidence in the electoral system. One such appointee attempted to manipulate the Adamawa State governorship polls in April. However, that inglorious era might have gone with Godswill Akpabio, former Akwa Ibom State governor, and Tajudeen Abbas taking over as the Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives respectively. There is no doubt that their first task will be to make a detour from the inglorious past of the Ahmed Lawan and Gbajabiamila-led ninth National Assembly by ensuring relative independence of this very vital arm of government. Senator Akpabio seems to have taken this position by saying the tenth Assembly would not toe that ugly past of rubber stamping. He said that during his acceptance/inaugural speech. “We will work closely with the executive arm of government, while we maintain the independence of the legislature.” However, his last statement in the sentence threw more posers than answers as he admitted that President Tinubu chose him for the exalted position. Lending weight to fears already expressed in some quarters of what could be a repeat of the last National Assembly. Akpabio said: “I want to thank Mr. President for choosing me to lead the Senate. I want to thank Senator Jibrin Barau and the party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the zoning system that brought all of us.” Meanwhile, Abbas also harped on the imperative of independence of the legislature during his inaugural speech: “We will safeguard the sanctity of the National Assembly, the legislators; we will always separate our independence and we will relate and be able to harmonise with the executive where necessary. “But where there is a conflict of interest, we feel that the executive is or wants to do something that is not in the interest of the public. They know that we’ll stand up against that”. This is a heartwarming position taking by the Speaker and if the executive must be put on its toes towards making decisions that would impact on the lives of Nigerians, particularly at this time of national economic crisis occasioned by poor leadership of Buhari. The legislature must not only be independent but must be seen to be truly independent. While in a chat with our correspondent, Dr. Monday Onyekachi Ubani, a lawyer and human rights activist, charged the Akpabio-led National Assembly to truly be independent by refusing to be rubber stamp. He said: “Senator Akpabio should ensure that he does not turn the Senate into a rubber stamp to the executive as that will send a very dangerous signal to the system. He should scrutinise things that come from the Executive to ensure proper checks and balances. “He should be firm, fair and committed to having a working country under the new dispensation. He should not allow ill feeling or rancour between the National Assembly and other arms of government but to promote order and good governance. “Laws that will alleviate sufferings of the masses should be promoted. We wish him success on this new role and assignment.” Hon. Satomi Ahmed who represents Jere constituency of Borno State in the House of Representative admitted that Nigerians actually called the ninth Assembly rubber stamp but said they passed numerous people-oriented bills. “Nigeria expect much from tenth Assembly with so much going on in the country. This is the first time both the executive and legislative arm are being piloted by people with legislative experience. “It is going to be an exciting new Assembly. There is going to be checks and balances.” “Although they called us rubber stamp in the ninth Assembly, we passed a number of bills like the PIB and others. We were not really rubber stamp as people said,” he said. On their own, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) congratulated Akpabio and Abbas but said they should be a sharp deviation from the past and positively impact on Nigerians with laws. “We urge you to be revolutionary and creative in the processes of lawmaking in such a way that showcases competency and a noticeable departure from the rubber stamp nomenclature of the past. “Let your patriotism rise above your politicking. Let your loyalty to Nigerians supersede your political affiliations. Allow your sense of justice to take precedence over your sentiments. “Do not close your ears and eyes to the predicaments and expectations of Nigerians. Never allow the privileges and perks of your office to disconnect you from the realities of the people that you represent. That is your most important assignment at the 10th National Assembly, by which your stewardship will be assessed and will determine your overall success or failure on the national scorecard. “Nigeria cannot afford a business-as-usual approach to governance anymore. We require a revolutionary departure from lethargic leadership held hostage by interests hostile to the wellbeing of Nigerians and the security of the country. Nigeria now requires concerted efforts to take her out of multidimensional poverty, chronic stagnation and deplorable retrogression”. Meanwhile, it is imperative that Akpabio works closely with Abdulaziz Yari, given that he garnered 46 votes despite not being the ruling party’s choice candidate. The former Zamfara State Governor is a force in the Green Chamber and should galvanise efforts towards making a success of the tenth Assembly.