For its record-breaking achievements in curbing oil theft and pipeline vandalism in the Niger Delta, Tantita Security Service Nigeria Limited (TSSNL) has bagged the “Most Outstanding Oil and Gas Security Company Of The Year” award. Tantita was among other organisations, including Kalm Marine and Petroleum Services Limited and Moni Pulo Limited which emerged as awardees of the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE) 2023 awards which is powered by the African Child Foundation. The ceremony which was held at the university campus in Uvwie Local Government Area, Delta state, also saw the presentation of scholarship awards to six students of the university. Speaking, the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission’s(NUPRC)Chief, Engr. Gbenga Komolafe, who was also an awardee, promised to assist the university in sustaining its world-class standard. Engr. Komolafe promised, “We will do everything so that the standard for which the university is known will be sustained. You will continue to enjoy our support. This award would spur me to serve the nation better”. He further assured that the Commission will be granting opportunities for further “sharpening” and “development” of students’ “capabilities”. Earlier in his welcome address, Vice Chancellor of FUPRE, Engr. Prof. Rim-Rukeh Akpofure urged stakeholders in the oil and gas industry to take on projects within the school that will be known by the name of their organizations Responding shortly after being presented the award, Managing Director of Tantita, Engr. Chief Kestin Ebimorbowei Pondi said that the recognition would not have been possible without a committed workforce. POLL He stated, “This wouldn’t have been possible without our team who traverse the creeks of the Niger Delta region to ensure the job of securing our pipelines is done. Tantita remains your one-stop centre for pipelines and all other security services in Nigeria, our fatherland..” He was accompanied by Tantita’s Executive Director, Technical and Operations and some Chiefs from the Gbaramatu Traditional Council. Also, the Chairman of Moni Pulo Limited, Dr. Mrs. Seinye Lulu-Briggs, said it was gratifying that the firm’s work is being noticed as an “innovative player” in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry. Mrs. Lulu-Briggs, represented by Chief Clifford Daerego, further disclosed that the company was one of the first indigenous companies to comply with the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) in April.