It would not be baseless or without justification, if one makes the assertion that there is nobody in Nigeria that did not experience Tinubumania during the presidential campaign period in the last quarter of last year and first quarter of this year. That is because marketing of Tinubu’s candidacy was so intense with a sort of in-your-face type of aggression that was bolstered and galvanized by the ‘Emi Lo Kan’ mantra that became a national sing song of sorts. It is in a similar manner that Tinubumania domi­nated the political atmosphere that literally everyone in Nigeria is currently feeling the impact of Tinubu­nomics since President Bola Ahmed Tinubu was handed the reins of political leadership of our great country on May 29. Without any shred of doubt whatsoever, Tinubu­nomics is a bug that has bitten practically everyone in Nigeria. And it has done so in less than one month of President Tinubu being at the helm of affairs in the management of our beloved country, Nigeria. Of course, bugs vary and they have different types of effect on humans. There are people who are bitten by education bug. That means they passionately pursue the vision or dream of being educated perhaps to the highest level which is obtaining a doctoral degree. There are also those who get bitten by the type of bug that can result in feverish conditions. Take mosquito bites for instance. POLL Victims can become sick and even die from ma­laria infection which is a direct consequence of a bite from the mosquito bug. In the case of Tinubunomics, it is a bug that has obviously created some distress and excitement alike among a broad spectrum of Nigerian society. For those that had been bilking our country of bil­lions of dollars through petrol subsidy, and bleeding our treasury of billions of dollars through multiple exchange rates of the naira, it has had a negative effect. But to the poor masses that the end of petrol subsidy regime would enable government apply the billions of dollars that would have gone through the drain pipe of Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, in the provision of health care, road infrastructure and schools, as well as the indigent higher education stu­dents that could have dropped out of universities, polytechnics and mono-technics, owing to incapacity to pay school fees, Tinubunomics is a type of elixir or uhuru. That is why the removal of subsidy on petrol which is a defining factor in Tinubunomics has for instance created a huge buzz nationwide since petrol affects literally all aspects of life in Nigeria. Of course, the youth demographics is affected positively via the signing into law of the student loan policy that would help in easing the burden of some indigent students not being able to afford school fees and compelling them to drop out. To the credit of Tinubunomics, going forward, the loss of such potential hot brains which is not different from the brain drain that we often complain about would no longer happen. In fact, if we get every Nigerian interested in ac­quiring higher education into schools via the newly enacted law authorizing loan for the indigent to pur­sue higher education, there would be enough skilled human capital retained at home and still available for deployment into the diaspora to boost foreign remittances into our economy. China is the fastest growing economy in the world today because it has the largest collection or pool of talents per square meter than any other coun­try in the world. To fathom the benefits of having a huge pool of skilled human capital resource, as a local reference point, readers should consider the speed with which China built the Lekki Deep Sea Port in Lagos in record time. It is its huge collection of skilled manpower through massive education of the populace that has made China the foremost manufacturing hub of the world. So the new higher education loan driven by Tinubunomics would help ensure that nobody is left behind, education-wise in Nigeria. The same Tinubunomics has also elicited some anxiety and triggered a feeling of misery among the working class whom the removal of petrol subsidy have impacted negatively. That is because the cost of transportation and in deed all life essentials have spiked dramatically re­sulting in hardships on the masses in the short term. Not being unmindful of the consequences of pet­rol subsidy removal, the architects of Tinubunomics have been assiduously working round the clock to provide succor or buffer for the vulnerable or more exposed to the inflationary consequences of petrol subsidy removal implementation. To that extent, we know that the purveyors of Tinubunomics have been contemplating introduc­ing measures such as salary increase for workers to cushion the harsh effects. Obviously, Tinubunomics doctrine demands a paradigm shift in the ways and manner policies evolve and get implemented, so it would no longer be business as usual in Nigeria. That is perhaps why it is taking a little while for solutions to the challenges that the paradigm shift has thrown up to be laid out. As part of the multiple palliative measures be­ing considered, one hundred percent (100%) wage increase is a policy direction that is being touted. And it is a policy that I whole heartedly support. It’s attractiveness to me is the fact that it is opposite to the previous gambits of deploying buses for work­ers through the Nigeria Labor Congress, NLC, or warehousing the so called savings by putting it in a ‘Pot’ such as SURE- P from where some appointed or ‘anointed’ individuals would in the name of admin­istering the funds for public good, line their pockets with the commonwealth of Nigerian masses. Arising from the sordid past experience of abuse of public funds by public officials as reflected by what happened to public intervention funds like Petroleum Trust Fund, PTF; Oil Mineral Producing Development Commission, OMPADEC, Niger Delta Development Commission, NNDC, it is a no brainer to figure out that the pooling together of the so called funds to be saved from the current petrol subsidy removal exercise for management on behalf of the public would eventually end up literally becoming another black hole and a drain pipe in the nation’s treasury which PMS subsidy payment had been and which its removal is aimed at stopping. In effect, establishing a pool of funds where subsi­dy removal savings would be disbursed to the masses amounts to setting up a parallel government to be run by the same Nigerians with the same mentality, not saints from heaven who would not create choke holds that have been threatening to asphyxiate our beloved country. Without any doubt, pooling funds together and disbursement to ameliorate the hardship on the masses would not be different from the petrol sub­sidy regime which we have been trying to wean our­selves off in the past several decades, even going as far back as the dark days of military rule under the watch of Generals Muhammadu Buhari, Ibrahim Babangida, and Sani Abacha. Incidentally, then Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, who later metamorphosed into President Buhari was the chairman of Petrol Trust Fund, PTF, – a be­hemoth created out of petrol subsidy removal by Gen. Abacha. At this juncture, it is germane to elaborate fur­ther on Tinubunomics which is a combination of the multiple policies that have been introduced by Pres­ident Bola Ahmed Tinubu in less than one month of being at the helm of affairs of our country; and a governance philosophy which has had a spectacular effect on Nigeria and Nigerians with reverberations across the world. The impact of President Tinubu taking charge in Aso Rock Villa range from the stunning decisions ending the roughly five (5) decades old petrol subsi­dy regime that has been consuming precious finan­cial resources of our country akin to money being thrown down the drain instead of being used for interventions in more productive critical areas such as education, healthcare, roads, ports, to the signing into law of a new electricity Act that would make generation and distribution of electricity energy open to all willing and able investors which would eventually lead to the much sought industrialization of Nigeria, a development that a perennial epileptic power supply had been inhibiting. Tinubunomics policies also include the signing into law the bill that would facilitate the offer of loans to indigent students in higher institutions which would lead to the expansion of the pool of talents in our country because no longer would anyone willing to obtain higher education be left out of the education loop owing to lack of funds. That is because as a result of student loan, the potential Albert Einsteins (the geniuses) that had become street urchins, kidnappers, motor park touts, rapists, prostitutes and religious insurgents wreaking havoc on children, women and men in our country because they dropped out of school due to lack of funds to pay their school fees by their parents who are indigent, would join the talent and workforce. Thanks to Tinubunomics engendered policies (if they are pursued to their logical conclusions and hopefully they would), our country would no longer lose such great talents because with the access to higher education by the indigent law in operation, all Nigerians would have the opportunity to become the geniuses that God had created them to be, but which poverty had been denying some of them from becoming. An additional aspect of the Tinubunomics re­form initiative and revolution is the signing of the freedom of data bill that would also energize the information technology and digital sector of the Nigerian economy that had remained latent with potentials. With the new law that largely untapped sector of our economy would be unleashed such that it would become a higher contributor to the GDP of the nation’s economy. Another value that Tinubunomics is bringing to the table is the interest in Nigeria by major play­ers in information and communication technology stretching to the spheres of Artificial Intelligence, AI, currently making the waves around the devel­oped world. Mr. Bill Gates, modern day father of computing and information technology, has just visited Nigeria again to reaffirm his validation of the potentials of Nigerian youths to becoming a powerful factor in the world of information technology as he had posited during his first visit in 2018. Another significant effect of Tinubunomics is the triggering of the end of multiple naira/for­eign exchange rates regime that has kept foreign exchange in the hands of rent seekers who buy at reduced price from the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, only to resell to actual industrialists that need it at sometimes up to 50% percent margin.