The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has felicitated Senator Hope Uzodimma, the Governor of Imo State for his election as the Chairman of South East Governors Forum. Ohanaeze in a statement made available to Journalists in Enugu on sunday by the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Engr. Dr. Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, through Dr. Chiedozie Alex. Ogbonnia; National Publicity Secretary, said “Just a few weeks ago, Sen. Uzodimma was elected the Chairman of the All Peoples Congress (APC) Governors Forum. Ohanaeze Ndigbo has watched with keen interest and admiration your political trajectory from the National Assembly as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and as the incumbent Governor of Imo State. There is no gainsaying that the grace of God is upon your life. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo is delighted that the five South East Governors reposed confidence in you. We are even more delighted that the twenty APC governors in Nigeria also reposed confidence in you. We note that while some may be weighed down by the turbulence from one feather, Your Excellency has the sagacity, innate capacity and tensile strength to wear three feathers on your cap as the governor of Imo State, Chairman of the South East Governors Forum and the Chairman of the APC Governors Forum. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo acknowledges your large heart, political savvy, assertiveness, audacious achievement motivation, friendly finesse, inter-ethnic legendary and an extra-ordinary perseverance in overcoming a seemingly insurmountable obstacles. The above virtues will surely come to bear in fulfilling the roles that go with the coveted offices. “We enthused that your emergence as the Chairman of the South East Governors Forum during his tenure is most providential. Chief Iwuanyanwu, in his inaugural speech outlined several programmes spanning security, education, health, industry, agriculture, sports, culture, etc as the sine-qua-non for the Igbo socio-economic resurgence in Nigeria. “The new Ohanaeze paradigm requires the collaboration of the South East Governors, non-governmental organizations, captains of industry and the Igbo intelligentsia in order to achieve the desired goals. It is therefore hoped that your leadership as the Chairman of the South East Governors Forum will usher a new dawn for our people,” he said