The Joint Health Sector Union has urged President Bola Tinubu to ignore the Nigerian Medical Association’s (NMA) objections to the CONHESS adjustment, urging him to include the health sector in the country’s ongoing reforms. JOHESU’s appeal was a reply to a recent newspaper publication by NMA, not Independent Newspapers which allegedly postulated that health workers were indirectly seeking equal pay with the physicians through CONHESS adjustment. In a statement titled, “Re: Health Workers Demand Equal Pay with Doctors and Opposes CONHESS Adjustment For JOHESU,” the union refuted purported claims by NMA that there is an existing relativity between the CONMESS and CONHESS since 2014. Further, the statement rebutted NMA’s claims in the said report that CONHESS adjustment will erode the already established/existing relativity and restore pay parity between both salary structures and lead to more industrial disharmony in the sector. It also lamented that CONMESS was reviewed in 2014, 2017, and 2018, with a proposed increase last month, while the Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CONHESS), salary structure for health workers including, pharmacy, medical laboratory science, among others is unapproved. The statement which was signed by Comrade Matthew Ajurotu, Ag. National Secretary, JOHESU for its National Chairman explained that CONHESS and CONMESS became salary scales for Non-Physician and Physician cadres in 2009. Elaborating, Ajurotu regretted that previous governments have failed to fulfill their obligation to approve CONHESS adjustment as was done to Consolidated Medical Salary Structure (CONMESS) which is the salary structure for medical and dental doctors since 2014. Ajurotu urged the administration of President Tinubu to adjust the CONHESS and rejected arguments that doing so would distort the relative importance of the existing CONHESS and CONMESS. In addition, JOHESU claimed that health workers were subject to discrimination in compensation and welfare benefits. POLL Adjustment Is Not Distortion To Both Salary Scales The statement reads, “JOHESU/AHPA is in receipt of recent publications from the stables of the NMA and one of its appendages styled the Nigerian Association of Medical and Dental Academics (NAMDA). Both medical groups are unanimous in taking a position that an adjustment in CONHESS as it stands today will amount to a distortion in the relativity of existing CONHESS and CONMESS. “We wish to clearly state that CONMESS was not reviewed upward, rather an error in translation of the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) that gave rise to CONMESS in 2009 was corrected.” It elaborated, “Facts confirm that the CONHESS and CONMESS became salary scales for Non-Physician and Physician cadres in 2009. Prior to the introduction of discriminatory salary scales in Nigeria especially the era pre-1991 when the late Olikoye Ransome-Kuti under the military regime of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida imposed the Medical Salary Scale (MSS), the norm was that Pharmacists and Physicians (Medical Doctors) entered the Civil Service on the equivalent of GL 08 for Internship and Houseman-ship respectively and move to GL 09 after Youth Service. “Other Health professionals who are graduates started on GL 08 after Youth Service, while Registered Nurses and Midwives started on GL 07. At both the Federal and State Civil Service, Pharmacists and Physicians were on the same Grade Level and enjoyed only a marginal Grade Level difference over other health professionals because of the difference in years of training. Without any fundamental shift in the duration of training or course content, Physicians under the aegis of the NMA took maximal advantage of their dominance of the leadership bracket of the FMOH to alter the Augean stable with a discriminatory salary scale-styled MSS, while non-Physicians including health professionals were placed on the Health Salary Scale (HSS). “This status quo was further altered to give more advantage by another physician-Health Minister, Late Prof. Oshotimehim who again came up with an equally oppressive CONHESS and CONMESS Scale for Non-Physicians and Physicians personnel in 2009.” The statement also claimed, “Salary experts will confirm that true relativity is permanently entrenched at the entry point in the Civil Service. Presently as it stands after Youth Service, a Physician who starts at GL 13 will have his contemporary health professional who takes off at GL 10 as a benchmark in this discourse. By existing Civil Service protocol, it will take a minimum of 10 years for any health professional who starts on GL 10 to attain GL 13 where the Physician kick-starts his career. “To further fast-track the career of the Physician, if he passes the requisite Fellowship programme of a Medical Post-Graduate College, he moves automatically to GL 15 and all things being equal will be at the peak of GL 17 between 10 and 12 years. This is a career path that will take any average health professional a minimum of 25 years. How has equality in payment arisen in the last 12 years? Address Unfair Wages And Discriminatory Salaries The statement further alleged, “All avenues to redress the injustice of discriminatory salary wages to non-Physician health workers was destroyed under Prof. Christian Chukwu 2011-2015, Prof. Isaac Adewole 2015-2019 and Dr. Osagie Ehanire 2019-2023 when they led the FMoH. The issues of relativity between CONHESS and CONMESS will shock observers of our sector,” JOHESU insisted. It added, “Despite the mutilated picture over the correction of their salary scale on January 2, 2014, by former President Goodluck Jonathan, the truth is that CONMESS has been selectively reviewed three times in 2014, 2017, and 2018. In addition, a fourth round of increase was proposed by the duo of Ehanire and the newly appointed Special Adviser on Health to President Tinubu, Dr. Salma Anas who is the immediate past Director of the Hospital Services Department of the FMOH in May 2023. “The Technical Committee of experts which confirmed that CONMESS has been adjusted to the disadvantage of CONHESS were drawn from Government and included representatives from salaries, Income and Wages Commission, Budget Office, IPPIS, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Office of the Head of Service of the Federation and FMOH. It was only the Physicians from the Hospital Services Department who represented the FMoH who raise issues of distortion on relativity as orchestrated by NMA that opposed the adjustment of CONHESS at the Committee level. “This is why moving forward JOHESU/AHPA has now made it clear to the Federal Government that it will no longer seat in negotiation with staff of the Physician bases Hospital Services Dept of the FMoH. JOHESU will henceforth entertain parlays with the personnel of Human Resources FMoH.” JOHESU accused the recently appointed Special Adviser (Health) Salma Anas of signing a letter C.3739/T/117 of April 3, 2023, on behalf of Ehanire which stated that the FMOH concurred with the conviction of NMA that relativity will be distorted if CONHESS was adjusted. “Ironically, the same Salma Anas processed enabling documents on behalf of NMA/NARD for more adjustments on CONMESS including a plethora of allowances, and transmuted the same to the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission in May 2023. That was “a few days after JOHESU’s request was jettisoned” for consideration and payment to our over-pampered Physicians which confirms the disposition of working only in the interest of their members.” the statement noted. It also alleged, “The Special Adviser on Health has commenced the instigation of crisis in our sector by using her erstwhile influential position in the FMOH to leak development and content of memos related to JOHESU/FG talks to the NMA.” The union while calling for the intervention of President Tinubu, reminded him about their recent dialogue with him. It stated, “We respectfully draw the attention of President Tinubu to the highlights of a recent engagement with JOHESU/AHPA when His Excellency was inundated with facts which led to generation and escalation of entropy in the Health sector.” “President Tinubu must allow the reforms shaping Nigeria in the last few days to catch up with the Health Sector because most of his contemporary predecessors have allowed physicians to enjoy an unfortunate usurpation of the authoritative exclusivity of non-Physician health workers in Nigeria,” it stressed. JOHESU had embarked on an indefinite strike on May 25 to press home its demands. One of its demands during the strike, which was suspended on June 5, 2023, following President Tinubu’s intervention was the immediate approval and implementation of the technical committee report on CONHESS adjustment by the government. JOHESU while appealing to President Tinubu to appoint seasoned Administrators not necessarily physicians, reasoned that this will enable the sector players to have a fair chance of repositioning the country’s failed health system which is rated 187th out of 191 health systems. “We look forward to gorgeous pomp and pageantry in our Health Sector through equity in the spread of benefit packages and privileges in addition to good quality appointments in the various MDAs in the Health Sector in the days ahead,” it added.