Senator Ali Ndume, former Leader of the Upper Chamber has urged the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), to halt its Wednesday planned strike, and return to the negotiation table with the federal government. In a statement, urged for effective dialogue before industrial action. He also called on the President, Bola Tinubu to meet with NLC over the pecks and benefits surrounding subsidy removal. “This fuel subsidy removal is something we must do now or never,” he noted. “We need to open the wounds now and begin to heal them. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) needs to work with the government and see how the effects can be minimized. If we don’t remove the subsidy now, some people will continue to milk this country. NLC should go to the negotiation table with the Federal Government.” “The NLC should not go on a strike first before negotiation. They should not make that mistake. Beside, there is no budget for subsidy. Where will the money come from? “I call on President Tinubu to personally meet with Labour leaders and resolve the issues. He should also assure them that things will be alright.” Meanwhile, the Borno South senator, has revealed that with the appointment of Senator George Akume, agitation by leaders from the North Central Zone about the non-inclusion of the region in the appropriation of 10th National Assembly leadership positions, will fizzle out. POLL He said President Tinubu has demonstrated that his campaign mantra “Renewed Hope”, has come to stay. The Senate Committee chairman on Army, said all the appointees so far announced by President Tinubu are senators and a Speaker of the House of Representatives. He said the administration of President Tinubu will be rancor-free, especially its relationship with the National Assembly, unlike previous ones that undermined the National Parliament. According to him, “I want to commend President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for keeping to his campaign mantra, ‘Renewed Hope’. This is the first time politicians are appointed by a President to head key positions in government. This will be a rancor-free administration. All the appointees so far are grassroots politicians. “George Akume was a governor, minister, a senator and now the Secretary to Government of the Federation. President Tinubu is a senator. Kashim Shettima is a senator. The First Lady is a senator. Femi Gbajabiamila as Chief of Staff to the President is a veteran parliamentarian. Even the Chief of Staff to the Vice President, Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia, is a senator too. “It means there won’t be any reason to have any rancor with the National Assembly. The Executive will be run by former members of the National Assembly, unlike previous governments run by so called technocrats who brought in consultants to steal our money. This is truly democracy at work. “This has now settled the agitation by stakeholders from North Central. They’ve gotten the lion’s share now. Akume’s appointment has put everything to rest. He will become one of the most powerful people in government.”