Ahead of the election of the Senate Presi­dent, Senator Seye Ogunlewe, former Minister of Works, has ad­vised Senator Godswill Ak­pabio to forget the fact that the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) has anointed him as the choice candidate for Senate President but he should go and work on the support of his colleagues who are the ones that will vote on that day. Ogunlewe, in an interview on Wednesday, stated that many things would influence voting on the floor of the Sen­ate on the election and how far Akpabio markets himself to the Senators-elect would de­termine his success. He said: “There are many interest groups at the Sen­ate. What is he offering these other groups? How much influence can you wield? Because people at the National Assembly will like to go back to their constitu­encies with a few things to show. “He must be able to sit down with them, he should leave the party. The party has already endorsed you, just leave the party. You need to talk to the Senators who will vote for you. What is the nego­tiation? What are they taking to their zones? How can they have confidence in your lead­ership? What have you done before? How did you behave to them when you were in the Senate? What is your in­teraction with them? Some of his colleagues will make sure that they de-market him if he is not careful. He should talk to the Senators now.” Ogunlewe added: “He should leave all those people who are following him to the villa. You are giving those who oppose you the opportu­nity to say that you are going to be dictated to by the Exec­utive. Address their issues, and let them have confidence in you so that on that day, they will vote for you, if not, they will just say that you are an Executive person and they don’t want an Executive per­son. They want a person of their own and they will vote for that person. “Get into the Senate and talk to them. Tell them what you are going to offer them because they are the ones who will vote for you, not out­siders. “Nigeria is not what you see in the day. Nigeria is run in the midnight, and mem­bers of the Senate have very powerful mentors, who bank­rolled their elections into the Senate.