YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri has bemoaned Monday’s boat ac­cident in Kwara State that claimed more than 100 lives. Describing the mishap as sad and unfortunate, Diri commiserated with Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, the state government, the families of the victims and the people of Kwara State. The governor in a state­ment by his Chief Press Sec­retary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, on Wednesday, said the tragedy was a sad reminder of simi­lar incidents in the riverine areas, particularly in Bayelsa and other coastal states in the country. He said such incidents resulting in deaths would be minimised if the Federal Gov­ernment, which is in charge of the waterways, took con­crete steps to prioritise safety on the country’s rivers. He urged the Federal Gov­ernment to come up with a holistic safety policy that cov­ers not only the air and roads but also the waterways. Diri contended that if that is done, operators of river transportation in the country would be compelled to comply with such measures. He further stated that a situation where operators ig­nore safety rules to overload their boats had led to avoid­able loss of lives. Diri said, “The boat acci­dent that claimed over 100 lives in Kwara State is really tragic. POLL “On behalf of the govern­ment and people of Bayelsa State, I express our condolenc­es to my brother-governor of Kwara State, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, and people of the state. “I also commiserate with the families of the victims of the tragedy. “This incident is a sad re­minder of what we face in Bayelsa, other coastal states of the Niger Delta and in sim­ilar riverine areas in other parts of the country. “The Federal Government, which controls our water­ways, needs to put in place a holistic transportation poli­cy that also ensures safety of passengers on our rivers. “Lives are being lost due to lack of measures to guar­antee safety on waterways. The focus had been on road infrastructure and air trans­portation. The waterways are equally important as an alternative means of trans­portation.”