Women who have infertility due to diminished ovarian reserve can employ assisted reproductive technologies to boost their chances of getting pregnant, but no treatment or supplement has been proven to stop the process of reproductive age. A crucial part of a fertility evaluation is determining whether you have diminished ovarian reserve, particularly as more and more women seek fertility treatment later in their reproductive years. Ovarian reserve, often known as egg quantity and quality or reproductive potential, affects a woman’s capacity to become pregnant. Age affects fertility significantly and is related to reproductive aging. If a woman only has a small number of high-quality eggs or a big number of eggs of poor quality, she may have trouble getting pregnant. However, having a sufficient number of eggs is advantageous because a large number typically indicates that some eggs will be viable in women under the age of 35. Reproductive Aging The rationale behind the idea of reproductive aging is that eggs reach their highest amount during fetal life, go through degeneration, and do not regenerate. Surprisingly, a woman will have the most eggs when she is a 6-7 million egg, 20-week-old fetus. At birth, there are 1-2 million eggs; by puberty, there are about 300,000–500,000 eggs left. Women are thought to ovulate between 400 and 500 eggs overall from puberty till menopause. Although female fertility decreases with age, the rate at which reproduction declines generally is difficult to anticipate. The most productive years of a woman’s life, from her mid-20s to her early 30s, are when her eggs are at their best quality. After the early 30s, both the amount and quality of eggs start to diminish, which lowers reproductive potential. The mid-30s and early-40s are when fertility potential is most significantly reduced. An extended gestation period could be a sign of both egg quantity and quality reduction. As a result, fecundability, or the likelihood of becoming pregnant within one menstrual cycle, starts to fall dramatically in the early 30s and accelerates after the age of 37. POLL Chromosomal Abnormalities And Miscarriage In older women, there is a higher chance of ovulating an egg with a chromosomal abnormality, which lowers fertility and raises the risk of miscarriage. If an inferior egg is fertilized, either the embryo cannot implant or the embryo implants but cannot properly develop, leading to a subsequent miscarriage. Younger women can also have low-quality eggs, while older women are more likely to do so. It’s a frequent misperception that having regular cycles suggests your ovarian reserve is normal and you will be able to get pregnant. This is not always the case, however, as many women with regular periods may still experience difficulties getting pregnant if their ovarian reserve is low (egg quality and quantity). Age And Fertility Age is a crucial determinant in fertility, and despite all the advances in assisted reproduction, it is still a problem. Because the couple and the doctor have few alternatives for therapy due to the age-related fall in fecundity, it is crucial that the general public is aware of this fact. Delaying childbirth should be avoided just from the perspective of fertility. Although they are helpful prognostic tools, ovarian reserve tests are poor indicators of the success of IVF. Reduced Ovarian Reserve Infertility may result from decreasing egg quantity, quality, and reproductive potential, which is referred to as diminished ovarian reserve (DOR). A high day 2 or 3 FSH level, a low AMH level, a low antral follicle count (AFC), and a history of a poor response during stimulation in an IVF cycle are indicative of DOR (diminished ovarian reserve). It is important to note that evidence of DOR does not necessarily translate to an inability to conceive. In most cases, the causes of DOR are unknown, with reproductive aging being the primary cause. Other factors that can affect ovarian reserve include tobacco use, underlying medical conditions, prior ovarian surgery, systemic chemotherapy, pelvic radiation, and certain genetic abnormalities. There are no universally agreed-on criteria for diagnosing DOR. So, it can be difficult to provide a prognosis to those with DOR, since it may predict a diminished response to ovarian stimulation in an IVF cycle, but not necessarily the overall pregnancy rate. Poor egg quality is caused by diminished ovarian reserve and is one of the most common causes of infertility, especially in women over 35. Egg quality is important because it determines embryo quality. Poor egg quality is closely associated with chromosomal abnormalities in embryos, also known as aneuploidy. Factors that affect egg quality IVF Egg and Embryo Quality – The quality of eggs and embryos depends on some of the other items in this list, such as age, ovarian reserve, stimulation protocol, and sperm quality. The higher the quality of eggs and embryos, the better the likelihood IVF treatment will be successful. How Can Egg Quality Be Improved? After ovulation, egg quality cannot be restored. Instead, you must stop DNA damage from occurring. Instead of a “fast cure,” this is a strategy to strengthen the follicle cells before they mature into the last egg cell needed for ovulation.