LAGOS  – The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), has launched a new generation Productive Capacities Index (PCI) to help countries make more accurate diagnostics and measurements of their economic performance. UNCTAD noted that the PCI, in turn, can shape more effective policies and their implementation, as well as measures countries’ abilities to produce goods and deliver services, which are critical for international trade and global production value chains. The PCI is available through a dedicated online portal with publications, manuals, resources and tools. It maps the productive capacities of 194 economies and provides a better measure of development than other traditional benchmarks such as gross domestic product (GDP). It’s multidimensional and measures economic inputs and potential as opposed to outputs. For governments, the PCI is a powerful and practical tool to track progress over time and forge informed policies to plug development gaps. It can help countries respond to a call by UN Secretary-General António Guterres to move beyond GDP and measure the things that really matter to people and their communities. Rebeca Grynspan , UNCTAD Secretary-General said: “No nation has ever developed without building the required productive capacities, which are key to enabling countries to achieve sustained economic growth with accelerated poverty reduction, economic diversification and job creation.” “UNCTAD defines productive capacities as “the productive resources, entrepreneurial capabilities and production linkages that together determine the capacity of a country to produce goods and services and enable it to grow and develop. “The PCI shows that developed economies have higher productive capacity scores, with economies such as Denmark, Australia and the United States leading the pack with an average score of 70 out of 100 on the composite index. Paul Akiwumi, UNCTAD’s director for Africa and least developed countries, said: “The new generation PCI is a timely contributor to development policymaking. Against the turbulent global economic backdrop, reliable, up-to-date and accurate data can help governments react by focusing on the most pressing development issues.” POLL The new PCI also helps shape long-term planning. “What we can diagnose and show with the PCI are the underlying factors that are holding back countries from meeting their trade and development potential, such as key infrastructure gaps in transportation, ICT development and energy,” Mr. Akiwumi added. Among developing regions, Asia and Latin America, overall, perform better than the African region.