Godwin Obaseki, Governor of Edo State says his government has redesigned, equipped and fortified the former Auchi general hospital that was recently upgraded to Edo State University Uzairue Teaching Hospital to serve the medical needs of not just the people of the area but Nigerians in general. Gov. Obaseki who made the declaration while unveiling the Teaching Hospital and the new equipment as well as the commencement of a three day free medical care to the people in the locality said with the new equipment, the hospital would render modern health care services to the people. Gov. Obaseki who was represented by the state deputy governor Rt. Hon. Philip Shaibu said the former Auchi general hospital which was upgraded to a teaching hospital has been redesigned, equipped and fortified to deliver to the people the best medical care not just to the residence but Nigerians in general. According to him,”the importance of the teaching hospital was to provide quality healthcare delivery and well-being to the people of Edo State in particular and Nigerians in general. He also said that the unveiling was to launch the hospital’s three days free medical care to the people and urged the people to avail themselves the opportunity of the free medical care services irrespective of tribe, religion or ethnicity. In his remarks, the Vice Chancellor, Edo University, Uzairue, Prof. Emmanuel Aluyor emphasized that one of the basics of Edo State University teaching hospital was to foster an environment of collaboration and mutual learning as a unique opportunity to exchange knowledge and learn from the experience of others as well as get inspired by the ground breaking research and achievements that would be shared within the academic community particularly the University’s students. According to the VC, the three days free medical care services is in line with the university teaching hospital Corporate Social Responsibility to the communities of Auchi, Iyamho and Ivioghe in Etsako West and East local government respectively. Prof. Aluyor however promised that the university’s management would do everything humanly possible to ensure that the Teaching hospital was repositioned to a level where it would be globally competitive. POLL The deputy governor later performed the ground breaking ceremony for the construction of the paediatric unit, accident and emergency wards including additional theatre within the teaching hospital premises.