LAGOS  – The revenue of Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc rose by 28.50 per cent to N11.1 billion in the year ended December 31, 2022 as a result of the growth trajectory of the company. The ground handling company for two financial years has also approved dividend of 16.50k per ordinary share of 50k to its shareholders. These were contained in the Annual Report and Accounts 2022 presented to shareholders at its 13th Annual General Meeting (AGM), held physically and virtually in Lagos over the weekend. According to the report, the 28.50 rise was an increase of N8.7 billion in 2022, while its Gross Profit also increased to N4.3 billion from N3.8 billion when compared to previous year. This increase in gross profit indicated 14.69 per cent when compared to the previous year. Also, the board and management of the handling company approved dividend of 16.50k to its shareholders, amounting to N223 million, which was the same dividend paid in the 2021 financial year. But, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, the Chairman of SAHCO on the sideline of the event, promised to increase the dividend to shareholders in the 2023 financial year. According to him, the company’s Q1 2023 financial report already indicated that the company was on a growth trajectory. POLL He said: I can tell you that our first quarter financial year result has shown that we are making more money. So, we will surprise them by next year and may be double whatever we are giving them this year. “So, we are confident of that and that is going to happen in the next financial year period.” Afolabi stated that SAHCO is responsible for over 60 per cent of cargo handling in the Nigerian aviation industry and promised that the company would continue to maintain the status by providing world-class ground handling services to its clients. He emphasised that the company would continue to take advantage of every business opportunity available in the ground handling industry, including securing new airline contracts. He also maintained that the company would not hesitate to acquire more modern equipment as the number of its clientele grows. “Yes, we buy equipment based on whatever our customers need. This year, we hope to get more clients and once we do that, we are going to buy more equipment. As we are now, we have enough equipment to support and service our clientele. “As the clientele of SAHCO continue to grow, we have acquired a lot of ultra-modern ground handling equipment to meet our demand. These equipment are fitted with the latest technology in ground handling support. Our plan is to continue to acquire more as the industry demands so we can continue to provide top-notch ground handling services to enable us retain existing clients and to cater for clientele and business expansion, which will translate to more future profit for the organsation.” Besides, Mr. Basil Agboarumi, the Managing Director of SAHCO, said that the management was prepared to increase its revenue in the coming year. According to him, the management had put in place machineries to ensure the growth of the company, assuring that it would continue to provide the best services to its clients.