AKURE – Staffers and students of Adekun­le Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State have been as­sured of consistent development training for maximum delivery. Prof. Olugbenga Ige, the vice chancellor of the institution gave the assurance while declaring open the maiden edition of the Registry Annual Lecture of the University. The lecture entitled: “Efficien­cy In University Registry Func­tions: The Imperative E-Gover­nance and Electronic Documents Management System,” was deliv­ered by Dr. Omojola Awosusi, a university administrator of in­ternational repute. The Vice Chancellor said: “Manpower development re­mains one of this administra­tion’s cardinal attentions in our journey to building a 21st Cen­tury compliant administrative workforce. There is no gainsay­ing the Registry is the engine room of university administra­tion and governance. “Advancements in technolo­gy and science brings us closer to digitization and robotisation of several aspects of office work and human endeavours. This, increasingly imposes on every worker to adapt to these con­stantly changing terrains of technological breakthroughs, and it means that the Registry staff that would fit into the envi­ronment of a 21st Century Uni­versity must be adept at using technology to achieve set objec­tives. This lecture is, therefore, relevant.” The AAUA VC noted that the varsity had already deployed technology to providing some of its services, adding that the lec­ture would help to further bring robust innovations into the age-old administrative culture. Delivering the lecture, Dr. Awosusi called for a deliberate and concerted effort by managers of tertiary institutions in Nigeria to deploy relevant technology if the institutions must perform optimally and gain global rele­vance. The former Registrar of Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, said: “One of the reasons our univer­sities are not performing at opti­mal level has been the failure to deploy appropriate technology. If a university is not a world-class institution, it is difficult for its Registry or any other of its units to exude world-class attributes. Technology is, no doubt, a prereq­uisite for effective and efficient delivery of services.” POLL He also recommended for Nigerian universities adoption and acquisition of Electronic Document Management System, EDMS, to facilitate digitization of their operations, while relevant experts and personnel should be engaged. Dr. Awosusi also called on proprietors, especially state gov­ernors, to inject more funds to the state-owned institutions, saying, “He who created the pipe must pay the piper handsomely and provide additional fuds for the maintenance of the musical in­strument.” In his goodwill message, the Special Guest of Honour and Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr. Tunji Abayomi, congratulated the Registrar, Mr. Olugenga Arajulu, for pioneering Registry Annual Lecture in the University.