Players’ transfer is the focus of football managers and club own­ers in Europe for now. The transfer window is the business end of the football season when clubs are permitted to conduct the purchase and sale of players. This is the time coaches and the management of the teams execute plan(s) aimed at reposition their various clubs for new season kicking off in August. This is the time club managers’ try as much as possible to strengthen weak areas in the team and also plan for the unforeseen circumstances. Without mincing words, the transfer window, to a great extent, determines the fortune of the clubs the following season. From the English Premier League to the Spanish LaLiga, and the German Bundesliga, to the French Ligue 1 and even the Italian Serie A, the only thing on the radar of the various clubs is rebuild­ing the club for the next season. If English champions, Manchester City, who majority of pundits believe are a complete team, are in the market for one or two players to fortify them­selves against next season, how much less teams like Arsenal that surrendered the Premier League to Manchester City on account of lack of depth will not think of fortifying themselves. Or is it Everton that survived the drop on the last day that will not seek ways to for­tify the team or Liverpool against all predictions that failed to make the Top Four placing fifth and failing to qualify for the Champions League. Manchester United are also not left out in the re­building process despite qualifying for the Champions League having placed third in the league. For teams desiring to challenge for the Premier League next season, reaching Manchester City’s level is a sine qua non. And doing so means being active in the transfer market that opened on Thursday. Possibly next week or week after, we will concentrate on the transfer market since then the transfer window would be clearer. Away from the transfer window, Fly­ing Eagles on Wednesday night shocked the host Argentina 2-0 in their Round of 16 match in the ongoing FIFA U-20 World Cup. The win was a fitting revenge for the defeat Nigeria suffered at the 2005 edition when Lionel Messi led team beat Nigeria 2-1 in the final in Netherlands. The same Messi also ensured that Nigeria did not win the 2008 Beijing Olympics football gold beating Nigeria 1-0 in the final. This is Nigeria’s first defeat of Argentina in this class of World Football. In the words Charles Okoh, Daily Independent News Editor, “It was a fit­ting revenge for Nigeria for the losses to Argentina, most especially doing so on their home ground.” Aside Nigeria qualification for the quarterfinals, Tunisia, another African representative, failed Africa losing 1-4 to 10-man Brazil in the Round of 16 also on Wednesday. Gambia also crashed out los­ing 0-1 to Uruguay on Thursday. Nigeria will play South Korea in the quarterfinal game. POLL While European clubs focus is on the transfer market, this is not the case with the Nigeria Professional Football League whose attention will be on the Super 6 Playoffs that kicks off today at the Mobo­laji Johnson Arena, Onikan Lagos. The Playoff is a child of necessity as it was a compromise tournament that will ensure that Nigeria will register the true winner of the league for the vari­ous CAF club tournaments. Since the league could not kick off last September as planned, an abridged format was the only option left for the country. Supreme Court declaration of the League Man­agement Company, a body responsible for the daily organization of the league, was the last straw that broke the camels back. The League Management Compa­ny was nothing but professional in the management of the league. No sponsors, referees owed indemnities for years; hoo­liganism reigned supreme in the league. The clubs could not discipline any erring club because it personifies indiscipline in all ramifications. It is believed that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) fraudulently floated the LMC to avoid and evade pre-existing debts and other obligations owed by the organisation it succeeded; the Nigeria Premier League Limited, which is orig­inally mandated by law to run a profes­sional football league in Nigeria. Stakeholders breathed a sigh or re­lief when the LMC was declared illegal, prompting the setting up of the Interim Management Committee by the Federal Government. The birth of the IMC led by Hon. Gbenga Elegbeleye last October, brought a new lease of life into the league. The IMC was mandated to professionalise the league both off and on the field; achieve a calendar that would align with Con­federation of Africa Football (CAF) and Europe; Securing television broadcast of live matches of the NPFL and also attracting sustainable funding through sponsorships. In less than a year, the IMC has made strong strides at ensuring that fulfills its mandate. It has attracted sponsors to the league. For the first time in over a decade each of the 20 clubs got N20 million be­fore the kickoff of the abridged league. Referees indemnities are paid 24 hours before a match, and the playoff will be on television. In just six months, the IMC secured sponsorship from partnership with GTI with price money of N100m for winners and N20m for runners up of the 2022/23 season. Not only that, the IMC also se­cured pre-season tournament sponsor­ship from Dozzy Mmbuosi of N100m for the 2022/23 season which was won by Shooting stars FC and N10m each to the four participating clubs as appear­ance fees. The Dozzy Mmbuosi pre-season tournament has been upgraded for the 2023/24 season to an unbelievable N1bil­lion for the winner and N200m for run­ners up, while each of the participating eight clubs would go home with appear­ance fees of N20m each. On the field of play, the standard of refereeing has improved, hooliganism reduced to its barest minimum as erring clubs, referees as promptly sanctioned. Some clubs, whose supporters attack referees, have suffered three points and three goals deduction. No doubt these giant strides will surely open the floodgate for investors to embrace all categories and strata of the Nigerian domestic leagues. This is because NPFL as the flagship of Nige­ria domestic football is already creating such an enabling environment. If in less than a season, the Elegbel­eye led IMC could make these strides, one need not wonder why the defunct LMC in almost a decade management of the league achievement was nothing to write home about. The implication of IMC’s success is that organising a successful league is not a rocket science, but a desire to tru­ly develop the league by doing the right things. What the league truly needs is having people who truly want the league to develop and operate in a conducive environment. And this is what Elegbel­eye and co has brought into the league, which in other words, it’s a breath of new air. In this wise, Alhaji Ibrahim Gusau, the president of the Nigeria Football Federation deserve all the kudos for giv­ing the IMC all the necessary support to succeed. Without Gusau’s support, these strides by the Elegbeleye would be a dream. The truth is that the former league body was either incompetent or it was blindfolded by corruption that it forgot its mission of developing the league.