A report in Spain claims Arsenal have now opened talks with Manchester City midfielder Ilkay Gundogan over a possible summer move to the capital. The 32-year-old has been at the Etihad for seven seasons after joining from Borussia Dortmund back in 2016. The Germany interantional has won everything the game has to offer with Pep Guardiola’s side domestically save for the Champions League. And that could all change on Saturday as he will line up against Inter Milan in the European showpiece. City are strong favourites to take down the Italians in Istanbul and complete a historic treble. Gundogan has made 303 appearances for the north-west giants, scoring 60 goals. But it could be argued that he is currently in the form of his life, with a string of superb displays and vital goals. The man with 66 Germany caps scored both goals as City beat rivals Manchester United to lift the FA Cup. And he also bagged twice against Leeds and Everton as the champions marched on towards yet another Premier League title. However, the former FC Nurnberg star is due to fall out of contract and has offers from several high-profile clubs. POLL Barcelona are reportedly keen to snare the talented forward while Paris Saint-Germain have also been linked. Former club Dortmund are thought to hold an interest while Arsenal have been mentioned in connection with the veteran. Arsenal make move for GundoganMikel Arteta has overseen an upturn in fortunes at the north London outfit. They ended up second behind City in the Premier League after a superb season at the Emirates. And now it seems as though the Spanish tactician wants to land one of his rival’s most influential players. A report in Marca suggests that the Gunners have begun dialogue with Gundogan about the possibility of moving to the club. There is still a long way to go in negotiations and nothing else will happen until after this weekend’s Champions League final. But, if the report is true, it proves Arsenal’s intent to maintain their challenge for silverware. Gundogan may be the wrong side of 30, but his influence at City has been plain for all to see. He has exuded calmness and class on the pitch during the pressurised run-in and would be an asset for any of the aforementioned clubs. And it might be that the champions manage to keep hold of their captain with a lucrative new deal. It will depend on where he wishes to end his career, with his next move likely to be his last. Arteta worked with the Gelsenkirchen-born ace while he was a coach at City. And the Gunners chief will hope that has some influence on Arsenal’s pursuit. Staying at City is a possibility and victory over Inter on Saturday would certainly increase calls for the league champions to secure their talisman. Gundogan has a big decision to make in the coming weeks. And he has certainly earned the right to play for any of the clubs keen on wrapping up a deal this summer.