LAGOS  – New growth corridors, ‘Future of Trade 2030’ a research report by Standard Chartered Bank, has projected Nigeria as the key driver of global trade growth, with its exports drive to reach $127bn by 2030 at an annual growth rate of 9.5 per cent. According to the report, the global trade is set to reach $32.6tn with a growth rate of 5 percent by 2030. The report noted that India to be largest export destination, with high export growth to Poland, Indonesia and Malaysia, while agriculture and food to be the fastest-growing sector at more than 10% annually Trade corridors, according to the report, anchored in Asia, Africa and the Middle East will outpace global trade growth rate by up to four percentage points, driving combined trade volume in these regions to USD14.4tn and to account for 44 per cent of global trade by 2030. “As a result of rapid growth, India is the largest destination for Nigeria’s exports. Export corridors to Poland, Indonesia, and Malaysia are among the fastest-growing. “Nigeria is expected to grow exports from its key sectors, by supporting capacity expansions and entering new markets. “The Nigerian government is focusing on building quality logistics infrastructure to enhance trade capabilities. “The government launched the ‘National Integrated Infrastructure Master Plan’ – a private-sector driven multi-trillion dollar development plan, seeks to enhance the country’s infrastructure over the next two decades”, the report said. POLL The report also revealed that one of the projects undertaken by the plan is the USD1 billion Lekki Deep Sea Port – the first deep sea port in Nigeria, and has the capacity to handle 1.2 million containers annually once completed. The research included a survey of more than 100 global business leaders in 13 markets who shared the following as their top challenges: Rising geopolitical conflicts and tensions (54%),High and volatile energy and commodity prices (52%),Poor infrastructure quality (46%),High inflation (45%),Sanctions, tariffs, export bans (44%)” On digital supply chain finance solutions, the report noted that by 2030, increased adoption of digital supply chain finance solutions could drive up exports by 7.5% in the 13 surveyed markets, an uplift of USD791bn. “Digital supply chain finance solutions can also help drive greater financial inclusion and participation for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), help companies track adherence to ESG criteria and reduce the risk of fraud and cost of monitoring”. Korede Adenowo, CEO Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited, said: “Global trade is set drive the next decade of growth. We aim to help our clients improve access to finance and achieve ESG compliance across their entire supply chains. Digital supply chain finance solutions The report, commissioned by Standard Chartered and prepared by PwC Singapore, provides a view on global trade over the next decade and identifies high growth corridors in Asia, Africa and the Middle East as well as 13 key markets that will define the way ahead. The study is based on an analysis of qualitative and quantitative information from various sources, including historical trade data and trade projections until 2030. All trade figures used in this report are for trade of goods only and do not include trade in services.