LAGOS – The Kogi State Traditional Council of Chiefs led by His Royal Majesty, Alaji Mathew Opaluwa Ogwuche-Akpa, Atta Igala, paid a visit to Governor Yahaya Bello at the Government House in Lokoja on Monday, where it condemned the attack on the convoy of the Governor The group sympathised with the Governor regarding the attack on his convoy by a political group on his way from Abuja to Lokoja on Saturday. Atta Igala strongly condemned the attack, labeling it as a criminal act that musn’t be repeated in Kogi State. His Royal Majesty, Alaji Mathew Opaluwa Ogwuche-Akpa, also cautioned politicians and their supporters, urging them to conducted campaigns without resort to violence or intimidation. His Royal Majesty, the Ohimege-Igu of Koto Karfe, Abdulrazaq Isah Koto, prayed for wellbeing of Bello and progress of the state, pointing out that the state has enjoyed relative peace under the leadership of Bello, and urged politicians to adhere to the established rules. Governor Bello, in his remarks expressed surprise at the conduct of those who attacked his convoy on Saturday. He said that on his way to Abuja on May 25th, his convoy encountered a roadblock allegedly set up by protesting truck drivers who claimed to have issues with the task force. According to him after waiting for hours, enduring untold hardship alongside other commuters, he joined the security personnel in clearing the road. POLL “The perpetrators, who had subjected other road users to such harsh conditions, were subsequently arrested and charged by the security forces. “The governor emphasised that such actions were meant to serve as a deterrent to others who may attempt to take laws into their own hands,” the statement read. Bello noted that he was originally scheduled to participate in the unveiling of the APC deputy gubernatorial candidate on Friday. However, due to a meeting of the Progressive Governors Forum with the President, Bola Tinubu he requested the party to reschedule the programme for Saturday. “As a result of a hectic week, he was taking a nap in his car while on his way to Lokoja, and when he noticed that the convoy wasn’t moving, he inquired about the reason and was informed by his security details that it was Muri’s convoy causing the delay. “Despite frantic efforts by his security details to find a way through, he had no choice but to follow behind Murtala’s convoy from Koto Karfe to Lokoja, covering a distance of approximately 30 kilometers to the point his convoy was attacked. He called on the security forces, including the traditional rulers, to play their part in ensuring the continuity of peace in the state ahead of the election. Bello commended the traditional rulers for their proactive and fatherly guidance, expressing his appreciation for their visit and sympathy. He highlighted the historical connection between the Igala and Ebira people, emphasising that politicians campaigning along ethnic and religious lines are causing problems.