Nigeria, according to data from the National Bureau for Statistics (NBS) has a total of 195,000 km of roads for an estimated 213.40 million inhabitants, while the Government’s Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission, said about 60,000 km are paved as of 2019. It is a country where over 80 per cent of mobility of people, goods and services is done on the roads, there is a need for governments at all levels to give diligent attention to road transportation development while developing other modes of transportation to augment it and a multi-modal means of commuting as in the case of Lagos State. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State in his address during the commissioning of the 14 kilometres Blue rail project from Mile Two – Okokomaiko, said his administration’s vision for an integrated transport system, as enunciated in the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda, was beginning to be a reality, stressing that the transportation plan of his government was a multimodal approach that would bring road, rail, and waterways together for seamless mobility. The governor came up with the THEMES agenda at the inception of his administration and has been working assiduously to ensure he delivers on the target projects contained in the agenda, especially projects and programmes designed to tackle commuting challenges in the State through a world-class multimodal transport system. Mr. Fola Tinubu, MD/CEO, Primero Transport Service Limited, operating the Ikorodu to TBS and Oshodi to Abule-Egba axis of the BRT corridor in Lagos, in an interview granted before the removal of the subsidy payment on PMS, said, “All over the world, people spend between 15 and 25 per cent of their revenue or income for public transportation. In Nigeria, and particularly in Lagos, people are already spending up to some 75 per cent of their income on public transportation. “So, there is no room for you to increase transport fares, in fact, every time we have an increase, we lose a lot of our people because they find alternatives; some of them travel from say, Ikorodu on Monday to hang out with their friends or family in their places of work on the Island returning only at the weekends to save costs on transportation. “Let me say something to you. There is a reason why governments all over the world subsidize public transportation, it’s to make it affordable. I just told you that Nigerians are spending almost about 75 per cent of their income on public transportation. “So, they cannot afford to get any increase in public transportation. So, the only solution if we want to have a proper public transportation system, as we do all over the world, is for the federal government, state government and local government to step to the plate or find a solution by subsidising it. POLL “I don’t know where we read our economics. All over the world government taxes petrol to discourage people from driving. “In England, almost about 35 per cent of what you pay for petrol is taxed. Even in America, about 25% of what you pay for fuel is also taxed. That’s what we are subsidizing. “The whole world subsidizes public transportation to make it affordable so that people can leave their cars at home and get on public transport. That’s the one we’re not subsidising. That’s what we want to make a profit from. “It does not make sense because the whole world cannot be wrong. There must be a reason. Capitalists, communists, and socialists, all of them subsidize public transport. “The irony is this. I read somewhere, that the top 5 per cent of rich Nigerians, use about 60 to 70 per cent of the petrol consumed in the country. They are the ones with three, four and five cars, who use generators all of the time, while the bottom 50 per cent use less than 10 per cent of petrol, because many do not have cars of their own, using public transportation all the time. It’s only when they board public transportation that they use petrol. “So. why should government subsidize me, while the ordinary masses out there that need help are not being helped? It does not make any political, economic, or social sense. If the whole world is doing something in a particular way, why are we different? That is the question we need to be asking ourselves.” Afolabi Akanle, an Auditor with a large Auditing firm, explained that an employee earning the minimum monthly wage of N30,000 and living in the outer part of Lagos where accommodation is affordable would expectedly spend more than 50 per cent of his earning on transport to work alone depending on where the work is located, mainly Ikeja, Lagos Island or Victoria Island. “An average of N750 to N1000 spent per day in 20 working days a month will amount to N15,000-N20,000 monthly on transport. This will reduce the purchasing power of the citizens to access other social services and products and other opportunities. “Hence, public transport remains relatively expensive for most of its population. It is estimated that about 65 per cent of the city’s population are urban poor most of who rely on the public transport system for their daily commuting as 52 per cent of households in Lagos own no cars, according to LAMATA.” He added. Akanle emphasized that figures from LAMATA show that 80 per cent of the daily passenger trips were made by public transport, implying that over half of the households in Lagos depend on public transport for mobility and accessibility. Making transport affordable should be the major policy thrust of this government to assuage the suffering of the masses occasioned by the removal of fuel subsidy, which lead to the spike in transport fares, Cosmos Orji, an Investment Management Consultant said. “However, there is a need to know how this would be carried out because the different modes of transportation should also be involved. Generally, subsidies are implemented to make public transport affordable, especially for low-income people, and are thus very important to achieve affordability. According to a World Bank document titled, “Affordability and Subsidies in Public Urban Transport”, two kinds of policies were identified depending on the side targeted by the policy. These are supply-side subsidies and demand-side subsidies. “Even though it is difficult to determine if these subsidies have positively impacted the poor in different societies, demand-side subsidies have proven to perform better although they mostly do not improve income distribution. “Besides encouraging a shift from supply-side subsidies to demand-side, the paper also advocated integrating transport social concerns into wider poverty alleviation efforts.”Orji pointed out. Referring to Lagos State, Orji said, the Lagos Transport Policy suggests that the government’s subsidy is targeted only at the supply side as the emphasis is laid basically on encouraging and removing all barriers towards the private sector participation in the development, provision, maintenance, operation and upgrading of transport infrastructure and services. Orji elaborated further, “The Lagos policy seems to be based on the assumption that supporting and creating an enabling environment for the private sector to operate would bring about an efficient and affordable public transport in the state. This approach echoes through most of the government’s public transport initiatives which include the Bus Rapid Transport system and the First and Last Mile Transport Scheme.” Experts say since mobility is an essential part of human life, especially in cities, the government has no option but to ensure that modern infrastructures are in place and subsequently must be accountable for the regulation of the industry. To also tackle challenges facing the industry such as the very poor standard of public transport infrastructures, a very large number of bad and untarred roads, poor and unplanned road networks, use of unsafe and rickety vehicles by road transport operators, lack of professionals and trained specialists in the management of the sector. The government is expected to inject new ideas and innovation into the system. Last but not least is the lack of a modern-day technology system needed to drive greater efficiency and productivity in the sector. Lagos commuters expressed some uncommon excitement, though short-lived when Gov Sanwo-Olu announced a 50 per cent slash in the transport fare on all Lagos state government-run public transport vehicles, in February this year. The reduction was a result of a hike in Fuel prices coupled with the redesigning of the Naira, leading to scarcity of cash and exacerbating the already growing cost of transportation. The situation led to a major socio-economic shake-up in the country, with threatening upheavals that could compare with the ‘ENDSARS’ or even surpass it if not properly managed. The government should therefore prioritize the improvement of public transportation infrastructure, particularly in major cities. Investing in modernising bus fleets, constructing dedicated bus lanes, and establishing well-connected transport hubs can enhance the efficiency and reliability of public transportation. By offering reliable alternatives to private vehicles, the government can reduce traffic congestion, lower fuel consumption, and decrease greenhouse gas emissions. The federal government, in strong collaboration with the state government, should develop and implement a comprehensive mass transportation policy framework that outlines goals, objectives, and strategies for promoting mass transportation in Nigeria. Introduce and enforce regulations and incentives to encourage the use of public transportation, such as designated bus lanes, congestion charges, and reduced fares for certain groups, like students and senior citizens. Collaborate with private sector partners to establish public-private partnerships for the operation and maintenance of mass transportation systems, ensuring sustainable funding and efficient management should be invited, welcome and encouraged. In conclusion, the removal of petroleum subsidies in Nigeria is necessary, but as expected places a very heavy burden on the Nigerian masses. To cushion the effects of this policy, the Tinubu government should prioritize unlocking renewable energy access and promoting electronic mass transportation. These measures can provide immediate relief to the suffering masses while setting the foundation for a sustainable and resilient energy and transportation sector in Nigeria. Invest in the development and expansion of efficient and reliable public transportation systems, including buses, trams, and light rail networks, to provide affordable and accessible options for commuters.