…Says We Have To Make Sacrifices, Shun Ethnic, Religious Rivalries …Shettima Urges Nigerians To Imbibe Virtues Of Sacrifice, Forgiveness …Tinubu Taking Courageous Steps To Reposition Nigeria — APC INNOCENT OWEH; SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE President Bola Ahmed Tinu­bu on Wednesday in Lagos urged Nigerians to have faith in God that the country will experience peace, stability and prosperity. Speaking to reporters after observing the Eid-el-Kabir prayers at Dodan Barracks prayer ground, the president stressed the need for unity and cooperation, appealing to Nigerians to eschew ethnic and religious rivalries. While noting that Allah would not burden the coun­try with what it cannot bear, the president said: “I thank Almighty Allah for keeping us in good health till today and pray to Him to grant us robust health and prosperity. May our sacrifices turn to prosperity. We have to make the sacrifices and that is clear, we have to. “But Allah will not give you a burden that you cannot car­ry. He is there for us. We must have faith in the country. Have faith in ourselves, believing that as citizens of this country, we must join hands to build the nation. POLL “No religious identity, no tribal identity, let us live with one another in joy and pros­perity. Nigeria will see peace, stability and God will grant peace to those of us at the warfront.” The president also used the occasion to pray for Nigerian troops in the frontline in the fight against insurgency, say­ing it is his earnest desire and that of the nation that they emerge victorious. The Eid prayer, which started at 9a.m. was led by the Chief Imam of Lagos State, Sheikh Sulaiman Oluwatoyin Abu-Nolah. The Chief Imam later performed the obligatory slaughtering of ram at the Eid prayer ground in celebra­tion of the significance of the noble act of Prophet Ibrahim in total obedience to Allah’s command. Speaking on behalf of La­gos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat felicitated Muslims across Nigeria and in the state for the joy of the Eid-el-Kabir celebration, urging them to unite behind President Tinubu in his deter­mination to make the country better. “It is our duty to pray for our leaders. We must pray for our president that God should help him to succeed in the task before him.” Femi Gbajabiamila, the Chief of Staff to President, appreciated God and Lago­sians for the love shown to President Tinubu when he arrived in Lagos on Tuesday from an official trip when people trooped out to wel­come him from Ikeja to his residence in Ikoyi. He said that the gesture was only a testament of the hope that Asiwaju promises Nigerians. “That hope has been mani­fested, it has manifested in 30 days, a hope that we thought will manifest in four years began to manifest within one week, continued its mani­festation within two weeks, continued that manifestation within three weeks and up till now. The manifestation will continue from now till four years.” He said it is only Allah that has made it possible, that the weight of Nigeria is not the weight any normal human being can carry except with the help of Almighty Allah. “It is evidence therefore that Almighty Allah has made him our president, he is carrying the weight for him, it is clear to Mr. Presi­dent and it is clear to us and those of us who fear God that he will not be where he is today if not for the benev­olence of Allah. “I don’t need to repeat history, we all witnessed the election, we all saw what hap­pened, no human being ex­cept with the blessing of God could have won that election. It is not Asiwaju’s doing, it is not my doing, but it is the do­ing of Almighty Allah and we must continue to thank and praise him and he will contin­ue to do it”, he said. Gbajabiamila therefore called on all Nigerians to sup­port the president, saying this is a difficult time for Nigeria, but all will be over, stressing that all the president needs is prayer. Similarly, Hakeem Mu­ri-Okunola, Lagos State Head of Service, urged Nigerians to be patriotic and make the nec­essary sacrifices that are part of the Islamic faith. He noted that in order to reap the benefits of sacrifice, one needs to make sacrifice, saying that is what today symbolises, urging Nigeri­ans to imbibe the culture of sacrificing. He said for things to get better, we have to go through some form of pain to reap the gain and that is what to­day, Eid-el Kabir symbolis­es, sacrificing for the sake of Allah and for the sake of prosperity. He further prayed for the president, acknowledging that he started on a good note and that may Allah give him strength and the wisdom to steer the nation in the right direction as he has started to do so already. The prayer was also attend­ed by the National Security Adviser, Mallam Nuhu Rib­adu; former governor of La­gos State and immediate past Minister of Works and Hous­ing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola; Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mu­dashiru Obasa, among other notable government officials and top politicians. Why Virtues Of Sacrifice, Forgive­ness Are Key — Shettima Similarly, in commemora­tion of this year’s Eid-ul-Ad­ha, Vice President Kashim Shettima has called on Nige­rians to imbibe the virtues of sacrifice and forgiveness while praying for the unity and progress of the country. Vice President Shettima made the call on Wednesday in a message to mark this year’s celebrations. The VP had earlier ob­served the Eid prayers at the National Eid ground, Abuja, in the company of the Speak­er, House of Representatives, Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, and Deputy Senate President, Sen. Barau Jibrin, among other faithful. “This sacred day is an occa­sion to reflect on the mercy of Allah, as revealed through the gracious blessings bestowed upon Prophet Ibrahim and his son, Prophet Isma’il. “These timeless lessons serve as a guiding light to hu­manity across generations, reminding us of the limitless trials our Creator presents to us in our path to redemption. In embracing these teachings, we find the moral inspiration to be the best versions of our­selves. “May Allah accept our prayers and sacrifices and for­give our shortcomings. May Allah heal us from whatever afflicts us in our private lives and as a nation, and may this day bring forth enduring uni­ty and progress to our beloved country. Ameen. Happy Eid-ul-Adha.” Tinubu Taking Courageous Steps To Reposition Nigeria— APC Meanwhile, the leadership of the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) has hailed Pres­ident Bola Tinubu for taking bold steps since his inaugura­tion on May 29 to reposition Nigeria for economic growth in line with the administra­tion’s ‘Renewed Hope’ agenda. This was even as the rul­ing party congratulated Ni­gerians, especially the Mus­lim faithful, on the occasion of Eid-el-Kabir, the Islamic festival of sacrifice, with a passionate appeal for them to have compassion on the needy and less-privileged in society. The felicitation was con­tained in a statement issued by the APC National Public­ity Secretary, Felix Morka, in Abuja on Wednesday. The statement read, “This year’s celebration remark­ably coincides with a period in our nation’s history when our dear President, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is tak­ing some courageous and de­cisive steps to reposition our beloved country for rapid eco­nomic growth and wholesome greatness in line with his ad­ministration’s Renewed Hope agenda. “We urge Nigerians to subscribe to the virtues of sacrifice and patience as we soldier on in our quest for a better Nigeria. We also enjoin our Muslim compatriots to continue to show compas­sion towards the needy and less-privileged among us as they celebrate.”