LAGOS – A civil society group, Save Nige­ria Movement, has said the eligi­bility conditions and process for granting permanent residency status or Nigerian citizenship to a foreigner can only be reviewed through a constitution amend­ment. It, therefore, urged the rele­vant institutions of state to re­consider this in the next effort at amendment to the constitution, stressing that the country should have easier pathways to citizen­ship for foreigners than currently obtains. The group, in a statement signed by its Convener, Rev. Solomon Semaka, in Abuja on Thursday said it was reacting to reports that the Federal Govern­ment had introduced a Brown Card as a document that confers permanent residency status and citizenship on foreigners. Part of the reasons adduced by the immediate-past Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Oregbe­sola, for introducing the Brown Card was to shorten the 15-year waiting period for foreigners as eligibility criterion for being granted citizenship to five years as in countries like the United States of America. Reacting to this, Semaka said, “The Minister of Interior acknowledged that only a consti­tution amendment could change the eligibility criteria for gaining Nigerian citizenship in speech delivered during the conferment of citizenship on foreigners on May 27. So any pronouncement to this effect that does not accom­modate constitution amendment is only a wish.” The group also said that statement deploying a parallel programme that competes with existing ones would worsen the already fragile security situa­tion and the safety of the nation against foreign nationals who come into the country with ulte­rior motives that undermine the country’s security system. It stressed: “Introducing the brown card is tantamount to introducing a parallel platform for escapee defaulters in the pay­ment for existing programmes. “Our investigations have shown that unscrupulous agents have already started calling ex­patriates in their data base to pay as much USD 5,000 with the promise that they could grant them residency and citizenship application waivers in the guise of Brown Card, even when the process to its introduction is still a long way to go.”