ABUJA – As the residents of Abuja await the appointment of the new Minister that would pilot the affairs of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) the nation’s capital, a group under the auspices of Abuja Political Advancement Group (APAG), has called on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to consider the appointment of Khairat Gwadabe as Minister of the FCT. In a statement signed by Asanbe Mohammed and  Ayodele Idris Ajibola the Chairman and Secretary of the group respectively expressed confidence that Gwadabe is best suited for the role considering her antecedents and wealth of experience as pioneer Senator of the FCT. The group noted that the best hand with prerequisite credentials should be given the privilege to occupy such office in the interest of all Nigerians. According to the statement “Many are jostling for these offices in the name of indigene and many are believing that just because they have held office before they merit such appointment. “To the party faithful and loyalists we believe the best of hand should be given the privilege to occupy such office in the interest of all Nigerians as well as protect the interest of the governing party. “Senator Khairat Gwadabe is an enigma to those political jobbers in FCT  but she is a party faithful who has been working in the interest of the capital territory politically to ensure FCT is put back on the radar of national politics. “The pioneer Senator of FCT female Senator with capacity, chaired various committees while in the red chamber and afterwards she emerged Chairman of the Senators Forum, through which former and serving senators share their knowledge and experience. “She has never relented in playing her role as a mother to all both indigenous and non- indigenous people in the territory.” POLL The statement noted that the position of FCT Minister is very critical to the success of this administration and must be reserved for the best hand. APAG said appointing Gwadabe as FCT Minister gives credence to President Tinubu’s government in gender equality in line with 35% affirmative action of women in governance. The group said it has no doubt that  President Ahmed Bola Tinubu will make the best choice for the nation’s seat of power and put the round pegs in the round holes.