A popular Nigerian On-Air-Per­sonality, Rebecca Oluwafunmi­layo Edun, has charged second­ary school students, particularly those in the Arts Department to remain focused and pursue their dreams with determination in spite of the daunting challenges ahead. Edun, who is popularly known as Beccablisse, gave the advice when she visited her Alma Mater, Reagan Memorial Baptist Girls Secondary School, as part of activities marking her birthday and as a way of giving back to the school, which accord­ing to her, helped her to become who she is today. Beccablisse, who is also a model and whose voice enter­tains and inspires listeners on Naija FM 102.7, described the occasion, themed “Beccablisse and the Girls”, as a homecoming of sorts. She was accompanied by a former student of the school and other celebrities and friends in­cluding Actor Akeem Ogara and Media Personalities, DJ Schullz, and Bibi Raii. Also, on the train was the tall­est model in Sub-Saharan Africa, Mubarak Bakare, and Fashion Designer, Dames by Hadassah. Speaking during the visit, Beccablisse said that the occa­sion was a way of giving back to the school that helped her into the gorgeous personality she has become, ready to help the children dream and aspire to be anything they choose to become in the future. Going down memory lane during a chat with the students, she recalled her days in the school and the challenges faced as an Arts student, which includ­ed discrimination and bullying. She however encouraged the students to be focused and reached for the stars in their journey in life. POLL The students were over­whelmed to see an accom­plished professional who passed through the school, took turns to dance, recited poetry, and acted in drama on stage to the delight of the visitors. Radio personality, Bibii Raii, charged the students to be coura­geous in chasing their dreams and have plans in addition to taking their education seriously. In her own contribution, DJ Schullz spoke to the girls from the perspective of a mother who understands what teenage girls go through and encouraged the students not to entertain any form of distraction from any quarter. The excitement of the stu­dents became more palpable when Mubarak Bakare stood up to speak, obviously because of his height. Bakare also ad­monished the girls to believe in themselves, saying, “You can achieve much more than they are thinking at the mo­ment.” Actor Akeem Ogara remind­ed the students that they are Ni­geria’s future leaders as he spoke about his career as an actor and listed the benefits of being an Arts student. Fashion designer, Mrs. Es­ther Ogungbade, rounded off the first day of activities by re­minding the girls about the im­portance of putting God first in everything they do. The top 10 Arts students in SS2 were taken to Megalectrics Nig Ltd, Operators of Beat 99.9FM, Naija FM 102.7, Classic FM 97.3 & Lagos Talks 91.3 on the second day where they interact­ed with OAPs in the four stations as well as an excursion to Terra Kulture.