The news of the death of Chief Raymond Dopkesi was quite shocking as Nigeria has just lost a truly patriotic and an entrepre­neur noted for ever pushing the frontiers of possibilities – founder of the DAAR Communications media empire, follow­ing his earlier establishment of the first private radio station in Nigeria, Raypower FM. He was such a towering trustworthy figure. I first met him about 1998 when I was invited to host a regular live TV pro­gramme on AIT called “You and The Con­stitution” conceived as way to sensitize Nigerians constitutionally in readiness for the expected return to constitutional democracy. There was no hesitation whatsoever on my part. The only conditioned I gave was that I would not accept undue in­terference with the jurisprudential and conceptual aspects of the programming which I felt was well within my turf and, to his eternal credit, the Chief kept to his promise and never interfered with my professional choice of topics and dis­cussants beyond the routine provision of technical advice and clues for aesthetics improvements. I remember vividly an occasion during the experts’ analyses of the presidential results that were pouring in from every part of the country. It became certain at some point that Candidate Obasanjo was coasting home to victory. The Chief who was evidently expectant then slipped in a note suggesting that we accord AIT the “Breaking News” proud “exclusivity” of the victory of OBJ. I responded saying that CNN and other US TV networks could free­ly “project” winners of elections because there was a strong First Amendment con­stitutional protection available to them, something we didn’t have as clearly in Nigeria. All I could do was to say some­thing to the effect that “from the results coming in, it is very likely that General Obasanjo has got a job to do for the next the four years”. The Chief concurred without demur. Chief Dokpesi was a courageous stickler for truth. It was therefore not a surprise that after the PDP lost the pres­idential election in 2015, he was the only party chieftain who openly owned up to the fact that PDP, while in power, made some mistakes and therefore sought for understanding as they moved on, some­thing that is alien to our politics. He was opened-minded and urbane, an uncommon patriot. Nigeria will miss him. Adieu!