MAKURDI – Governor of Benue State, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia has set up the Assets Recovery Committee and the Facts Finding Committee for the Benue State University (BSU), Makurdi. Sir Kula Tersoo, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the Benue State Governor, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen in Makurdi on Sunday. Kula noted that the Governor had directed the Committee to interface with stakeholders of the institution to come up with solutions to end the incessant strike actions and probably unearth other teething issues affecting the university. He said, “This is to clarify to the public, BSU management, Association Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), BSU Chapter, Students’ Union (SU) and Parents’ Association that the Committee set up and inaugurated by His Excellency, Rev. Fr. Dr. Hyacinth Iormem Alia is only mandated to interface with the above-mentioned stakeholders in the university. “They are to look at the issues surrounding the ongoing strike and recommend possible solutions to the Governor for necessary action”, he stated. According to the statement, the Chief of Staff (CoS) to the Governor, Rt. Hon. Paul Biam would serve as Chairman of the BSU, Fact Finding Committee. Other members of the Committee areBarr. Jacob Ajene, Rt. Hon. Terkimbi Ikyange, Prof. Eugene Alyegba, while Mr. Agbo Ochekpe is Member/Secretary of the Committee. In a related development, Governor Alia has Constituted two Assets Recovery Committees; one at the state and another at the Local Government level. POLL The Assets Recovery Committees are charged with the responsibility of ascertaining all government assets, including land, vehicles, houses, furniture and other machinery that belong to government. At the State level, the Assets Recovery Committee has a retired Permanent Secretary, Hingah Biem as Chairman, while Barr. Tormbuwua Terlumun is to serve as Member/Secretary. Other members of the Committee areBarr. Joe Abaagu, Hon. Dennis Akura, Hon. Ioryue Yajir, Peter Egbodo, Hon. Joseph Ojobo, Jonathan Modi, Barr. Shaageer Matins, Yuhe Jerome and Barr. Tom Uja. On the other hand, the Assets Recovery Committee at the LG level is headed byJude Tyo PhD who will serve as Chairman, while Rt. Hon Nick Eworo is to serve as Member/Secretary. Other members of the Committee areBarr. Aondowase Apera, Hon. Kwaghgba Amande, Richard Dzungweve, Rt. Hon. Anthony Sende, Olofu Ogwuche and Mr. Terver Kachina. The CPS to the Governor said, “Both Committees will have representatives from the Department of State Security; the Police, Military and the Nigeria Civil Defence Corps.