BENIN – A pharmacist, Mr. Fred Iboi, on Thursday urged pharmacists to be involved in partisan politics if they want to entrench the prac­tice of community pharmacy in Nigeria. Iboi, who is the Managing Di­rector of Flowell Pharmacy, Be­nin City, spoke as the chairman of the 2023 summit of the Edo State chapter of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN). He noted that since policies were formulated by political office holders, it was important that pharmacists got involved in politics so that they would be able to influence policies that could enhance community pharmacy, stressing that it was only when they were involved that their interests would be protected. According to the pharmacist, “Pharmacists should go into politics as one of the emerging opportunities. If you don’t have anyone in government, nobody will speak for you. ‘As one of the emerging op­portunities, it is your respon­sibility to see that whenever any pharmacist is contesting an election, we must mobilise to support him or her. Those in government make the laws and we need to be represented.” While commending Gov­ernor Godwin Obaseki for his efforts at revamping primary healthcare delivery in the state, Iboi noted that with the govern­ment policy, “every ward in the state is earmarked for one pri­mary healthcare centre. New ones are being built and the old ones are being renovated.” “Pharmacist are needed in the rural areas. Community pharmacy is another emerging opportunity. The current policy in place on community pharma­cy needs to be fine-tuned if phar­macists are to take their clinical experiences to the rural areas,” Iboi submitted. Welcoming participants to the Summit with the theme, “Emerging Opportunities for Pharmacy in Healthcare De­livery: Community Pharma­cists’ Preparedness”, the state’s chairman of ACPN, Dr Allen Iboi, said that the theme was “carefully chosen to proactively espouse the new frontiers for community pharmacists in 21st century healthcare delivery and also stimulate commitment from our colleagues to explore same.” POLL Oboi also disclosed that over the past few years, the leadership of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) and the ACPN at the national level had had sev­eral engagements with various health sector stakeholders with a view to expanding the roles of pharmacists in healthcare delivery. He added that such engage­ments led to “pharmacists, particularly community phar­macists, being considered in the conversation with respect to primary healthcare services including vaccination/immuni­zation, contraception and family planning services, health insur­ance provision, consultancy cad­re and more.”