ABUJA – A group, under the auspices of Coalition of Civil Society on National and Community Security Development, has advised President Bola Ahmed Tinubu against using sentiments or political patronage in appointing a substantive National Security Adviser (NSA) for the country. According to the group, this is the time President Tinubu should deploy his vast experience as a politician to choose an NSA that knows his onions and can deliver on the job. Danladi Garba, Executive Director, the People’s Care and Advocacy Initiatives (TPCAI), while addressing a press conference on behalf of the group on Tuesday, in Abuja, noted that the antecedents of Tinubu in the last two weeks he assumed office speak volumes of a man ready for pragmatic reforms. Although Garba was not specific on who he thinks deserves such appointment, he said the personality to occupy the office should be one that can tackle Nigeria’s daunting security challenges headlong. He said the new NSA must be a knowledgeable, innovative, and experienced personality that understands the security architecture of Nigeria; a personality that will earn technical support from global securities apparatus for new secure Nigeria. According to the CSO, “There is no room for mediocrity and lukewarmness. A tried and tested hand who has transformed or built a national security and diplomatic outfit will be a good fit. He said: “There is no time for theoreticians and office workers. It is urgent and critical. There is a crying need for complete transformative change in the security architectures in Nigeria. “Judging by Tinubu’s utterances and actions in the last two weeks, we believe he knows the gargantuan security challenges we presently face as a nation. He should not be easily cowed by politically-induced influence but adopt pragmatic consideration in the appointment of his NSA. POLL “We urge and appeal to Mr. President to shun politics in this vital appointment and consult widely for a logical conclusion by putting a round peg in a round hole in his choice as National Security Adviser”.