To tackle insecurity in Omala, as 8th Assembly inaugurated in Kogi LOKOJA – The newly sworn-in member of the Kogi state House of Assembly, representing Omala state Constituency, Hon.  Umar Yahaya Connect, has assured his constituents of his determination to use every available legislative and diplomacy to resolve the lingering internecine clashes that has rocked Bagana communities in Omala Local Government Area of Kogi state. Honourable Umar Yahaya gave the assurance on Tuesday at a reception held in his honour by the constituents to celebrate his inauguration into the House of Assembly held in Lokoja This is just as he said his thematic area of priority would be anchored on women and youth development, adding that his acronym “Connect” would be practically demonstrated to provide necessary assistance for their growth and development. He lamented at the ill-fated Bagana crisis that has consumed hundreds of lives and property worth millions of naira and has defiled previous resolutions, stressing that he will employ all known legislation and diplomacy to end the carnage. He pledge to make the crisis a front burner for the present administration to tackle through bills that will ensure that insecurity bedeviling Bagana communities and the entire Omala LGA is brought to a halt. He said, the bill that he will sponsor, if passed and accented to by the Executive Governor, will be acceptable to all the warring factions in the crisis which will be too hard for anyone to go contrary to its provisions thereby permanently resolving the crisis. The lawmaker, who was of high praise to the incumbent chairman of Omala Local Council, Hon Ibrahim Yakubu Aboh, who stood by him throughout the electioneering process. POLL He stated that God is the one that gives power to whom he wishes to give, but does so through human instruments, saying Aboh, was the instrument that God used to bring him to the House of Assembly. He promised to make his contacts, connections and the powers that the House of Assembly has conferred on him to wrestle the dividend of Democracy and to fast tract sustainable development to Omala LGA. Umar assured women and youth of his commitment and readiness to ensure that their empowerment has become his main priority. He noted that his concern for them knows no bounds and as such, they should be rest assured that in his 100 days in office, there will be practical solutions to issues that concern them. He called on the constituents to scale up their support for him, stating that their support for his election was without prejudice, he however, solicits for more support to enable him to succeed in his assignment. In a remark, the Executive Chairman of Omala Local Government Council, Hon Ibrahim Yakubu Aboh assured the people, that the Umar he knows, would not disappoint them as he will be a voice that will sound loudest in the House. He admitted the oratory prowess of the lawmaker which he said will mark him out, stressing that as the lawmaking business is more of talking, he will make Omala proud. He advised him not to forget in a hurry, the platform that brought him on board, urging him to work hard to actualize his campaign promises to the people. While calling on the stakeholders and the citizenry to put all hands on deck for unalloyed support for the lawmaker to wrestle from the state all the benefits due to Omala LGA. In their separate remarks, a former Head of Service, Professor Moses Atakpa, Former Ambassador to Botswana, Isaac Onuh, Ex chairman of the council, Commissioner of Kogi State Electoral Commission, Hon. Labaran Oyigebe and Hon. Laz Akubo described the celebrant as a unifier who has whittled down the influence of party affiliations in the Omala body politics. They call on the people to intensify their support for the lawmaker to enable him to succeed in the task ahead of him.