Ahead of the November 11 governorship election in Bayelsa State, a coalition of youths and stakeholders from the four state constituencies of the Southern Ijaw Local Government Area has resolved to work with intelligence and security agencies to checkmate the activities of election riggers in the area. They also vowed to set up intelligence structures in all the units and communities to expose riggers of elections in Southern Ijaw as part of their collaboration with the security agencies. They came up with these in a communique issued after a one-day conference held at the Angiama community town hall on Thursday while declaring the adoption of Bayelsa State Governor and Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) flagbearer, Douye Diri, as their sole candidate for the forthcoming polls. The theme of the conference was, “Youths’ Participation/Partnership in the Politics of Development: A Case Study of Governor Diri’s Road Infrastructural Revolution in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area”. According to the communique which was signed by the chairman and secretary of the conference, Kei Job and Juliu Kuraideidei, the stakeholders cited performance and execution of people-oriented infrastructural projects in the area as reason for adopting Diri. They urged security and intelligence agencies to take special interest in Southern Ijaw, saying that some political elements in the area were in the habit of manipulating electoral process to throw up fake figures of votes to satisfy their selfish interests. The communique read in part: “That the security and intelligence community should take special interest in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, where some known political elements specialise in manufacturing delusory votes to satisfy their inordinate desires. The youths and people of the local government area have resolved to police every unit to ensure that the right thing is done. “The group resolved to set up a unit-by-unit political formation and a second-tier community-by-community Dirified Army across Southern Ijaw Local Government Area with the sole aim of galvanizing, mobilising and protecting the votes of our people during and after the electioneering period. POLL “The group also discussed extensively, the developmental strides of the Governor of Bayelsa State with regard to the ongoing Yenagoa-Southern Ijaw road project and declared that Governor Douye Diri has proven to be a true son of Southern Ijaw Local Government Area; and that in appreciation the people have resolved to make him the sole governorship candidate of the local government area. “The good people of Southern Ijaw Local Government Area appreciate the governor and the deputy governor of Bayelsa State for the peace and social harmony that has permeated every facets of the state. The meeting urged other political actors to take a cue from the non-violent disposition of the Miracle Governor, Senator Douye Diri and his dynamic Deputy Governor, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, not to overheat the polity as the campaign season enters its feverish pitch.” Speaking, a youth leader and convener of the conference, Robert Igali, commended the youths and stakeholders for their peaceful conduct, stressing that the governor had earned the confidence of the people of Southern Ijaw as he had brought peace, security and development to the area.