ASABA  – Governor of Delta State, Rt Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, has promised that his admin­istration would be fair, just and equitable to all parts of the state. He said that every senato­rial district would be treated equally in terms of projects and appointments. Oborevwori gave the pledge at a grand reception in honour of immediate-past governor of the state, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, held on Sat­urday at Owa Model College, Boji-Boji, Owa, Ika North- East Local Government Area of the state. According to him, “We have promised to do more for Deltans for entrusting us with this cherished mandate and we will do so with the fear of God.” He commended the Ika na­tion for organising the recep­tion in honour of the former governor, saying, “You have done very well for the people of Delta and your eight years in the saddle have been very wonderful and impactful on the lives of our people. “There is nothing as good as your people celebrating you because some people will finish serving in public office and they cannot return home. “But, here you are being celebrated and given a hero’s welcome by your people and Deltans have come in their large numbers to honour you today in appreciation of your good deeds. “I want to appreciate the Ika nation for organising this hosting in your honour and I appeal to Deltans to extend same love and support shown you to our administration. POLL “The immediate-past gov­ernor is very experienced in governance and leadership and I learnt a lot from him in the last eight years. “I want to serve you people and to be a governor for all Deltans. I will be fair to you all in everything we are going to do in this administration,” Oborevwori assured. Oborevwori at the cere­mony approved the naming of the Old Lagos-Asaba Road cutting across Ika North East and Ika South LGAs after Okowa as requested by the Council Chairmen, Hon. Vic­tor Ebonka and Hon. Sunny Tatabuzuogu. In his remarks, Okowa thanked the Ika nation and Deltans for the honour done to him and his family and ap­preciated everyone who sup­ported his administration’s success story. “Am truly very excited to be back home and to be received in this manner and I must thank you all for hon­ouring me and my family. “Coming home in this way gives me a lot of peace and joy because when your peo­ple receive you the manner they have received us, it gives us a lot of comfort because it shows that we can return home anytime. “Throughout my eight years Ika nation was very peaceful and that gave me the opportunity to perform my duties very well and I must thank our youths and all stakeholders for the peace we are enjoying across the state. “Let me appreciate all Deltans for their prayers and support and I owe you all gratitude because Delta has continued to prove its worth in the comity of states in this nation. “I thank God for the sup­port we got from all elected and appointed public officials. We are proud to have done the best we could given the circumstances that we found ourselves but we were able to impact on the lives of our people,” he said.