The race for Senator Ahmed Lawan’s successor has been generating a lot of controversy. Some contenders and their supporters are even using ethnic and religious sentiments to seek support. Senator Bamidele Opeyemi, the Senator representing Ekiti- Central at the red chamber of the National Assembly speaks about the chances of some of the top contenders in this interview. He gives reasons, former Governor Abdulaziz Yari won’t be qualified for nomination. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What should Nigerians expect in the election of the Senate President on Tuesday? The standing order to be used in the election of presiding officers and the inauguration of a new National assembly, following the position of section 60 says that we shall have power to regulate our procedure. The Senate instituted some rules of engagement which we call, our standing order. Order 3 paragraph 2, I to 3, the Senate standing order and rules 22 as amended is very explicit. It provides for ranking status and identifies three categories of Senators for the purpose of the contest of the election of the presiding officers. Category A, returning Senators based on the time that they have been elected. Once you are a Senator, you are a Senator forever. Category B refers to Senators-elect who have served in the House of Representatives before. Category C refers to those coming to the Senate for the first time and to the National Assembly for the first time. Again for the purpose of being nominated to be a presiding officer these ranking Senators should apply. The first category has the first right of refusal. In other words if you are going to nominate a Senator who is a returning Senator in the event that you have one, it is when such a Senator declines or refuses to accept that nomination or there is no returning Senator that you can move to category B. Category B talks about a Senator who has served in the House of Representatives before. Again if such a Senator-elect declines or there is no such, then you can resort to Category C, which is a Senator who is coming for the first time. Why did we make these rules? It is because you cannot come to the Senate and for the first time, you haven’t served in the Senate, you don’t even know what the rules are, and you want to be a presiding officer. Our rules say it can only happen when you don’t have a ranking officer. It is consistent with global best practice. In the United States of America which is the democracy that we fashion ours after, their rules provide for senior Senators and junior Senators. When I hear people talk about Hon. Abdulaziz Yari, a Senator-elect, and he keeps saying he has served in the House of Representatives, that he is a ranking Senator, no. He is only a ranking member of the House of Representatives. If he has contested to go back to the House of Reps he will be ranking. But in the Senate you cannot place an Akpabio who is a returning Senator beneath an Abdulaziz Yari who is a Senator-elect, and has never been in the Senate. Yari can only contest if there is no Akpabio, Orji Kalu, Osita Izunaso. EvenifheisthechoiceoftheSenators-elect… We are people governed by law and rules of conduct and standing orders. Secondly, some people have also said that they are supporting Yari because they believe that the number one citizen is from the South and the head of Judiciary is from the South, and they feel that the head of legislature should be from the North. Until recently we had the President the number 1 that is former President Buhari, the head of Judiciary, Hon. Justice Tanko from Bauchi, the head of the legislature, Ahmed Lawan from Yobe. They are from the North and it was not an issue because they were democratically elected. I don’t want anybody to begin to insinuate that the North is losing power to the South. I think that this can only come from people who are trying to heat up our polity. Also those who think that we can ignore religion which the President has refused to ignore. Those who think that the next Senate President should be a Muslim are saying that for selfish reasons. There are some agenda to further complicate matters for the government and create the impression to the international community that there is a deliberate attempt at religious domination in Nigeria. We are not going to allow this to happen in the public interest. Yari has continued to pursue his ambition to be the next Senate president despite the party’s stand. I would like you to talk about the outcome of the meeting between Mr. President and the Senators-elect, some reports said that he spoke strongly in favour of Akpabio and Tajudeen Abass, while others said that he wouldn’t want to interfere, that people should vote in the interest of the nation. What is your take from that meeting, and has it impacted on the chances of Akpabio? The President met with Senators-elect across the eight political parties which was a very good development. I will emphasise that it was a very humble approach adopted by Mr. President. He made an appeal and was not speaking in favour of any particular person. He was speaking in favour of justice and equity in our country. He told everybody that he has chosen a Muslim as a running mate, and now that we are in control we should do the right thing. This is an election among 109 people, not to mind all the propaganda going as to the number of Senators that Yari’s camp has. In less than 24 hours we will be on the floor for the inauguration. Nigeria will see in us an exhibition of a sense of justice and fair play. We cannot isolate the Muslim community and the Christian community. We cannot have a situation where you have number 1, number 2, number 3, number 4 and number 5 as Muslims. For the Chief Justice of the Federation (CJN), I don’t talk about that because the CJN is there by virtue of career progression. It has happened before and is not happening for the first time. There were times when consistently the CJN were Muslims regardless of the religion of who was the President of the country. This is one thing we have control over and that was the point the President was making. Even those who are arguing that the power should stay in the North, there are 13 Christian Senators-elect in the North. They should elect one of them if they truly believe in justice and fairness, and they believe that there is a need for us to balance governance and leadership. Our rules are also clear on this, it says in the election of presiding officers and even in distribution of committees, it shouldn’t be done in a way that any geo-political zone should be favoured. We have reason to say that our party has zoned this to the South-South. Senator Akpabio is the only ranking Senator from the South-South in the All Progressives Congress (APC). Every other person that we have there with credibility to contest the election is a Senator-elect. It is natural that everybody should be talking about Akpabio. What the President did was to make a general appeal to everybody and reminded us of the need to stabilize our polity and ensure that we reunite his country because Nigeria has never been this divided, especially along religious lines. This is an attempt by people to further polarize and heighten tension to set us back as a nation. People say that Akpabio believes in resource control and that it will be dangerous to have a combination of Akpabio and President Bola Tinubu, who believes in restructuring. Let me also remind them that these are constitutional issues. If we have to amend our constitution to change anything, the chairman of the Senate Committee on constitution amendment is by law and our rules the Deputy Senate President. So, that will be Senator Barau Jibrin that we are supporting. He is from Kano State. So, if we have a northerner as chairman of the Senate Committee on constitutional review, where is the fear about changing the constitution to favour the South against the North? We have two chambers and there is no bill that we pass in one chamber that can become law or go to the President for assent without the concurrence of the other chamber. So, the man holding the gavel in the House of Reps is from the North, Tajudeen Abass from Kaduna State. If the man holding the gavel from the other chamber is from the North and you have Akpabio from the South holding the gavel in the Senate, it is already balanced. Remember that you need two third of the members in the Senate to pass any legislation. The North has the majority there. You also need two third majority of the State Houses of Assembly to support any bill seeking constitutional amendment. What is hanging on the neck of Akpabio is the the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) debacle, and that is what some people from Yari camp are saying. Those from Akpabio’s camp are saying that Yari is trying to buy things over with a lot of money. It is like the case of the highest bidder. The party has mentioned Akpabio, but recently Yari has gainedalotofmomentum, whatcanyousay about the chances of these candidates? POLL There is a way our past will continue to hunt us that is why we must always thrive to do the right thing and push through the fear of God. For Senator Akpabio and the NDDC story, remember three weeks ago our Senate set up an ad-hoc committee headed by Senator Yusuf A. Yusuf to look into the issue and report back to the Senate. Last week the committee submitted its report to the Senate. It was very explicit in its report that Senator Akpabio didn’t do what he was alleged to have done. During the short period that he stayed in the Ministry of Niger Delta contracts were not awarded. The issues were about contracts that being awarded. 