MAKURDI – Governor Hyacinth Alia of Benue State has alleged that the appointments that were made by his predecessor, Chief Samuel Ortom, were merely a cover-up, adding that it was the main reason the ap­pointments were nullified. Alia stressed that as harsh as the decision may seem to be on the people of the state, his government would not hesitate to do the right thing because it was on the founda­tions on which the govern­ment intends to build a peace­ful and prosperous Benue of its dreams. The governor, who dis­closed this in a statewide broadcast to mark the Democ­racy day on Monday, however, told civil servants in the state to begin to expect payment of salaries from June 25, 2023. Recall that civil servants at the state level are being owed salary arrears of about seven months before the advent of Alia administration, while those at the local government levels are being owed about 10 months’ salary arrears. According to the governor, “As we mark Democracy Day in Benue State, we owe you all explanations about the few key decisions we have taken so far. “On the issue of recruit­ment/appointments, we not­ed that it was full of irregu­larities. Specifically, the civil service secretariat, through the outgone administration recruited 2,194 persons. “The State Universal Ba­sic Education (SUBEB) em­ployed 3,028 against the ap­proved number of 2,500 only while replacements made were over 5,000. “Teaching Service Board (TSB) employed 2,500, that is, for Grant-in-Aid Schools, four in number, 120 teachers. Re­placements were 2,484.” POLL He however stressed that “In the entire exercise, due process was not adopted. “In addition, the employ­ment was lopsided in favour of few local government areas and (the appointments) did not take the principle of state character into consideration; also, no budgetary provision was made to cater for the re­cruitments.” Shading more light on the issue, the governor stated that, “There was no adver­tisement in any media as required by the provisions of the rules guiding the ser­vice on the matter; and no in­terviews were conducted to determine suitability or oth­erwise of candidates. Above all, the Solicitor General of the State was not involved at any stage of the recruitment process.