ASABA – Hosts of the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL) Super 6, Delta Queens yesterday qualified for the finals after holding rivals, Edo Queens to a goalless draw at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba Delta State. Having won their first game 3-1 against Confluence Queens, the home side needed to just avoid defeat against Edo who were condemned to win to boost qualification hopes, having suffered a shock defeat at the hands of Lokoja side, Confluence Queens. Edo Queens started the match the brighter of both sides, moving the ball crisply from side to side, while the home side looked to protect their goal and catch them on the break. The best chance of the game came in the 16th minute, as home Delta Queens defender Favour Damaris produced a last-ditch goal-line clearance to prevent the arriving Moses Esther from scoring a tap-in at the back post. A flurry of chances occurred later in the first half but did not produce any spectacular action as both sides went into the break with nothing to separate from each other. The second half began as the first, with the away side showing more desire and hunger to get a result, but they were fortunate not to have fallen behind in the 71st minute after some neat interplay between Delta Queens attackers fashioned a good chance inside the opposition box, but somehow leading goalscorer Mercy Omokwo failed to hit the target from six yards. A goal-mouth scramble occurred at the opposite end with 5 minutes left on the clock, but it evaded everyone before the visitors conceded a foul. The four minutes of added time did not produce any action as the home side held on to qualify for the finals, where they face defending champions Bayelsa Queens on Sunday. Speaking to newsmen after the match, a victorious Coach TosanBlackson, congratulated his side for holding on to reach the finals as they understood the assignment at hand. “I am happy we reached the finals and I am impressed with how my girls played, they understood the assignment as they knew we only needed to avoid defeat and they executed that perfectly, which maintains our unbeaten status”, he said. POLL Confluence Queens would play Rivers Angels in the third-place match early on Sunday.Hosts of the Super 6 ,Delta Queens yesterday qualified for the finals after holding rivals, Edo Queens to a goalless draw at the Stephen Keshi Staidum, Asaba Delta State. Having won their first game 3-1 against Confluence Queens, the home side needed to just avoid defeat against Edo who were condemned to win to boost qualification hopes, having suffered a shock defeat at the hands of Lokoja side, Confluence Queens. Edo Queens started the match the brighter of both sides, moving the ball crisply from side to side, while the home side looked to protect their goal and catch them on the break. The best chance of the game came in the 16th minute, as home Delta Queens defender Favour Damaris produced a last-ditch goal-line clearance to prevent the arriving Moses Esther from scoring a tap-in at the back post. A flurry of chances occurred later in the first half but did not produce any spectacular action as both sides went into the break with nothing to separate each other. The second half began as the first, with the away side showing more desire and hunger to get a result, but they were fortunate not to have fallen behind in the 71st minute after some neat interplay between Delta Queens attackers fashioned a good chance inside the opposition box, but somehow leading goalscorer Mercy Omokwo failed to hit the target from six yards. A goal-mouth scramble occurred at the opposite end with 5 minutes left on the clock, but it evaded everyone before the visitors conceded a foul. The four minutes of added time did not produce any action as the home side held on to qualify for the finals, where they face defending champions Bayelsa Queens on Sunday. Speaking to newsmen after the match, a victorious Coach TosanBlackson, congratulated his side for holding on to reach the finals as they understood the assignment at hand. “I am happy we reached the finals and I am impressed with how my girls played, they understood the assignment as they knew we only needed to avoid defeat and they executed that perfectly, which maintains our unbeaten status”, he said. The Host will battle the defending champions, Bayelsa Queens in the final of the competition on June 11, 2023 at the Stephen Keshi Stadium. Confluence Queens would play Rivers Angels in the third-place match early on Sunday.