Former Edo State Commission­er for Information and an ally of President Bola Tinubu, Prince Kassim Afegbua, has declared that Senator Godswill Obot Ak­pabio would emerge as consen­sus candidate for the position of Senate President of the 10th Assembly. Afegbua made this disclosure in reaction to claims from some quarters that President Tinubu had withdrawn support for the Akwa Ibom-born Senator. “The aspiration of Senator Godswill Akpabio has been ordained by God, using other senators as the human factor to make that happen. Akpabio’s aspiration is a product of strat­egy, planning and commitment, given his trajectory and political emanations,” Afegbua enthused. “There are plots and sub-plots going on amongst some senators, but nobody can stop an idea whose time has come. Just like his name, God has a hand in his aspiration, that is why you see Senators from different political divides supporting his aspiration. “Akpabio is not only reaching out, he’s giving his colleagues the assurances of a robust 10th Na­tional Assembly that will comple­ment the effort of the President in churning out laws that would help deepen democracy in Nige­ria and improve the wellbeing of Nigerians. “I am aware that Senator Yari from the North-West is alleged to be dishing out funds to woo his colleagues.” Senator Kalu is also in alliance with the incumbent Senate President Ahmed Lawan in plotting the unexpected to alter the applecart. Senator Izunaso is also waiting in the wings to reap from any fallout in the process. But, I can assure you that Senator Godswill Akpabio will emerge as the consensus candidate in a mat­ter of days before the proclama­tion of the 10th Assembly. “Don’t forget that it was Pres­ident Tinubu that brought about Ahmed Lawan Senate Presiden­cy. “President Tinubu is not im­posing any candidate on the 10th Assembly, but as a team player, it will be an enlightened self-inter­est to have a robust leadership in the Assembly to compliment his initiatives and agenda for a new Nigeria. POLL “He cannot stand aloof and watch, without lobbying for who­ever he wishes to help push his governmental agenda through. He needs a stable parliament and a team player like Akpabio to make an impactful 10th Assem­bly in the interest of the country. Senators Yari, Kalu and Izunaso will be approached in the spirit of oneness of the APC-led Federal Government and the 10th As­sembly, to step down for Senator Akpabio. “The president is a consum­mate politician who understands the virtue of collective responsi­bility and bargaining to strike the right chord for achieving success. The APC is a majority in the Senate, and that spirit of constructive engagement will come to bear before June 13, proclamation. Senator Yari should not promote discord in the politics of the 10th Assembly, by his insistence to run. In the light of the blackmail of Islamisation agenda, Yari, a Muslim should not engage in any plot to under­mine the unity and stability of the country. It should not be about selfish political interest, but about the unity of the country.”