Dr. Adetokunbo Pearse, a former gubernatorial candidate in Lagos State, was the coordinator of Atiku-Okowa Presidential Campaign Support Groups in Lagos State; Deputy Director of the 2023 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC); a political affairs analyst, convener of Reset Lagos PDP and former Campaign Director of Jonathan/Sambo Campaign Organisation in Lagos State. In this interview with CHIBUIKE CHUKWU, he speaks on the 2023 general elections, the challenge before President Bola Tinubu, the fuel subsidy issue, why the PDP lost in the last general elections, the division in the main opposition party and how the party has been trying to resolve them, among other issues; Excerpts In 2015, you aspired to be the Lagos State Governor under the PDP and in 2019, you were a candidate under the Social Democratic Party (SDP); why didn’t you contest at the 2023 election? In 2015, I worked with five other people who wanted to be governor like Tunde Gbadamosi, Late Dominic and Dr Adedosun and others; all of us were to later realise that some of our leaders like Bode George had already endorsed Jimi Agbaje and that we should all pull out. In 2015, Agbaje scored 47 percent of the votes; he was close to winning. Unfortunately the division within our party cost him the election. Obanikoro came back to run (in the primaries) and I joined him as his Director General (DG). As soon as we lost the primaries, President Jonathan called Obanikoro and made him the Lagos State chairman of Jonathan/Sambo Campaign Organisation and made me the DG. Unfortunately, our own group working for the president was at the same time working against Jimi Agbaje for governor. Our people didn’t vote for Jimi and that was what cost us that election. There was so much division in the party but in 2023 I couldn’t really say I wanted to run for governorship. I left PDP in 2017 and returned in 2019. Incidentally I was the SDP governorship candidate in Lagos State in 2019 but you won’t know because we didn’t have money to push for publicity and all that. SDP was a party only in name but I was the governorship candidate then. In 2023, I didn’t just want to run for the governorship but I ran for senate. But what happened regarding the senatorial ambition was typical of us in the PDP; we are too quick to bring in people from outside to run for positions. We did that with AbdulAzeez Adediran, popularly called Jandor. Jandor came in and it was a disaster. When he came, he was somehow given the authority to pick delegates for the primaries. Imagine an aspirant given authority to pick delegates for primaries, so unfortunately he picked people entirely new to PDP who knew nothing about the party. Because of the delegates which Jandor chose intentionally, to control the party, he wanted to ensure and control who becomes the senatorial candidate and House of Reps candidates. They were instructed by Jandor to vote for certain people who he felt would not be a threat to him in the party like myself whom he thought would be a competitor. So when I got to the primaries, just like many people in my caliber in the party, I didn’t know any delegate from my own local government and the delegates didn’t know me either. That was the end of our election because people who later emerged were people who knew nobody. He thought he was doing himself a favour because they were the same people who voted for him in the primaries. He became a candidate by default and leading candidates like Dr Adedosun all dropped out. He had already gotten Bode George to tell Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour to step down for him. So he had no competitor. It was the people that gave him the power to choose delegates. When we went for the election, we had candidates (for Senate and House) nobody knew; they knew nobody, had no money and had no influence to effectively compete. Some governors had already promised me that whatever happened and I won my primaries, they would support me because of our relationships; because I have been working for them, but the people who won the primaries didn’t have anything or know anybody and that was why PDP performed so badly. How will you generally assess the 2023 elections vis-a-vis other previous elections in the country? Well, the 2023 election was a farce generally because it lacked credibility. But let me focus on PDP. There was too much division in the PDP. In Lagos State, there were so many issues leading to division and everything was controlled by Jandor who was not even a year old in the party then; who had no money, who had nobody, who had no structure and disrespected everybody from the state chairman to the chairman of the elders’ council. It led the party to collapse in Lagos State. Now nationally, what happened to us was the issue of the Group of five Governors, popularly called G-5. You know a divided house is a defeated house, so the infighting was too much, but probably and most significantly what happened to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, speaking as his major spokesperson in Lagos, was that the G-5 governors had their allies within the party and collectively they worked against him. But one other significant issue was Peter Obi joining the Labour Party. What negative impact do you think Obi leaving PDP had on Atiku? It had a very big negative impact and that was why we lost the whole of the South East, lost virtually all the South South and greatly lost what we would have gotten in the South West. Do you know what Atiku got in Lagos? Atiku got six percent of votes in Lagos State. This is a man that got 42 percent of Lagos votes in 2019. In Lagos State. PDP anchor is in the Igbo community, followed by the South South community. What Obi did was take away 60 percent of our votes and Nyesom Wike took another 20 percent. And don’t forget it was not only in Lagos State that Obi took Atiku’s votes. Among the Arewa Christians in Kaduna, Benue and Plateau States etcetera, Atiku would have won minimum 30 percent in those states. We lost those three states because of the Obi factor. What is your take on the fuel subsidy issues currently raging; do you think the President was right to even mention it given the attendant crisis and hardship that has trailed his position on that? POLL I think his pronouncement on subsidy by fiat, without discussion, without negotiation, without putting certain things in place is reckless, it’s heartless, irresponsible and undemocratic. He is going to get into trouble that he cannot imagine. This is because it is not going to be him against civil society. It’s going to be himself against the whole of Nigeria. Everywhere you go now, that is what everyone is discussing. I did some calculations and realised that we are paying N500 per liter and that is the same amount they are paying for a liter in the United States. In America, the pump price is $4 per gallon. For four liters in one gallon and breaking it down, they are paying $1 per liter. In the official market, $1 equals N500. Nigeria is paying the same price they are paying per liter of petrol and the minimum wage in Nigeria is N1000 per day at N30,000 monthly. That means with your minimum wage, you can only buy two liters of petrol per day and this thing about petrol is that it affects everybody. Minimum wage in America is $60 per day which is $1800 per month. That can buy you 15 gallons and means that your monthly income can buy you 60 liters of petrol per day, whereas in Nigeria, your minimum wage can buy you two liters. You see the difference? The consequence of this is going to be terrible. What do you think should be the primary focus of President Tinubu right now? The main areas of governance which should be critical to any administration are security, economy and good governance. I think based on his knowledge of the economy, he should have done well by improving the economy. However, from the way he has started, he does not understand the human touch. If you must be a successful economist, you just have to think about people first. But I’m afraid he may fail in this issue of economy because this subsidy issue he is talking about may damage the economy if he is not careful. This is because consumer spending will fall; investor spending will dwindle, employment will fall drastically. If we continue with this, we are going to fall into an economic recession. For security, it is about empowering the states because the Federal Government cannot effectively secure the states. He has to have, as we had in the past before independence, state police. This is necessary because in any federal system as we claim to be practicing, there must be devolution of power to the states. When you do that you have it right. What money have we not spent in training and arming our security forces, still nothing to show for it? The job is cut out for him; it’s not going to be easy and in his speech, he has everything covered but the issue is can he implement them? I am one of the people that believe that he can solve the economic problems but now, from the very first beginning, from his first speech, he has actually hurt the economy. Which investor will come to Nigeria now? If you are an investor and you build houses, who is going to buy it with the economic situation triggered by his speech? Where is the purchasing power to buy it? Even if you build to rent, who is going to rent the houses, unless salaries are increased. There are so many things the President needed to do and not just go and increase pump price to as high as N500. That is N2000 per gallon whereas people earn N1000 per day as minimum wage. People earn as low as N20,000 per month so when we even say N30,000 minimum wage, we are being generous to the government. Atiku and Obi are already in court; do you see any headway since the election that brought President Tinubu to power has been widely claimed to be faulty by all assessments? When either Atiku or Obi took the case of double nomination of Shettima to court, I knew the court was going to throw the case out. It’s simple to note that Akpabio had done the same thing and the matter was thrown out, the same with the Senate President. When you take the case to court, I knew they would throw the same out because the court is already compromised. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was already compromised and let me tell you something I suspect happed at the election. I have done my research and can tell you that Tinubu has been funding INEC for many years now. There are people who work for INEC who have been on Tinubu’s payroll in the last ten year. That was how he won the election. I say so though on speculation based on my research. So I don’t see anything coming out of the presidential election tribunal. When I was on Channels TV in 2015, I told them that we can never overcome Boko Haram because they are enriching themselves with Uranium. They are mining uranium and selling it for arms. They asked me how did I know, I said I don’t have any proof but that I am a researcher and analysts and that there was nothing new about this situation because it is what we have seen in other worlds. Now so many people have come to believe me. So what happened in this election was that when results were coming in, everything was Obi, Obi and Obi. So INEC thought if this thing goes like this, Obi would win this election, so they acted fast. What also happens to Obi was that his diaspora supporters said they were going to technologically do anything possible to make sure he won. What I suspect was that they used Artificial Intelligence (AI) to penetrate INEC server and once INEC realised that, they closed the election. There was no way they would have declared Tinubu like that, something happened. It is my own speculation though. This is just like I speculated in 2015 about the Uranium and it came to pass. What is the state of PDP in both Lagos and national now that election has come and gone? We are going to provide good opposition and serve as opposition party. When you said we were deeply divided it was because of the election. Everyone was fighting to share the cake but that is over now. We are working seriously towards reviving Lagos State PDP and national is working closely with us. One of the problems was that in Lagos State we had a state chairman and publicity secretary who did not promote the party. For four years you did not hear anything about PDP and the only person speaking about PDP was not even a PDP man and that is Bode George. …Did you just say that Chief Bode George is not a PDP man? Yes, was he not the person that supported Labour Party in Lagos State in the last governorship election? That is the point. He was only PDP in name and in reality he was not even now. He did not do anything for the party in the last election. I read about where you threw your support for Jandor; did you actually support him given all that you listed he did against your senatorial ambition? It got to a point when I heard Chief Bode George saying they (PDP) should go and support Rhodes-Vivour, the Labour Party gubernatorial candidate. I heard our state chairman and chairman of the elders council in Lagos State said they should endorse Rhodes-Vivour, I had to say that doesn’t make any sense. Much as we had problem with Jandor, we needed to support him as party men. However, everything is over now, we have to begin to rebuild the party. Nationally, PDP is doing okay. Election is over and what you need to evaluate PDP is where we are right now. We have fourteen governors, more than we had in 2019, so we are strong. The fighting is over now and all of us are right now facing the party in power. Our national executives are totally competent. The party is going to come back stronger especially with the way Tinubu has started. He will be lucky to complete four years.