A Chieftain of All Progressive Congress in Plateau State and former governorship aspirant Chief Amos Gizo has commended President Bola Ahmed Tinubu over the appointment of former Governor of Benue State Senator George Akume as Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). Chief Gizo also appreciated President Tinubu for appointing Speaker House of Representatives Gbajabiamila as Chief of Staff and as well former EFCC Boss Nuhu Ribadu as NSA. Chief Gizo in an interview with Daily Independent on the appointment of these key principal officers to the President and federal Government, said with these appointments, President Tinubu’s administration is set to hit the ground running. Chief Gizo who is a political ally of Mr President right from their days in the defunct AD, ACN and now All Progressive Congress, said the appointment of George Akume as SGF from Benue state in the North Central geo-political zone is nothing but putting the right peg in the right hole. According to him, President Tinubu made the right choice looking at the pedigree of Senator George Akume, an astute administrator who rose through the ranks to become permanent secretary within the Government House. Gizo added that Akume later in life rose to become Governor of Benue state Senator of the Federal Republic and Minister Of Special duty Under the administration of the immediate past President of Nigeria Mohammadu Buhari. He added that the appointment of Speaker Gbajabiamila as Chief of Staff to President Tinubu should be commended, describing Speaker Gbajabiamila as the right man for the Job. Chief Gizo who is the publisher of City Watch magazine noted that Gbajabiamila’s humility paid off as until his new appointment, was the speaker House of Representatives having served in the House of Representatives for the position of Leader of the House. POLL According to him, Gbajabiamila would perform credibility well in directing the affairs in the office of President Tinubu a right. He added that the appointment of Nuhu Ribadu as National Security Adviser (NSA) was done on merit by Mr. Tinubu. According to him, Ribadu’s days in EFCC bear him testimony that if given right job, he would perform wonderfully well.