LAGOS  – Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of Aviation Round Table (ART), has advised the new administration of Bola Tinubu to steer clear from any direct business in its bid to develop the economy. Olowo in an interview with our correspondent said that this became necessary in order to avoid the crises that befell the country in its attempt to set up a new national carrier, Nigeria Air for the country. Apart from aviation, he also opined that the new administration should distance itself from energy, oil & gas, communication and other major sectors of the economy. According to him, rather than for the government to enmesh itself in any direct business, the government should involve private investors to drive development in the country. He said: “Given that Nigerian nation desires national carrier and the unending accusations and counter-accusations on how and how not to proceed, including court injunctions, labour crisis and others, my recommended solution for the new government is to completely stay clear of doing any direct business at all, be it in power supply, oil & gas, communications, aviation and many others. “Rather, drive the solution through private sector stakeholders.” Olowo explained that the over 20 licensed airline operators in the country at present should also form two or three strong alliances and merge to form the flag carriers. He opined that each alliance must parade an aircraft fleet size of 50 each either through direct leases, acquisitions and alliances among other options. POLL He said the three carriers would in total parade 150 aircraft to equate to one Ethiopian Airline, which remains the largest carrier on the continent. Ethiopian Airline today has 144 modern aircraft to more than 150 domestic and international destinations across five continents. He declared that a large operational fleet and not share capital was the necessary and sufficient condition for good On-Time Performance (OTP) of airlines. Besides, Olowo said it was necessary for all the Bilateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs) to be reviewed for competitive reciprocity with full government backing to the proposed three flag carriers, which would reciprocate to all the destinations being currently operated by foreign airlines only. He expressed that merger policy made the banking sector strong in Nigeria, stressing that such could be replicated in the aviation sector through the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA).