The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has described recent assent to the new Electricity Act 2023 as a very significant development to the nation’s power sector. The legislations also mark a pivotal shift in the structure of the power sector and present the potential of bringing about positive developments needed for powering Nigeria’s economy to greater heights. The commission noted that the model has been successfully implemented in other jurisdictions, including India, Australia, Canada, and the United States of America, where federal and state electricity regulation and markets are clearly delineated. It recognises the importance of learning from the experiences and lessons of these jurisdictions to navigate the potential challenges and maximise the benefits of the evolving power sector landscape. NERC advocated the need for the collaboration of all stakeholders and the fostering of a harmonious working relationship. “There is a need to provide further clarity and delineation of roles and responsibilities between the federal and state regulatory jurisdictions. The clarification shall assist in avoiding conflicts, overlaps, and regulatory uncertainty that may hinder the smooth functioning of the power sector with a consequential adverse impact on investors’ confidence. “ In establishing a clear framework and defining the scope of authority for each level of governance, the commission aims to work with all stakeholders to create an environment that promotes efficient and effective sector governance thus benefiting investors and consumers,” it added. According to the agency,a smooth transition process was required to minimise disruption and shock to market participants and consumers. POLL “It said stability and clarity are vital for the confidence of existing players and the encouragement of new investors in the evolving market. It recognises the importance of working with all state governments on an orderly transition having regard to legacy reform issues and the novation of existing contractual commitments. It added:“In pursuit of bringing to effect the laudable provisions of the electricity industry laws and to facilitate a smooth transition, the commission has scheduled a stakeholders workshop to hold in July, with key stakeholders including market participants, state government representatives, and other key interested parties. “The workshop shall serve as a platform for open dialogue and collaboration, enabling participants to discuss and commence the development of a robust roadmap for a successful implementation of multitier electricity markets”.