LAGOS  – Reactions have continued to trail the death of Lai Oso, one of Nigeria’s foremost com­munications scholars and a professor of communications at the Lagos State University (LASU) in an auto crash. Aged 67, Oso, a former Dean of the School of Communica­tion Studies at the Lagos State University, died on Saturday in an auto-crash along Ore-Sag­amu Expressway on his way from Abaraka, Delta State. The late erudite scholar was returning from Delta State University where he is an external examiner at the Department of Mass Com­munication. His death was confirmed by different sources in the School of Communication Studies, LASU. An associate, Mr. Akin Okudero, the Founder of PR PRIMUS, in his reaction, said, “Prof Lai Oso, a mentor, is no more. A PR quintessential com­municator and scholar is gone. “The birth of your Image PR Programme on televi­sion was through your great support 9 years ago and you have never rested without giving your intellectual input always.” Okudero described the late Oso further, “You were my teacher, brother, and friend. You lived a life of sacrifice, lifting men, and yet remained humble and compassionate. A giant is gone. We can’t question God!” In his reaction to the sud­den death of Oso, a Public Relations expert and Group Executive Officer of MC-Clique Brands Associates, Mr. Edward Ademosu, said Saturday remained a sad day, saying news of his death shocked him. POLL Describing Oso’s death as a personal loss in many re­spects, Ademosu wrote, “A consummate mentor/role model, a quintessential teach­er and scholar of high repute, a trustworthy brother, and an intimate family friend of many decades. “As if he was pressed for time, Prof called me 3 weeks ago, seeking after the state of my health, and characteris­tically urging me to press on with my PhD project. He added, “I will surely miss him, and I pray for the repose of his gentle soul. “May the good Lord com­fort the immediate bereaved family, his many friends, mentees, students and the ac­ademic community? Adieu Prof Lai Oso.” In the same vein, a media professional and public re­lations practitioner, Mr Ayo Arowojolu, said the deceased would be missed by many of his associates, scores of Profes­sionals that passed through the communications school of Oso. He said, “Lai Oso in his life­time, was a good man, very sin­cere and he avoided confron­tation with anyone. He rallies round mentees and upcoming media professionals. “A scholar of repute, a com­munication teacher is gone. The vacuum left behind is al­most “un-fillable”. “He was my External Ex­aminer in one Mass Commu­nication programme I did last year in October. He was always willing to identify with us young ones. He will be sorely missed! Arowojolu, who is the ini­tiator and Convener of Boil­ing Point Arena, a monthly discourse on governance and national development, prayed to God to accept the soul of the departed and grant him eter­nal rest.