ABUJA  – Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA, has explained that its demolition of the over 30 year old popular UTC Shopping Complex is to make way for better business hub fit for purpose in the nation’s capital. The administration said the structure was overdue for restructuring to fit into a Shopping Complex model required to grow SMEs to address global business needs and challenges. Hassan Ogbole ,Deputy Director, of Monitoring and Inspection, Department of Development, said the structures were defective and there was a need to upgrade them to the standard that will meet global business standards. Ogbole noted that provision had been made for the traders and other occupants of the Complex to enable reconstruction of the place. He also stated that enough notices have been given to the occupants of the place, to enable them to move out and allow the construction to start, but many of them refused to vacate, while some deliberately refused to move out. “The place is in a state of disrepair, the place is no longer habitable for occupation and business activities. The place has to give way to a new development. “The company handling the development has informed Development Control and we are here to enforce compliance. We have given them enough notices for them to remove their goods, to enable us to start the work,” he said. Peter Olumiji the secretary of Command and Control, FCTA Department of Security, also speaking, said demolishing the complex was also needed to curtain the security challenges in the Area. POLL Olumiji noted that apart from restructuring the place to meet global standards, there was a need to curtail the criminal activities prevalent in the place. He disclosed that plans to remodel the place were carefully designed to end the thuggery that rubbishes the image of the place, especially faking of official documents. But, traders in the Complex express concerns on the project. One of them, Samuel Onuchukwu said the traders and other occupants of the Complex were worried because the temporary site provided for the developers, was not secured for business. Onuchukwu disclosed that many of the traders were yet to remove their goods and properties from the shops and offices. According to him, they woke up early in the morning on Saturday to learn that the whole UTC area had been barricaded and demolishing going on, with people’s goods still entrapped.