ABUJA – The members of Ijaw Law­makers Legislators Forum in the Nigerian House of Representatives on Thurs­day decried the alleged remapping of some local government areas in Akwa Ibom state. The group called on the security agencies to give pro­tection to the lives and prop­erties of the Ijaws living, re­siding and doing business in the state. They also decried the threat to the livelihood of the Ijaw people in Akwa Ibom state. Briefing the National As­sembly reporters, the Ijaw Lawmakers alleged that sev­eral of the communities that belong to the Ijaws in Akwa Ibom are being invaded. Abiante, who was the spokesperson of the Ijaw Fo­rum said: “This action was allegedly conducted within a few days to the exit of the immediate past government against all regulations, all requirements attempting to take the land belonging to the ijaw nation. “Probably our thinking is that with the passing of the petroleum industry act a person who doesn’t have any bearing with the oil explora­tion within the state wanting to cease part of the land so that, that will qualify them as host communities. “We are not bothered; we are not worried. The fact that the bulk of the resources ac­cruing to Akwa Ibom State is derivable from the oil within the local government areas of the Ijaw nation. “Eastern Obolo, Ibeno and Mbo local government areas, we know are oil producing. We have come with the aspi­rations, the desires, the pains and the cries of our people to say NO!” POLL The lawmakers also said that the briefing was too sensitive to the world on the threat to the livelihood of the people of Ijaw extraction in the state. When asked to be more explicit on what he meant by “they” invading the villages, Abiante responded, “When you classify a state, a state can be referred to as “they.” And the land, the properties of the Ijaws have been shared among several local govern­ment areas in Akwa Ibom State. So, they are the they.” Abiante noted that an Ijaw man has no division. Independent Newspaper reports that the major occu­pation of the ijaws are pre­dominantly fishing and they reside along the coasts. “I don’t know how much of Nigerian geography that you know. Ijaws are principally fishermen. We live along the coasts. You may have heard of Ibeno beach which is about the longest natural beach we have in this country. It is a re­source. “You must have heard about several oil wells from where Akwa Ibom derives 13 percent. They are all within the Ijaw territory. Is that not going to be too attractive?” he added.