NNEWI – The combined team of security operatives in Anambra has neutralized some hoodlums during an alleged attack on them at Okija, Anambra State on Monday. The hoodlums believed to be gunmen were said to have launched the attack on thesecurity operatives who were on routine duty on Monday, a day that had been declared Sit-at-home by the IPOB since 2021. Gunmen in the Southeast had allegedly continued to insist on observing Monday as a ghost day, even as the IPOB had canceled the sit-at-home in the geopolitical zone. “At about 3:00 am today, 19 June 2023, gunmen launched an attack on Anambra Security forces but were vehemently resisted. “Two of the gunmen were gunned down during an exchange of fire and two AK-47 riffles were also recovered. “Many of the gunmen who are now at large sustained various degrees of injury and bullet wounds, while members of Anambra Security forces were unscathed”. In a similar incident on Saturday, the security operatives neutralised a gang of gunmen believed to be armed robbers who beat Ndam Ngo, Nnobi in Idemili South Local Government Area of the state. The hoodlums who were apparently fleeing from a police patrol team after allegedly snatching a car from an unidentified victim, suddenly stopped at a point near St. Christophers Church, along Alor Road, Ndam Nnobi to engage the pursuing security team in a gun battle. POLL According to sources, the police team was joined by other security operatives which included the army, airforce and navy and in the ensuing gun battle, the hoodlums were neutralized. One of them was said to have sustained a bullet wound in the head while three were captured alive. In his reaction, Governor Chukwukwuma Charles Soludo who spoke through the Press Secretary stated as follows: “The need for a sane and secured environment in Anambra State remains a top priority of Governor Chukwuma Charles Soludo’s administration.“Accordingly, Security forces remain unrelenting in their resolve to protect the lives and property of ndị Anambra, travelers and all residents alike”