LAGOS – In the aftermath of the emergence of the Centre as the overall winner of the Tertiary Institutions Category of the Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation Expo, Abuja 2023, the Centre of Excellence for Sargassum Research (CESAR) held a research workshop on Sargassum-themed Harnessing Sargassum For Entrepreneurship Development In Coastal Fishing Community on Wednesday, 7th June 2023 at Pavemgo Grasscutter and Pig Farm, Badagry, Lagos. The centre leader (CESAR), Distinguished Prof. Martins Anetekhai, in his opening remarks, appreciated the team members, partners, and other farmers for their support and cooperation. Also, he used the opportunity to interact with the partners and farmers at their farm for the first time, which he promised would be a continuous engagement. Speaking further, he said, one of the aims of the workshop was to enrich the Centre’s handbook which would be published very soon and to also introduce to the partners on how to apply for start-up grants to the tune of five (5) million naira to adequately equip and improve them in their farming activities. The Visiting Scholar LASU CESAR and former Director of the Ministry of Science and Technology, Dr. Iyabo Philips, during her session, welcomed everyone present and appreciated the Dist. Prof. Martins Anetekhai for what the CESAR team has achieved so far. In her presentation on a general overview, she affirmed that the essence of the workshop was to have data that are detailed, carefully, and appropriately taken on their farms. POLL According to her, said the outcomes of their findings would go a long way to validate the earlier findings of numerous potentials of sargassum. Also, the research findings conducted by the farmers themselves and monitored by the CESAR team would be published as required and accepted globally. Philips further explained that the team has drawn up the protocols and templates for four (4) different animals: Chicken, Fish, Grasscutter, and Pigs. She also emphasized the steps on how data would be collected periodically. Other presentations were taken by Mrs Blessing/Pharm. Fagbohun Michael, on Sampling Protocols. The Physiology Group lecture was presented by Dr. Odunayo Olumide on Sampling Protocols (Part lI). She emphasized total compliance and the need for farmers to adhere strictly to all the protocols earlier enumerated by Dr. Iyabo Philips. She averred that her research group can confirm that Sargassum is highly beneficial as feed for the animals and that farmers should not nurse any fear, giving it to their animals because no adverse effects has been identified thus far. The workshop was well attended by the LASU CESAR team, which included Prof. Tosin Adu, Prof. Edwin Clarke, Dr Muyibat Omotola Fashola, Dr Opeyemi Avose, Dr Lateef Badmos, Mr Ademola Adekoya, and Mrs Victoria Olatunji CESAR Administrative Secretary. The partners and farmers were in attendance in good numbers. Dr. Victor Amosu, one of the partners who was highly elated with the new knowledge acquired from the workshop, appreciated the centre leader, the speakers and other CESAR team members for bringing the workshop to their doorstep for them to fully explore and harness the potential of sargassum. He concluded by appreciating Mr Paul Fanuvi for providing the venue of the workshop on his farm.