 As Special Assistant to Secretary to the Government (SASG) of Rivers State in the early 1980s, I was one of the foot soldiers of Governor Melford Okilo in his bid for the ticket of National Party of Nigeria (NPN) towards the 1987 presidential race. In the North-South zoning arrangement of NPN, the presidency was billed for the south following the anticipated completion of eight years by Alhaji Shehu Shagari; and it was speculated that Shagari would favour Okilo who worked harmoniously with him under Alhaji Tafawa Balewa, Prime Minister of Nigeria during the First Republic. Sadly, that dream was aborted by the military coup of December 30, 1983, which birthed the Buhari/ Idiagbon military regime. Informed by the above experience, I advised my friend, Governor Peter Odili of Rivers State, not to vie for the presidency in 2007. I based that opinion on the conviction that, given the prevailing primordial sentiments and geopolitical realities of Nigeria, it would be highly objectionable to the North for another southerner to occupy Aso Rock at the heels of Obasanjo’s eight years. Assertively, I added that even the position of Vice President (VP) would be highly improbable for him due to the fact that, given the vested interest of Europe and America in the oil of Niger Delta vis-a-vis the volatility of the region, the West would opt for a VP that spoke the language of the militants. I also referred to the statement by Governor DSP Alamieyeseigha of Bayelsa State thus: “the VP position is for a blue-blooded Niger Deltan”, pointing out that the inference of “blue blooded” in that statement meant Ijaw. Furthering on the unsolicited advice, I opined that he should run for Senate and angle for Senate Presidency or take ambassadorial appointment and chill overseas. Unfortunately, that well-meant advice was construed as not supporting the presidential bid of my friend. Eventually, my heart bled profusely and, in my characteristic softness, I shed tears as I watched the scene at Eagle Square on television during PDP primaries on Saturday, December 16, 2006. I prayed fervently that God should give Peter the strength to deal with the unnerving and highly emotional situation. Thank God, the “rock” essence of the name, Peter, manifested. Reminiscing on that episode, former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, offers that “all serious contenders vying for the ticket were hounded out of the way or convinced to withdraw and that Peter Odili was the most prepared of the lot”. For the celebrated columnist, Pini Jason, the primaries “will go down in history as the most disgraceful charade of all times”. Till date, political pundits maintain that if the primaries had been conducted fair and square, Peter Odili would have conveniently clinched the coveted crown. Reacting to that, a man of God in Port Harcourt, referred to PDP as Papa Deceive Pikin. This spoke eloquently and volubly to the treachery in politics. Now, you can accuse Peter Odili of anything but you can’t accuse him of not having the guts to try. He dared, creditably. During the 2023 presidential primaries of PDP and All Progressives Congress (APC), two sons of Rivers State were simmering hot in pursuit of the tickets; Governor Wike in PDP and Rt Honorable Amaechi in APC. By happenstance, if both Wike and Amaechi had clinched the tickets of PDP and APC, respectively, it would have been “Heads, we win; tails, we win” for Rivers State baring a political revolution at the polls. Rivers State would have been at the centre-stage of global attention. The point being made here is that both sons of River State dared, creditably. Yes, they lost but the truth remains that it was Rivers State that lost, not Nyesom Ezenwo Wike and Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. It is said that the greatest failure is failure to try. You can accuse Peter Odili, Nyesom Wike and Chibuike Amaechi of whatever suits your fancy but you can’t accuse them of failure to try. Try, they did and they acquitted themselves creditably. If PDP had provided a level playing field on December 16, 2006, Odili would have coasted home with the ticket. If Wike’s political associate and friend had not succumbed to primordial sentiments of religion and ethnicity, he might have shared northern votes with Atiku thereby giving Wike the needed edge to clinch the PDP ticket. Like Odili and Wike, Amaechi put in so much in his bid. Having taken a traditional title from Daura, built a University of Transportation there and attempted to rationalize the irrationality of a railroad to a foreign land, Amaechi seemed the anointed one. In my congenital optimism, I would say that these three highly worthy sons of the Niger Delta have taken turns laying a formidable foundation from which Niger Deltans, especially Rivers State politicians, can draw psychological and political steam and lessons from towards eventually breaking the glass ceiling of presidency. The point remains that we didn’t fail to try; we dared and stayed focused till the end. We may not have taken the trophy but we were first runner up in the three cases. Our ascendency to the exalted office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria will not be an accident. POLL A censorious reading of the literature of Judeo-Christian theology informs that God (whoever or whatever He, She, They or It may be) regretted some of actions; this means acknowledging mistakes. Therefore, who is man, given his shortcomings and inadequacies, not to make mistakes? To His Excellencies Peter Odili, Nyesom Wike and Chibuike Amaechi, I salute your courage for making that weighty political statement for and on behalf of us all from Rivers State. They can take the presidency and vice presidency from us but they cannot take away the spirit to try and the fact that we dared and that we acquitted ourselves creditably in the process of daring. We hold tenaciously to the fact that in daring, we spoke eloquently and volubly. O. Jason Osai is a Professor of Development Studies, Rivers State University, Port Harcourt