Chelsea will discuss the structure of a £30million deal for Villarreal forward Nicolas Jackson this week. Talks have accelerated as Saudi Arabian club Al Nassr push to sign Chelsea winger Hakim Ziyech and Arsenal continue to negotiate for Kai Havertz, with Bayern Munich in the wings. Jackson, who has a £30m release clause, has interest from a number of clubs including Aston Villa and Bournemouth, who tried to sign him in January only for a hamstring injury to scupper the move. However, he is set on Chelsea with personal terms already in place and the club will look to pay in instalments. Though Jackson returned to fitness and made a significant impact on the second half of the season, scoring nine goals, Chelsea will study his medical before a deal is agreed. Jackson has the same agent as Brighton’s Moises Caicedo, who is Chelsea’s prime midfield target. They have already had a £60m bid rejected for the Ecuador international but talks are ongoing over a fee closer to £80m. The 21-year-old, who has played twice for Senegal, scored 13 goals last season in a breakthrough campaign at Spanish side Villarreal. He ended the campaign in superb form, bagging nine goals in his last eight games, as the Yellow Submarine finished fifth in the LaLiga table. The exciting young forward is seen as an alternative to Napoli star Victor Osimhen, who is expected to sell for more than £100million amid links with Man United, Real Madrid and Paris Saint-Germain. POLL Manchester United are expected to make an improved £50m offer for Blues midfielder Mason Mount this week. However, Christian Pulisic is struggling to find another club to match his £200,000-a-week wages, with the American expected to allowed to leave this summer. New Blues boss Mauricio Pochettino is set to begin work on July 1 as the club looks to bounce back from a dismal season. Despite spending more than £600m on 18 players across the summer and winter transfer windows, they finished in the bottom-half for the first time since the 1995-96 campaign. However, they are keen to invest heavily again as the former Tottenham manager looks to rebuild the club. Chelsea are in need of a No 9, and while Kylian Mbappe could be available after his fallout with PSG, the west London club are unlikely to move for him given his price tag is expected to be more than £150m, while he also reportedly earns £893,000 per week. Atalanta forward Rasmus Hojlund is also a target, though he is also being watched closely by Man United, with Juventus’ Dusan Vlahovic another option. For a club unwilling to expand an already excessive wage bill, Jackson could be a smart addition as Pochettino searches for a way back into European football.