ATUSIUBAH CHIKA Rt. Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara, who has been a member of the House of Representatives since 2007 has thrown his hat into the ring, having indicated his interest to vie for the coveted office of Speaker of the House. To drive this effort, Betara has advanced an agenda akin to a social contract that captures and encapsulates his programme of action should he clinch the high office. “I am offering myself to you, my distinguished colleagues and Nigerians that upon electing me as your Speaker for the 10th House of Representatives, I shall pursue with vigor and wholesome sense of commitment the following vision and mission,” he said. According to Betara, this said vision is reducible as follows: Promotion of Legislative Efficiency: Betara notes that the values and ideals of transparency and accountability in the legislative process is a non-negotiable desideratum; and to that extent he hopes to put his best endeavours to ensure timely and effective communication between lawmakers, the various Committees of the House, and the public. Streamline legislative procedures to facilitate prompt passage of bills and resolutions after thorough scrutiny and public consultation. Legislative Reforms and Oversight: POLL Betara pledges to deploy the privilege of service to the country in the capacity of Speaker of the House of Representatives to advocate and promote legislative reforms that will address critical issues such as electoral reforms, fight against corruption, protection of fundamental human rights and civil liberties. Strengthen the House’s oversight functions to ensure effective monitoring of government activities and check Executive excesses, thereby ensuring that public resources are utilised judiciously and in the best interest of Nigerian citizens. Nigeria first Concept of Socio-Economic Development: Hitherto, Nigeria used to be regarded as the big brother to other African countries. Betara however believes that it is high time Nigerians became the ultimate focus of policy initiatives in government. To that extent he has indicated that if elected Speaker he will be committed to the following: Championing legislations that support economic growth of the nation in terms of job creation, poverty alleviation and reduction through bespoke and targeted initiatives. Promotion of entrepreneurship especially among young school leavers, investment in infrastructure, and support for small and medium-scale enterprises through opposite legislative interventions. Collaboration with relevant stakeholders to address pressing social issues such as healthcare, education, gender equality, and youth empowerment. In this connection, I shall be promoting inclusive policies that benefit all Nigerians. Promotion of Legislative Independence and Collaboration: Betara believes that the National Assembly cannot function optimally if it is easily pocketed by the Executive. As such he has indicated a commitment to pursuing the following ends as Speaker: Safeguard the independence of the legislative branch by upholding the principles of separation of powers. Promote harmonious working relationship with the Executive and Judicial arms of government. Foster collaboration and bipartisan dialogue among lawmakers, encouraging consensus-building and the prioritisation of national interest over partisan or egotistic divisions. Constituency Engagement and Empowerment: Betara feels that disconnect between lawmakers and their constituents must be bridged, according to which he says he’s committed to: Maintaining a strong connection with sundry constituencies, and also regularly engage with constituents through periodic town hall meetings, listening sessions, and feedback mechanisms to understand their needs and concerns. This will be punctuated with distinguished colleagues being physically available whenever invited by them. Facilitating community development projects and initiatives that directly impact the lives of the constituents, such as education, healthcare programmes, infrastructural development, and job creation. Born on 22nd November, 1966, Betara, an indigene of Wuyo in Biu Township, Borno State, is an accountant and lawmaker. He was first elected to the Federal House of Representatives in 2007 to represent the Biu/Bayo/Shani and Kwaya Kusar Federal Constituency of Borno State. He is currently the Chairman, House Committee on Appropriations in the 9th Assembly, which held its first session on 11 June 2019. On his fourth tenure as a member of the House of Representatives, Betara is arguably one of the oldest serving members of the House. Betara began his education at Biu Central Primary School in 1973 and obtained his First School Leaving Certificate in 1978. He proceeded to Biu Central Junior Day Secondary School, and then to Government Technical Secondary School Benishek, Borno State, where his leadership skills saw him becoming head prefect, and would eventually obtain his West Africa School Certificate in 1983. He advanced his education at Ramat Polytechnic, Maiduguri where he obtained his Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Business Administration in 1986.