LAGOS  – A Lagos Sexual Offences Court sitting in Ikeja has sentenced a cobbler, Alex Michael and a self-acclaimed Alfa, Yakubu Isia­ka to life imprisonment. Justice Rahman Oshodi sentenced the defendants after they were found guilty of the charge in the suit delineated No: ID/12196C/2020 brought against them by the state government. The defendants were alleged to have had sexual intercourse with a thirteen-year-old girl and were arraigned on a two-count charge. They were first arraigned be­fore Justice Sybil Nwaka before she was elevated to the Appeal Court. And the duo pleaded not guilty to the two counts. The defendants were re-ar­raigned before Justice Oshodi on August 3, 2021, on the allegation to have had sexual intercourse with the underage girl (13 years old) three times between the months of October and November 2019 at Fatai Olukoga Street, Igbo Olowu Estate in Ikorodu. Michael was alleged to have had canal knowledge of the girl three times while Alfa, Isiaka was said to have had unlawful sexual intercourse with her two times. The offence, of defilement, is contrary to the provision of Section 137 of the Criminal Law Cap C. 17, Vol. 3 Laws of Lagos State, 2015. They, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge preferred against them. POLL The prosecution team, Ba­bajide Boye, O. Aluko, and I. D. Solarin, commenced trial and called witnesses to testify against the defendants among which is Investigation Police Office IPO, the survivor, and others. The prosecution also tendered docu­ments as exhibits. The police officer who investi­gated the case told the court how she came to know the defendants when they were brought to the Human Rights Section of Owutu Police Division. Michael had in his statement stated that the young girl nor­mally comes to their house and a woman called mummy Ada al­ways sends her away. He stated that on the day of the incident, “She came to my house again, when she entered, she sat on the floor and took my phone and started watching some videos on it. “When I looked at her, she laughed and I asked her the rea­son she was laughing. I realised she was watching an adult movie on it. I collected the phone from her. She went out and later came back and took the phone again while I was laying down on my bed in our parlour and she said I want you to see what I’m watch­ing, that was when she started kissing me and we had sexual intercourse together. A day later she came again and we had sex again.” In their defence, the first de­fendants while giving evidence and led by their counsel, O. Fatoye on October 11, 2022, admit­ted before the court that the girl was his neighbour but said that he did not have any relationship with her and did not know why he was in court. He later said that the allega­tion of defilement was trumped up because he slapped his sister which led to a struggle between him and the girl’s father. He said that at the police station, he was beaten and threatened before he wrote Exhibit P2. (His statement).