ABAKALIKI – The Ebonyi State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council has condemned the murder of a staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Deacon Emmanuel Igwe, as well as the kidnap of his wife by unknown gunmen, last Sunday. The deceased was attacked along the Ishaigu axis on the Afikpo-Okigwe Expressway by gunmen. It was gathered that he was driving from Abia State when he was shot and his wife abducted by the gunmen. The Ebonyi State Police Command has linked the attack to Fulani herdsmen. The PDP in a statement, on Friday, by Chief Abia Onyike, Media Adviser to the 2023 PDP Governorship Candidate, Dr Ifeanyi Odii, said the Council received the brutal murder of the victim with shock and trepidation and urged the Security Agencies to swing into action to ensure that those behind this ugly incident were unmasked and made to face the full wrath of the law. Our Correspondent reports that the deceased is the son of Rev. Dr. S. N. Igwe, a Deputy Director of Ebonyi 2023 PDP Campaign Council known as Anyi Ga Emeya Campaign Organization The statement reads: “The Ebonyi State PDP Campaign Council has received with shock and trepidation the news of the brutal murder of Deacon Emmanuel Igwe, a staff of INEC and the kidnap of his wife, also an INEC staff, on Sunday, 18th June, 2023. “They were reported to have been attacked along the Ishaigu axis on the Afikpo-Okigwe Expressway by gunmen. Information available to us indicate that the victim was on steering when he was shot and his wife abducted by the gunmen. POLL “We condemn this barbaric act of criminality and urge the Security Agencies to swing into action to ensure that those behind this ugly incident are unmasked and made to face the full wrath of the law. “We sincerely commiserate with the family of the deceased and the Independent National Electoral Commission. We specially console the father of the deceased, Rev. Dr. S. N. Igwe, a Deputy Director of our Anyi Ga Emeya Campaign Organization. “We call on the Security Agencies and the State Government to investigate the killing and work towards the release of the wife of the deceased who is still under the custody of the hoodlums.”