ABUJA -The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Wednesday night confirmed operational changes to the Foreign Exchange Market which include the abolishment of segmentation, and re-introduction of the “Willing Buyer, Willing Seller” model at the I&E Window, among others. In a statement signed by Angela Sere-Ejembi, CBN’s Director, Financial Markets, which was made available to journalists in Abuja, the apex stated announced the changes promising that further guidance on the matters shall be communicated in due course. “The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) wishes to inform all authorized dealers and the general public of the following immediate changes to operations in the Nigerian Foreign Exchange (FX) Market: “Abolishment of segmentation. All segments are now collapsed into the Investors and Exporters (I&E) window. Applications for medicals, school fees, BTA/PTA, and SMEs would continue to be processed through deposit money banks. “Re-introduction of the “Willing Buyer, Willing Seller” model at the I&E Window. Operations in this window shall be guided by the extant circular on the establishment of the window, dated 21 April 2017 and referenced FMD/DIR/CIR/GEN/08/007. All eligible transactions are permitted to access foreign exchange at this window. “The operational rate for all government-related transactions shall be the weighted average rate of the preceding day’s executed transactions at the |&E window, calculated to two (2) decimal places. “Proscription of trading limits on oversold FX positions with permission to hedge short positions with OTC futures. Limits on overbought positions shall be zero. “Reintroduction of order-based two-way quotes, with the bid-ask spread of 41. All transactions shall be cleared by a Central Counter Party (CCP). POLL “Reintroduction of Order Book to ensure transparency of orders and seamless execution of trades. “The operational hours of trades shall be from 9 am to 4 pm, Nigeria time. “Cessation of RT200 Rebate Scheme and the Naira4Dollar Remittance Scheme, with effect from 30 June 2023. “Further guidance on these matters shall be communicated in due course. All market participants and the general public are kindly enjoined to abide by these rules” reads the statement in parts.