ABUJA – eHealth Africa, a non-governmental organization has trained a number of journalists on the basics of creating and designing websites to further amplify their content in a bid to reach wider audiences. The one-day training is part of the eHA Academy initiative aimed at building the capacity of young people in the utilization of digital tools to solve local problems and promote digital solutions. With over a decade of experience in developing and deploying digital solutions across the continent, eHA established the eHA Academy, a training arm that has been at the forefront of equipping individuals with software development skills for at least four years now. eHA Academy Technical lead, Jamil Galadanci said the programme involves a nine-month course with two phases: three months of intensive in-class live sessions followed by a six-months internship. Through a combination of engaging live sessions, videos, challenging assignments, and practical projects, training students to acquire both theoretical knowledge and real-world experience, and setting them on the path to success. He further emphasized the impact of the eHA Academy, stating, “The Academy has so far received 3057 applications across Africa since inception. Application for the next cohort kicks off in July 2023. He called on media colleagues and the general public to apply via www.academy.ehealthafrica.org and participate in this impactful program.” Galadanci also described the training as the beginning of a consistent exercise and engagement with journalists that will foster better collaboration among media players and eHealth Africa. “We are excited about the prospect of this collaboration as part of our corporate social responsibility while we look forward to its successful impact in the media industry. “eHealth Africa is committed to building stronger health systems through tech and data-driven solutions that respond to local needs and empower underserved communities with tools to lead healthier lives,” he stated.