The Chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC) Dr. Solomon Arase has commended the just concluded training of the commission’s directors on policing oversight and criminal justice system. He said the training was an effort to enhance accountable policing oversight and the criminal justice system amongst the directors in PSC). The training, organised by the Centre for Human Rights at the University of Pretoria in collaboration with the African Policing Oversight Forum, saw the participation of 81 professionals from 21 countries.Led by the former Inspector General of Police and Chairman of the Commission, Dr. Arase, the PSC directors underwent comprehensive sessions that covered crucial topics such as international and regional human rights standards relevant to policing and the criminal justice system. The program aimed to familiarise the participants with democratic policing, accountability frameworks, the use of force, arrest and detention procedures, effective interviewing techniques, and the prevention of torture. Notably, Arase, an internationally acclaimed scholar and consultant, also served as a facilitator during the training. While speaking, he expressed his confidence that the training marks the beginning of a series of international and national programs designed to strengthen the Commission’s oversight capabilities and equip its staff with the necessary knowledge and skills. He, also, emphasised the importance of respecting the fundamental human rights of Nigerians and pledged to extend similar training opportunities to the police force. Arase said that these training initiatives would be continuous and extensive, including exchange programs to foster adherence to international best practices and boost the self-confidence of the Commission’s staff and police officers. POLL In a relative development, PSC Chairman has applauded the National Assembly for passing a significant law that removes the police from the contributory pension scheme, aligning them with their counterparts in other security services. The legislative change is expected to alleviate the financial challenges faced by retired officers and mitigate associated health risks. He commended the retired officers for the resilient and civilised pursuit of their interests, noting that the swift enactment of the bill will help alleviate the profound poverty many have experienced after dedicating their lives to safeguarding the country. Arase who has continued his advocacy efforts by visiting the Head of the European Union Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, sought their support for police reforms, training and retraining of police personnel in investigation techniques, and alternative dispute resolution.He said these will help in addressing human rights violations and pre-trial detention cases while stressing the need to cultivate responsible policing practices in Nigeria. Mr. Ruben Alba Aguiler, the Team Lead of the Delegation, acknowledged the European Union’s commitment to security sector reform in combating terrorism and all forms of criminality in the country. He expressed the EU’s interest in partnering with the new administration but stressed the importance of understanding the government’s direction regarding police and security sector reforms. Mr. Aguiler assured Dr. Arase that the EU would engage other development partners to forge a broader partnership in support of these initiatives. With the PSC directors’ successful completion of the training program and Arase’s ongoing advocacy efforts, the Commission and the Nigerian police, it’s expected that there would be improved oversight practices, enhanced professional skills, and greater international cooperation.