SAMSON NWAFOR/ TOR VANDE-ACKA ABAKALIKI /MAKURDI – Ebonyi State governor, Rt. Hon. Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru, former Deputy Senate President, Ndo­ma-Egba, and others have com­mended President Bola Tinubu for the appointment of former Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, as his Chief of Staff (CoS), and former Benue State governor, George Akume, as Secretary to the Government of the Federa­tion (SGF). They also congratulated the two prominent appointees on their new positions. Governor Nwifurualso con­gratulated the former Deputy Governor of Jigawa State, Sena­tor Ibrahim Hadejia, for his your appointment as Deputy Chief of Staff. In a statement personally signed by the governor on Satur­day, he described their appoint­ment as well-deserved. According to him, their ap­pointments came with great joy because of their sterling perfor­mances in their various positions of trust. The governor said he had no doubt that they would perform better in their new responsibil­ities, even as he commended the president for choosing them. The statement reads: “On be­half of the government and good people of Ebonyi State, I sincere­ly felicitate with the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, on your appointment as Chief of Staff to the president. POLL “In the same vein, I congrat­ulate the former governor of Benue State and immediate-past Minister for Special Duties, His Excellency, Senator George Akume on your appointment as Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF) by Mr. Presi­dent.” Similarly, Senator Ndoma-Eg­ba hailed the appointments of Senator Akume and Rt. Hon. Gbajabiamila as Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chief of Staff (CoS) to the President respectively. He described their appoint­ments as well-deserved and said they were coming into the new offices with enormous wealth of experience and competence. “I congratulate Senator George Akume and Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila on their well-deserved appointments as Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chief of Staff (CoS) to Mr. President (Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu). “Both of them (Akume and Gbajabiamila) should be Ambas­sadors of the National Assembly. “And working with a Presi­dent and Vice President (Senator Kashim Shettima) who are them­selves alumni of the legislature, we expect a better and more efficient working relationship between the Executive and Leg­islative Arms of Government. “Senator Akume comes with a huge bag of experience at every level of the Executive and Senate leadership as Minority Leader and Minister, while Gbajabiami­la comes with remarkable expe­rience of long membership and leadership of the House of Rep­resentatives,” Ndoma-Egba said. Also, High Chief Moses Ayom, has lauded President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for appointing the immediate-past Minister for Special Duties and Inter-Govern­mental Affairs, Senator George Akume, as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). Recall that Chief Ayom had earlier turned down a call by a group of cleric calling on the president to appoint him (Ayom), as a minister in Tinubu’s govern­ment. Instead of bowing to pressure to be appointed a minister, the former presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC) had rath­er called on President Tinubu to appoint Senator Akume as the SGF. Speaking to newsmen in Mak­urdi on Saturday, while Ayom said it gladdened his heart that President Tinubu heeded his ad­vice among others and appointed Akume as the SGF in his admin­istration, he said the appoint­ment was his prayers answered. According to Ayom, “You remember that I resisted the pressure being mounted on me and calls by some groups that I be appointed a Minister. “I rejected the call to be given a ministerial slot in preference for the appointment of Senator Akume as SGF. “I told you at that time that I was not interested in a ministeri­al position, not because I am too big to serve my country under the Tinubu led government, but because, I have tremendous re­spect for elders and leaders. “I will rather demand and pas­sionately appeal to the President that, Senator George Akume be considered for the position of SGF and today the President has heeded my call.” On his part, the Executive Sec­retary (ES) of Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Rt. Hon. Emman­uel Jime, congratulated Akume and Gbajabiamila, on being well-considered choices. Jime, a former member of the House of Representatives, said the vast experience and knowledge of Akume and Gba­jabiamila on the workings of government would come to bear in the discharge of their duties for the new assignments.