LAGOS  – Four men arraigned have been arraigned before a Lagos Federal High Court by the Nigeria Cus­toms Services (NCS) for alleged illegal importation of prohibited pharmaceutical products. The four men arraigned before Justice Akintayo Aluko-led court are Fafiyebi Olalekan Mathew; Bello Bolaji Shakiru; Ikechukwu Iroha, and Balogun Success. The defendants, according to the Nigeria Customs Services, conspired among themselves and some others said to be at large, to commit the offences sometime in 2018. The defendants who are resi­dents of 3, Church Street, Mush­in; 7, Akinyemi Street, Surulere; 8, Abbey Que, Ifako, Gbagada, and 2, Onyeosi, Oluwalogbon, Ikosi-Ketu, Lagos State, respec­tively, allegedly committed the offences alongside Emeka Obi, Samuel Ezechukwu Chukwue­meka, Ifeoma Idigwe, Lawrence Onukogu, Loritha Ikeh, Chidi (Surname Unknown), Chalia (Surname Unknown), all said to be at large. The prosecutor, Mr. Michael Osong told the court that the defendants imported a 1X40FT container number: MRSU 3637299, containing 710 cartons of prohibited pharmaceuticals products and deceitfully cleared and transported the same with a truck marked KZR 536 ZT. He also told the court that all the defendant’s acts were made known when they were interception by Officers of the Nigeria Customs Service along Mile 2/Apapa Expressway on 5 November 2018. He told the court that the alleged acts of the defendants are contrary to and punishable under Sections 164(a); 47(1)(b) and 41(1)(C) of Customs and Excise Management Act, CAP C45, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges. POLL Upon their not-guilty plea, their lawyers who include S. Popoola and O. I. Obi, pleaded with the court to admit their clients to bail in the most liberal terms The two lawyers told the court that they have filed bail applica­tions and the same have been served on the prosecutor. The prosecutor admitted having been served with the ap­plications and told the court that he is not opposing the same, but urged the court to award condi­tions that will ensure that will enable the defendants attend court till the determination of the charges. Justice Aluko in his ruling on bail applications, admitted each of the defendants to bail in the sum of N5 million with one surety each. Justice Aluko ordered that the surety must be the owner of the property or clergy, who is a resident of Lagos State. Addi­tionally, both the defendants and their surety must submit their two passport photographs with the court’s Registrar. The judge ordered that all the defendants be remanded in the custody of the Nigerian Cor­rectional Services (NCoS) till the perfection of the bail terms, while adjourned to October 10, for trial.