The Arewa Youth Advocacy for Good Governance (AYAGG) has honoured Hon. Justice Ibrahim Buba, who recently retired as a Judge of the Federal High Court, with an award of excellence in recognition of his exceptional track record, philanthropy, distinguished leadership, and extraordinary passion for youth development. The group said the Judge was recognized for his impressive track record in social justice, societal upliftment and relentless services to humanity. Justice Ibrahim Buba retired as judge of the Federal High Court, on January 1st, after clocking the statutory retirement age of 65 years. In his acceptance speech, Justice Buba, admonished the youth to start living their dreams, instead of accepting hook, line and sinker, the saying that youth are the leaders of tomorrow. According to him, one maybe a youth today, and with time, become an adult tomorrow; hence the need for Nigerian youth to use their time wisely, as the decisions they make today would certainly impact their life in the future, in a fast moving world. “Before now our fathers used to save their documents in wooden boxes, and iron boxes, but now these documents are saved in iCloud accounts. “The world has gone into artificial intelligence and technology, so Nigerian youths shouldn’t lag behind, because they cannot afford to be functional illiterates”, Justice Buba said. He emphasized that Nigerian youths must move with the rest of the world because very soon, the world will go into what he called “metal verse”, as the world is not only dynamic but also changing dramatically. POLL He concluded by saying that his love and passion for the wellbeing of Nigerian youths, will never cease, and promised to do all he can to empower youths of the country. Born to the family of Mallam Buba Nyaure Malabu and Hajiya Zainab Abubakar (Hajja Babu), in Njawai, on the Mambilla Plateau, Sardauna Local Government Area of Taraba state, he was raised by his father and step-mum. He had early Qur’anic education at Njawai and was one of the pioneering set of pupils of L.E.A Primary School Njawai (1969 – 1975), where he was a class captain/monitor. He proceeded, to Government Secondary School Gembu from (1975- 1980), and in addition to his studies, played a lot of basketball, and almost made the cut for the team that represented Nigeria at the Moscow Olympics in 1980. Justice Buba obtained his law degree, LLB (Hons) from the University of Maiduguri, in present North-East of Nigeria, in 1985, graduating with a Second Class (Hons) Upper Division. He then attended the Nigerian Law School in 1985/1986, where he obtained B.L. Second Class Upper Division; and won the Sir Lionel Brett award, for over all best performance, in Criminal Procedure. He was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1986, and in 1987 he tutored as an Assistant Lecturer in the Faculty of Law (1987 -1988). Buba, became Principal partner of Fama Firm at 36 Ali Akilu Road, Kaduna, and actively practiced law in kaduna. He was a member of the Kaduna Bar Association, where he served as financial secretary. He was also nominated by the then Hon. Chief Justice of Nigeria to represent the country in a Special International Forum of Commercial Courts (SIFOOC) in London, New York, Singapore and Australia. He was the first lawyer and judge to have emerged from the backwaters of Mambilla Plateau in Sardauna Local Government Area of Taraba State; and upon bowing out with great joy and fulfillment, he has received several other awards and titles from international and local bodies,such as Walin Mambilla conferred on him by the Sardauna Traditional Council, in recognition of his Patriotic and quality leadership. He was also conferred with the title of Turakin Gashaka, a tittle bestowed on him by the Gashaka Traditional Council, for his sterling leadership qualities and contributions to traditional council and humanity. From the Association of Northern Nigerian students, he received an icon award of humanitarian service, for his outstanding performance in social transformation, educational development in youth and women empowerment and nation building. His Mother, Safaa M.U Adam (FIMC) CMC who was one of the guest of honours, described the retired Justice Buba as a humble man with honour, dignity and a father to all; who has done perfect job in judiciary and retired honourably. Dr. Tochukwu Okoye, who gave the vote of thanks, appreciated AYAGG for their efforts, and encouraged the group to sustain their outstanding work and records, and also prayed Almighty God to blessed their efforts.