The former Chief Press Secre­tary to the immediate past Osun Governor, Ismail Omipidan, on Monday, tasked Mass Communi­cation students of the Redeem­er’s University, Ede, to always be guided by their conscience in whatever they do as prospective media practitioners. He harped on the need for the students to imbibe and champi­on the professional ethics and reflect the same in their formal and informal conducts as soci­etal watchdogs and agenda set­ters, saying that such remains the only surest legitimate path­way to prosperity in the media profession. Omipidan, who was one of the guest speakers at the Re­deemer’s University Mass Com­munication Students Associa­tion (RUMSA), Colloquium, said the study and practice of Mass Communication must be seen as a clarion call to duty in view of its sensitivity and importance to socio-economic and political developments of any society. Speaking on the theme of the Colloquium; “Gown to Town: Preparing for the Industry, Un­locking the Potential”, Omipidan called on the students to start pre­paring for the challenges ahead in the labour market, saying that could only be overcome “if one equips himself or herself with necessary knowledge and skills required of the profession before he or she starts practising.” He, therefore, challenged the students to develop their writing skills, reading skills and analyt­ical skills as prerequisites to at­tain success in media practice, especially journalism. Omipidan emphasised that professional tenets are cardi­nal principles that must not be compromised by media practi­tioners, noting that for anyone to be a successful professional, he must see himself as a mirror through which the society sees in clear terms. He averred that the media profession, particularly print journalism, requires requisite skills of good writing, reading, courageousness, self-confidence and above all integrity to thrive, hence, the need for the students to imbibe these skills and values from school. While extolling the students for choosing to study Mass Com­munication in the citadel of knowledge, Omipidan noted that the choice of being media prac­titioners must be accompanied and complemented with char­acter and integrity to impact the world and make a much-desired change. POLL Omipidan, who is former Po­litical Editor of The Sun News­papers, submitted that journal­ism remains a noble profession, which thrives on integrity and character. Explaining the circumstanc­es that kept him in close contact with Nigeria’s Vice President, Senator Kashim Shettima and his principal, former Osun Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, Omipidan said: “If your primary intention is to make money, then, journalism is not your calling. That doesn’t say that you can’t make wealth, but you must first of all make a name. “It is your name that will bring you money and fame. And in the course of your job, try to make friends to further harness your potential”, Omipidan add­ed.