With barely 48 hours to the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly, a political pressure group, Arewa New Agenda (ANA) has thrown its weight behind Senator Godswill Akpabio to emerge president of the Senate and has requested aspirants for the top legislative seat, especially from the north, to drop their aspiration for the former governor. Addressing a world press conference on Saturday in Abuja, the group said that supporting the position of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the Senate president to come from the South is the right thing to do for ‘peacebuilding, national cohesion and healing” against the. Both chambers of the National Assembly is expected to elect their principal officers on June 13th. Aside from Senator Akpabio, Senator Orji Kalu, Osita Izunaso and Abdulaziz Yari, former governor of Zamfara State have declared their interest in the run for president of the Nigerian Senate. Sen Ahmed Abubakar MoAllahyidi,Convener of the group noted that the election of of the 10th Assembly leadership is coming against the backdrop of agitation against Muslim – the Muslim ticket in the executive, spilling over the entire arms of government considering the holders and front runners of judicial and federal House of Representatives. “ANA is concerned that a situation where all the leadership of the Executive, Legislature and the judiciary are Muslims does not provide the needed balance, inclusion and cohesion that our diversity requires at this moment; it is for this reason that the quest to have a Southern Christian as President of the 10th Senate is laudable, commendable and most reassuring. “Taking deliberate steps to reserve the position for the South with a Christian on the saddle is a bold move that has the propensity of further uniting Nigeria across both tribal and religious lines. It is a very desirable and progressive move that is capable of engendering peace and national stability. It will also demonstrate, empathy, accommodation and a sense of belonging that will erode the fear of exclusion and marginalization”. While noting that the effort to restrict positions to certain areas of the polity may deny opportunities for some equally competent aspirants from another part of the country, ANA however maintained that no sacrifice should be considered too great to make to “promote the spirit of brotherhood, fraternal accommodation and goodwill”. ANA, therefore, urged Muslim aspirants from the north to drop their ambition and support Akpabio. “The current dispensation requires leaders with character and tenacity; Senator Godswill Akpabio comes across as a gifted leader with an uncommon grace to navigate the treacherous and difficult political landscape, having built enduring bridges across the Political, ethnic and religious landscape of a multifaceted country like Nigeria, his political sagacity and accommodating win-win ethos will be the highly needed skills required to head the 10th Senate. POLL “For the APC as a political party, it is time to reward Nigerians who put their fate in the hands of the party despite the clamor by pundits who vehemently oppose the choice of two Muslimsas President and Vice President. It is, therefore, critical to reduce the usual acrimony that characterizes struggle for power among the geo-political zones, in a manner that will reduce unnecessary distractions and foster a peaceful and smooth take-off of the new dispensation under President Bola Ahmed Tinubu”.