It’s been a year since the Supreme Court handed down its decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, and the predictions by several experts that the U.S. Supreme Court decision to overturn Roe v. Wade would lead individual states to ban abortions have come true. Also true has been the impact of those bans and restrictions on the re­productive health disparities between Black and white women. As a scholar who studies reproduc­tive policy, politics and social justice movements, I have always been aware that, even when Roe was in place, abor­tion access is an elusive right for women of color, women in rural areas and wom­en living in poverty. Black women comprise a dispropor­tionate percentage – 39% – of abortion patients in the United States, and many live in communities with limited access to health services, including family planning clinics and pharmacies. They also disproportionately experience higher rates of other reproductive health conditions, such as infant mor­tality and pregnancy-related complica­tions and deaths. Get your news from people who know what they’re talking about. The lack of clinics means that Black women often delay or forgo necessary health care services. Before the reversal of Roe, many Black women, who are likely to live in states with abortion restrictions, had to worry not only about the cost of the procedure but also about travel costs and the possible loss of wages. Given the continued actions of an­ti-abortion policymakers at the state level, it’s my belief that the U.S. will con­tinue to see more restrictions – not few­er – and thus make it harder for Black women to have access to reproductive health care. POLL Restricted Abortion Access A small number of states, such as California, New York and Washing­ton, have passed laws or constitutional amendments that guarantee or strength­en abortion access. Some of those states have seen an in­crease in demand for abortion at clinics. In fact, the demand has quadrupled for some clinics in California. But at least 17 states, mostly concen­trated in the Southeast and the Midwest, have fully or partially banned abortions. An additional 10 states have further restricted abortion access without ban­ning abortion outright. Moreover, some state legislatures have begun to pass legislation that makes it illegal to travel across borders to obtain abortions. That means that pregnant women – and those who assist them – can poten­tially face criminal charges for obtain­ing abortions in another state. Two states with the largest popu­lations in total numbers of African Americans – Texas and Florida – have abortion bans. The states with the largest percent­ages of African Americans – 37% in Mississippi, 31% in both Georgia and Louisiana, and 26% in Alabama – have the most restrictive abortion laws. In fact, abortion is completely banned with few exceptions in Texas, Georgia, Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama. These bans have a detrimental im­pact on access for Black women. They now have to travel – even more so than before – to obtain an abortion, assuming they have the financial means to do so. Reproductive Health Disparities Beyond Abortion The recent tragic death of U.S. Olym­pic champion Tori Bowie during child­birth is a stark reminder of the repro­ductive health disparities that continue to plague the Black community. Black women, regardless of income or educational level, are three times as likely to die from pregnancy-related complications as white women. Black women have higher levels of obesity, hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascu­lar disease that can contribute to these complications. They are also more likely to receive little or late prenatal care, or none at all. But this only partially explains this disparity. Researchers have shown that the implicit bias and stereotypical assump­tions of health care providers are also key factors. Pregnant Black women are often re­fused hospital admission for delivery if they lack health insurance. Sometimes they are denied on the mere assumption that they do not have insurance. In various studies, Black women have reported that they have been treat­ed disrespectfully by medical personnel dismissive of their fears and concerns about their reproductive health. Black women’s complaints about pain are of­ten ignored, which can lead to misdiag­nosis or delayed treatment. In addition, Black women are more likely to be coerced into submitting to unnecessary cesarean sections, which can lead to major medical complica­tions. Black women report that they must be particularly assertive with health care providers to ensure that their re­productive needs are addressed. Where Do We Go From Here? According to the Pew Research Cen­ter, 57% of Americans disapprove the reversal of Roe, and 62% say that abor­tion should be legal. The Dobbs ruling is not only out of step with the general public, it also does not jibe with the opinions of most Afri­can Americans, of which a significant majority – 68% – agree that abortion should be legal in all or most cases. It remains to be seen if these senti­ments will have an effect on the upcom­ing elections. In the meantime, abortion access re­mains only one part of Black women’s reproductive health challenges. Kimala Price is Professor and Chair of Women’s Studies, San Diego State Uni­versity. Culled from THE CONVERSATION, June 23, 2023.