P/HARCOURT  – The president of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce Industry Mine and Agriculture, PHCCIMA Sir Mike Elechi has charged young entrepreneurs to ensure they carry out due diligence before embarking on business of their choice. Elechi gave the advice during the opening ceremony of the Port Harcourt office of AXA Mancer franchise, an insurance company which is known globally. He explained that for young entrepreneurs to achieve success, they ought to follow the ethics of the business with all passion and congratulated Dr. Emeka Unachukwu on his idea of establishing such a company that is aimed at assuring both life and insuring people’s Businesses. He went into memory lane on how he started his company, “Vintage farms and Products through the grants given to all permanent secretaries and commissioners during the tenure of Sir Dr. Peter Odili as Governor of Rivers State which according to him, the grant was channeled into Agriculture that has expanded into other Businesses. Earlier in his speech, the Managing Director of AXA Mancer Franchise, Dr. Emeka Unachukwu explained that the company is an insurance company Known globally, focusing on travel insurance, car insurance, life assurance as well as healthcare insurance as HMOs in several hospital across Nigeria. He called for partnership from individuals and corporate organizations, saying that they are into all kinds of banking transaction within and outside the country. In their separate speeches the Managing Director of GGI International, Dr Innocent Akuvue, The managing Director of Arow construction Limited, Chief Emeka Ezekwe, Managing Director of Osforce Nigerian Limited, Engr. Tony Nwobo congratulated their colleague and former president of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mine and Agriculture (PHCCIMA), Engr. Emeka Unachukwu for the successful opening of Port Harcourt office of AXA Mancer Franchise. They promised to collaborate with the company through their private businesses. High point of the event was the official unveiling of the office by the PHCCIMA President, Eze Sir Mike Elechi.