Less than one month after he left office as governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has revealed some top secrets that he kept to his chest throughout his eight years in office. Speaking at a special thanksgiv­ing service organised by his family in his honour on Sunday at the St. Peters Deanery, Rumuepirikom in Obio-Akpor Local Government Area of the state, former Governor Wike revealed that he was poisoned at the secretariat of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in December 2018. Though he did not mention the particular secretariat where he said he was poisoned. Wike noted that the poison almost destroyed his internal organs affecting his liver and kidneys and almost killed him but God quickly intervened and salvaged the unfortunate situation. The thanksgiving service had President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who was represented by the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in atten­dance. Other top notch dignitaries who attended the historic event included the Senate President, Senator Godswill Akpabio; Deputy Senate President, Senator Jibrin Barau; serving governors, scores of senators, over 30 members of the House of Representatives, former gov­ernors, former ministers, royal fathers, captains of industries, the National Working Commit­tee of the PDP, among others. Revealing further, Wike said: “God was in charge, ev­erybody who knew how we came to power in 2015, knew it was turbulent. But God saw us through. When you are in office, many people think things are going well with you. Nobody wants to find out the problems you are facing as a human. “In December 2018, it was a day my former Chief of Staff was going to have thanksgiv­ing. I was to attend that thanks­giving. From that Sunday, I never came down from my room. It was bad. But those who attended the January 1st state banquet of 2019 will know that I never spoke that day. I just sat down there and told the depu­ty governor to speak on my behalf. I thought it was over”, he said. Wike went on to disclose that he was flown to a hospital in Beirut at 12 midnight where doctors after running series of tests told him that his liver and kidney were all gone. POLL “I didn’t know I had been poi­soned at our party’s secretari­at”, he claimed, adding that the doctors after some treatments returned and told him his organs had started working again. The former governor ex­plained that the doctors dis­charged him after about a week in the hospital in Beirut and asked him to return home, adding that he altered his itin­erary during the campaigns for his second term. Wike said in view of the sad development, everybody around him became a suspect as he decided that he would not enter any party leader’s home during the course of his cam­paigns. Obviously not done yet, Wike also recalled another scenario of God’s intervention in his life, when his wife called him during his presidential pri­mary campaign and told him that she, Suzette Wike, had been diagnosed of cancer disease. Wike said he called the leaders in his campaign team including the G-5 members that there was a problem and he was planning to quit the race. He told the congregation that his wife later encouraged him to continue with the cam­paigns for his presidential tick­et that all would be well. According to him, after the primary when he was on a trip to Abuja in the company of his wife, he got information that a mysterious fire gutted his wife’s room and destroyed everything she had as a woman. Despite all the challenges, Wike noted, “Being a strong woman, my wife never showed it. But today my wife is hale and hearty. The cancer incident was the one I knew that God had done all for me”. Wike equally recalled that on another occasion, God saved him and three other leaders from a near plane crash. He said while they were travelling to Abuja after the presidential primary, one of the engines of the aircraft exploded 15 minutes after take-off. “Fifteen minutes of take off at the Airforce Base, we heard an explosion. They locked the cockpit. One engine is gone and the pilot said it was safer to turn back to Port Harcourt. Before we landed, there were many ambulances and fire service trucks lined up. We landed safe­ly by the Grace of God. I didn’t tell anybody,” he said. The former governor said he kept most of the incidents secret to avoid frightening his supporters, who could begin to misbehave. He said he decided to thank God for allowing a peaceful transition in Rivers and grant­ing him victories in all the elec­tions held in the state. “Ask my colleagues how they felt that their candidates didn’t make it as their succes­sors. Even those not sworn in yet started tormenting their predecessors. But nobody is tormenting me”, Wike said. The former governor said there was a gang-up in his par­ty at the national level to arrest him if his decisions had failed, adding that at some points his loyalists were scared that they would all be in trouble. Former Governor Wike fur­ther disclosed that all the forms for all elections in the party were acquired by him, stating that no candidate of the party paid a dime for forms. “I paid for every form. No­body would say he paid any money to buy forms from governorship to House of As­sembly. We agreed to work as a team. In the House of Assembly only one form, Senate, same. We didn’t want to have anything called post-election crisis”, he said. He said all the governorship aspirants for the 2023 elections signed an agreement which was drafted by the elders of the PDP in Rivers State that they would support the choice of the party for the governorship poll. “When somebody was cho­sen, there was a gang-up. They moved to Abuja and started plotting how they would arrest me after winning at the centre. All evil plots against me failed. “Those close to me were worried. But I told them to have faith and that they would not be finished. God never abandoned us. Today we have a governor, who is our successor. I don’t look back because I know I am protected everywhere”. Wike disclosed why he sup­ported Akpabio for Senate Pres­idency, saying that the former Akwa Ibom governor defied criticisms to back his gover­norship ambition in 2015. He revealed that Akpabio donated N200 million to his campaign, saying that one good turn deserves another. “When I was running in 2014 and 2015, he came out and supported me. He gave me N200 million for that election. That is why I said one good turn deserves another. I supported him this time and I thank God he won”. Wike thanked all members of the G-5 and Integrity Group for the roles they played during the presidential election. Giving vote of thanks at the event, the Rivers State governor, Sir Siminalayi Fubara, com­mended the church for allowing his principal to use their facility for the thanksgiving. “It is very special. We give God all the glory in a day like this. One of the secrets of David was continuous thanksgiving. We have done what is right. Be­cause they have thanked God, the family will continue to grow from strength to strength”. Fubara expressed gratitude to all the dignitaries who found time to grace the occasion de­spite their occupied schedules.