Universal Insurance Plc has, again, moved to bring into health insurance net over 150,000 members of the Nollywood in its renewed collaboration with the group. Under the aegis of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN), the body in partnership with Universal Insurance Plc has expressed commitment to boosting health insurance coverage for its members. At the AGN health and wellness week 2023 tagged, ‘Walk For Life’, aimed at sensitising its members on the need for insurance and good health within the country, the guild reiterated its commitment in ensuring the well-being of members via AGN in partnership with Universal Insurance Plc. The event took place in Lagos, Abuja, Asaba and Enugu State. It created awareness of the importance of embracing cover provided by Universal Insurance to Nollywood artists as a better and more effective alternative, to seeking financial assistance on social media to address urgent medical assistance. Speaking at the Lagos event, the President, AGN, Ejezie Rollas, stated that the importance of health maintenance could not be overemphasized. He said, “There is nothing more important than health for any human being. This fact made us introduce a special retail health management scheme, HMO with Medicard Ltd, in the year 2020. We have so far enrolled some indigent members in the scheme. “In the same vein, we partnered with Universal Insurance to provide group on-set cover for members in case of health emergency. All these and other juicy welfare packages have been put in place for members, but the apathy and lackadaisical attitude towards welfare packages, including their health issues, are very discouraging.” Universal Insurance was represented at the event by its Executive Director, Technical Operations, Mr. Paulinus Offorzor. POLL The statement said Universal Insurance signed a memorandum of understanding in 2018 with the AGN to provide group personal accident policy for members of the Guild. The Group Personal Accident Policy was designed to provide some level of benefits to Nollywood practitioners to cover death, permanent disability and medical expenses in the event of a loss occurring. “The AGN has about 150,000 members spread across the country in its register and provides a good market for better insurance penetration,” it stated. The statement also said Universal Insurance Plc was named as the co-sponsor and sole insurer for the 2023 Enugu International Trade Fair. The 34th edition of the famous Enugu International Trade Fair, which took place in Enugu, was organised by the Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture.