The Athletic’s David Ornstein has reported that the Gunners have launched an ‘opening proposal’ to sign the Germany international, meaning he is a player of real interest to the club. Chelsea signed Havertz, then aged 21, for a fee of over £75 million in the summer of 2020, with the attacking midfielder rated as one of the top young prospects in world football. Those expectations haven’t quite panned out at the Blues, but Havertz has shown signs of potential, and is clearly seen by Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta as a player that could improve the Gunners. Where Havertz would play is another question. An attacking midfielder, or ‘number 10, by trade, the 23-year-old has more regularly played as a striker for Chelsea, or even as a wide attacker. The Blues are eyeing sales this summer as they look to deal with what has become a bloated squad, given the high transfer fees spent last season. Any funds raised would likely be critical for new boss Mauricio Pochettino in signing the players he wants this summer – and Ornstein reports that Havertz could depart ‘should a deal emerge that suits all parties’. If Chelsea want to better balance this season’s books, however, they will have to sell the German quickly. Financial Fair Play (FFP) regulations are judged over a three-year period, and The Times reports that when the Premier League next calculates the figures in 12 months’ time, this season’s losses will be included in those calculations. POLL It is added that the timeframe for this encompasses up until June 30, 2023. Football finance expert Kieran Maguire has noted that the Blues may have to sell players in order to comply with the division’s rules. As a result, therefore, Chelsea would have to sell Havertz to Arsenal by June 30 in order to add the funds from his sale to the FFP balance sheet. Beyond that, Ornstein reports that Arteta and Arsenal want to improve their squad by the first week of July, prior to setting off on a training camp in Germany. However, if they cannot do so by then, they will have concluded this business by July 16, when they depart for a tour of the US. Therefore, the Gunners look to have around a month to complete a deal for Havertz.