……As Moses Sule Emerge New Speaker Of Plateau House of Assembly Plateau state Governor Barr Caleb Mutfwang has appointed Engr Jeremiah Satmark as his new Chief of Staff. Director of Press and Public Affairs to the governor Mr Gyang Bere in a Press statement issued to newsmen in Jos on Tuesday and a copy made available to Daily Independent, said this new appointment is in furtherance to the resolve of Governor Mutfwang to run a responsive and peoples-centered government on the Plateau. According to the Press statement, Engr Jeremiah Satmark until this appointment was Plateau Central Vice Chairman of Peoples Democratic party and was a graduate of Building from University of Jos. Engr Satmak before now held several political offices including Chief of Staff to a former Speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly as well as Secretary to Mangu Local Government Council. Engr Satmak is also a reputable building Engineer with vast experience in construction work. Similarly, the immediate past Speaker of Plateau House of Assembly Abok Ayuba has been appointed by Governor Mutfwang as Special Adviser on Legislative Duties. Hon Ayuba is a graduate of Law from the University of Jos and a Businessman. POLL Ayuba’s legislative skills and competence which was demonstrated while serving as Speaker in the 9th Assembly contributed greatly to his new appointment . Other Appointments made by Governor Mutfwang were among others, that of Engineer Alex Gyang Dalyop Kundang as Deputy Chief of Staff to the Deputy Governor, a graduate of Geology and Mining from University of Jos. In another development, Plateau state House of Assembly on Tuesday elected a new Speaker for the Assembly in the person of Hon Moses Sule representing Mikang Constituency at the State Assembly. He was unanimously elected unopposed along side his Deputy Speaker Hon Gwakson D Fom, member representing Jos South Constituency at the State House of Assembly. After the election of the Speaker and his Deputy, the state lawmakers adjourned their sitting to next week when they are expected to hold their first sitting at the State Assembly under the new dispensation.