The Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the development partners have begun sensitization to butchers and livestock dealers on the outbreak of anthrax in some neighboring countries within the West African Sub-Region specifically in Northern Ghana bordering Burkina Faso and Togo. Speaking at the sensitization workshop held at Karu Abattoir and Livestock Market Dei Dei, Abuja, the Director/ Chief Veterinary Officer of Nigeria (CVO), Dr. Columba Vakuru, explained that there is currently no suspected or confirmed case of anthrax in Nigeria. Vakuru represented by Dr. Dupe Hambolu, Risk Assessment & Communication Focal Point, said the essence of the sensitization was to create awareness on the preventive and control measures to tackle the menace of anthrax. He stressed that the disease which had claimed some lives was a bacteria disease that affects humans and animals (zoonotic disease). He pointed out that the bacteria, which exist as spores, can be found in the soil, wool, or hair of infected animals. Speaking further, he highlighted that animals can be infected when they breathe in or ingest spores in contaminated soil, plant, or water. He explained that human beings can get it when they inhale or breathe in the spores, eat contaminated meat, or come in contact with the skin through wounds or cuts while handling a sick or dead anthrax-infected animal. According to him, the signs of anthrax on animals include sudden death within two to three hours without displaying any sign, shivering in some animals as a result of high fever, difficulty in breathing, or convulsion, among others. POLL Vakuru added that signs in humans are fever, painless skin sores/ulcers with a black centre, respiratory symptoms, severe stomach pain, and general body pain. He noted that anthrax disease can be prevented or controlled, while urging them not to buy or sell sick animals to the public, not to buy animals from areas where outbreaks have been suspected, as well as not to buy cheap animals. Other preventive measures, they were told include “to always wear nose masks, work clothes and boots when in contact with animals, wash your hands regularly with soap after contact with animals, wash and disinfect the floor always.” The Chief Veterinary Officer explained that anthrax spores are resistant to harsh conditions and can survive in contaminated environments for 40 to 60 years and have been known to survive up to 100 years, making the control of the disease very difficult, adding that the spores are brought to the surface by wet weather among others. He stated that Nigeria’s close relationship with Ghana through the border movement of humans and animals and strong trade relations can create a high risk of importation of the disease. The CVO however, pointed out that Federal Government has put precautionary measures in place which include the “Establishment of a National Anthrax Technical Working Group (TWG), Dissemination of Information through Press Releases and Development of an Incident Action Plan.” He, therefore, encouraged Nigeria to report early detection of suspected anthrax cases in animals to prevent the spread of the disease to unaffected animals and humans. In his remarks, Livestock Manager in Dei-Dei Market, Hanisu Wawu, said that any livestock brought in for sale or slaughter is always monitored. However, he promised to ensure dealers adhere to the directive of the Federal Government concerning live stocks in order to prevent disease outbreaks in Nigeria.