The music band – BANTU, under the leadership of Adegoke Odukoya, popularly known as Ade Bantu, is set to release a 10-track music album on Friday, June 9, 2023. According to a statement, the album is a social commentary on the state of the nation amidst the uncertainties Nigerian citizens grapple with daily. Titled ‘What is your breaking point?’ the rhetorical question aims to provoke a series of thoughts on their living conditions. Bantu said the album addresses the realities of human existence, especially in Nigeria. “Our new album titled ‘What is your breaking point?’ drops on the 9th of June! The question ‘What is your breaking point?’ calls for retrospect and prompts for an in-depth reflection on the hard realities on our livelihood and survival as a Nation.” Speaking further, the music producer and social activist said every song on ‘What Is your breaking point?’ spreads its own bit of Nigerian stardust over its listeners. “The 10-track long player is the third in a genre and era-defining trilogy of releases including 2017’s Agberos International and 2020’s Everybody Get Agenda. With this new album, the 13-piece BANTU collective pushes the boundaries of funkiness and political prowess even further than its predecessors. It is also the first to feature a female guest lead, in this case, the renowned African American rapper Akua Naru. The System is Broken, the Sound is Resilient Every song on ‘What Is your breaking point?’ spreads its own bit of Nigerian stardust over the listener.” He said a sharp review of the past challenges in the country suggests Nigeria has reached a breaking point.“The unprecedented #EndSARS protests against police brutality and criminality began alongside COVID-19 pandemic. Nigerians have finally reached the breaking point. In this sense, ‘What is your breaking point?’ is as much a statement as a question, forcing the listener to pay attention to the changes in politics and the evolution of music in Africa’s most populous and culturally important country, and from a global perspective. In this regard, each song opens a rich tapestry of sounds, lyrics and narrative that weave together a compelling, angry yet hopeful vision of Nigeria and in extension, Africa and its possible futures.”Bantu insisted that the leaders have divided the citizens, warning on the gross implication of compromise.“Exploring the album, the first track ‘Wayo and Division’ focuses on the deceit that’s at the heart of Nigerian politics and social life. Referring to how successive governments have used tribe and religion to divide people while elites share the loot, they have stolen from the commonwealth. Since they don’t care about tribe or religion, neither should we, the song argues. So we should stop being ‘hoodwinked’ and falling for their deceit and being led to the slaughter like lambs, but instead come together and face the corruption head on, as happened with the #EndSARS protest.”