The Young Progressives Party (YPP) governorship candidate in Akwa Ibom State, Senator Bassey Albert, has petitioned the President of Court over his safety and that of witnesses at the state election petition tribu­nal and requested an immediate relocation of the tribunal. In a petition dated June 21, 2023 and signed by his lawyer, Ahmed Raji (SAN), Senator Al­bert claimed that the tribunal venue was no longer safe for him and some witnesses following threats to their lives by suspected armed personnel. The petition made available to Vanguard read: “I write to report an unusual and life-threatening spate of events in the Governor­ship Election Tribunal, sitting in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. “My representation is for the petitioners in EPT/AKW/ GOV/01/2023, Between Akpan Albert Bassey & ANOR. V. INEC & 2 ORS., and 4” Respondent, in Mr. Akanimo A. Udofia & Anor. v.INEC & 4 Ors. Specifically, I am the lead Counsel representing a two-term lawmaker: Senator Ak­pan Albert Bassey and the Young Progressives Party (YPP). “The primary complaint of my client in the petition, is that he ought to have been returned winner of the March 18, 2023, Gubernatorial Election, in Uyo, Akwa lbom State. “On this premise, the petition­ers were compelled to have a sub­poena issued and served on him. He was invited to testify in court and give evidence as to whether he is a staff of the University of Uyo, who certified the Academic Records of Eno Umo Bassey, indi­cating that he was expelled from the school, because he had no verifiable results from the West African Examinations Council (WAEC). ‘During the proceeding of June 20, 2023, the said witness — Daniel Akpan, was still resisted from testifying, by unknown men and supporters of Eno Umo Bassey. As a proactive measure, the petitioners had to apply for additional reinforcement and security personnel, to secure the perimeters, both for the witness, himself and his team of lawyers. “While the said witness was in the witness box, he complained to the Honourable Tribunal, that he had been receiving several calls by unknown persons, warning him not to give evidence at the tribunal. He equally complained to the Honourable Tribunal that these persons threatened to kill him; and for this, he solicited protection from the court. Un­fortunately, the tribunal rebuffed this complaint, perhaps because he was perceived to be a helpless common man. POLL “As a follow up to the anxiety of Daniel Akpan, I passionately appealed to the Honourable Tri­bunal for a covering Order in his favour. | respectfully urged the Honourable Tribunal to make a covering and protective Order, that nobody should arrest or whisk away the witness, because he appeared to give evidence, in the name of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (subpoena). “The Honourable Tribunal appeared to downplay the impor­tance of the life of Daniel Ekpan, who appeared in court to testify, in honour of the subpoena. My request was openly addressed to be an administrative issue, which ought to be handled by the Secretary of the Tribunal. While the Honourable Tri­bunal adjourned further hear­ing to June 21, 2023, unknown men, Military men and officers of the Police Force, in different squads invaded the court, and blocked my team and I, from go­ing home. We were all ordered to alight from our vehicles, wield­ing heavy armament, weapons, shooting into the air, bullets, and tear gas.