The Lagos State government has advocated safe conversion of petrol for domestic use. The Director General, Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, at the weekend disclosed that the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration is committed to ensuring safety of lives and properties of its residents. Mojola said that with the recent development on subsidy removal in the country, which has led to the hike in the pump price of PMS and the resultant discomfort to the citizens, the conversion of petrol generators in homes and offices to LPG generators has risen considerably. He stated that powering generators and plants with alternative fuels like Liquiefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) or Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) offers several benefits. He listed the benefits to include: CNG and LPG are generally cheaper than petrol, offering potential cost savings over the long term; These fuels are cleaner, and so do not contaminate the air as much as petrol and diesel do; Natural gas and LPG are often more abundant and domestically sourced in certain regions compared to petrol. This can provide greater fuel availability and independence from fluctuations in petrol prices or supply disruptions; and CNG and LPG combustion generally produce less noise compared to petrol. This results in quieter generator operation, which can be beneficial for residential use and minimize noise pollution.He declared that the Lagos State government wishes to alert the general public of the safety hazards and risks inherent in the conversion process in the use of these LPG- powered generators at homes and offices. Mojola listed them as: Spark or heat from the generator can cause fire outbreak if gas leakage occurs from the hose or cylinder valve; Explosion could occur if the generator house is not properly ventilated thereby allowing gas leak build up in enclosed space; LPG is bottled under high pressure with potential for explosions if not properly handled; Gas cylinders can fall and roll off if not placed on even flooring. When this happens, the gas hose can pull out leading to uncontrolled leakages; Corrosion of gas cylinders can occur when left in the rain or in humid environment. Others, according to him, are: Exposure to direct sunlight can expose cylinders to excessive temperature with attendant risk of explosion; Poor installation of the hybrid carburettors on generators can increase the risks of accident; CNG should be discouraged for household generating sets except for special cases like large estates with plants for power generation; and use of sub-standard, dilapidated or expired cylinders substantially increases risks of gas explosion. POLL Also, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, Shola Shasore, said that it is important to note that converting a petrol generator to use alternative and less expensive fuels may require modifications and the installation of appropriate conversion kits by qualified professionals. She said the general public is hereby advised to engage only qualified technicians for this service. ‘When in doubt, please contact the Lagos State Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources or Lagos State Safety Commission for guidance on professional vendors and installation, as well as appropriate safety guidelines,” she added.