LAGOS – The Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) has commended the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) for opting for dialogue in resolving the impasse triggered by the fuel subsidy removal and called on the Federal Government to urgently come up with palliative measures that are inclusive, impactful and sustainable. In a statement issued by the centre and signed by its Director/Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Muda Yusuf, it acknowledged the uncommon hardship being faced by Nigerians and appealed for patience with the Government’s decision of fuel subsidy removal. According to him, “In truth, the pains inflicted on the citizens, especially the vulnerable segments of the society, were very severe. A strike action would have further exacerbated an already difficult situation for the citizens. Opting for strike actions should only be a matter of last resort. We urge President Bola Tinubu to reciprocate the thoughtful stance of Labour by speedily coming up with measures to mitigate the pains of the fuel subsidy removal. The sufferings are real and affect the citizens across all segments of our society – public service, private sector, informal sector, artisans, students, SMEs, the unemployed, the aged, pensioners, etc. “There is therefore a need for urgent responsive actions from all tiers of government. The mitigating measures should be holistic and inclusive and should be driven by a combination of direct interventions, fiscal policy measures and monetary policy actions.” Speaking further, Yusuf said: “The citizens have demonstrated an incredible understanding, tolerance, patience and resilience. The government cannot afford to overstretch this gesture and cannot afford to be perceived as taking them for granted. Reciprocity by the political leadership at all levels is urgent, exigent and crucial.” He said the hardship mitigating measures could be classified into immediate, short-term, medium and long-term, as responses would send the right signals to citizens and demonstrate the government’s sensitivity to the devastating impact of the subsidy removal on the poor. The CPPE head said immediate panaceas need to be activated, not just concerning transportation costs, but the surging cost of living generally, noting that the agreement signed with Labour did not reflect the desired urgency of the mitigation measures. He said it is scanty on immediate actions and quick wins which are needed to immediately assuage the feelings of the ordinary citizens and stabilize the social environment. POLL “Beyond the documented demands of the Labour unions, the CPPE is recommending the following interventions in the interest of social justice and social stability. “Firstly, NNPC should sell petroleum products at a price which is 10% less than that of other private sector marketers. This is to demonstrate the desired social sensitivity by the government in this transitional phase of subsidy removal. “Acceleration of the Presidential Power Initiative to upscale power supply in the country. State governments and private investors should be supported to leverage the decentralization power supply and off-grid power solutions. “Also, the government must put an end to the pricing of gas in dollars for domestic use, especially for manufacturers. Necessary urgent steps must be taken by the government to put an end to this dollarization framework to ensure a moderation in energy costs for the manufacturing sector. And the government should take urgent steps to reduce the cost of LPG to households. The recent reduction in the LPG price is laudable, but the price reduction trajectory should be sustained to ease pressure on households and prevent deforestation. On fiscal policy measures, CPPE said that import duty, VAT and other port charges on Semi Knocked Down parts for the assembly of mass transit buses should be waived. Government import duty on passenger buses of 15 passenger capacity and above should be reduced by 50% for the next year. “Drastic reduction in import duty on intermediate products for the food processing industry in the country to moderate food inflation. Employers, especially thriving medium and large enterprises, should be persuaded by the government to provide buses for their employees,” he explained.