DAMATURU – As part of efforts to improve businesses and relationships, the Managing Director Ashaka Cement Company, Ibrahim Aminu has today met a group of customers and consumers in Potiskum town of Yobe State. Speaking to DAILY INDEPENDENT shortly after the meeting, the Managing Director said that “the purpose of this meeting is to meet the customers, get closer to them as you know there’s a saying that customer is a king. “So we visited them to know what they want and what they need so that they would continue to patronize our brand. Potiskum and Ashaka communities are the same with a distance of just above one hundred kilometers. “Ashaka Cement has good quality product, good service delivery. So they really have no reason not to patronize our Cement, we came here to concretize our relationship which has been going on for over 40 years between us, this is the purpose of the meeting.” Commenting on their products, he revealed that “Sometimes ago we had one or two issues with the product but that has been fixed, we have given them the assurance that we have fixed the problem. “Any manufacturer or Cement Company once in a while will face one or two challenges regarding the quality, we’re not an exception and we are on top of the situation , now we no longer have quality problems, our staff are working painstakingly to ensure that the cement produced meet all the standard, other markets are using our Cement without any problem and we are assuring Potiskum market that there is no any problem with our Cement”. He appealed to their consumers to educate the end users on the proper use of cement, for any cement that you use in the right way you will get the right quality result but if you try to cut corners you might run into problems, don’t put too much sand into the cement, put the desired quantity so that you don’t encounter any problem and anything you don’t understand regarding the application of the cement, please ask questions from the experts, we have engineers who go round, we have ssles representatives who go round to educate end users regarding the use of cement. “I also want to appeal to the customers here in Potiskum to continue patronizing Ashaka Cement because it is the best Cement you can ever find in this Country.