A group of young professionals in different fields of endeavor under the aegis of the Forum of Youthful Nigerian Professionals (FYNP) has advocated for the inclusion of Ondo State youths that have distinguished themselves in the cabinet of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu. This appeal was made by the National Coordinator of the group, Dr. Wilson Chibuna in Abuja on Thursday during an event organized in honour of outgoing members of the 9th House of Representativesthat have distinguished themselves. Chibuna praised the sterling achievements of some youthful members of the lower legislative chamber and also advised them to leverage on their records of performance to climb the ladder of higher national service. He, however, spoke glowingly on the transformative strides of a 38-year-old Hon. Tajudeen Adefisoye, who is the outgoing member representing the Idanre/Ifedore federal constituency of Ondo State. Chibuna further said that he was most impressed with the oversight performance of Adefisoye in the capacity of Deputy Chairman, of the House Committee on Army. He added that the recent improvement in the output of Nigerian Army personnel could be divorced from the diligent and important oversight recommendations by Adefisoye and other members of the House Committee on Army. While giving testimonies of the redefined representation and sterling legislative performance by Adefisoye, the FYNP coordinator said: “I was attracted to Hon. Adefisoye, who is better known as Small Alhaji by his patriotic and excellent oversight job that he did as the Deputy Chairman of the House Committee on Army. This effort has undeniably manifested in the improved welfare of our soldiers and this has also in turn expectedly led to improvement in the performance of Nigerian Army personnel in the last three years. POLL “Having seen the great qualities and competence of Hon. Adefisoye, I insisted that we should visit his federal constituency some two years ago, all in a bid to satisfy my curiosity. As expected, the number of projects already executed completely by Hon. Adefisoye got me marveled. He came up with a lot of innovative projects that got him endeared to the grassroots. The constituents openly described him as obviously the best House of Representatives member since 1999. I was therefore not surprised when Small Alhaji won the 2021 African Best Legislator Award and other several national awards”. Chibuna also commended the outstanding performance of another youthful legislator from Ondo State, Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo. The medical doctor added that he was also quite impressed with the quantum and quality of projects executed in Akoko North East/Akoko North West Federal Constituency of Ondo State by Tunji-Ojo. He therefore urged Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State to project his youthful best that has been able to prove their mettle for positions in the administration of President Bola Tinubu. Chibuna also harped on the need for the older political class in Ondo State to allow the younger politicians to showcase their competence and capacity in the new dispensation at the national level of Nigerian politics.