★Cautions Ex Agitator Over ‘Careless Statement’ Hon. Philip Agbese, the lawmaker representing Ado/Okpokwu/Ogbadibo Federal Constituency of Benue State, has urged Niger Delta leader and former agitator, Mujahid Asari Dokubo, to stop undermining the efforts of the Nigerian military. Agbese said it was “unpatriotic, uncharitable and unfair” for Dokubo to make unsubstantiated claims against a highly-revered institution like the Armed Forces. Dokubo had alleged that the bulk cases of oil theft recorded in the oil-rich region of Niger Delta were traceable to troops of the Nigerian military. He expressed this view when he paid a visit to President Bola Tinubu at the State House on Friday. However, in a statement issued on Sunday in reaction to the allegations, Rep. Agbese, who admitted to sharing the same views with the Niger Delta leader on numerous issues, said he doesn’t buy into his latest statements. He said: “By making such bogus claims, “Dokubo is attempting to bring down the military and make militancy popular in the eyes of the people”. He said the Nigerian Armed Forces have, in recent times, proven to be professional, patriotic, and committed to protecting the nation’s territorial integrity. POLL While admitting that few bad eggs exist in the military, Agbese said it was unjust to generalize as this will demoralize troops who make sacrifices for the nation. Agbese, however, warned that militancy must not be allowed to return to the country if that’s what Dokubo wants to achieve. “I appreciate Dokubo who is my good friend for his unequivocal stand on a lot of issues but I think he missed the point on this particular subject,” he said. “Our officers are not in any way complicit even though much can still be achieved in the areas of protecting our national assets in the Niger Delta. “Dokubo simply wants to be involved which is in his right. We must however, not destroy the reputation of others to get what we want. “The sacrifices of our military officers and men who make all the sacrifices to keep the country together should not be taken for granted. If there are lapses, we expect Dokubo, as an elder statesman, to provide relevant information and support to the troops. “We have gone past the era of militancy. If that is what Dokubo is clamouring about, I’m sorry it is not an option. Our military has shown to be equal to the tasks”, Agbese added.