Bayelsa State Gover­nor, Douye Diri’s re-election bid re­ceived a boost yes­terday as the National Asso­ciation of Nigerian Students (NANS) and the National Union of Bayelsa State Stu­dents (NUBSS) endorsed him and his deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, for a second term. They gave the endorse­ment at the first student sum­mit in the state organised by the Bayelsa State Students Management Committee. The aim of the summit is to equip students with entre­preneurial skills. Speaking on behalf of the students, President of the NUBSS Worldwide, Dennis Ebobra, said the endorse­ment was as a result of the governor’s developmental projects not only in the edu­cation sector but in virtually all sectors. Ebobra said their support was to reciprocate the huge in­vestment of the Diri adminis­tration in education and that they will ensure the governor returns to office to continue with his good policies for the sector and the state. Also, the NANS Zone B Coordinator, Comrade Kings Tamarautuapreye, lauded the governor for sustaining the Higher Education Students Loans Scheme, which has as­sisted many indigent students to continue their studies. He said the students were happy with the governor’s administration and that their endorsement was easy because of his achievements and fatherly disposition. President of the Niger Del­ta University Students Union Government, Precious Apiri, equally thanked the gover­nor for the infrastructural development in the state’s pioneer university, especially the construction of a convo­cation arena that he recently approved for the institution. POLL In his remarks, Governor Diri described the theme of the programme: “Transcend: Upscaling Bayelsa State Stu­dents on Entrepreneurship and Self-Development” as apt, saying it was in line with his administration’s policy on entrepreneurial development. The governor noted that the objective of his adminis­tration was to stimulate entre­preneurship by equipping the youths with skills that would make them self-employed and employers of labour. He hinted that his ad­ministration would initiate a floating fund that would enable young Bayelsans engage in businesses after graduating from the tertiary institution. According to him, the aim is to move Bayelsa from a con­sumer to a production state. He said the administration had backed words with action by encouraging four small-scale entrepreneurs with the sum of N200,000 each month­ly in the 105 wards across the state. He said: “The topic of this summit is apt. Entrepreneur­ship is the way our govern­ment is going. We are going toward skills acquisition.