Before proceeding further and to put the issues being contended into context, it is appropriate that we take a cursory look at the relief that the FGN went to seek in court. Basically, the Federal Government prayed for the order of court for ASUU to call off its seven-month-old strike and it is further asking the court to determine the extent of ASUU’s demands since the 2020 Memorandum of Action (MOA) that the union signed with the government. These include the funding for revitalisation of public universities as per the 2009 agreement, Earned Academic Allowances (EAA) payments, state universities proliferation and constitution of visitation panels and release of white paper on the report of the visitation panels. Also included are the reconstitution of the government renegotiation team for renegotiation of 2009 agreement, which was renegotiated 2013/2014, due for renegotiation 2018/2019 and the migration of ASUU members from IPPIS to its own UTAS, which is currently on test at NITDA. The intention of the FGN appears to me as if it wants an order of the court for ASUU members to resume work in their various universities while the issues in dispute are being addressed by the NICN which is in consonance with the provisions of Section 18 (I) (b) of the TDA Cap T8. LFN 2004. Now, that the FG has had its way, at least in the lower court, and as earlier stated, even if the Appeal Court were to sustain the judgement and the Supreme Court also had affirmed it, would the FGN be able to fulfill its part of the bargain which is basically about funding the education sector? I think not, simply because the FGN is broke and cannot afford to continue to bear the burden of high cost of university education. As such, the earlier FGN admits that reality, the better for the distressed education sector in particular and the nation in general. POLL Even the blind can tell that our country is currently in financial dire straits and therefore anaemic as its life blood— crude oil is being illegal sapped from the pipelines by oil theft cartels. And it would not be lost on any discernible observer that the FGN is inclined to once again, as it had been doing since 2009, literally ‘kick the can down the road’ as Americans like to describe postponing the evil day in the manner that the removal of petrol subsidy has also been postponed to June 2023, which is a couple of days after the end of the tenure of the incumbent regime. Why not confront the demon hobbling the education sector in Nigeria right now, once and for all by facing up to the reality that the challenge cannot be wished away or be eliminated by sheer intimidation of lecturers via weaponization of their welfare with the no-work, no-pay policy, procurement of court judgement against them and the deployment of divide and rule tactics via sponsoring of rival labor unions such as Congress of Nigerian University Academics, CONUA, and Nigerian Association of Medical and Dental Academics, NAMDA, both of which are newly registered trade associations in the academia? At the risk of appearing to be holding brief for ASUU, but without being told, these are unwholesome and treacherous practices that would bode ill will for the education sector. That is because although the strategy of splintering ASUU may appear to be efficacious in the short term, but in the long run, the authorities may inadvertently make the education sector become too unionized with grave consequences for the future of education. With the latest action, it appears as if government would stop at nothing to compel the agitating academicians to go back to the classroom. Arising from the above, it is not out of order to wonder if the option of FGN going to court and securing judgement in its favor fails to compel lecturers to go back to work, and the divide and rule tactic is also unable to yield the desired outcome, would the authority’s last resort be to arrest and jail the leaders of the strike action as it allegedly did with top members of the judiciary when they were not dancing to its tune? We are all too familiar with how the executive arm of government apply such arm twisting and undemocratic approach to impose its desire on other arms. Hopefully, the situation may not be allowed to degenerate to such a bizarre level again, particularly because the country is now in election mode which presupposes that the electorate is to be wooed via charm offensive unleashed by politicians, and not being clobbered in the head by security agencies, which is what any attempt to arrest the striking lecturers and lock them up based on trumped up charges would look like. While I have no idea if the ruling party is imagining how devastating protest votes in the 2023 elections by aggrieved lecturers and students against the ruling party’s presidential candidate and seekers of other offices would be, I can see the APC paying dearly at the polls in February and March next year, if the ASUU, FGN and students impasse is allowed to degenerate beyond the current situation. Dwelling further on the possibility of applying brute force to rein in the lecturers if they fail to comply with the court ruling, it may be recalled that a handful of members of the top echelon of the judiciary who were not compliant with the desire of government back in October 2016 were arrested in the middle of the night in gestapo style, even as some were taken away in their pajamas by security agents, ostensibly on corruption charges which were justified with the cache of cash in local and foreign currencies found in their homes when they were raided. After that ugly incident, the judiciary became mired in the doghouse until a recent change in the leadership which was forced by a rare action of Supreme Court judges writing a vicious and scandalous petition to government against their colleague, then Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, which was leaked to the media. Of course, the media seized upon it and created a firestorm in the society, particularly the judicial sector, via a media blitz that resulted in the change of guard in the leadership of the judiciary. With the replacement of the embattled CJN with the current incumbent, in an uncanny way, the judiciary has started healing its self, following the confirmation of Justice Olukayode Ariwoola by the Senate of the National Assembly, NASS, on September 21, 2022 as the new CJN. And it would not be out of order to expect a reset in that arm of government from being pliable and compromised to being impartial, so that it would remain the bastion of democracy and the proverbial last hope for the common man that it is meant to be. By the same token, the aggrieved lecturers turned activists in the education sector may be treading a similar path or adopting a strategy akin to the one applied by the senior members of the judiciary with the hope that the authorities would (in American lingo) ‘wake up and smell the coffee’ by realizing that ASUU members have taken their destiny into their hands with the determination to make this strike the industrial action that would trigger a chain reaction that could turn the sector around for good. Presumably, if adequate care is not taken, and the current malaise in the sector is allowed to persist by not implementing the robust and far reaching solutions encapsulated in 2009 agreement which have been put in abeyance till date, the current afflictions of the education sector may attain a point of no return. And it may very well be the final death knell to the future of higher education in Nigeria for our youths whose destinies have invariably been put in the coffin (via the 7 months old shutdown of schools) and only waiting to be nailed. It bears repeating that without a change in FGN approach to funding higher education, the coffin of ignorance and illiteracy with Nigerian youths as victims would be nailed via the ongoing skullduggery being perpetuated by the government that should be laser focused on putting the future of our children on even keel for a leap forward as Lee Kuan Yew, the iconic leader of Singapore, did with his tiny island country which grew from third to first world in an unprecedented short period by implementing out-of-the box policies that seemed like they were impossibilities to lesser mortals, but which became manifest through the dexterity and astuteness of its illustrious leader with a can do spirit. It is certainly not rocket science to figure out that our children who are by nature leaders of tomorrow, should be armed or equipped with the best education possible and cutting edge knowledge that is in tune with the 21st century developments in order for our country to be able to compete in the world that is increasingly becoming more knowledge based and less natural resources dependent. For instance, it is universally acknowledged that in another two decades or so, most countries in the industrialized world would ban the use of fossil fuel to power their vehicles as they are intent on transiting to reliance solely on electric vehicles. As a matter of fact, the State of California in the USA which is a major producer of crude oil intends to ban fossil fuel powered vehicles in the next ten (10) years. The change from fossil fuel to electric powered vehicles, for instance, would handicap our country whose main source of foreign exchange earnings (about 85%) is from fossil fuel— crude oil. To be ready for the future, ideally, we should by now be planning to harness our next biggest and best asset which is abundant human capital that our youths represent when they are facilitated to study in higher institutions of learning such as universities to enrich themselves with knowledge and skills that can be deployed all over the world where they are in demand. India currently benefits from its highly educated workforce by virtue of their presence all over the world where they are engaged as leaders of top ten Fortune 500 corporations worldwide. So, our youths being out of school for so long is a liability and burden on society of which we all as Nigerians would bear the dire consequences of breeding criminals instead of scientists, mathematicians, software and robotic engineers, medical doctors, nurses, lawyers etc which is in tandem with the wise crack— an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. It is dismaying that instead of preparing our youths for future leadership with sound education to stand our country in good stead in the comity of nations, the authorities in charge of education are hobbling the sector with visionless policies that are capable of worsening the level of incapacitation of our youths that could result in canceling out our country from the league of developing nations. In the light of the danger posed to the future of our country by a protracted shutdown of higher institutions, why not invest some of the income from the sale of fossil fuel towards the development of the next best asset in which our country has comparative advantage which is Human Resources that are currently largely unharnessed? Leveraging the aphorism, make haste while the sun shines, it would be wise to seamlessly transit from oil wealth to human capital wealth, if we train our youths to become highly marketable by right-tooling them. It is doubtless that with innovative and dynamic leadership, our abundant Human Resources could be converted into cutting edge human capital. And that is if we equip our youths with top notch education in order to be fit for the future or future ready. It is heartbreaking that it would appear as if after engaging the aggrieved lecturers in an unnecessary dog fight in the past seven (7) months with our youths as the main victims, the scales are yet to fall from the eyes of the administrators in the education space about the folly of not being in a haste to end the stand-off. How long would Nigeria’s education sector remain in the doldrums before there is an adult in the room? Does the incumbent FGN not have limits to how low in the level of underdevelopment that it would blindly drag our beloved country into? The FGN must come to terms with the reality that even if the lecturers appear to be fighting for their welfare, they are equally engaging in the struggle to secure the future of our beloved nation by literally poking the authorities in the rib via a strike action with a view to waking her up from the deep slumber that it is in currently, so that it could hopefully see that our country’s education sector is headed for the precipice (it could crash and the ship of education could get wrecked) if the authorities do not change course and its bellicose and the devil-may-care attitude being jettisoned, sooner than later. Perhaps, after the filibustering by both sides, the cause of the lecturers who have been blackmailed, bullied and maligned would eventually be recognized and addressed by government that had been deaf and dump in the past (7) months that the industrial action has lasted. And one would have thought that nerves are calming on government’s side of the divide due to the intervention by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, and his team who recently engaged with ASUU leadership and pleaded with it to await his consultation with the president when he returns from the recently concluded United Nations General Assembly, UNGA, meeting in New York, USA. But, contrary to my high expectations, those at the helm of affairs in the education sector and labor authorities seem to have been determined to continue being in a dog-in-the-manger mode. And the signs that the ice between ASUU and education authorities might have been thawing reflected by the recent retraction of the order by government via Nigerian Universities Commission, NUC, for lecturers to go back to the class room, have turned out to be mere mirage as FGN has maintained its hard stance which is akin to chasing a bull into a China shop with disastrous consequences. It is disappointing that a real end to the fiasco in the education sector which one had thought is imminent due to NASS intervention may not happen after all as the report that it has just been presented to President Buhari last Wednesday, would in all likelihood, be a mere palliative measure. The assertion above is underscored by the belief that it may not deal with the fundamental challenges besetting the education sector in ways that the crises would not reoccur soon after.