SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE Intercontinental Distillers Limited (IDL), maker of Eagle Aromatic Schnapps, Nigeria’s authentic prayer drink and cultural heritage brand, has announced an initiative to advocate for hard work and prayers. The initiative themed: Journey with Authentic Prayers, according to Patrick Anegbe, Managing Director/Chief Executive, International Distillers Limited, while announcing the initiative during a media briefing in Ikeja said the campaign is a testament to the company’s commitment to innovation, customer engagement and cultural celebration. “We recognise the importance of hard work and we know the place of prayer no matter the religion, gender or creed, we all need to connect to forces higher than us for success in life’s journey. “By promoting the message of hard work and prayers, Eagle Aromatic Schnapps will cause our target audience to appreciate personal effort/diligence and spiritual devotion in their lives. “Such a mindset will bring an attitude change in the mindset of the youth and go a long way in nation building.” Anegbe, who was represented by Umoren Akpan, Head, Internal Audit and Control, (IDL) said that not too long ago there was a rebirth of the Eagle and like the eagle bird, the Eagle Aromatic Schnapps has been rejuvenated, coming in a trendy sleek bottle and majestic new pack. He said since the re-launch, there have been positive reviews and wide acceptance from the market. POLL “Today, we embark on a journey with the authentic prayer drink, to inspire and to bring hope to our target audience with our new initiative. From generation to generation, our elders have passed on a recipe for success. The ingredients they say are; Hard work, Prayer and Belief. “Eagle Aromatic Schnapps, the authentic prayer drink seeks to remind Nigerians especially the youths of this age long cultural value, especially against the backdrop of today’s realities. Mobolaji Alalade, Head Marketing, IDL while speaking said the initiative is aimed at revolutionizing the way the target audience interacts with the brand. He also said that the initiative is a follow-up to the re-launch of the brand which was recently prepackaged. He said Journey with Authentic Prayers seeks to inspire individuals to work hard, pray and believe knowing that life itself is a journey. “These ingredients, hard work, prayers and belief form a winning recipe for success. This push comes on the backdrop of the harsh economic realities. It will instill age-long values in our working-class youths and motivate them to succeed. Speaking on the activities to showcase the initiative he said Eagle Aromatic Schnapps will embark on market storms spanning multiple cities and regions in the country, stating that this mobile extravaganza will bring the brand directly to the target audience and communicate the message Alalade also said that there will be visits to palaces and custodians of tradition, getting their support on the initiative, especially with communicating it to the youth.