LAGOS – Fiducia, a technology-leveraging supply chain financing platform has been unveiled with the plan to catalyse Nigeria’s supply chain financing market to NGN 12 trillion. This is as stakeholders in the finance sector said that the lack of access to credit facilities by Nigeria’s Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) is estimated to be about N617.3 billion annually. At the formal launch of the product over the weekend in Lagos, Imohimi Aig-Imoukhu­ede, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Fiducia, said that the International Finance Corpora­tion (IFC) currently estimates the value of Nigeria’s existing supply chain financing sector at around N3 trillion. He explained that if the coun­try’s currently excluded Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) supply chains could be brought into play, an additional N9 tril­lion could be unlocked for Nige­ria’s economy. He stated that Supply Chain Finance (SCF) is emerging as an effective instrument to reduce financing gaps in developing markets. Aig-Imoukhuede emphasised that the current SCF supply met only about 24 per cent of the potential market, stressing that MSMEs are estimated to generate more than half of the SCF opportunity according to the IFC. “Fiducia is founded with the express purpose of levelling the playing field for business owners in Africa by unlocking the value of their supply chains. “Today, Fiducia is successful­ly driving inclusive GDP growth by broadening financial inclu­sion – as a wider pool of small and mid-sized businesses enter Africa’s financial markets on the same terms and rates previously only available to large corpora­tions. POLL “Fiducia’s financial services and funding partner ecosystem includes many of Africa’s top developmental finance institu­tions, equally committed to solv­ing Africa’s supply-chain finance challenges.” Aig-Imoukhuede pointed out that Fiducia was a game-chang­er for smaller businesses and mid-sized corporate entities, as they historically wasted resourc­es on complex, time-consuming funding application processes that seldom delivered the de­sired results.