…Call For NNPC, DSS, Govt’s Intervention Host communities in Ilaje and Ugbo coastal areas to Chevron Nigeria Ltd have handed down a 72-hour ultimatum to the oil company to revert the alleged fraudulent manipulation of the contract on Shallow Water Drilling (Project Panther) that is about to commence. The communities, under the auspices of Amalgamation Of Ilaje Ugbo Coastal Communities Association (AMAICOMMA), on Tuesday in a statement made available to newsmen in Akure, the Ondo State capital, alleged that the oil company meted injustice to them by depriving them of allocations of opportunities and benefits in the contract of the project. In the statement jointly signed by the 7-member executive body of the association led by Barr. Wole A. Ogungbeje(chairman), the communities warned against looming crisis if Chevron managerial staff, who allegedly manipulated the contracts in favor of unregistered companies in which they have interest, failed to revert the contract and award same to AMAICOMMA communities. The statement reads in parts: “Chevron Nigeria Ltd is about to ignite another crisis that is capable of impacting Oil Production activities in the Ilaje Offshore territory of Ondo State. “AMAICOMMA Communities of Ugbo Land is the mandate area of Chevron Nigeria Ltd Offshore Operations in Ondo State. “AMAICOMMA Communities from time immemorial have been continually short-changed by Chevron Nigeria Ltd, while other ethnic groups are usually favored in terms of allocations of Opportunities and Benefits such as Equipment supply, Call off Contracts, Registration of Ilaje AMAICOMMA Contractors and other Opportunities. “The most recent is the fraud against the collective interest of AMAICOMMA Communities of Ilaje Offshore Operations by Chevron Nigeria Ltd in relation to the Shallow Water drilling (Project Panther) that is about to commence now. POLL “As paragraph 3 of our inauguration letter is still in force, we unequivocally demand the reversal of the erroneously and purportedly sent jobs opportunity mail to the yet unregistered Ugbo Trust by PGPA, and channel same jobs opportunities to AMAICOMMA which should include all benefits, opportunities, entitlements, and privileges accruable to AMAICOMMA communities from the upcoming Drilling operations. “It will interest everyone to know that all the equipment for the Panther drilling Project has been hijacked by Chevron’s top managerial staff in favor of different contractors where they have an interest as no single one was given to any Ilaje Contractors despite the fact that some of our local Contractors participated in the Equipment Supply bidding process for the Panther Drilling Project. Outside the bidding, the usual practice is that the local contractors from Ilaje are supposed to be nominated for the supply of equipment. All this process has been compromised by Chevron PGPA for their personal interest. “We, therefore, challenge Chevron Nigeria Limited to disclose the total numbers and identities of the Call Off Contractors shortlisted for this Drilling Operations. “AMAICOMMA Communities of Ugbo hereby strongly demands that their due benefits in terms of Equipment Supply, Call Out Contracts, and other Entitlements should be communicated and given to us before mobilization and not more than 72 hours from the date of this press release.” Moreover, the communities called the attention of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company(NNPC), the Ondo State government, and the Department of State Services(DSS) to intervene timely. The statement reads: “The above is for the information of Mele Kolo Kyari, the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC limited), NNPC Upstream Investment Services (NIUS), Ondo State government and the Director of the State Security Services Ondo State for their possible intervention.”