LAGOS  – Rite Foods Limited, a food and bev­erage company, has joined Mus­lims in celebrating Eid-el-Kabir this year while urging them to always preserve the Islamic prin­ciples and refresh with its brands, which are known for their high quality. The organisation also exhorts Muslim faithful in Nigeria and around the world to constantly exhibit qualities that would result in a peaceful and united country and a world where everyone lives in harmony, despite ethnic and religious differences. The feast of sacrifice, also known as Eid-al-Adha, commem­orates the sacrificial honour bestowed upon the Holy Prophet Ibrahim when, in a dream, Allah commanded him to sacrifice his son Isma’il as an act of submission to Him, and it is observed at the conclusion of the hajj pilgrimage to the Holy Land in Mecca by hun­dreds of millions of Muslims. In light of this, Mr. Seleem Ade­gunwa, the Managing Director of Rite Foods Limited, declared that during this festive time of Eid-el- Kabir, Muslims should prioritise their relationship with Allah and urge them to love one another, be tolerant, and uphold the high moral standards they are known for, setting an example for others to follow. In addition, he states that Muslims should emulate Prophet Ibrahim’s virtues because he ex­emplified an unrivalled level of obedience. This should serve as a model for all Muslims. Adebola Adeyinka, the com­pany’s Assistant Marketing Manager, said that Rite Foods’ variety of products, including the award-winning Bigi carbon­ated soft drink, the Bigi Premium Drinking Water, Fearless Energy Drink, the Sosa Fruit Drink, as well as the Bigi and Rite Sausages, are available for them to make the festival worthwhile. These prod­ucts are produced with state-of-the-art facilities in a top-notch factory. Adeyinka emphasised that the Bigi Premium Drinking Wa­ter, made with best practices in purification, quenches thirst like no other brand, whereas the Bigi Carbonated Soft Drink is suitable for every moment, including the Eid-el-Kabir holiday. She stated that Muslim faith­ful would have a more revitalising and healthy time throughout the festival with the nourishing Sosa Fruit Drink, which is offered in five flavours: Orange, Apple, Or­ange Passion & Mango, Mixed Berries, and Cranberry.