As reported by the Daily Mail, Arsenal are understood to be considering a potential bid for the 19-year-old Belgian sensation, Romeo Lavia. The Southampton starlet has made quite a splash in his debut season despite the club’s unfortunate relegation, inevitably catching the eye of Mikel Arteta and his scouting team. The ongoing transfer window has seen the Gunners actively seeking to invigorate their midfield, with options like Moises Caicedo and West Ham’s Declan Rice topping their wishlist. The latter is believed to be on the brink of sealing a move to the Emirates. The Lavia AttractionNow, attention has been cast towards Southampton’s Lavia, a potential bargain given the club’s drop to the Championship. The Belgian’s performance, which included 34 appearances and a goal, managed to shimmer in an otherwise bleak season for the Saints. Arteta’s vision for Arsenal undoubtedly involves nurturing promising talents like Lavia, although this pursuit is not without stiff competition. Heavyweights Liverpool, Chelsea and Manchester United are also reportedly vying for the youngster’s signature. The Xhaka Departure and the Havertz HopeIn other news, Granit Xhaka appears set to bid Arsenal farewell, ready to don the Bayer Leverkusen colours once the Declan Rice deal is finalised. The Swiss international has made clear his intentions of a return to Germany. Despite the imminent loss, the Gunners maintain high ambitions in the transfer market. Chelsea’s Kai Havertz has been targeted as a potential marquee signing, but Arsenal find themselves in a tug-of-war with Bundesliga behemoths Bayern Munich. With a hefty £70m price tag causing negotiations to stutter, Bayern see the German international as an attractive alternative to their stalling plans for Dusan Vlahovic and Kolo Muani. In conclusion, the football landscape is rife with transfer speculation and activity. The focus, however, rests on Arsenal’s ambitious moves and their duel with the Premier League’s elite for the signature of Romeo Lavia.