…Belo-Olusoga, RMD, Others Urge Women To Dream Big The Peak Performing (TPP) Woman project, a vehicle driving renewed commitment to women’s empowerment, has said it would budget $1 million to equip one million African women to deliver excellence in their various professional sectors and enterprises. The Publisher/Editor-in-Chief of The Peak Performer Africa (TPP), Dr. Abiola Salami, remarked on this at TPP Woman of the Year 2023 and the launch of The Peak Performing Woman’s Companion – a tool for driving excellence – held in Lagos. Within the next 18 months, the project, according to Salami, aims to train and provide one million women in Africa with the tools they need to succeed as career professionals, entrepreneurs, social innovators, political officeholders, etc. Salami said, “To enable The Peak Performing Woman project to make the kind of impact we envision, our goal is to empower one million women across Africa with this tool within the next 18 months. He added, “Our estimated budget for this is $ 1 million, and the proceeds from this launch will be funding that. We count on support from brands, development agencies, and well-meaning individuals to pull this through.” Salami also underscored how this project would enable more women to live beyond misperceptions, self-limiting beliefs, fears, stereotypes, and misplaced emotions that could limit the God-given exceptional nature within women for the development of humanity. Hence, TPP Woman of the Year 2023 aligns with our quest to celebrate outstanding women yearly. POLL “This year, we received 2,543 entries,” he acknowledged, reminding the large audience that the struggles and achievements of these women were reflective of a more significant societal shift towards gender equality. Speaking at the morning session, the first female Chairman of Access Bank, Mosun Belo-Olusoga, boldly encouraged the women to pursue their dreams. Her words, “I’m not the kind of person who shies away from challenges, neither am I in your face all the time.” Belo-Olusoga, also the Lead Consultant/CEO of The Knowledge and Resource Centre), noted further that when presented with opportunities, women should have that self-belief that they can do it; then they can. She urged the women to take time to understand trends, technology, and how it works for them. According to her, women should develop a broad mindset, keep learning, and grow as they leverage available platforms to take advantage of opportunities. According to Belo-Olusoga, reskilling or learning new skills is not about throwing what they have learnt away. Instead, it allows them to flesh things up from another perspective. Taking a cue from Belo-Olusoga, the Founder/CEO of Emerging Africa Group, Toyin F. Sanni encouraged women to leverage advanced technological tools to get to the top of their game. In her words, she harped on the significance of understanding technology, connecting and networking with like minds. Speaking also, Nigeria’s legendary actor, Richard Mofe-Damijo (RMD), said women could become peak performers by being aware, sensible, and sensitive. “It’s making peak performance a lifestyle.” As he-for-she, RMD says he’s a strong advocate of women attaining the zenith of their careers. “There are societal biases and religious beliefs that hamper women’s progress. Like Dr. Salami, I encourage other men to be champions for women’s progress,” says the actor. In her review of The Peak Performing Woman’s Companion, Lady Maiden Alex-Ibru, Publisher/Chairman of The Guardian Newspapers, commended the convener for addressing the foundational problems undermining women’s careers, personal growth, and contributions to nation-building. “Salami thoughtfully guided women readers through detailed and specific missteps and misunderstandings that, most times, undermine their aspirations to become peak performers. “Leveraging lessons from his inspirational piece ‘Who Says It’s a Man’s World: Ageless Lessons for Becoming an Exceptional Woman’, Salami’s 11 chapters focus on women’s empowerment and self-worth in an increasingly challenging global economy and changing workplace,” says Alex-Ibru. Salami does in fact believe that her project, The Peak Performing Woman, will inspire African women of all ages to grow, strive for more, and break through barriers.