…..Says they are idiots Contrary to insinuations in some quarters that Ihiala Local Government Secretariat Complex is still in rubbles after being razed down by daredevil gunmen in January this year, the Transition Committee Chairman Hon. Kingsley Obi has said that such were lies from the pit of hell. Obi who said those peddling such lies were enemies of Soludo’s government, described the peddlers as idiots, saying that Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo has responded proactively to the rebuilding of the headquarters complex and that the reconstruction is on the verge of completion. The TC chairman who spoke exclusively with our correspondent, said about 14 structures were completely destroyed inside Ihiala local government headquarters but the state government didn’t abandon it to its fate instead it intervened promptly to ameliorate the situation. Obi said even when they were persuaded to relocate to Ekwusigo Local Government Headquarters to operate from there, he declined and instead decided to run affairs of the local government under trees inside the ill-fated council secretariat. He said, “Ihiala Local Government Secretariat was attacked on 12th January, 2023 by hoodlums and about 14 buildings were burnt down completely. But today we are almost rounding off reconstruction of the local government secretariat. Hopefully in the next two months everything will return to normalcy again. People are just saying nonsense and trying to blackmail government for no justifiable reasons. They asked us to go to Ekwusigo, I said no; I will not do that instead I prefer to stay under the trees to make sure government intervened promptly. I know if I go to Ekwusigo, they will not attend to us early enough. POLL So the governor intervened quickly and things are going on well. About 14 buildings were destroyed and we started reconstruction works around March. We are progressing rapidly. It is enemies of Soludo’s government that said Ihiala Local Government Secretariat is still in rubbles. I repeat about 14 buildings were destroyed and we are working day and night to finish the reconstruction. The workers are living inside the secretariat just to ensure that they get it done. About 20 men are working there 24 hours including Sundays just to make sure that they finish the reconstruction within the stipulated time. As far as am concerned Soludo gave Ihiala local government more rapid response than any other place. Remember that Nnewi-South Council Secretariat got burnt about 2 and half years ago and they are still on it. Ihiala local government headquarters got burnt January 2nd and we commenced reconstruction works March ending and today we are rounding off. The pictures of the reconstruction works are there for everyone to see.” The TC chairman also disclosed that another major problem in Ihiala is that saboteurs are scuttling efforts at fighting insecurity. He said Ihiala has been calm and peaceful in the last 2 months and that no bad news has been heard whatsoever even as he expressed hope that insecurity will be a thing of the past in Ihiala local government within the next 3 months. Obi also disclosed that his administration has desilted a gigantic pothole on Orlu road causing heavy traffic jams in the area for about 3 months now. He said that the pothole was filled up with dirts as a result of the blockage of a particular tunnel which would have allowed free flow of water. He said it took 3 weeks to open up the tunnel and that currently they are carrying out palliatives on the gigantic pothole aforementioned; that vehicles are now plying the road with ease. He however stressed that those who do not want Ihiala to progress are the ones peddling fake news and false information about; describing such individuals as idiots and enemies of Soludo’s government.