LAGOS – Analysts have called on the fiscal, monetary policy authorities to calibrate reform policies aimed at reversing current high unemployment rate, current risks to public finances and preserving price and financial stability in the country. They also implored fiscal and monetary authorities to show more concern to rising inflation rate, amid rising food and gas prices in the country. Their advise was sequel to the uncertain outlook and persistent current account deficit in Nigeria. They advocated that the Federal Government should prioritise greater investment in physical capital, education, and social safety nets, as well as more support for retraining and re-allocating workers to new and better jobs that will lead to the transformation of the economy to make it smarter, greener, and more resilient and inclusive. They told Daily Independent that food price spikes may continue to hit everyone and are devastating for the poorest and most vulnerable Nigerians this year as a result of fuel subsidy removal by the Federal Government. They maintained that the fiscal and monetary authorities should address the long-term challenges in a timely manner to avoid significant economic consequences. They expressed that further devaluation of the nation’s currency might not be necessary given that part of the pressure on the Naira is due to speculative attacks and much of the concern for investors lies with the uncertainty around unification of foreign exchange policy. They called on the Federal Government to strengthen the credibility of fiscal policy to create room for further support in the short term without jeopardising public credit, adding that emergency spending needs to be accompanied by measures that ensure transparency and accountability POLL They also told DAILY INDEPENDENT that there was need for the Federal Government to initiate policy measures that will address rising incidence of insecurity required for seamless farming, food production to build resilience to balance of payments shocks and ensure a sustainable economic recovery. The European Union (EU) recently called on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to collaborate with the private sector in creating a conducive environment for its prosperity. Samuela Isopi, the Head of the European Delegation to Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States, made the declarations in chart with Daily Independent. Isopi also expressed the EU’s willingness to work alongside the Nigerian government to ensure the success of the private sector, particularly in the fashion industry. She emphasised that the EU plans to forge partnerships with Nigerian institutions to strengthen the fashion sector. “I hope the new administration will join forces with the private sector to create an environment where we can truly support the industry as a whole. “Textile production, in particular, generates a significant number of jobs, making it one of our primary objectives. “My role, as well as that of our member states, is to provide a platform, while the Nigerian private sector and European companies will contribute their expertise.” Dr Muda Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE), in an exclusive interview with Daily Independent, said the recent Consumer Price Index (CPI) report by the NBS indicate problem, inhibiting both production and exports potential. ed that Nigeria still has a structural He expressed optimistism that there is room for improvement in the provision and maintenance of infrastructure, investment productivity, and boosting of local business activities to support export activities and strengthen channels for dollar inflow. He said: “There is need to reduce the level of debt financing especially the reliance on commercial debt to fund government operations. Public debt is already at an unsustainable threshold. Steps should be taken to attract foreign exchange through a strategy of ensuring new investment opportunities to stimulate foreign capital inflows into the economy. “We should be seeking more equity capital than debt capital. “There urgent need to review the country’s trade policy to support investment growth and investment sustainability. Tax policy must support investment not become a disincentive to investment”. “The pressure of spiking inflation on household budgets has been intense and distressing. Purchasing power has been massively eroded, real incomes have collapsed, and the poverty situation has consequently worsened. “Businesses have been similarly impacted as they have been experiencing a slump in sales, turnover and profits margins. The impact on small businesses is even more severe because of their limited capacity to absorb economic shocks. “The spiraling inflation dynamics deserves an urgent policy response at the highest level of government. The impact on citizens welfare is severe. The effect on SMEs is troubling. There is worsening social discontent, driven by poverty inflicted by inflation”. He said: “the key drivers of inflation include high and increasing energy cost; worsening currency depreciation, escalating transportation cost, high import duty on manufacturing inputs, illiquidity in the forex market, bottlenecks in the logistics chain, security concerns and low productivity resulting from structural challenges and weak application of technology. Central bank financing of fiscal deficit is also a major driver of inflation”. “To tackle inflation, all forms of taxes and levies on the importation of petroleum products should be suspended to give a respite on the spiking energy cost. There should also be deeper stakeholder engagements across sectors to develop an enduring strategy on the way forward”, he emphasised . Michael Olawale-Cole, president of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), told Daily Independent that the ongoing war in Ukraine triggered a positive oil price shock with spillover effects on operating costs, raw materials, and inflation in countries not directly engaged in the war. He said Nigeria was not an exception as prices of goods and services were moving northwards with the potential implication of shrinking production of goods and services. The LCCI president said that if the conditions persist, production volumes would be impacted by the raw materials supply chain disruptions, the rising cost of diesel, and other internal security crises. “Job losses are also very likely due to constrained production and disrupted supply chains, and all of these will likely depress growth potential in Q2 2022,” Olawale-Cole said. “The manufacturing sector will likely suffer some shocks from the rising cost of diesel, logistics, foreign exchange illiquidity, domestic inflationary pressure, weakening purchasing power, poor public infrastructure and port-related challenges. Auwal Rafsanjani – Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), told Daily Independent that there is urgent need for the reduction of fiscal deficit financing by the CBN to minimise incidence of high-powered money in the economy. He said: “We urged the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria and Finance Ministry to work on more policies that affect the real sector to prevent a clash in policy implementation. “Government, in partnership with the manufacturers, should select strategic products, particularly those with high inter-industry linkage, for backward integration support and upscale the drive for the resource-based industrialisation agenda” “Federal Government should note that fiscal sustainability is driven by both cost and revenue. Therefore, managing the major drivers of cost and revenue is imperative. “As far as possible, the government should push-back in sectors or activity areas where the private sector has capacity to deliver desired outcomes. We should see more concessioning and privatisation at all levels of government. This would allow for the infusion of more private capital into the infrastructure space”. “There is need to review the current disproportionate emphasis on demand management of the foreign exchange market”. He, however, said: “The international trade process needs to be reformed to prioritise trade facilitation. The current obsession for revenue generation is hurting the international trade processes and impacting adversely on domestic and foreign investment. Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the naira depreciation has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index. He said: “To tame the current inflationary pressure, the government should reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate and reduce volatility, address forex liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures, address the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities and address productivity issues in the real sector of the economy”. While calling for business friendly reforms and policies that will restore confidence, improve the regulatory environment and address insecurity, he said: “there is need for not only competitive returns, but also investors’ confidence and an enabling environment of which clear and robust policies, good infrastructure and business friendly regulations are a major component”. “Concomitantly, unemployment in any economy is connected to short demands at the same time this affects consumption which means that little money would be available for businesses to expand their production line. At the same time little money will be available for saving which businesses would have accessed as loan”. An executive director of a new generation bank in Nigeria, who craves anonymity, in conversation with Daily Independent, said Nigeria’s low revenue generation has been a very serious challenge for past and present Administration, and therefore, called for the review of the medium-term fiscal frameworks that can reassure lenders that governments are fiscally responsible and lower financing costs. The banker argued that, “Although the international community has provided critical support so far to help alleviate fiscal vulnerabilities in low-income countries, more is needed.