LAGOS – The former Chief Press Secretary to the immediate past Osun Governor, Ismail Omipidan, on Monday, tasked Mass Communication students of the Redeemer’s University, Ede, to always be guided by their conscience in whatever they do as prospective media practitioners. He harped on the need for the students to imbibe and champion the professional ethics and reflect the same in their formal and informal conducts as societal watchdogs and agenda setters, saying that such remains the only surest legitimate pathway to prosperity in the media profession. Omipidan, who was one of the guest speakers at the Redeemer’s University Mass Communication Students Association (RUMSA), Colloquium, said the study and practice of Mass Communication must be seen as a clarion call to duty in view of its sensitivity and importance to socio-economic and political developments of any society. Speaking on the theme of the Colloquium; “Gown to Town: Preparing for the Industry, Unlocking the Potential”, Omipidan called on the students to start preparing for the challenges ahead in the labour market, saying that could only be overcome “if one equips himself or herself with necessary knowledge and skills required of the profession before he or she starts practising.” He, therefore, challenged the students to develop their writing skills, reading skills and analytical skills as prerequisites to attain success in media practice, especially journalism. Omipidan emphasised that professional tenets are cardinal principles that must not be compromised by media practitioners, noting that for anyone to be a successful professional, he must see himself as a mirror through which society sees in clear terms. He averred that the media profession, particularly print journalism, requires requisite skills of good writing, reading, courageousness, self-confidence and above all integrity to thrive, hence, the need for the students to imbibe these skills and values from school. While extolling the students for choosing to study Mass Communication in the citadel of knowledge, Omipidan noted that the choice of being media practitioners must be accompanied and complemented with character and integrity to impact the world and make a much-desired change. POLL Omipidan, who is a former Political Editor of The Sun Newspapers, submitted that journalism remains a noble profession, which thrives on integrity and character. Explaining the circumstances that kept him in close contact with Nigeria’s Vice President, Senator Kashim Shettima and his principal, former Osun Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, Omipidan said: “If your primary intention is to make money, then, journalism is not your calling. That doesn’t say that you can’t make wealth, but you must, first of all, make a name. “It is your name that will bring you money and fame. And in the course of your job, try to make friends to further harness your potential”, Omipidan added. The Sun’s former political editor further said: “Journalism is a profession recognised by the Constitution and it is the only profession that has the responsibility to hold the government and people in authority accountable. “The profession gives you fame and opens doors that no other profession can open. You have access to these doors because of your relationship with the high and the mighty in the course of doing your job. “If nation-building and service to the people are your passion, you are a good candidate for the journalism profession. “One of the things you must learn as prospective media professionals is that you must be courageous. If you go for an interview, please don’t sit unless you are offered a seat because most times, a test may be put to you to know your mannerism. “If you want to be a print journalist, by now you must be a good writer. If you are not, then, you have no business in print journalism. This is unlike broadcast journalism where if you can’t write, you can be a presenter or do the voiceover. “And you can’t be a good writer if you don’t read. You must learn how to read very well. Read what others have written in order to sharpen your skills,” Omipidan said.