Patricia Kenneth-Divine, Principal Consultant/International Trade Investment Specialist, Synergy Systems Consults, United Kingdom Limited, in this interview with VICTORIA OJUGBANA, speaks on how government can help grow digital schemes, designed to support smaller businesses by adopting digital technologies to boost business productivity, promoting investments opportunities through international engagements, among other issues. Excerpts: Do you think that the government should intervene to make available to entrepreneurs, maybe in the areas of loans, provision of energy, infrastructure, among others? This is the time the government should show support for businesses and entrepreneurs, especially providing financial support and loans – advanced, low interest federal loans, Employer Tax Credit, among others. It’s a fact that African economies are characterized by huge disparities and diversity. It will be a great intervention from the government to increase its push on grants and incentives for small or growing businesses. The government can also help grow digital schemes that are designed to support smaller businesses by adopting digital technologies. Technology has been proven to boost business productivity – whether big or small. Can you give an insight into the nature of your business? Synergy Systems Consults (UK) Ltd is a UK registered company providing excellent support services for international companies who are interested in investment and partnership opportunities in Africa. Our objective is to create access to the African markets and accelerate business growth through international trade and investment strategies, strategic collaboration and partnerships, project management, supply chain development, project management, among others, bringing great business opportunities from a global approach. We are quite keen about the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (ACFTA) and we explore the opportunities for investments and partnerships with global brands and organisations interested in exporting to Africa. Through our robust operating models and trusted years of service, we provide opportunities for market entry to new and emerging economies engaging in major transformational programmes and increasing export performance. We work with a great network of international companies across the private and public sectors promoting partnership opportunities and enhancing market growth across a wide range of sectors. With a great team and partners, we provide solutions to conducting businesses in overseas territories and provide strategies that handle the challenges of doing business in emerging markets. POLL We also work in partnership with international clients to deliver a robust and sustainable approach to bring about high value outcomes, emerging opportunities and strategic engagement programmes. How broad is your business operation? Our expertise covers a wide range of business management consulting, trade and investments, research evaluation and development, project management, project funding capabilities, export and trade promotion, impact assessment, risk management, among others. We are also connected to a wide network of clients and partners across Africa. Synergy Systems Consults (UK) Limited has a wealth of expertise and engagements with potential UK companies, government departments, chamber of commerce and industry, trade associations, and fund-aided projects. Our focus is to promote trade and investment opportunities, provide access to investors support and funding for viable projects within the UK and overseas market across Africa. Has your business impacted on the society through job creation? We have worked with numerous partners across the globe developing new initiatives, funding capabilities with international companies, government departments to strengthen support and joint trading relationship with some of our clients. These new partnerships will create a pathway for jobs and ensure mutual prosperity, especially in education, energy, agriculture and renewable energy. We are currently engaging with some of the African regions to showcase and discuss potentials of doing business in respective markets and sectors and connecting with industry players, international investors promoting investment opportunities and providing access to global interactions for economic development. Why did you choose to invest in this particular business? This is an interesting question as the first thing any business wants to consider is revenue and profit. Our business is centred on creating a synergy between the international communities and overseas regions. We are driven by the potential opportunities open for investments and how we can successfully accelerate growth within emerging markets. The inflation rate is high, has that in any way affected your business? I think the current situation especially has affected a lot of business across the world. Across the world, energy prices, food prices, and the speed of inflation are going up. As a business, we have applied a more dynamic and diversified approach, especially in collaborations and partnerships. What other challenges do you face apart from the high rate of inflation? I think there are wider supply chain disruptions. There is a threat in countries in Africa, especially Sub-Saharan Africa, of higher energy prices, higher food prices, and lower tourism. So, accessing international capital markets and investments is a huge challenge. Are there strategies that you put in place to ensure that you remain in business despite the huge challenges? In spite of the huge challenges, it’s important that organisations employ strategic planning between identifying the potential problems and creating a framework to help develop effective solutions as a roadmap to achieving corporate goals and positive results. Our focus is analyzing new opportunities and benefiting from these opportunities using our strategic models. As an experienced entrepreneur, what is your advice for youths aspiring to go into business? With over 16 years of International Trade and Investments experience, one of my greatest advice is that you must prepare for opportunities, no matter where you find yourself. You must understand your vision and your mission. The world of business is competitive and you must be prepared for every challenge. What do you think is the way forward for Nigerian entrepreneurs? There is a huge market space for Nigerian entrepreneurs and the opportunities are enormous. It’s important that every entrepreneur understands the business environment they find themselves in and they have sustainable business plans, they must have the right skills setting for that business. It is also very key that entrepreneurs understand their market demand for their business idea. It is reported that over 42 percent of start-ups fail because of lack of market demand. The model of the business must be sustainable, realistic and is solving the right problem. So from value propositions, key partnerships, revenue streams among others, build and develop a business model canvas that can accommodate a clear map out of the business assumptions with a practical way to analyse strengths and weaknesses. We are working with some of our partners to kick-off an African focused entrepreneur hub and this will be a great platform to drive collaborations, partnerships and a learning opportunity for new businesses. We are happy to provide support for Nigerian entrepreneurs, help them meet other young successful entrepreneurs to help them reach their goals; provide them insights on growing their businesses, as well as overcoming challenges during difficult times.