ABUJA – The Labour Party has dismissed claims by its suspended National Publicity Secretary, Abayomi Arabambi, that Julius Abure, the party’s National Chairman was arrested on Thursday afternoon by the Police in FCT few minutes after he left the Court of Appeal with Peter Obi, LP’s presidential candidate in the 2023 election. Acting National Publicity Secretary, Obiora Ifoh, described a video making trending on the social media on the issue as fake. The 10 second video published by the former Youth Leader of the party, Anselem Eragbe contains images of Police officers who were arguing among themselves over an unexplained matter. Neither Abure nor any of our leaders appeared on the video. It further added that the video was packaged and produced by suspended Deputy National Chairman, Lamidi Apapa. On the video which the statement described as fake, the LP said that Apapa claimed that the LP National Chairman, Barrister Julius Abure was arrested as fake. “For the record, Abure attended the court session today at the ongoing Presidential Appeal Tribunal and he is presently attending to some official engagements. Nigerians must by now know the capacity of the Apapa group to misinform and propagate fake news. We therefore ask Nigerians to disregard yet another attempt by these renegades to smear the character of our distinguished chairman,” it added. This is as it maintained that security agencies “are not after Abure and have no reason whatsoever to seek his arrest. If they need his attention, they will invite him personally or even through his several security details. POLL Meanwhile, Arabambi in his statement stated, “Today marks the beginning of a new chapter to purge the Labour Party of all manner of corruption among some of its former national officers led by suspended National Chairman, Barr Julius Abure and his gang of documents forgers. “You must be aware of the arrest of Julius Abure this afternoon by the Police in FCT a few minutes after he left the Court of Appeal with Peter Obi. “You must also be familiar with a case of forgery already on Abure’s neck and another of Contempt of court and of course a few others that would shock even Peter Obi and Labour Party family in the next few days even as Abure and some Peter OBI thugs attempted to kidnapped two police officers “As i speak now Abure has been placed under arrest at FCID area 10 Abuja, making confessional statement with respect to forgery, perjury and criminal conspiracies against him by the police “Abure as at 6.55pm today friday the 16th day of June 2023 is still under police interrogation at FCID “Labour Party want to express our sincere appreciation to the inspector General of police for bringing the culprit to book through this deserve arrest as Abure and his Co sponsor Peter OBI has been bragging that they are above the law and constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria “Labour Party also thanked the DIG FCID for living up to their task after months of Abure’s delay tactics to get justice through the backdoor. Labour Party will be bringing Details to the public in due course as Abure will be charged to court next week for forgery, perjury, criminal conspiracies and attempted kidnapping”