LAGOS – People’s Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in Kabba/Bunu Local Government Area (LGA) of Kogi State, including former Executive members of the party have officially defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The ex-PDP members were received by Governor Yahaya Bello at the Banquet Hall of the Governor’s office on Monday. Governor Bello, in his welcome address, noted that the APC provides equal opportunities for both old and new members. He encouraged opposition politicians to join the party to contribute their quota to his administration’s efforts at enhancing the socio-economic well-being of the people of Kogi State. The Governor also announced that the state university in Okunland, initiated under his administration, would enroll its first students before the end of his tenure. Governor Bello urged the people not only to unite for political participation but also to foster stronger bonds that would attract socio-economic development of the state, pointing out that a politically united Kogi State has a lot to benefit from under the current administration, both at the federal and state levels. Speaking on behalf of the defectors, a former member of the State House of Assembly and immediate past treasurer of the PDP in Kabba/Bunu LGA, Hon (Barr) Alfred Bello, highlighted the Governor’s exceptional infrastructure development and exemplary leadership, characterised by inclusiveness, fairness, justice and equity as the reasons for their defection to the APC. Hon Bello commended the Governor for establishing a state-owned university in Okunland, stressing that access to tertiary education had been lacking for the Okun people in Kogi State under previous administrations. POLL He viewed the establishment of the university as a clear testament to Governor Bello’s belief in a unified Kogi State, demonstrating his commitment to equity, justice, and fairness. The former PDP chieftain assured the Governor that he and his fellow members, including other Okun individuals, would work towards the success of the APC in the upcoming gubernatorial election in the state. The defectors, who include, Hon Bello, Hon Obamoh, Dr. Enimola Dare, Hon Olori Janet Ikusemo, Hon Joseph Ayeribe, Hon Aiyepeku Paul, Hon Joseph Olorunfemi, and others were past executive members of the PDP in Kabba/Bunu LGA of the state. They assured the Governor of their unflinching support for the party ahead of the November 11 gubernatorial election in the state.