AKURE – A socio-political group, Niger Delta Patriots, Ondo State chapter, has appealed to the National Assembly to consider indigene of oil producing area of Ondo State for the chairmanship position in the House Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). In a letter addressed to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, a copy of which was made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday in Akure, the Ondo State capital, the group appealed to the Assembly not to repeat the mistake of the 9th Assembly in which a member of the Assembly, Hon. Bunmi Tunji-Ojo, who’s not from the oil producing area of the state, was made the chairman of the committee. According to the letter jointly signed by the Coordinator and Secretary of the group, Dr. Christian Lubi and Prince Adeola Mebawondun respectively, the group complained that the oil producing area of the state, Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency, was allegedly deprived of attention by the House Committee on NDDC “at a time our region faced the most severe degradation, devastation and needed government attention to survive neglet.” The group appealed that the NASS should ensure the appointment of the NDDC House Committee chairmanship is focused on the reasons for the creation of the commission in year 2000 as “an intervention agency, established to offer a lasting solution to the socio-economic difficulties of the Niger Delta region and to facilitate the rapid and sustainable development of the Niger Delta into a region that is economically prosperous, socially stable, ecologically regenerative and politically stable which is the primary objective of government is setting up the Commission.” Calling on the NASS to consider a member of the Assembly from Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency for the position, the group said: “In all sincerity, the development in the Niger Delta region cannot be said to be commensurable with the accrued resources available to the agency from the State since inception in year 2000. This is why most of the problems faced by the region before the advennt of the NDDC empowerment e.g environmental, human and socio-economic challenges faced by the region came to a sorry state in the recent years.” The agitators also alleged that the oil producing communities were deprived of “projects allocation, empowerment programmes, training, scholarship and employment of new staff into the Commission” by the 9th Assembly because the person appointed as chairman of the House committee was not from the oil producing area of the state. The group, therefore, appealed to the Speaker to ensure the chairmanship position of the House Committee on NDDC is ceded to a lawmaker from the Niger Delta region of Ondo State.