ABAKALIKI – Ebonyi State government has debunked the claim that it was planning to bribe the Tribunal Justices to pervert justice. The State Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Engr Jude Okpor, made the denial, on Sunday, while responding to a press statement credited to the Association of Ebonyi Indigenes Socio-Cultural in the Diaspora (AEISCID) led by one Ambassador Pascal Oluchukwu. The group had alleged in the statement that the Ebonyi State government had directed the Council Chairmen of the 13 LGAs in the State to contribute the sum of N80m each to enable it to raise about N1bn to bribe judges handling the State tribunal cases. But Engr Okpor emphasized that Ebonyi State government under the leadership of His Excellency, Rt Hon Francis Ogbonnaya Nwifuru, has never planned to bribe, either directly or by proxy any member of the judiciary or its representative to bend the course of justice. “It is unfortunate that politicians who were rejected by the Ebonyi people during the last general elections could hire a man (referring to Ambassador Pascal Oluchukwu) who was not in Ebonyi State during the elections to make libelous statements against the Judges of the tribunal and the entire Nigerian judiciary just to score cheap political points. “It is clear that Paschal considers not Nigeria’s integrity before the international community while struggling to tickle the egos of his paymasters,” he said. Okpor said the government of Ebonyi State and the Governor had unshakable confidence in the Nigerian Judicial system and had no reason to panic over the outcome of the cases in the elections petitions tribunal. “The government of Ebonyi State respects the judiciary and its Lordships. Our unshakable confidence in the Nigerian judicial system is not in doubt. The Governor has no reason to panic over the outcome of the cases in the election tribunal since he was overwhelmingly voted into office alongside other candidates of the APC by the good people of Ebonyi State. POLL “Governor Francis Ogbonnaya Nwifuru is aware that the tribunal judges are men of integrity and impeccable character who can never stoop so low as to demand or accept any form of financial inducement from anyone or a group of people. “Ebonyi State government under the leadership of our God-fearing governor, His Excellency, Rt Hon Francis Ogbonnaya Nwifuru has never planned to bribe, either directly or by proxy any member of the judiciary or its representative to bend the course of justice. “The majority of Ebonyi people made APC their choice and massively voted for over 90% of the candidates of APC in the just concluded general elections. Therefore, it’s needless to go through the backdoor to seek help from anyone against the hammer of justice,” Mr Okpor maintained. The State Information boss further said: “Moreover, the State government also respects the autonomy of the local government system in Ebonyi State and can never interfere directly or indirectly with governance at this all-important tier of government, let alone drag the local government helmsmen into an illicit venture as alleged by this purveyor of fake news. “If Paschal and his gang of bad losers did not understand what verification of staff at the local government level means, they should have enquired from the appropriate quarters to equip themselves with the knowledge instead of wearing this apron of mockery he calls a letter. “While the Ebonyi State government is open to criticism, while it considers constructive criticism a veritable tool for good governance, making unfounded and baseless allegations against the present and the immediate past governor is not only infantile but misleading and diversionary, especially when the man to whom this falsehood was credited was once a promising young Ebonyian who had lived an exemplary life in the past. “The governor is aware that some people are still feeling the pains of defeat. It must be stated that he has repeatedly extended olive branches to the aggrieved, those who lost in the elections, even their supporters to come together and join hands with the present government to move Ebonyi State forward. He recognizes that the elections are over; it is a time to build. “Ambassador Paschal Oluchukwu is our son. We love him and wish he would retrace his steps and choose humanity over acrimonious politics. He could contribute meaningfully to the growth of our young state if he so chooses. It is still morning.”