ISEGHE AJAYI Depending on a single source of income in this harsh and unfavourable economy is not sustainable and will not give you that worthwhile life you desire. The unrelenting rise in the prices of commodities occasioned by inflation will continue to have an adverse multiplier effect on the living condition of the masses. The current situation of the present economy is so apprehensive that survival for the common folks can be strenuous and can only be surmountable with self-determination, financial discipline, and enhancing your financial life. And the best way to do that is by empowering or investing in yourself as it is the sure way to stay afloat in this unfavourable economy. It is quite true that some people view investment in various ways; while some see their retirement account as a future investment, others have this notion that their children and educating them is the best form of investment. Whichever way, have you ever considered yourself or seen the need to invest in yourself, especially in this unfriendly economic situation? The costliest investment in your life is ‘You’ and without investing in yourself there is no way, you can have a good retirement benefit as well as give your children the best you actually desire for them in life Do you know that the best type of investment you can make is in ‘You? That is why it is imperative you try as much as possible to learn how to invest in yourself as it may be the most advantageous way to advance your financial future. POLL One sure way to attain a better quality, thriving, and fruitful life is to place priority on investing in both individual and professional development. The efforts you put into investing in yourself consistently play[C1] an active role in determining the quality of your current and future financial life. Do you know that investing in yourself is more than just buying stocks and bonds and that when you make a conscious effort to invest in your financial well-being, health, career, and interest, you are putting yourself up for success in the future? With this, you are able to add more value to others as you invest first in yourself which includes your health to enable you to have the energy to put in your best in your work, have focus and reap a bountiful financial harvest. The under-listed tips will help you to see the need to empower yourself: Increase Your Prospect One profitable way of acquiring success is to read books to increase your horizon. In fact, that is the difference between the rich and the poor. Whenever you are in the company of billionaires and business owners, one of the things they always put forward, especially to people looking up to them is to read books. Books give you the ability to learn new things and can take you to places you have never been before as well as give your ideas you never thought of. Expanding your knowledge on anything relating to your profession, skills, or talents you are interested in working on, will certainly enhance your earnings or financial life. Boss Of Your Money You need to become the boss of your money before you can be debt-free. It is vital you try as much as possible to ensure your spending and savings are under control to experience financial peace of mind. Do you know that until you are debt-free, your money is not truly yours? It is very important you get rid of debts if you really desire to have a grip on your money. Having additional cash for both emergencies and possibilities is a startling investment in yourself and those dreams you abandon when you accepted a life of financial panic can be reachable with proper financial planning, budgeting, and self-control. Not Scared To Take Financial Risks When you invest in yourself, you will not be scared to take risks and set good financial goals. Also, the more you discover yourself, the more enthusiastic you will try things you have not done before. And this will help you to keep an open mind, and increase your knowledge and improve your skills, which means you will make every effort for improved performance and results. Increase Your Earnings It helps to be creative, especially in the area of expanding your financial horizon. You really need to embrace multiple streams of income, particularly in a distressed economy like ours if you really desire a quality life that is free of debt. Depending on a source of income that is nothing to write home about in these dire hard times can never pay all your bills and give you financial peace of mind. Besides, multiple streams of income are critical to being financially stable. Satisfaction Do you know that when you make it a must to invest in yourself, you will be rewarded with a remarkable sense of accomplishment and satisfaction? Whether you invest in fitness, health, or creative pursuits, the sense of attainment that comes when you conclude something that can be tremendously favourable can do wonders for your mindset. Connections/Links Investing in yourself can open the prospect of building new connections. Investing in relationships and people who mean a lot to you can aid to deepen and strengthen others as well as yourself. That is why you should not underrate the power of a good partner. Discover Your Creative Side There is no individual that is not creative, but the ability to explore the skills embedded in us is the issue and it is either it has not been tapped or utilised to its maximum potential. It is imperative we endeavour to uncover and work on our individual creativity by learning a new skill or spending more time on something we are passionate about. Creativity in any form assists us to develop individually and professionally Exploit Training Opportunities If you really want to advance in your professional life or develop your skills, there is a need to attend conferences, seminars or participate in webinars whenever the opportunities arise. Seminars, conferences, and workshops are excellent opportunities for investing in yourself as these events help to increase your knowledge in any area or field you are already acquainted with. Developing your knowledge and skills can help you build proficient status and make you more useful and productive in your current responsibility. There are also enormous networking opportunities such as meeting and discussing with other professionals in your field and it is a great way of making connections and meeting other like-minded people, or finding a tutor who can help you in your career or business. Set Financial Goals It is vital to set future financial goals, which could either be short or long-term depending on the projects you have in mind. It is not just about setting financial goals that matters but the ability to reach desired set goals will certainly enhance your financial life. Goals also help to explain what you want and instead of having an unclear dream, setting a goal helps you to discover what you really want. More notably, it is the first step in outlining what you need to do to reach there. Once you have set a goal you can focus your mind and channel your energy to achieving it.