Increased use of family planning, according to studies, lowers the number of unintended pregnancies and, as a result, lowers the high rates of maternal mortality. Sadly, many African countries, like Nigeria, still have low use and availability of contraceptives. According to the 2018 Global Family Planning Report, Nigeria had nearly 1.3 million unintended pregnancies in 2018, yet only 13.8 percent of Nigerian women utilised contraception at the same time. Unintended pregnancies are either unplanned, which occurred when no children or more children were desired, or a pregnancy that was mistimed and occurred sooner than desired. Unintended pregnancies increase stress in women, which decreases their quality of life and jeopardises the financial stability of their families. Regrettably also, unintended births increase a woman’s risk of developing a variety of illnesses, including unsafe abortion, undernutrition, and mental illnesses which lead to maternal mortality. Undoubtedly, family planning is a win-win strategy that has far-reaching benefits for national growth and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals,(SDGs). These include addressing poverty, hunger, and food insecurity, enhancing gender inequality, improving etducation outcomes (especially among girls), and improving child survival, among others. Consequently, stakeholders call for sustained political will from all levels of government to lower the high number of unplanned pregnancies as this would help to reduce the rising maternal mortality which is reported annually in Nigeria. Nigeria is where nearly 20 percent of all global maternal deaths happen. Between 2005 and 2015, it is estimated that over 600 000 maternal deaths and no less than 900 000 maternal near-miss cases occurred in the country. POLL In 2015, the country’s estimated maternal mortality ratio was over 800 maternal deaths per 100 000 live births, with approximately 58 000 maternal deaths during that year. By comparison, the total number of maternal deaths in 2015 in the 46 most developed countries was 1700, resulting in a maternal mortality ratio of 12 maternal deaths per 100 000 live births. In fact, a Nigerian woman has a one in 22 lifetime risk of dying during pregnancy, childbirth, or postpartum/post-abortion; whereas in the most developed countries, the lifetime risk is one in 4900. Data from the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) confirmed that no fewer than 50,000 women die annually in Nigeria due to maternal causes. Similarly, the 2018 NDHS reports that seven women die every hour from maternal health causes. The International Maternal Newborn Health Conference (IMNHC2023) raised the alarm over stagnated reduction of maternal deaths worldwide in over 60 countries in Asia and Africa, Nigeria. The conference disclosed that maternal and newborn deaths reduction which was 34 percent since 2000, stagnated from 2015 to 2020 as maternal deaths stood at 287,000 in 2020, especially in Asia and Africa. Speaking at IMNHC, Dr Alisyn Moran, Maternal Health Lead at WHO, said maternal, and newborn mortality and stillbirths have declined since 2000, but since 2015, there has been significant plateauing of maternal mortality reduction and stillbirth reduction. The conference recommended the use of contraceptives to lower unintended pregnancies and its risk of increasing maternal deaths. By preventing unplanned pregnancies, family planning also helps to reduce the broader costs of healthcare since fewer mothers will seek care for pregnancy complications, unsafe abortion, and delivery. By this, it enables women to lengthen intervals between successive pregnancies resulting in improvement in child health and survival. The risk of prematurity and low birth weight doubles when conception occurs within six months of the previous birth. Indeed, the use of modern contraception has resulted in accelerated economic growth by helping women prevent unplanned pregnancies, leading to rapid fertility decline in countries with high fertility rates. In addition, a rapid fall in birth rates results in a reduction in the child dependency ratio and an increase in the labour surplus. The emergent labour surplus can propel national economic growth and development of the working-age population who are skilled, healthy, and gainfully employed through demographic dividends. But, these effects work well, when accompanied by good economic policies and governance which are critical for attracting savings and direct foreign investments into the country. The 2022 International Conference on Family Planning (ICFP2022) urged countries to adopt family planning as one of the ways through which maternal deaths can be reduced. The interval between pregnancies can be prolonged by providing family planning services for postpartum women, and this can help protect their health and that of their babies. The ICFP2022, therefore, urged every country to recognise access to safe, voluntary family planning as a human right. Indeed, to have good human capital and national development, Nigeria must begin to focus on appropriate education, awareness, and regulation with regard to adequate family planning. The 2018 Global Family Planning Report should act as a wake-up call for Nigerian governments, who should give family planning top priority and develop measures to reduce the rising prevalence of unplanned pregnancies in Africa’s most populous nation. Since fewer unexpected pregnancies mean fewer mothers may require treatment for pregnancy problems, bleeding, unsafe abortions, and other issues, family planning also contributes to lower total healthcare expenses. According to the General Society of Gynaecology and Obstetrics of Nigeria (SOGON), if access to family planning and contraception is increased and maternal healthcare needs are satisfied, Nigeria would save 600 million US dollars (N253.8 billion). This is food for thought.