Osita Okechukwu, Director General of Voice of Nigeria congratulated Senator Godswill Akpabio for his election as the Senate President of the 10th Senate. Okechukwu, a foundation member of the APC while Addressing the Department of Political Science Students, University of Nigeria Nsukka where his 1983 Graduate Set held its 40th Reunion Anniversaryused the National Assembly election to lecture the students on how politics of inclusiveness helped Akpabio to garner 63 votes to defeat Distinguished Senator Abdulaziz Yari. Okechukwu emphasized that Yari is eminently qualified to be Senate President; however in the enlightened wisdom of the majority of the Senators and in line with the general position of Nigerians before the NASS election on the imperative of having a Christian among the five in the official protocol list of Nigeria. He narrated to the students that the President, Vice President, Speaker, and Chief Justice of Nigeria are all Muslims, thus the need for at least a Christian Senate President. When asked that won’t Akpabio’s election harm the doctrine of separation of powers and checks and balances of the senate, Okechukwu said “Yes, whereas one fancies the independent of the legislature cum executive as enunciated by French philosopher Baron Montesquieu; however we need separation of powers oiled by harmonious relationship.” He said, “For instance, the incremental critical amendments of our rigid 1999 Constitution needs to continue, the endorsement of the Green Imperative Program aimed at revolutionizing agriculture and other salient laws and regulations achieved by Distinguished Senator Ahmed Lawan and Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamialla cannot be dismissed off-hand. We need such amendments to reduce some extra meat powers embedded in the Exclusive Legislative List. “Nigeria is at crossroads and needs all hands on deck to come out of the cliffhanger woods. This is especially when President Tinubu has set forth with courageous decisions; he needs the benefit of the doubt of all of us until he veers off,” he said.