ABUJA – The Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) sit­ting in Abuja on Friday, admitted in evi­dence a transcript in aid of admission into Chica­go State University made by South West College in the name of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who was identified as a female therein. The Presidential candi­date of the Peoples Demo­cratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his party tendered the doc­ument in a bid to prove their criminal allegations against Tinubu. Atiku and PDP are chal­lenging the declaration of Tinubu of the All Progres­sives Congress as winner of the February 25, presiden­tial election. Also admitted in evi­dence by the PEPC was a notarised judgment of the USA Court for criminal for­feiture of asset of Tinubu, which was tendered by the petitioners. The court equally admit­ted a printout of the Guinea passport belonging to Tinu­bu as well as a certified true copy of a certificate suppos­edly issued to Tinubu by the Chicago State University. Other documents ten­dered and admitted in ev­idence by the PEPC were a certificate of service by the National Youth Ser­vices Corps (NYSC) issued in the name of Tinubu Bola Adekunle, a Party member­ship card and a certificate of service from Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc. Also tendered were, a certificate of compliance, a witness statement on oath, along with other doc­uments to prove the alle­gations contained in their petition against Tinubu. Chief Chris Uche (SAN), lead counsel to the Atiku and PDP, while leading Mr. Mike Enahoro-Eba, the 27th witness of the petitioners in evidence. POLL Mr. Enahoro-Eba, an Abuja-based human rights activist and public interest lawyer was subpoenaed by the petitioners to come and testify in court. However, in a twist, Pres­ident Bola Tinubu vehe­mently opposed admission of the Chicago State Uni­versity Degree as exhibit by the court. Tinubu’s lawyer, Chief Wole Olanipekun SAN also objected to the tendering and admission as exhibit, of his Republic of Guinea International passport. Similarly, the Indepen­dent National Electoral Commission INEC and the All Progressives Congress (APC) objected to admissi­bility of the documents. However, despite the objection raised by the re­spondents, Chairman of the PEPC Justice Haruna Tsammani admitted all the documents as exhibits. Tinubu, INEC and APC who are the three respon­dents in the petition are to offer explanations for their objections to admis­sion of the exhibits at the final stage of address of the proceedings. Under cross-examina­tion by the lead counsel to the Independent Nation­al Electoral Commission (INEC), Abubakar Mah­moud (SAN), the witness, who said the election went on smoothly at the polling unit where he voted in Abuja said, he filed a suit against Tinubu at a Mag­istrate Court as human rights and public interest lawyer. Earlier, the petitioners tendered certified true cop­ies of Form EC8As, being results of the presidential election from polling units from six states of the Fed­eration. A breakdown of the doc­uments are, Form EC8As from 25 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Delta state, Forms EC8As from 13 LGAs of Ebonyi state, Form EC8As from 18 LGAs of Edo, from 17 LGAs of Enugu, from 27 LGAs of Imo state and Form EC8As from 21 LGAs of Kogi state. INEC, Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress (APC) who were listed as respondents in the petition marked, CA/PEPC/05/2023 raised objections to the ad­missibility of the election results and promised to give reasons for their objection at the final address stage.