LAGOS – In celebrating this year’s Id el Kabir festivities, the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAW­MA), has admonished residents to bag and containerise waste gen­erated appropriately, for a clean environment. Mr. Kunle Adebiyi, the Exec­utive Director, Finance, of LAW­MA, in a statement, assured the public that comprehensive mea­sures had been put in place to en­sure a clean and hygienic environ­ment throughout the celebration, adding that PSP operators had been assigned to work tirelessly to clean up the city, maintaining a round-the-clock schedule. He urged residents to shun all forms of indiscriminate waste dumping on road medians, canals, uncompleted buildings, and other unauthorised locations, assuring that LAWMA would intensify ef­forts at ensuring that the festivi­ties were observed in a clean and healthy environment. Adebiyi said: “LAWMA is determined to combat improp­er waste disposal practices that contribute to environmental deg­radation within the metropolis, especially during the forthcoming Id el Kabir celebration. PSP operators have been man­dated to provide efficient services, while LAWMA will provide back­up services in areas where notice­able service gaps exist. In addition to that, district and operational heads have been on 24/7 operational duties, aimed at supporting the operation of ser­vice providers across the state”. He said the Authority would publish the names and phone numbers of management team members on national dailies, who had been assigned to monitor the environment during the festive period, urging residents to call the numbers or LAWMA toll-free lines, 07080601020 or 617, for waste management related matters. The LAWMA Executive Direc­tor also called on motorists to ply the roads with caution, to safe­guard the lives of sanitation work­ers who would be busy cleaning the roads and highways during the festive period. POLL He extended warm felicitations to residents, while appealing to them to avoid actions that could negatively impact the environ­ment during the celebrations.