It’s week five of the Hi-Life Fest music talent show and the race to the crown has gotten tougher. After a series of exciting performances, only eight of the sixteen contestants who started the competition made it to the fifth week. Episode five which aired last Sunday, opened with a traditional Igbo ceremony of breaking the oji (kolanut) to welcome the audience to a good time. This was followed by a group performance, performed by the top eight before the show host, Jide Kene graced the stage in his dashing outfit. The amazing show judges – Judge Jennifer, Judge David, and Judge Tipsy were also on hand to enjoy this week’s thrilling performances. Recall that multi-award-winning Nollywood actor, Frederick Leonard joined the show last week as a guest judge. Leonard, who has an unmatched love for highlife music, added a unique perspective to the judging panel. His enthusiasm radiated throughout the show as he declared, “Highlife is Life. It is who we are.” Last week’s episode saw a brief recap of the past week’s activities – the appointment of the new head of house, and the announcement of the new task. The contestants were also treated to a day out at the beach as a reward for their efforts and to stir up their creative minds for the next performance. Like previous weeks, the week’s task involved creating an original song that embodies the cultural heritage of the Igbo people, and they were to be judged based on originality, creativity, vocal ability, showmanship and lyrical content. As usual, the contestants were optimistic about delivering one of their best performances. MercyKemzy, expressed her excitement for the task as she believed “this is very easy. Igbo is what we are and I think it will be fun to perform my culture.” The performances saw the contestants display their creativity as they portrayed diverse elements of the Igbo culture in their performances. They incorporated aspects such as festivals, Imu Ahia (the apprenticeship system), the importance of titles, the travails of the Igbo people and the significance of the kolanut in their songs. At the end of the performances, Precious Uba won the MVP title and was awarded the cash prize of N100,000. Judge Jennifer commended Precious, stating, “This performance was outstanding and had everybody on their feet. The originality, the voice and the guitar set you apart from everyone else. Well done.” While Precious Uba was saved from evictions, the remaining seven were faced with possible elimination. At the end of the show, Ability and MercyKemzy were evicted, leaving the competition to the final six. The exit of MercyKemzy leaves just one female contestant in the Life Magnificent House. POLL The next episode of Hi-Life Fest airs on Soundcity TV and ONTV this Sunday at 8 pm and on Africa Magic Igbo at 7 pm and Africa Magic Epic at 10 pm.