For recognising the power of music and promoting and to also celebrating the vibrant cultural diversity of Lagos and Nigeria, various stakeholders in the music industry are collaborating to make the celebration of this year’s World Music Day in Lagos through the Make Music Lagos 2023 a huge success. Among the groups are TuneCore, MTN, YouTube and a host of other esteemed partners. This unique initiative aims to unite the city through the power of music and celebrate the vibrant cultural diversity that defines Lagos and Nigeria as a whole. Make Music Lagos 2023, scheduled to take hold from June 13th to June 25th is a global celebration of World Music Day and it promises to be an extraordinary experience that brings people from all walks of life together through the universal language of music. The event will showcase a diverse range of talented artists, both emerging and established, spanning various genres and cultures. TuneCore, a renowned digital music distribution service joins forces with MTN, Nigeria’s leading telecommunications provider, YouTube, the world’s largest online video-sharing platform, joins forces with Showgear Limited, the lead organizing partner and other stakeholders to amplify the impact and reach of Make Music Lagos 2023. This partnership represents a collaborative effort to support and promote the local music industry, fostering an environment that encourages artistic expression and empowers aspiring musicians.The festival will kick off on June 13th with My Song is Your Song, a global song swap in which music creators all across the world swap songs based on interest or genre. POLL Artistes will then produce a cover of each other’s song and post the cover on World Music Day, June 21 online. This initiative allows for international collaboration of artistes to try out new songs and new languages. On June 15th, Music Business Conference will hold, hosted by Jewel Aeida with the theme ‘Win-Win Partnerships: Exploring Collaborative Opportunities.” Renowned experts will share insights and discuss how stakeholders in the industry and other related industries can collaborate and create mutual growth and benefits. Some of the panelists include Tega Ogehnejobo, COO- Mavin Records; Godwin Tom, MD-Sony Publishing; Ebose Augustine Osegha, Executive Director, Anchor Insurance,David Igbokwe, Founder/CEO, Soundhalla, Yemisi Falaye, Entertainment Lawyer, Jade Osiberu, Movie Director and Producer, Cobams Asuquo, Music Producer, Shola (Shullz) Mogaji- Music Consultant and Curator, amongst others. The conference will serve as a platform for industry professionals, emerging artists, and music enthusiasts to engage in meaningful discussions about the ever-evolving music business landscape. On June 16th, Pop-Up-Worship, a gospel concert, will hold at the University of Lagos Main Auditorium. A rich line of artistes such as Spirit of Prophecy, Anendlessocean, Sinmidele, Neon Adejo, MagPsalm, Spirit of David, and Gospel Force amongst others are set to perform. The ShutDown concert which is the grand finale will hold on the 25th of June at Muson Centre with a lineup of artistes set to electrify the atmosphere all evening long. Commenting on the event and partnership, Suzan Adinoyi (MD- Zannoza Entertainment) organizing partner, Make Music Lagos said that partnerships foster innovation by bringing together diverse perspectives, knowledge and experiences. She said, “We are thrilled to partner with Tunecore, MTN, YouTube, Anchor Insurance, Sound Hala, and other partners, to make this year’s edition of Make Music Lagos a successful one. Their commitment to promoting the arts and supporting local talent aligns perfectly with our vision for this year’s event. Together, we aim to create a platform that celebrates the richness of the Lagos music scene and fosters collaboration and growth within the industry. Make Music Lagos provides a platform to discover and witness the rising stars of Nigerian music and explore the vibrant and dynamic music scene. From traditional rhythms to contemporary beats, MakeMusic Lagos is helping to discover the next big thing in Nigerian music.” Make Music Lagos 2023 will feature an array of exciting performances, collaborative jam sessions, workshops, and interactive music experiences across multiple locations throughout the city. The event aims to engage the community, bringing music to public spaces, parks, clubs, and cultural centers, fostering a sense of unity and shared celebration. In addition to the live performances, Make Music Lagos 2023 will offer educational programs and workshops designed to empower aspiring musicians, songwriters, and producers. These initiatives will equip participants with the essential skills and knowledge needed to navigate the music industry successfully, providing valuable resources for personal and professional growth. Make Music Lagos 2023 is set to become an annual highlight on the city’s cultural calendar,embodying the spirit of Lagos as a hub of creativity, innovation, and diversity. The event will promote inclusivity, bridge cultural divides, and strengthen the bond among Lagosians through the universal language of music.