LAGOS  – Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State has told Anambra indigenes residents in Lagos State that Anambra State is ready for business, stressing that invest­ing in the state is in their best interest. Soludo made the call during a town hall meeting while enumer­ating some of the progress made so far by his administration after a year in office. While making his speech, the governor sounded philosophical by telling his audience that God couldn’t have made a mistake by making them Anambra people. He enjoined them to reflect deeply on it and do everything possible to contribute to the growth of the state. “We have a responsibility to leave Anambra State better than we met,” he said. He emphasised the need to change Anambra State from a de­parture lounge to a destination, pointing out that the homeland consciousness must be incul­cated in the perceptual mind of every Onye Anambra. “Your host will never respect you if you don’t have a livable and prosperous homeland,” Soludo said. Speaking on the chaotic na­ture of Onitsha, Soludo assured the audience that his government is determined to resurrect Onit­sha by returning it back to its former glory as the biggest com­mercial city in the South East and beyond. On security-related issues, the Governor maintained that his administration has drastically reduced the menace of killings and kidnapping to the barest minimum with the security architecture put in place by his government. POLL He commended the security forces—the Army, Navy, Police, the States Vigilante Groups and other paramilitary agencies for their dogged efforts in contrib­uting to the successes recorded so far. Soludo told his audience that the first order of business is law and order and reassured them that law and order have been greatly restored in the state com­pared to the impunity that held sway before he came into office. He also reassured that more roads will be flagged off in addi­tion to the over 300 kilometers of roads already flagged off and are in various stages of comple­tion.