The Rural Electrification Agency (REA) has signed a Memorandum of Understand­ing (MoU) with Oando Clean Energy (OCEL) to boost col­laboration between the private sector and government agen­cy towards the deployment of sustainable renewable energy access across the country. The MoU was signed at the corporate headquarters of REA in Abuja on Tuesday, June 13, 2023. The MoU forms the basis of a public-private arrangement between REA and OCEL to achieve the objectives of the agency in the electrification of rural communities, specifi­cally through the deployment of solar infrastructure (solar power solutions). The parties recognise the potential benefits of the de­ployment of solar infrastruc­ture for power generation in order to pull the trigger for commercial and enterprise growth in these communities. There are approximately 92 million Nigerians without access to electricity in the country, most of whom reside in rural areas. To this end, the Federal Gov­ernment set a target to power 5 million homes through the REA, and partnerships with the private sector. This MoU gives OCEL ac­cess to target communities for the rollout of solar mini grids towards the achievement of energy security, power acces­sibility and affordability. Speaking at the MoU sign­ing, Engineer Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad, the Managing Direc­tor & CEO of REA, said that one of the best ways to miti­gate the effects of subsidy re­moval in Nigeria is by exploit­ing opportunities to optimize the critical role of renewable energy. POLL He further expressed his delight about the REA and Oando partnership, saying that it will bring about mutu­ally beneficial collaboration, knowledge exchange and experiences all targeted at achieving the common goal of optimizing renewable energy. Speaking at the signing event, Dr. Ainojie ‘Alex’ Irune, President & CEO OCEL ex­pressed his confidence in the collaboration with REA, say­ing “We would not be signing this MoU today if agencies like the REA didn’t provide an enabling environment. I commend the REA for part­nering with the private sector to boost energy access in rural areas across Nigeria. We are clear in our minds that a sus­tainable solution to ensuring all Nigerians have access to power will be by deploying innovative and captive pow­er solutions that address the unique needs of each com­munity. Furthermore, expe­rience has shown that power is an enabler of productivity thus, it is imperative that we accelerate the work required to boost access to power across the nation.”