Mr. Tuna Gulenc, Vice President of Daikin Middle East and Africa, in conversation with IKECHI NZEAKO on the recent training cerntre in partnership with Field of Skills and Dream VTE in Oko Oba area of Lagos State, stated that the centre was opened to grow highly skilled workforce to enhance the development of skilled workforce in the country. Excerpts: Can you provide us with an overview of Daikin’s new training centre in Nigeria in partnership with Field of Skills and Dream VTE? The new Daikin training centre in Nigeria was launched in partnership with Field of Skills and Dream VTE to fuel the market with a highly skilled workforce with the aim to enhance the growth of skilled workforce in the country. This is Daikin’s second training centre opened in Lagos in the last year. FSD comes with a proven track record of training technicians hence we have joined forces to lead the space for certified HVAC technicians in Nigeria. Our expertise and know-how will further build the skills and knowledge in the market and promote best practices of sustainable cooling system – an active contribution to the socio-economic development of Nigeria. What motivated Daikin to establish a training c centre in Nigeria? How does this initiative align with the company’s goals and objectives? We are a company pioneering in solutions with air conditioning and we innovate to make indoor spaces more comfortable and healthier. We want to create new value with air conditioning while enriching people’s lives to deliver health and comfort, along with safety and reliability. In order to achieve our objectives and contribute to both the environment and the people of Africa, it is essential to build a community of skilled workforce who understand the HVAC solutions and are experts in serving the local markets. POLL As a part of Daikin’s localization strategy, we established this training centre that equips future technicians with all the necessary education required to actively grow the HVAC market in Africa and represent Daikin as a leader in the space. The training will, of course, upskill their knowledge but will also grow them professionally and help them to learn the importance of promoting sustainable cooling solutions for future generations. Could you explain the role of Field of Skills and Dream (FSD) in this partnership and how it contributes to the training of technicians? What support or resources will Daikin provide to ensure the smooth functioning of the training centre and the success of the technicians who complete the programmes? FSD’s role is to lead the training sessions, customize courses and make the best use of Daikin’s expertise and know-how in the HVAC industry. The training sessions will include practical experiments on Daikin’s modern and state-of-the-art HVAC equipment, learning to troubleshoot problems, installation and commissioning of systems, and how to keep up with maintenance for better energy efficiency. With our train-the-trainer programmes, we will ensure the transfer of knowledge and strengthen the programmes ensuring graduates are well knowledgeable and with high professional hand skills. What specific topics and skills will be covered in the training programmes offered at the center? Are there any particular areas of focus or specialization? In what ways will the training centre contribute to enhancing the skills and knowledge of technicians in the field of air conditioning, heating, ventilation, and refrigeration solutions? How will the training center facilitate both theoretical and practical exercises for the technicians? Can you elaborate on the hands-on training approach? FSD will facilitate the training of new technicians, including theoretical and practical exercises across topics such as system installation, troubleshooting, commissioning, maintenance, and energy efficiency. The newly established centre is equipped with the latest HVAC systems and training equipment, allowing the technicians to gain hands-on experience with Daikin’s cutting-edge HVAC solutions. How can interested individuals or organizations get involved or participate in the training programmes offered at the center? Are there any specific eligibility criteria or prerequisites? FSD has its usual process to accept applicants. Interested people can approach or contact the center for all enrollment details and requirements. What kind of impact do you anticipate this initiative will have on the local workforce in terms of job creation and skill development? The initiative will enable technicians to increase their knowledge in the operations of modern HVAC solutions at global standards, thus enabling them to pursue highly paid professional careers. We take responsibility locally: hiring people and making investments. Market maturation is extremely important in any industry. Africa is putting a lot of effort to adopt sustainable solutions and Daikin will lead the growth and adoption of sustainable cooling system in Africa. The aim is to support the growth of the African economy, but we are focused on making our solutions available to the people of Africa as we strongly believe in improving the indoor air quality of the space where we live, work, and play through our technologies and solutions. Are there any plans to expand the training c centre network in Nigeria or other countries in the Middle East and Africa region? If so, what are the future prospects and targets? We have entered the African market with the intent to expand our presence and network in the region. We aim to open 20 training centre in Africa by the end of 2025 as a part of our localization efforts for expansion. Mrs Ogunrinde Omowale, Director of Field of Skills and Dreams (FSD) VTE Academy is a great leader with a clear vision. FSD and Daikin share the same purpose of promoting best practices for sustainable cooling, collaborations like these will accelerate the expansion of our training centre in Nigeria and beyond. With a collaborative approach, we are working alongside companies and governments to support and accelerate their efforts toward minimizing environmental impact through our products and solutions. The expansion in Nigeria is not just a market expansion but a key enabler for us to build Daikin’s community that cares for the environment and future generations. In Africa, our first and foremost foundation for growth is to educate the technicians, train them, and equip them to be readily available for providing services to our customers without any interruptions. We are committed to educating the regulators, extending our global expertise, and closely working with them as consultants to transform the HVAC-R industry in Africa and Nigeria is our first stop. We will continue to set up more training centers and actively collaborate with local companies and governments to accelerate our penetration across African markets.