The global streaming platform, Spotify recently announced that Nigerian sensation singer, Qing Madi has joined its EQUAL Africa music programme. Since her arrival on the Nigerian music scene, the multi-talented songwriter and entertainer has captivated fans with her craft. This month, she is Spotify’s EQUAL Africa ambassador for June. For Qing Madi, born Chimamanda Pearl Chukwuma, music has been her only calling. Her artistic genius was evident when she launched her career at seven. At 16, she delivered ‘See & Finish’, a record that highlighted  her abilities and made her a rising star to watch. Heavily influenced by her cultural background and Kendrick Lamar’s lyrical arrangements, the versatile Nigerian prodigy is shaping the future of music with her creative genre-bending fusion of Afrobeats, Pop, Soul and R&B. She took the Nigerian music industry by storm when it became viral on social media and caught listeners’ attention. While Qing Madi is working on her debut EP, she released a follow-up single Why. This further showcased her genre-blending ability as she combined smooth R&B vocal texture, Dancehall cadence, and Afrobeat melodies and lyrics to create an infectious song. Qing Madi joins other Nigerian artists, Tiwa Savage, Ayra Starr, Asa, and FAVE as part of EQUAL Africa. This initiative aims to spotlight and amplify the voices of talented female artists making waves in the music scene. In addition, it amplifies their music by exposing their catalogue to global listeners. “We are proud to welcome Qing Madi to the EQUAL programme, and we’re so excited to see how her talent continues to grow. We hope that by shining a light on talent like hers, we can inspire  the next generation of creators,” says Spotify’s head of music for sub-Saharan Africa, Phiona Okumu. Qing Madi says “As a female in the male-dominated industry, I have to work a million times harder to be seen and heard. Being part of the Equal programme is an opportunity as a female to be visible globally and grow my fanbase.” With more young female stars like Ayra Starr, FAVE, Ria Sean, and Bloody Civilian breaking into the mainstream, Qing Madi is positioned to be the next young female talent to take her music to a wider audience and Spotify is set to help her through its EQUAL Africa Program. POLL Speaking about her single ‘Why’ on the EQUAL Africa playlist, she answers a few questions… What is one surprising thing your fans might not know about you? I am bilingual. I speak Spanish and Igbo as someone born, bred and raised in Nigeria. More so, I am currently learning Mandarin. Another thing is that I am obsessed with learning to the point where I do it unintentionally. When did you realise that making music was your destiny and what is your ‘Why’ for pursuing this craft? Music for me wasn’t just a talent or ability. It was not something I could do. It was a life I wanted to live, a feeling I wanted to express. Music is my shallow thoughts spoken loudly, it is my comfortable and confident space as a teenager. I knew it was my destiny from the first time I climbed on stage and held the microphone at seven. Something about being in charge of millions of people and being heard. My why is easy. Growing up antisocial, it has been difficult to justify my feelings and emotions. Music was a safe haven for me, and I believe so many people still seek it. As a 16-year-old teenager, I want to be the person they listen to when seeking peace. Which African songs or artists did you grow up listening to? Tiwa Savage, Davido, Burna Boy and Wande Coal. To someone who has never heard your music, how would you describe the sound, tone, and style? Afro, R&B, and limitless emotion. Any advice for someone dreading following their dreams? Deafen your ears to the crowd and start. Nothing begins unless you begin.