Tanimowo Pelumi Omojolaade Foundation, an agricultural-based non-governmental organisation, has empowered intending poultry and aquaculture farmers with chicks and fingerlings. The foundation, according to Dr. Tanimowo Pelumi Omojolaade, the Chief Executive Officer of the organization, focuses the majority on the promotion of poultry and fish farming. It also offers free training to intending farmers who are interested in venturing into the business. He said that the foundation has been in existence for more than a decade with the sole aim of imparting knowledge in people and eradicating poverty through its various empowerment programmes. He said the foundation is the notion that government cannot do everything alone, and that there is a need for individuals, corporate organisations and well-to-dos in society to do their part in assisting the masses. “At Tanimowo Pelumi Omojoolade Foundation, we feel we do not have to wait for the government to assist the masses before we do the needful and that is what we have been doing since we started. We give free day-old chicks and fingerlings to Nigerians who are interested in making their lives better through the poultry and aquaculture business after we have given them the necessary training. “We have been to many states of the federation among which are; Lagos, Oyo, and Ogun to empower people with the knowledge and skills required to excel in the business in addition to the free day-old chicks and fingerlings as start-ups. Speaking further, he said, “Aside from the aforementioned, we also help people with support to access funds when there is the need to boost their business because we quite understand the economic situation in the country. There will definitely be a need for them to support their business with funds which may not be easily accessed without having the necessary support.” POLL Tanimowo, also stated that since its inception, the foundation has been able to empower thousands of Nigerians and their businesses are now doing wonderfully well.