AYO OPADOKUN The National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of June 12, 1993, sends this press statement titled “June 12: The Search For Democracy” and was signed by the leader of the Coalition, Chief Ayo Opadokun “Respected and Distinguished Nigerians of all positive colouration, retired public servants, military and civilians of the highest degrees, professional groups, Nigerian workers, civil society organisations, leaders of ethnic nationalities, traditional and religious leaders, youths including students Unions, women and other non-unionised bodies met at different times in 1994 and established NADECO, a broad based, nation-wide, non-partisan platform to reject the contemptuous, provocative and tyrannical annulment of the June 12, 1993 election which most Nigerians and the international community considered to be the then freest, most transparent presidential election in Nigeria and where Chief M. K. O. Abiola of the SDP defeated Alhaji Tofa of the NRC, on June 12, 1993. Also, the platform campaigned creditably for an immediate return to Federal Constitutional Governance/ National Restructuring along the Independent/ Republic constitution. “NADECO stood up to the most violent, most brutal military despot in Nigeria’s history, Gen. Sani Abacha until he expired in 1998.Many leaders of the Pro-democracy movement were violated, incarcerated, brutalised, dehumanised, hunted and hounded and in fact eliminated by the agents of the goggled general. “Gen. Abdusalami Abubakar organised a very short transition within a year but the military strong men forcibly enthroned their former boss and Commander In-Chief, Gen. Obasanjo as the elected President. Obasanjo was reported to have deliberately perverted the election that brought in Governor Umar Musa Yar Adua as President thinking that Yar Adua would allow him to continue to govern by proxy. “But the gentleman that Yar Adua was admitted that the election that brought him to office was flawed and established the Justice Mohammed Uwais Election Reform Panel before he departed to the great beyond. The recommendations of that panel which were considered positively directed to making Nigerian election truly free, transparent, credible to meet international best practices have not been implemented except for making funding of the election umpire to be on the first charge. “President Jonathan was regarded by many as a lackluster politician with no visible political constituency and was dislodged by a convergence of dispirited groups in 2015.The beneficiary of that political scheming was another military strongman, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari. “The reality of the Nigerian political trajectory demonstrates vividly that the country has been administered on fire brigade approach by successive military strongmen who were politicians in military uniform. For example, the military in its first outing on January 15, 1966, spent 13 years before the aberration of Alhaji Shehu Shagari for four years. POLL “Again, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari led an insurrection that toppled President Shagari on 31/12/1983 and the military even though changed batons through a palace coup spent another 15 years making the military rulers in uniform to have spent a total of 28 years. “To demonstrate their overall monopoly of political and economic powers in Nigeria, when the military was forced to return to the barrack as military rule was no more in vogue, the politicians in military uniform along with their retired bosses, used undue advantage acquired over their prolonged rulership to ensure that one of their former Military Rulers became the “elected president” in 1999 and repeated the same in 2015. (Gen. Obasanjo and Gen. Buhari). “Thus, the military in agbada has now spent 16years as the so called civilian rulers. A combination of the military rulership of Nigeria in uniform and mufti total up into 28 and 16 years, that is 44 years out of 62 post-independence of Nigeria. “There is no denying the fact that whenever and wherever the military conquers and or captures a geographic space, everything-human and material resources therein have become part of the spoil of war. Since Nigeria was captured on January 15, 1966, all of us including our democratic culture, value system, and ethos have become part of the military spoil of war. “The consequences of the prolonged military dictatorship include the fundamental fact that they have prevented the growth of democracy, democratisation, expansion and consolidation of democratic features and culture in Nigeria. Because over 65% of Nigerians are young people, most of them have never experienced democracy and its features. All that they have always known is the culture of military dictator/command structure. The concept of popular will is alien and strange to them. “Nigerians never voted nor rejected our cherished Parliamentary System which proved to be much more responsible and responsive; cost effective, and not as destructively corrupt as the Executive Presidential System which the military imposed on the country through various subterfuge arrangements in 1979 & 1999 respectively. They preferred a military system type where powers flow from the top by the Commander-In-Chief to the subordinates below. “Again, the military abrogated, and substituted our cherished and negotiated federal constitution and replaced it with their various decrees which had unitarised all government policies and activities and which in turn has occasioned injustice, inequity, disregard for the rule of law and all kinds of discriminations. “All the giant strides recorded by our founding fathers in the First Republic had been significantly destroyed while all the hopes and aspirations of our people at independence have been dashed by the politicians in military uniform who have staged insurrections against Alhaji Tafawa Balewa and Alhaji Shehu Shagari governments and even their fellow colleagues in arms. “NADECO therefore will expect President Tinubu to return Nigeria to the path of Federal Constitutional Governance upon which Nigeria secured her independence and which most Ethnic Nationalities Leaders, Civil Society bodies, Opinion leaders, etcetera had vigorously campaigned for in the last 30 years at least. “This is because while we practiced federal constitution, there were spectacular and visible developments, by the regional and national governments. The economic policies lifted the people out of poverty and we were the envy of the black world and even our colonisers, Great Britain. “As an activist and pro-democracy leader, there can be no excuse to retain this unsustainable system that negates all known transparent, technological and value driven, modern governance. President Tinubu perhaps was brought to government by Providence, nay by God, to return Nigeria to the path of sanity where it would be able to establish a productive government that fastly lifts it’s people out of prolonged misery and poverty, modernise its education system, and organise its agricultural endowments to meet the value chain necessities required in the modern world where agriculture is organised as a business. “NADECO therefore demands from President Tinubu to capture accurately the national mood and demands from his government to implement the report of Mallam Nasir El Rufai Panel which recommended that APC should fulfil its manifesto promise of returning Nigeria to Federal Constitutional Governance. Popular will is giving prominent recognition in modern governance. “While a return to Federal Constitutional Governance will not immediately solve all the many infractions imposed by the military on our governance, most of the aberrations at the national and sub-national levels can be taken on board for resolutions. For example, the fear that States created whimsically to satisfy selfish interest of the military strongmen and their civilian friends and confederates will be reverted is unfounded. Mono Regions as you have in Germany, Canada, Belgium, e.t.c will determine what is best suited for their regions. “President Tinubu must be conscious of his place in history, timing is critical. Upgrading Socio-political and economic, infrastructural etcetera are desirable and urgently needed considering our national endowment. But the most lasting and worthy legacy to pursue now and vigorously is to legally and constitutionally restore Nigeria back to federal constitutional governance which was the basis upon which the heterogeneous people’s accepted to be part of project Nigeria. Otherwise, whatever he possibly believed he has accomplished can be reversed within hours, weeks, months or years by the new ruler. This system is unsustainable. Our President must govern to meet current challenges and what his legacy will be after he has completed his tour of duty.