Gov. Ademola Adeleke of Osun State has said that the govern­ment has no plans to grant state pardon to Dr. Rahman Adedoyin, who was sentenced to death for murder of Timothy Adegoke. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Osun High Court of Justice sitting in Osogbo had on May 30, 2023, sen­tenced Adedoyin, owner of Hilton Hotels, to death by hanging for the murder of Adegoke, a post­graduate student of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife. A statement issued on Mon­day, June 26, 2023, in Osogbo by Malam Olawale Rasheed, the governor’s media aide, denied reports on social media that Adeleke was plotting to subvert the judgment by granting state pardon to Adedoyin. The statement quoted the gov­ernor as saying that his admin­istration had never and would never subvert justice. It said those behind the fake news were ene­mies of the public. “Those who concocted the fake news are evil minded polit­ical operatives, who are merely grasping at straws in their des­peration to blackmail the state governor. “Governor Adeleke has not and will never contemplate exer­cising the prerogative of mercy or whatever the report calls it, on a matter under adjudication, which has generated deep inter­est among local and global com­munities. “It is important to clarify that neither the governor nor his polit­ical party has any hidden plot on the said murder case other than a public interest agenda to see culprits in the dastardly act face the full wrath of the law. “That explains why no PDP member was involved as counsel for any of the convicted individ­uals and why the state judiciary enjoys and exercises its full in­dependence in the hearing and judgment of the case. POLL “It is uncharitable for political enemies and their paid agents to attempt any link between the convicted businessman and the governor. “We affirm with all sense of responsibility that Gov. Adeleke was not at any material time a friend or partner of the owner of Oduduwa University and did not interfere, intervene or manifest any untoward agenda in the arraignment, hearing and sentencing of the accused”, Ra­sheed said. He, therefore, urged the mem­bers of the public to ignore the ru­mours of Gov. Adeleke granting a state pardon to the convict and the watery push to link service records of a state judicial official to a popular verdict on the grue­some murder of a postgraduate student. “Those peddling such lies are agents of darkness acting on behalf of disgruntled, dark po­litical elements. They are better ignored. “We convey appreciation to men and women of goodwill who have put up spirited defence for the governor in the face of this orchestrated falsehood. “The undiluted truth is that neither the state government nor the state governor is interested in the subversion of the wheel of justice”, Rasheed said.