BAUCHI – Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the People Democratic Party(PDP) Presidential candidate during the last general election has expressed optimism that he will reclaim his stolen mandate at the court, saying that the current administration of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu-led APC is just a temporal one. Atiku who addressed elected officials of the PDP during a stakeholders meeting held at the Government House Banquet Hall in Bauchi on Saturday, called on members of the National Assembly of the PDP to serve as a formidable opposition to the temporary administration of the APC. According to him, based on the results announced by the INEC and pending the determination of electoral challenges in the court, the PDP members elect are not the majority in the National Assembly. “So, for the time being, they have to prepare to work as an effective, constructive opposition while also preparing for possible roles of the majority party when the cases are resolved. A Government in waiting, so to speak.” “In the recently concluded elections, our party campaigned on specific things, Nigerians are therefore expecting you to work on how to fulfil those campaign promises. That you are not among the INEC selected members is not an excuse not to perform, you must collectively work to put the temporary government on the right direction to serve Nigerians. Don’t be part of a rubber stamp.” ” As you know, the PDP remains the only political party that is led by all its members, not a political party that is led by a few political godfathers. No one individual or group of people is bigger than the party in the PDP. You are Representatives of the party, do not be tempted to leave your party just because of an INEC-induced temporary setback. In the end, the truth shall triumph over falsehood and evil. Therefore, you must please remain resolute, do not work in isolation from one another, you are a team and should always work to together as a team in order to achieve meaningful results and also remain connected to your roots, your constituents and other stakeholders.” “Our party like any other party, is a living organism living continuously building its existence, let us therefore continue to build it. The work of rebuilding our party involves everyone including our elected representatives and it will involve unity of purpose, so, we must work hard in redefining our party, let us not continue to fight yesterday’s battle. I like the statement of Oyo State Governor today here, let us not let our individual egos blind our vision of what a political party is and what we should be doing for our party’s growth and our country’s development. “Let us remember that our people need security, economic growth and development. Educational revival, millions of jobs and decent wages for our workers. Let us not forget that our people need to be unified to face the challenges of nation-building. Retreat such as this, is like a meeting you will have with someone or a group about to embark on a very important journey or mission.” POLL “It is to discuss what we expect from the journey, and how to prepare adequately for that journey including pieces of advice on how to handle various challenges that might be encountered along the way and also at the destination. Such a parley usually benefits from the wisdom of those who have made such a journey before, particularly, our outgoing members of the National Assembly.” “Don’t ever lose hope, the role of the opposition is holding the government in majority party to account. And in doing so, you demonstrate that you and your party are ready to govern at the shortest possible time. Our country is too damaged to allow for such drama, our nation needs us and I am confident that our National Assembly members, all our party leaders will not disappoint us in reshaping this country.” “Let me make a passing remarks on the announced fuel subsidy removal. Between 1999 and 2007, the PDP led Federal Government initiated fuel subsidy removal and I chaired the committee. We planned subsidy removal in 2 phases, only after providing palliative to those that will be affected.” “We have the capacity as a party to do that and that was what we would have done. Not just announcing subsidy removal without meaningful discussion with the affected sectors of the economy. I think Nigerians should appreciate what they have temporarily lost” he said Atiku Abubakar then congratulated all the newly elected Governors and members of the National Assembly reminding them there is a great task ahead of them particularly the process of reclaiming the PDP mandate at the court. In his opening remarks, the Acting National Chairman of the PDP, Umar Damagun said that this time is a very crucial moment in the history of the party,. pointing out that how the party will navigate it will determine the progress of the party in the nearest future. “Let me use this opportunity to congratulate all of you on the success of the last elections in spite of many challenges. The 2023 General elections will go down in his as the worst in the country.Nigerians had hopes that the elections will be free and fair following the amendment to the Electoral Act which made deployment of high technology in order to make the process more transparent.” “Using the combination of BVAS and electronic transmission of results. It was also meant to ensure seamless accreditation and transmission of results but INEC simply threw that aside.Let me also assure you of the party’s support all the way during your litigation sojourn and we will leave no stone unturned to reclaim our mandate that have been temporarily lost in the election.” “We have done well in this elections, we know it and we have mobilized like minds to build the party that is strong and virile to the admiration of Nigerians. When this current NWC came on board in 2021, we embarked on processes that will make the party more vibrant and accommodating.” He stressed that the party conducted transparent Congresses across the country adding that they conducted credible primaries that produced all of you here. The National Chairman stressed that as it is now, the PDP is in opposition at the National Assembly charing the NASS members to work together as an entity in order to remain relevant in the scheme of things in the political scene of the country. Umar Damagun added that the resilience of the PDP has been tested by the outcome of the last general elections stressing that moving forward is now in the hands of every member of the party saying that, “Our actions or inactions will determine what the future of our party will be.” The stakeholders meeting was attended by Ag National Chairman, Ambassador Umar Aliyu Damagum; former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; Ahmed Makarfi, Dino Melaye, Adolphus Wabara, Babangida Aliyu, Waziri Tambuwal and Abdul Ningi The Governors in attendance were: Sen Bala Mohammed of Bauchi, Umar Fintiri of Adamawa, Pastor Umo Bassey Eno of Akwa Ibom, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori of Delta, Godwin Obasake of Edo Represented by His Deputy, Philip Shuaibu. Others were Ademola Adeleke of Osun, Seyi Makinde of Oyo, Caleb Mutfwang of Plateau, Siminalayi Fubara of Rivers, Lt. Col. Agbu Kefas (rtd) of Taraba, Dauda Lawal Dare of Zamfara and Douye Diri of Bayelsa. All NASS members-elect from the PDP and other political parties were also in attendance.