Access Bank has once again demonstrated that its customers are the backbone of the bank and that the bank is committed to their development. Deputy Managing Director, Retail South, Mrs. Chizoma Okoli, stated this on Tuesday when the bank interfaced with a wide range of customers for feedback and inputs on their products and services. The event, which took place in Lagos, was tagged ‘Breakfast with Deputy Managing Director South”. The Deputy Managing Director, Retail South, Mrs. Chizoma Okoli, acknowledged that customers, especially Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are the backbone of their operation, reiterating that because of that the bank has sustained superior customer satisfaction. She said, “At Access Bank, we recognize that our customers are the heartbeat of the bank and the driving force behind everything we do. Your trust, loyalty and constructive feedback have been instrumental to our growth and evolution. “This forum exemplifies our commitment to open communication, enabling us to engage in meaningful dialogue, understand your needs, address your concerns, and work together towards mutual success. We are deeply grateful for your unwavering confidence and we remain committed to delivering innovative solutions and exceptional service that meet your diverse financial needs. We understand the challenges your business has been through these past few years due to the various macroeconomic headwinds that have bedevilled Nigeria and the entire world. In recognition of this, we have decided to engage with you today to share with you some strategies that will enable you to remain afloat as well as the various initiatives Access Bank has deployed to make your business a lot easier across the globe. “In our pursuit of maintaining leadership as Nigeria’s most innovative bank, we are thrilled to announce an addition to our bouquet of credit card products and our newest collaboration with American Express, a renowned global payment platform organization. This strategic partnership marks a significant milestone as we become the first bank to introduce American credit cards in Nigeria and West Africa. POLL “Through this partnership, we reinforce our unwavering dedication to driving progress and providing an expansive network and unparalleled support to our over 60 million customers. “I assure you that Access Bank remains dedicated to delivering exceptional service, fostering financial well-being, and upholding the highest standards of integrity”.