Few days ago, I decided to take a sample survey of beggars and children within the begging profession, and I ended up crying out my heart to what I discovered.It was a scenario of patheticness and wickedness of our leaders. Leaders who prefer to showcase the outward appearance of their ineptitude as the best of their best stewardship scorecard. I went to Ketu, Ojota bus stops, Ikeja under bridge, Ebutta meta, Oyinbo and Yaba as the areas of my survey scope. In the same process, I equally observed that most of the pedestrian overhead bridges within the areas of my coverage have been converted to either beggars enclaves or overnight sleeping milieu of ‘agberos’ and little children. Taking a closer perspective on these beggars and children loitering around, I discovered that 90% of them were from the North. On deeper inquest, I discovered that little girls of about 10, 11, 12  to 16 years that were saddled with children on their backs, 80% of them were the actual mothers to the babies that they were carrying.When I asked some of these children with babies, why they were not in school, the answers were all about government neglect. They were not protected by the government and such became victims of girls abuses, violations with the ugly consequences of unwanted pregnancies and societal neglect. The irony of this survey was that the North that has branded itself as ‘BORN TO RULE’, has equally neglected the essence of leadership expectations for these children. The North has always clamoured to lead Nigeria, but looking at their leadership scorecards, you’re faced with a region so depressed and deprived of any kind of positive leadership impact, especially with their own children. The North has always maintained that they are the bridge or core historical evidence of any leadership enthronement in Nigeria, and yet, one cannot see the difference between their leadership euthanasia and the people that are being led. The same scenario is not about the North alone, it has transversed into other regions. When I mention the North, please don’t assume that the citizens neglect is all about the North, but I chose the North because the majority of these beggars and children on the streets are from the North. It has nothing to do to demean the North, but my little VOICE for these VOICELESS Nigerians to be taken care of by the Northern leaders. In the same vein, it’s a general call for FGN to ensure that every Nigerian is assured of respect as a citizen. This caveat becomes necessary in view of my constant mentioning of human induced degradation in the North by FGN and Northern leaders. It’s very much a sad reality that this same people, who are neglected in governance dividends are still cajoled into the politics of tribal and religious intolerance and sentiments during election periods. The North, just as almost all parts of Nigeria are under siege by the APC led Northern Cabals, especially, leaders such as El Rufia and company. These Islamist extremists are only interested in promoting Islamic and tribal politics. Of course, leadership enthusiasm in the North has become a nightmare for the starving of their people. This has created the critical aspect of, ‘OH YES’ bondage to the citizens. They are enjoying their own play of politics that hinged on hatred and bitterness. These sectoral Cabals are encouraged every day because they are aware that they have successfully divided the country along those forbidden lines of religion and ethnicity. The depressed tactics of, THEY ARE CHRISTIANS/TRADITIONALISTS AND WE ARE MUSLIMS. This same myopic approach to governance policies had degenerated into a new Nigeria, where everything about our citizenship relevance must be myopically ascertain through the binocular of either ethnicity or religion. THEY don’t care as long as this tactics keeps them perpetually in power and serves their interest to devalue US. According to world bank survey on poverty measurement, North has over 80% of our poverty enrolment rate. In this same vein, when you talk about girl-child early marriages, abuses and out of school dropouts, the North comes first. I began to wonder about how the Northern Caliphate, Oligarchy and Leaders are sleeping with their both eyes closed when poverty and child abuse are becoming increasingly difficult to control. El Rufia, in his recent video, praised his manipulative political evilness, when he asserted that he deliberately hoisted on Kaduna State, a Muslim Muslim ticket to its Governorship reign. He went further to brag that the recent elections victory of BAT and SHETTIMA, two Muslims faithfuls, was an indication of Muslim dominance in Nigeria’s governance system. He boasted that Muslims will rule Nigeria in the next 20 years. I wasn’t perturbed by his moral deadness boastfulness, but I was wondering if El Rufia could take a census of the number of beggars and children on the streets of Kaduna State. He will discover that the same Muslims that he tends to promote were not less than 90% of the hordes in the poverty measuring indexes.I won’t be perturbed if the Muslim Muslim ticket could help in educating the children, create an enabling environment for their people who don’t have ‘godfathers’ to engage in. I will be extremely happy in a situation where most of these beggars and children will be defended, respected and given decent accommodation with basic amenities so that they can live as human beings. In that case, I wouldn’t be perturbed by El Rufia’s allegations that the Muslims leadership was the best for Nigeria and North, especially in Kaduna state. His utterances in that video gave us a vivid insight into what an average Nigerian leader thinks about Nigeria, and why he or she is in government. It was always an opium of selfishness, and lack of care to their mandates to serve the people. El Rufia’s haughty swagger and unguarded statements as a leader are the core reasons why the vulnerable in Nigeria are wallowing in poverty and hunger. The influx of Northern children and beggars to Lagos State and other parts of Southern states was as a result of the Northern leaders uncaring attitude towards those who can’t speak up. Yet, El Rufia, who has no single iota of shame, has the moral right to castigate the Christians as infidels, hacked into Nigeria as slaves to serve their Muslims leadership masters, even when many beggars and little children are loitering around the cities in Kaduna state. POLL The most important aspect of El Rufia’s religious intolerance should be a wake up call for the Christians and Traditionalists. It gave a vivid picture of the future of Nigeria, where by the time the Muslims leadership masters finish with Nigeria in a pre planned 20 years Islamic extremists agenda, no other religion(s) will be allowed to exist except Islam. The agenda is deepening, and believe me, there are many other extremists like El Rufia in Nigeria presently. They’re are pretending but God Almighty will never allow a one-religion supremacy to reign in Nigeria. As a people under certain religious rituals, Nigerians are still believing that fasting, praying and miracle will happen suddenly and Nigeria’s politics, economy and social interactions will automatically change into an Eldorado bazaar under APC regime. My emphasis here is that, despite all our claims to religious intolerance supremacy, many Nigerians are in a miserable state of mourning. In as much as I believe in the power of fasting, prayer and miracle of the Supreme Being, and of course, a positivist, I am still wondering how a nation that has a divisive policy of nepotism, garnished with over 133 millions under poverty and hunger bracket, could not change the educational curriculum of certain regions to compete with others. “Competition has a way of bringing out the best of the genius in an individual, and the benefit from such an individual becomes a landmark for others to aspire, and at the end, all citizens are maximally developed at certain standards and principles.” DSM. When there’s a competition, the best becomes the target to be appreciated, and in return, the society rejoices because the best will replicate its kind. This is what is lacking in Nigeria, where the so much favoured region with empathic, “Religionist Educationally disadvantaged states”, can end up having half backed educated candidates as their leaders. These leaders are indoctrinated to their core religious beliefs instead of academic concepts and theories. The truth is that a half-baked leader won’t understand what merit or human empathy entails in his governance policies. In this case, and to cover up his or her inefficiency, he or she will create a diversionary strategy that will give religion and ethnicity a hike to discern the best for the citizens. Please note that, I have highly intelligent, reliable and educated Northerners as friends, In-laws, colleagues and well wishers, and as such, the context of this article as I have stated earlier is not in anyway generalising all Northern leaders as religious fanatics or leadership ineptitude, but this is a wake up call for all those intelligent and educated Northerners to start a process of holding their leaders accountable, especially in the areas of checking the growing numbers of beggars and children on the streets. Almajiri must end and those children should have a place of dignity as they are growing up. For me, I believe that every Nigerian, irrespective of religion, background or birthplace has an equal right and privilege to live as human being under a caring environment and leadership empathy. To this end, let me conclude with this great assessment of what Nigeria has become presently. My friend, Aina Ayodele, aptly captured the main fundamental flaw in Nigeria’s corrupt infested existence, and he postulates thus:“Every project must have a workable manual to guide in achieving the expected goal, but does Nigeria has a working manual?Not until we have a workable manual by tinkering with our so-called constitution that will allow institutions to work freely, whatever any leader is doing will amount to “window dressing”” The truth is that Nigerian leaders don’t have any Empathic Manual (EM) for the able bodied citizens not to talk about the destitutes on the streets. They are more inclined to self edification, and at the end, end up to rob all Nigerians of their commonwealth with impunity. I am pleading to our leaders to understand that those beggars and children on the streets are all Nigerians, they didn’t create themselves as Nigerians, and as such, deserve to be treated as bonafide citizens of Nigeria. They may not have the influence to talk with the leaders, but I perceived that our leaders daily human induced wickedness on these vulnerable amongst us will be part of God’s rewards appraisalscorecards. These vulnerable have their Divine rights and privileges to live as human beings in Nigeria as citizens. Remember the case of Lazarus and the Rich man. The mystery of God’s validation of our existence and righteousness may just be our helping hands for these neglected souls in our midst. If the Rich man knew that Lazarus positioning at his doorstep was all that God would have used to validate his righteousness, he wouldn’t have neglected Lazarus. The little kindness for these vulnerable in our society may not be repayed immediately, but God Almighty takes an account details of all our deeds. As a leader, if you could steal so much to give your family members and children the best life could offer, have you taken a clue of where you are coming from, and the benevolence of God Almighty in your earthly journeying process? Between THEY and US, let the vulnerable find a place of honour as partakers of Nigeria endowed resources…They’re part of our commonwealth co-owners. Nigeria should not be a destination of evilness, rather a harmonious society where every Nigerian should be proud of…Remember that I come in PEACE. Dr. Sunny Oby Maduka (DSM), is an Author, Resource Personality, Management Consultant/ Trainer, Chartered/Certified – Au d i t o r / A c c o u n t a n t , Financial Compliance Expert, Economic/Political Analyst Strategist, Marine Expert and Motivationist)