ABUJA – Ahead of the inauguration, Senator-elect, Suleiman Kawu Sumaila has sent a strong message to those interfering in the election of the 10th Senate. Addressing newsmen on Monday, Semaila, a member of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), warned that the Senate should be allowed to elect its leadership. This is even as he boasted that Senator Abdulaziz Yari, an All Progressives Congress (APC) member is the next Senate President. He said: “In modern democracy, every responsible government recognises the roles and responsibilities of the three arms of government in achieving an overall national interest. “You are all aware that the election of Presiding Officers of the 10th National Assembly (Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker and Deputy Speaker) is fast approaching and Lawmakers-elect seeking for these important offices have already embarked on rigorous campaigns and consultations in their quest to occupy the high ranking positions. “It is in view of the foregoing that I consider it necessary to address members of the press on certain contentious issues currently going on the election of the next set of leadership of the 10th National Assembly. “To start with, the constitution is explicit about how the President and Deputy President of the Senate shall be elected. For instance, Chapter 2 of the 9th Standing Orders of the Senate 2022 (as amended) stipulates the procedures for selection of Presiding Officers of the Senate. “Similarly, Section 50(1)a of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution (as amended) states that, ‘there shall be a President and Deputy President of the Senate, who shall be elected by the members of that House from among themselves.’ POLL “Section 50(1)b stipulates that, ‘A Speaker and a Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall be elected by the members of that House from among themselves.’ “It is therefore clear that, the election of these Presiding Officers is purely an internal affair that concerns only members of the National Assembly and therefore, they should be allowed to decide who among them would occupy the positions in order to avoid repetition of the past mistakes – we may all recall the incidences of the 7th and 8th National Assembly.” He further warned on why the election of the principal officers in the 10th National Assembly should not be interfered with. “In my view, external interference in the election of the next Presiding Officers of the National Assembly would not only violate the provisions of the Nigerian Constitution and Standing Orders of both the Senate and House of Representatives, but would also cause a serious misunderstandings between the Legislative and Executive Arms of government. “Available information reveals that some desperate politicians are planning to use undemocratic means to impose Lawmakers-elect of their choice to become Presiding Officers against the wishes of the majority. This move is undemocratic, unacceptable and dangerous to our democracy as well as the nation as a whole,” he said. He, however, commended President Bola Tinubu for appointing Senator George Akume as Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Honorable Femi Gbajabiamila as Chief of Staff and Senator Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia as the Deputy Chief of Staff. He said: “These gentlemen are very conversant of the modus operandi of the National Assembly. As such, their appointments would no doubt strengthen the working relationships of the two arms of government. “This is for the first time in the history of our democracy when we have a President, Vice president, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Chief of Staff to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff all with Parliamentary experiences. Thus, it is highly expected of them by Nigerians to respect both the Constitutional and Standing Orders provisions.” He drew the attention of Mr. President to the unfortunate and undemocratic move by some elements to temper with the laid down procedures in the National Assembly. He said: “I want to also call on other Stakeholders, Civil Society Organisations and International Communities to stand firm in ensuring democratic consolidation in Nigeria. “I am confident that Mr. President as a true democrat who believes in the rule of law will do everything possible to safeguard the sanctity of the National Assembly.”