Pastor Chris Oyakhilome and his ex-wife, Anita Ebhodaghe’s, divorce left people with many unanswered questions. The divorce between Pastor Chris Oyakhilome and his ex-wife, Anita Ebhodaghe, in 2016 left people with more questions than answers. Already in 2014, people began wondering if the two were headed for divorce, as Anita Ebhodaghe had been a no-show at recent events of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s church, Christ Embassy. When the two married in 1991, Anita Ebhodaghe joined Christ Embassy and eventually became the manager of the ministry’s British branches. Therefore, she used to attend multiple events arranged by the church, but in 2014, she suddenly stopped. Pictures of her and information about her were also removed from Christ Embassy’s websites. At the beginning, neither Pastor Chris Oyakhilome nor his now ex-wife, Anita Ebhodaghe, commented on people’s speculations about a divorce. However, as rumors about what was going on took off, the couple revealed that they had gone their separate ways and would divorce. While some members of Christ Embassy had seen it coming, others were shocked as the two were interpreted as marital role models. POLL The divorce was final in 2016. Ex-wife fuels rumors after divorce Following the divorce, Anita Ebhodaghe wrote on her website that she had left Christ Embassy. In the same message, she also touched upon her marital status and rumors about her and Pastor Chris Oyakhilome reconciling. “It has been brought to my attention that there are persistent rumors and misinformation about my marital status being circulated, and I would like to address certain reconciliation rumors with this statement. Further to the formal notification of the dissolution of marriage made by my solicitors earlier this year,” she stated. “Please note that this has not changed, and I am no longer a part of Christ Embassy aka Believer’s LoveWorld or any such organization in any capacity. I am reiterating this to ensure that no one is misled by the false rumors or unfounded statements that show up and are spread from time to time on the internet. Any additional statement concerning me will be issued by my solicitors, who are my legal representatives, so please do not be deceived. Thank you and God bless. Pastor Anita Schafer formerly Oyakhilome,” she added. While Anita Ebhodaghe tried to distinguish one fire with her message, she fueled another one by using the name “Pastor Anita Schafer.” People then began speculating whether she had remarried a man with the last name Schafer. Anita Ebhodaghe has denied those claims. It has also been reported that Pastor Chris Oyakhilome had married a new wife, but he remains single and has rebuffed the rumors. The lives of Pastor Chris and Anita Ebhodaghe before their divorce While married, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome and Anita Ebhodaghe had two girls, Carissa Sharon and Charlene. Carissa Sharon was born in 1993 and is the eldest of the sisters. She is a gospel singer in Christ Embassy’s musical arm called the LoveWorld Music and Arts Ministry. Privately, she is married to the Ghanaian businessman Phillip Frimpong with whom she has a daughter from 2021. Her name is Arielle Rachelle-Marise and is the first grandchild of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome. While Carissa Sharon lives a rather public life, her sister, Charlene, stays private. Therefore, not much is known about her except the fact that she was born in 1995 and lives in London, the United Kingdom. Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s family’s role in Christ Embassy Pastor Chris Oyakhilome founded the Christ Embassy church in Nigeria in 1987 and serves as its president. With the passage of time, the church has experienced significant growth and now boasts approximately 13 million members globally, with a strong presence in Nigeria, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and South Africa. Pastor Chris Oyakhilome has delivered powerful sermons in packed venues around the world, including renowned locations like London’s O2 Arena, Johannesburg’s FNB Stadium and Accra’s Black Star Square. Within his family, there are notable individuals who are actively involved in Christ Embassy. His sister, Kathy Woghiren, holds the position of Director of the LoveWorld Music and Arts Ministry. Additionally, she serves as the Director of the LoveWorld Creative Arts Academy and holds the Chairman position for LoveWorld Records Label. Rev. Ken Oyakhilome, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s brother, leads the church’s branch in Houston, Texas,and also serves as a member of the Christ Embassy Central Executive Council. Through their collective efforts, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, Kathy Woghiren and Rev. Ken Oyakhilome have contributed to the growth and impact of Christ Embassy, fostering an environment where individuals can experience personal transformation and a deepening of their relationship with God. Their dedication and passion for spreading the message of faith continue to inspire and uplift believers worldwide.