LAGOS  – The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) and Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in solidarity with the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) staged a peaceful protest to the office of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State in Alausa, Ikeja to register their grievances over the proscription of RTEAN and the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state. Comrade Comrade Nuhu Toro, the General Secretary of TUC , Comrade Ismail Bello, Deputy Secretary of the NLC, Comrade Lumuba Okungbowa, Geberal Secretary of Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria(PENGASSAN) in company with some other labour leaders, while addressing newsmen, said that it was wrong for the government to ban RTEAN and the NURTW in the State. According to him, we find this ridiculous and it is important to put the record straight that the subsisting court judgement says the LASG must respect the rights of the unions. “This is a constitutional right that must be respected. We are here to submit our letter of demands to Governor Sanwo-Olu and the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly. “We want to assume that the Lagos State Governor is a gentleman. This is the first phase and we expect the him to call the organised labour for a meeting within a week. The two transport unions should be allowed to operate freely in Lagos,” he said. The spokesperson of TUC said that disobedience of court orders and abridgement of fundamental human rights as regards the RTEAN, and the NURTW would not be allowed. He said that the union is in the exclusive legislative list and that it should be treated as such. “Trade unions are on the Exclusive Legislative List, which in simple language means that states, including Lagos State, do not have powers over trade unions not to talk of proscribing them,” he said. POLL Their letter, which was made available to newsmen stated, “your government in purporting to proscribe RTEAN violates the International Labour Organisation, ILO Convention No. 87 which guarantees humans the right to freely associate.