Manchester United have reportedly decided that they will meet the release clause of Napoli star Kim Min-jae. The centre-back has shone in the Serie A this season and attracted interest from across Europe after refusing to pen a contract extension at the Diego Armando Maradona Stadium. Min-jae could be the first of numerous arrivals for United this summer, with Erik ten Hag desperate to acquire more new recruits despite the uncertainty over ownership. The ex-Ajax boss’ debut campaign in the Premier League showed plenty of promise, with last summer’s signings all largely shining and proving why the higher powers at Old Trafford must financially back Ten Hag in the market if they are to push for the title. United are hoping to strengthen at both ends of the pitch, with a marquee No 9 and a new shot-stopper high on the shortlist of targets. Though Ten Hag would like to also improve upon his depth in central defence, with club captain Harry Maguire expected to be one of the first players out the door of the Theatre of Dreams. Min-jae has been identified as a top target by United, and the club are reportedly keen to make use of his £52million release clause. According to Calcio Mercato, the Red Devils have held meetings with the South Korean international’s agents and have sounded out that they are willing to offer their client a £6m per season contract. The defender is said to be ready to ‘say yes’ to the offer and open to joining United and being a part of Ten Hag’s project. The approval is said to have been what the Premier League side required as they eye up activating his release clause. Paris Saint-Germain and Liverpool were also linked with Min-jae previously, though they will be forced to turn their attention to alternative targets if they are reluctant to act quickly and activate the clause in his deal. Ten Hag was fearful that United’s pending takeover would affect his summer transfer window, though acquiring Min-jae would cool his fears for the time being. However, with signing a marquee striker next on the ‘to-do list’, it remains to be seen whether the Dutchman grows frustrated with the ongoing negotiations. United are likely to return to Napoli with another offer given that Victor Osimhen is admired and reports are circulating that Tottenham are not willing to sell Harry Kane to a Premier League rival.