AKURE – Three persons suspected to have killed a Naval Sub-Lieutenat in Idoani, Ondo State have been arrested and paraded by the Police in Akure on Thursday. Parading the suspects, the spokesperson for the state Command, Funmilayo Odunlami-Omisanya, disclosed that the suspects were arrested while trying to flee the community after allegedly attacking and killing the Naval officer on Monday. Confessing the attack, one of the suspects, Sambo Ayomide, 20, explained that the late Sub-Lieutenat Akingbagohun Samuel Ayomide was brushed on the arm when his friend, Adeleke Johnson, passed by him. He said the late officer slapped his friend on the face, but the passers-by resolved the issue and they all went their ways. But shortly after, Johnson said the naval officer might be a fake military officer, hence they decided to go after him to verify. Adeleke, Sambo Ayomide(20) and Shagari Francis(17) took a commercial motorbike and traced the Naval officer to where they were standing. Alighting from the bike, they pounced on the Naval officer and hit him with a rod. He was said to have been hit in the scrotum. When he was rushed to the hospital by his friend, Sub-Lieutenat Akingbagohun was confirmed dead. POLL Adeleke disclosed that one of their friends, Femi, sent an SMS to them informing them that the officer had given up the ghost. The three of them met in a school in the community confused on what to do. He disclosed that while they were still deliberating on what to do, the military men and policemen arrived. On sighting the security officers, they took to their heels, but Ayomide was unlucky to have been apprehended. But he, Adeleke, and Francis, who is Nasarawa, were arrested the following day. Meanwhile, in his explanation, Ayomide owned up that he hit the Naval officer with a rod when he was holding Adeleke’s trousers. He said Adeleke later took the rod from him and hit the Naval officer with the rod also. But he said he couldn’t know whether he hit him in the scrotum. However, the PPRO disclosed that it took joint efforts to get the suspects arrested.She said they were still on the lookout for the fleeing motorbike rider who took the suspects to where they attacked the late Naval officer. She assured that the suspects would be arraigned on Monday.