…Only Enough FX Supply Will Make Unification Likely — Analysts …Want Exports, Foreign Reserves, Importing Oil Products Addressed It has been observed that for Ni­geria to attempt a unification of exchange rates, it must address the fundamental issue of for­eign exchange availability and any attempt to unify the rates at this time will spell doom for the economy. That was the consensus of opinion of analysts, who spoke to Daily Independent at the weekend in their reactions to the call by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the unifi­cation of exchange rates in the foreign exchange market. They argued that it is only when fundamentals of the economy like improved productivity, increased ex­portation, growth in external reserves, improved foreign ex­change earnings through the non-oil sector and end to impor­tation of petroleum products are pursued and attained that the country may be positioned to unify exchange rates. They told President Tinu­bu that any attempt to unify exchange rates in the country will crash the economy if these fundamental issues were not addressed. In a significant policy shift, President Tinubu in his inau­gural speech, declared his gov­ernment’s decision to unify the exchange rates, replacing the previous multiple exchange rates regime implemented during the administration of former President Muhamma­du Buhari by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He highlighted the impor­tance of a unified exchange rate and emphasised the need to redirect funds from arbi­trage toward meaningful in­vestments. POLL Additionally, he called for a reduction in interest rates, describing the current rates as detrimental to both the people and businesses in Nigeria. He said, “The central bank must work towards a unified exchange rate…they should direct the fund from arbitrage to meaningful investment. “Interest rates need to come down, currently too high, anti-people, anti-busi­ness, we have to work on all of those”. While addressing governors of APC, the president also said, “If we work together, the Nige­ria of our dreams is not far away. Rest assured that we will not have multiple exchange rates anymore. The multiple exchange rates will be stream­lined”. Significantly, the unification of exchange rates involves the unification of exchange regu­lations and trading arrange­ments so that the new exchange rate regime is supported by an efficient and uniform regulato­ry and operational framework of exchange markets. It also modifies the entire structure of relative prices between traded goods by elim­inating the implicit set of taxes and subsidies that a multiple exchange rate system produc­es. In a blog post, the President of the World Bank Group, Da­vid Malpass, warned that Ni­geria’s parallel exchange rate is harmful as it worsens future debt service payments and in­creases the risk of debt distress. According to Malpass, about 24 emerging and developing economies, including Nigeria, have an active parallel curren­cy market. He added that “in at least 14 of them, the exchange rate premium —the difference be­tween the official and the paral­lel rate — is a material problem, exceeding 10 percent.” In the blog post, it was dis­closed that Nigeria has an ex­change rate premium of 61.7 percent as of March 2023. The World Bank chief not­ed that parallel exchange rates are expensive and can drive corruption. Analysts, who spoke to Dai­ly Independent, said President Tinubu’s decision to unify the exchange rate reflects a departure from the multiple exchange rate system that was in place during the previous administration. In his reaction, Dr. Ayo Teri­ba, CEO of Economic Associ­ates, applauded the president’s desire for a unified exchange rate regime. He said, “I think there is a national consensus that subsi­dy of any type, subsidy in fuel price, exchange rate are market distortions. Having multiple exchange rates is a distortion. The market reality is closer to the Bureau de Change rate which is what common Nige­rians will face if they want to change their currency. “The CBN rate is only avail­able to the privileged. It is a sub­sidy to the privileged and it is not fair. The exchange rates should be unified just like the fuel subsidy has been removed. “I agreed with the pres­ident that we need to unify the rates, how and when we can debate but there should be a single exchange rate is sensible and undebatable. It is a leakage of our government resources. We are losing rev­enue by selling forex to some people at subsidised rates and they turn around to sell it in the market. We cannot con­tinue to allow this arbitrage. It is part of corruption and it is an abuse. We should put an end to it”. Dr. Boniface Chizea, Chief Executive Officer of BIC Con­sultancy Services, said unify­ing exchange rates is the right thing to do but certain things must be put in place before this is done. “What led to the rates was that you cannot meet the sup­ply on the official window. Once you don’t have enough foreign exchange to meet the demand of the people, the people seek demand elsewhere, and then the rate will be different. “Either you do that or you can then allow it to float. If we float, the naira will crash badly. “It is good to talk. Nobody will love two prices for one commodity. By doing this you create an arbitrage opportuni­ty. Those who get dollars at the official rate sell on the black market and they make more money without any added value. “Fundamentally, we are not producing. And if we are not producing, we won’t have enough forex to cater to the de­mand of the people. “Government and the CBN cannot just come and say we should unify the rates when we have supply shortfall. It can never harmonise. “We have to address the fundamentals of the economy which is productivity, exports, grow your reserves and earn foreign exchange, stop import­ing petroleum products”, he said. Stephen Iloba, an economist, said the multiple exchange rate regime often led to disparities and inefficiencies, creating op­portunities for arbitrage and hindering the growth of the economy. He said, “By implementing a unified exchange rate, Presi­dent Tinubu aims to streamline the foreign exchange market and reduce distortions, there­by attracting more investments and boosting economic stabil­ity. “The unification of the ex­change rate is expected to en­hance transparency and create a level playing field for busi­nesses operating in Nigeria. It will simplify transactions, elim­inate complexities associated with multiple exchange rates, and provide a more accurate re­flection of the true value of the Nigerian currency, the naira. “This move is likely to im­prove investor confidence, at­tract foreign direct investment, and promote economic growth in the long term”. Cyril Ampka, an Abu­ja-based economic analyst, said the president’s call for the unification of exchange rates is an undue interference with the constitutional right of the central bank. He said, “Historically, cen­tral banks have been granted a significant degree of autonomy to execute monetary policies without undue interference from the government. “However, with the unifica­tion of the exchange rate, the CBN’s role in managing the country’s currency valuation may undergo a shift. “As the government takes a more active role in determin­ing and directing exchange rate policy, concerns may arise re­garding the independence of the CBN and its ability to make impartial decisions based on economic considerations. “Implementing these re­forms will require careful planning, coordination, and engagement with relevant stakeholders, including the Central Bank of Nigeria and the financial sector. “The success of these pol­icies will also depend on ad­dressing underlying challenges such as inflation, fiscal disci­pline, and structural reforms”.