Nigerians woke up on the morning of Tuesday 30, May, 2023 to the rude shock of finding transport fares increased by over 100 percent across board. Only the previous day was a new government sworn in with many of the citizenry expressing optimism and breathing a sigh of relief and surviving the choky economic policies of the previous government which left the nation and its people gasping for survival. Right from the swearing in ceremony when the in-coming president made a seeming innocent declaration; ‘Subsidy is gone’, taken casually by the undiscerning populace, not realising that trouble has being stirred ahead of them that got busted on their faces the following day in transport fares which shot above rooftops. The little hope being nursed by many for a brief period of comfort before facing the realities of the new government’s economic policies has disappeared with many left groping to find their levels in the new economic transport regime they now suddenly find themselves. The cost of transportation from Gbagada to Oshodi in Lagos state has risen from N200 to N500, an increase of 150 per cent. Also, residents paid about N700 for a trip to Ojodu-Berger in Lagos from Mowe, Ogun state, a journey which would ordinarily cost N400.. In Ekiti state, a trip from Oye-Ekiti to Isan-Ekiti now costs N700 against a previous price of N300. Also, transportation from Oye-Ekiti to Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, rose to N1,000 from N500. POLL Many commuters have resorted to trekking long distances to conserve transport costs, while motorists complain of low patronage. Residents in Lagos who have been most affected by the development, have taken to social media to vent their frustration and disbelief after transport costs skyrocketed in a matter of hours. As of Tuesday morning, May 30, 2023, Bolt trended on Twitter as Lagosians shared the ridiculously high Bolt prices they were charged, even for not-so-distant drop-off locations. For instance, Bolt now charges between N5000 to N7000 per drop from Airport Road to Gbagada. Meanwhile, Maryland to Yaba now costs N3,300 to N4500. Meanwhile, Yaba to Obalende costs N8,650. Also, Bolt is charging between N4,300 to N8,600 from Lekki Conservation Road to Obalende. Some Lagosians have also claimed that Sienna used for commercial purposes are charging between N1,500 to N2000 from Oshodi to Lekki, from N500 previously charged. Meanwhile, danfo (yellow) buses that are active on the road are charging up to N1,500 per drop from Mowe to Berger and N300 per drop from Abule Oja to Oyigbo. Also, some buses are charging N800 from Cele to Berger. Danfo buses also charge N700 from Yaba to Obalende. Adetayo Olaniyi of the Department of Transport Management Technology, Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State, in his research finding said Fuel is a major factor among many others influencing transport costs and transport rates in Nigeria. “It plays a significant role in the production of goods and services in all sectors of the economy, which is why countries find it necessary to subsidize and ensure citizens have access to fuel which is of national importance. Fuel in Nigeria is an inelastic product both at demand and supply sides, which means that it is very difficult for consumers to find alternatives to the use of it in their daily lives. “For a developing country like Nigeria, fuel subsidy is considered as a major tool to enhance citizens welfare most especially the middle and low income earners, meanwhile, the disbursement of fuel subsidy must be properly monitored to guide against corruption as shown in the past administrations. Among other major factors that influence transport costs and transport rates in Nigeria is fuel. Fuel plays a significant role in the production of goods and services in all sectors of the economy, that is why countries find it necessary to subsidize and ensure citizens have access to fuel which is of national importance, Olaniyi said. Femi Olasiyun, a stockbroker, said, “Any slight increase in the pump price of fuel without a palliative measure in place inflicts economic hardship on Nigerians and usually generates resistance and protest from the organised labour, civil society coalition and the masses in general. The reason being that the fuel subsidy is the principal way ordinary Nigerians benefit from the country’s oil wealth. Fuel subsidy often leads to increase demand for fuel due to over use and waste arising from reduced FCT Abuja The ICIR observed that transport fares in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have risen by, at least, 50 per cent in most parts of Abuja. Before Tinubu announced fuel subsidy removal during his inauguration speech on Monday, May 29, taxi drivers were charging N200 per passenger from Life Camp junction to Wuse market in Abuja. However, by Wednesday, May 31, the prices had jumped to N300, with some drivers charging more. Transportation from Berger to Mpape, which was N250, now costs N500, a 100 per cent increase. Many residents of the FCT who work within the city centre and live in satellite towns, are being confronted with surging transport costs. An FCT resident Ayo Taiye who resides in Jikwoyi, described the situation as “difficult.” Taiye said, “I am from Central Area. Before, to Berger, it was N150, but now it is N300. It is so difficult, how much do I collect as salary? If you remove this transport fare from my salary, that means it will be difficult for me to feed. “I am going to Kubwa now, I don’t even know how to get there. I don’t know how to manage my money to enable me to get there. At the moment, I am hungry. But I can’t eat because I don’t know the amount I will pay for transport now. I’m hearing that it is N1,000. I am still coming back here, I live in Jikwoyi.” The transport fare from Gwagwalada to Berger, usually N500, now costs between N1,000 and N1,200. Commuters are now paying between N700 and N800 from Berger to Dei-dei, a trip which used to cost about N400. In cases where transport fares have not risen significantly, The ICIR observed that drivers have increased the number of passengers transported per trip. At a small motor park near Banex Plaza Wuse II, drivers increased the number of passengers being conveyed from four to six persons while charging N200 for a trip to the Wuse market, which used to be N150. Fuel stations in many states have shut down operations since Monday, May 29 following Tinubu’s speech, and long queues appeared in the few stations that were operating due to panic-buying. State governors had warned fuel retailers against hoarding the product. However, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCLtd) announced the official increase of pump prices from an average of N195 per litre to a range of N488 to N550. Rivers State As commuters groan over the hike in transport costs following the removal of fuel subsidy, the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, has issued a memo containing new fares to be charged by taxi drivers for inter- and intra- city trips in Port Harcourt. NURTW also stipulated a fine of N10,000 for drivers who charge below or above the approved fares. The Union released the fare list as most workers, traders and students resorted to trekking due to the hike in transportation fares. An investigation by a national tabloid revealed that in Port Harcourt city, the fare for a trip from Oyigbo Area to Eleme junction has jumped N150 to between N250 and N300, while the fare from Eleme junction to Mile 1 park that was N150 is now N250/N300. There has also been a commensurate increase in fares from Port Harcourt to other cities and states in the country. For instance, the fare for a trip from Port Harcourt to Asaba which was N6,000 has jumped to N8,000. He lamented that transport fares will consume a great chunk of his salary. Also, a trader in Rumuokoro, Paulinus Ikem lamented that shops are locked and sales had declined following the hardship prevailing in the city, due to fuel subsidy removal. Meanwhile, investigations by our correspondent revealed that some of the Independent marketers were selling petrol between N550 to N600 per litre. Chairman of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, IPMAN, Joseph Obele explained that they bought the product for N180 per litre, but his members were served a memo asking them to pay the differentials occasioned by the new price regime. “Some members had made an advance payment of between 60 to 90 days ago. Now they are ordering them to pay the differentials even when they are old stocks covered by subsidy”. Obele stated that all the vessels that land at the ports before now have had their landing documents processed and captured by the subsidy, so he does not see why Marketers are being forced to pay any higher cost for now. The IPMAN Chairman said that as it stands, the industry is fully deregulated and marketers are at liberty to sell products at any cost, depending on how much they spent to source their products. “As it is now, no marketer will be sanctioned for selling at any price as the Federal Government would not be able to issue any template to marketers” Obele added.