ISAAC ASABOR A lot has changed within the Nigerian gaming landscape, as the sector has continued to expand, benefitting from the large youthful population, improved Internet penetration, and increased access to Internet-enabled devices. The foregoing view cannot be waved with the hands, and sanctimoniously condemned to be immoral as Sports betting has slowly emerged as a lucrative segment of the society, leveraging Nigeria’s huge football culture. The Premier League, La Liga, and other leagues across the globe have millions of fans in the country and collectively provide a common platform for betting, which, to many youths, is a huge opportunity to earn from their passion. Despite the dip in economic activities, there are growth prospects, even as the economy rebounds and income stabilises. The National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), established by the National Lottery Act 2005, was signed into law on March 30, 2005. However, the commission started full operation in 2009 when then President Olusegun Obasanjo made Chief Peter Igho the Director-General. Since then, NLRC has been serving lottery operators, players, and the public; to bring fair play, honesty, integrity, and transparency into the business. POLL As not a few people see the lottery industry from a derogatory prism, the commission was established to change the negative perception of the seven-letter word and to make people see it as a way of raising funds for good causes. With its current leadership, the commission has continued to play its regulatory role with a new zeal, through the deployment of leading technologies, as well as effective management of human and material resources for optimal realisation of its mandate. Analysed from the foregoing perspective, one of the ways the commission is meant to serve the public is by ensuring that the under-aged population is not unduly influenced by lottery promoters into gambling, and to ensure that the collective interest of consumers is protected from unfair practices. The most crucial area where consumers in the betting sector need to be protected, and which has, since the establishment of the United Nations Children’s Fund, been a cause for concern, is that of ensuring that the under-aged are not allowed to engage in gaming. Little wonder, UNICEF, a few years ago, published a set of recommendations for the online gaming industry, designed to guide and support gaming companies through a process of incorporating child rights considerations in their business. As UNICEF asserted, the recommendations were published to document that: “Gaming companies have the responsibility to shape their platforms in ways that respect and support children’s rights. I hope these recommendations can help companies understand the impact and take action to improve their performance.” Unfortunately, contrary to the recommendations, which highlight issues around healthy game time, ensuring inclusion and representation, avoiding toxic environments, consideration around age limits and verification, combatting grooming and sexual abuse, and managing commercial influence, bettors that are under 18 years of age in Nigeria, and who are invariably children in this context, increasingly use gaming platforms to meet and engage beyond play. Gab Omorodion, a resident of Pakuro in Mowe, Ogun State, said, “Players along the whole games value chain seem to have been ignorant of ways to integrate children’s rights more effectively.” Recently, Nigerian sports gamblers on Twitter criticised MSport Betting Company for failing to credit its winners and voiding some games to reduce their winnings. With the hashtag, #MSportScam, the Nigerians urged the company to pay their winnings in full. It was learned that ‘Mayor of Twitter’, a Twitter sports betting pundit, posted a betting code of 440 odds, which many bettors staked and won. However, after winning huge sums, Nigerians started noticing that their expected winnings had reduced even beyond what they could call a mistake. MSport voided the tickets of some bettors, who won millions of naira, and indicated on the wallets of those, who withdrew immediately after winning, that they owed them the exact amount they won. The Betting Investor, a sports pundit, posted on Twitter that he staked on the 440 odds with N7, 500 and expected to win N5.5m. But MSport voided some of the games on his ticket until his winnings were reduced to N1.1m. MSport, which prides itself on the “Best Online Sports Betting and Live Betting Odds in Nigeria,” has been allegedly accused of fraudulently refusing to pay its customers’ winnings in the country. The victims took to Twitter to express their grouse using #MsportScam. This followed a series of allegations trailing online investment platforms in Nigeria and the recent crash of a sports investment platform, 86FB. Some users claim that the gambling platform refused to pay them, and issued conditions instead. Users said there need to be better sports betting regulations in Nigeria to prevent cases of fraud and refusal to pay out by gaming companies. A user, @sportingking365, said, “There’s absolutely zero regulation for bookies in Africa. All they want to do is take, take, and take. It’s sad. “It was written boldly ‘including extra winnings’, but they marked @Ekitipikin’s game as a loss and refunded stakes. How is it a loss? Do you even refund lost stakes? #MsportScam.” Another @surecr7, stated, “Let the world know @MSportOfficial is a scam betting platform. Let the world know that they don’t pay winning slips.” Others warned that if the refusal to pay out winnings was not fixed, they would leave the betting platform. As @betgains said: “If Msport doesn’t rectify this, they should bid us bye because nobody is playing with them anymore.” Against the foregoing backdrop, it is germane to say that Consumer Protection in Sports Gambling is expedient, particularly when seen from the fact that it is important and necessary for the growth of any industry. It is important to assure the Consumers in the sector that their interests are safeguarded from unfair practices. Again, it is expedient to say that agencies in the sector also have the mandate to protect the rights of consumers and one of the agencies. Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) agencies of the Government under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment, whose powers are derived from the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act, 2018. The agency is at present, the most powerful consumer redress and monitoring agency in Nigeria. The FCCPC has wider investigative and enforcement powers whilst its ally, the Competition and Consumer Protection Tribunal (CCPT) on the other hand acts as a quasi-judicial body that appeals from the decisions of the FCCPC and decisions of any sector-specific regulatory authority in a regulated industry in respect of consumer protection matters will lie. Furthermore, the Act stipulates a very steep penalty for contraventions. For instance, where there has been a contravention of any consumer rights, it stipulates a fine of 10% of the turnover of the business in the preceding business year. In Nigeria, the conditions under which bettors place bets leave them without the protection that is available to other consumers in other industries in the economy, especially in situations when consumers win huge sums of money. It is important to distinguish the two alternative and complementary legal routes to consumer protection. The first, the private, make available a legal remedy to individual consumers who have experienced a breach of the terms of a contract (whether those terms have been imposed by statute or common law). By signing and agreeing to the terms of use of a betting company, a bettor automatically enters into a contract with a betting company. The enforceability of contracts in Nigeria means that the courts and/or regulatory bodies will approve remedies to bettors who suffer loss as a consequence of the conduct of the betting company. Furthermore, regulatory bodies are given the power to exact, through the courts, financial remedies from bookmakers in favor of identifiable bettors as a consequence of the former’s breach of specified standards. The second route to consumer protection is public. The public imposes on the supplier of a service certain duties with which he or she must comply with. A detected breach may lead to societal backlash and as a result, loss of revenue and patronage. This approach typically involves leveraging public patronage and sympathy to protect consumers who have been treated unfairly by betting companies. It is worthy of note to state that the terms and conditions that underpin a game of skill and chance between the players and company are basically contractual, however, they have to conform to the regulations and laws of the country. For instance, a proposed betting or lottery company must obtain an appropriate license from NLRC before it can commence operation. The financial requirements of obtaining a license include; registering a company with a minimum share capital of N30, 000, 000; An Application fee of N2, 000, 000 , a Permit Fee of N100, 000, 000, however where the company is a member of the Association of Nigerian Bookmakers, a 50% concession is granted; and finally, a Bank Guarantee of at least N25, 000, 000 must be provided. The Terms and Conditions of any betting company are also subject to the approval of regulators.