ASABA – The leadership of Delta Youth Coalition (DYC) led by its President-General, Comrade Chibuzor Agunwa (Aka Mr Dash), has congratulated the members of Delta State House of Assembly, 8th Assembly under the newly elected Speaker, Rt. Hon. Emomotimi Guwor on their successful Inauguration ceremony yesterday June 13, 2023, in Asaba by the Executive Governor of Delta State, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori Comrade Chibuzor Agunwa (popularly known as Mr Dash) made this known to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Wednesday, June 14, 2023, in a press statement made available to some group of Journalists in Asaba, the Delta State capital. DYC is a formidable pro-PDP, democracy, grassroots-based, good governance advocate, playing other roles such as youths empowerment, community services, humanitarian interventions as a socio-political pressure with excellent political antecedents, capacity to deliver on the mandate, a group made of people from different associations, youth groups, women groups, professionals, business moguls, comprises thousands of Youths membership across the three Senatorial Districts, 25 LGAs, entire political wards, polling units of Delta State. DYC, in its statement, commended the emergence of the new Speaker of the 8th Assembly, Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Guwor, just as DYC leadership tasked members of the red chamber on the need to enact viable, laws that can impact positively on Deltans and people-oriented policies that can promote sectoral development in the State. Agunwa noted further that DYC will continually and maximally give every needed support to Governor Oborevwori to succeed and the leadership of the PDP in Delta State to achieve the M.O.R.E agenda policy for all Deltans. Oborevwori’s M.O.R.E agenda he said means a continuity in governance designed to deepen the developmental strides of former Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s administration. DYC has already begun its empowerment training programs and wishes to partner with the state Government and the lawmakers to achieve great success in this regard as part of returning dividends of. democracy to the grassroots. The DYC statement reads in parts: “We believe in the excellent capacity, and pedigree of the newly inaugurated members of Delta State House of Assembly, our Delta North Federal lawmaker, Sen. Ned Ned Nwoko. We urge the members to give promote excellent lawmaking processes in this administration and focus on policies and programs that are people-oriented with continuity of governance in fulfillment of Oborevwori’s promise to do more for Deltans. “The entire leadership of DYC uses this avenue to Congratulate the entire Members of Delta State House of Assembly in the 8th Assembly and Delta Federal Lawmakers, Sen. Ned Nwoko in the 10th Assembly on their Successful Inauguration. DYC leadership while commending the Governor, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori to had started very as he thanked the almighty God for the Governor the requisite knowledge, wisdom, and experience essential for the government and promote socio-economic and sustainable development in Delta State. POLL “We also commend both our State and Federal Lawmakers on their Successful Inauguration yesterday. We urge you all to make laws that will bring employment opportunities for our teaming Youths, promote peace and security, economic development, infrastructural development and most importantly human capital development. We also urge all our lawmakers as inaugurated on the need to make laws by putting Deltans first in the activities of this present government.”