LAGOS  – Nigerians on June 12, 2023, celebrated the 30th anniversary of what has become the freest and fairest presidential election which took place on June 12, 1993. The election which was won by the late billionaire mogul, Chief Moshood Abiola, was annulled by the Military President General Ibrahim Babangida, leading to protracted protests by the masses, led by pro-democracy activists. As the nation celebrated the 30th anniversary of this epochal event and the recognition of that date as the nation’s Democracy Day, Comrade Debo Adeniran, one of the actors then and a veteran activist, who spoke on the event stated that June 12 represents that day in 1993 when a presidential election was held throughout Nigeria and the majority of the people of the country rose in one voice to give true meaning to democracy. In an encounter with this writer, Adeniran, Chairman of Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) recalled that Nigerians who voted that day, did so willingly, put aside all the prejudices that had hitherto divided them as a people, be it ethnic, religion and culture. He stressed that at the end, Bashorun Kashimawo Moshood Olawale Abiola emerged as the undeclared President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He stated: “The election redefined Nigeria’s concept of unity and showed a people eager and willing to work together and make Nigeria a great country. The elections broke all well-known myths woven around our country by ourselves and even by non-Nigerians. “June 12 is a significant chapter in the History of Nigeria that one would declare as a watershed in democratic consciousness of the Nigerian people. It may not pass the test of being declared as a watershed in the democratic development in Nigeria nonetheless. “This is due to the fact that the flurry of events that characterised the preparations, conduct and aftermath of the election were emasculation of the people’s sociopolitical rights.” However, Adeniran said that the outcome of the election sunk into the mind of the average Nigerian that their differences in tribes and culture were artificial after all; they were creations of desperate political power mongers. POLL Adeniran said: “June 12, 1993 was a day when an election that was adjudged to be acceptable to the majority of Nigerians was held and the beneficiary of that election was not allowed to enjoy the proceeds of its victory. That is the main thing that makes it significant, otherwise June 12 election is one of the comedy of errors that governments in Nigeria have committed over the years. “It is not the election itself that is so fantastic; it is the circumstances that surround the election that are intriguing, especially the aftermath of the election. The event leading to that election was peaceful but not democratic. The election was, therefore, neither free, nor fair and if one is building an edifice on a falsified foundation, the outcome of the efforts will be a waste after all. “At a stage when the then military government of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) declared electioneering open, lots of willing citizens went into a frenzy putting associations together. They were enthusiastic and wanted to be part of the expected new political dawn in the country. They gleefully formed political associations. “As at the last count, we have more than 30 of such political associations out of which about 26 of them showed significant interest in converting to political parties. However, because of the vested interest of the military government of those days, they didn’t allow the dreams of ordinary citizens of this country to see the light of the day. The military oligarchy killed those dreams. “About 23 political parties were proscribed. Several politicians who showed interest in contesting elections were banned in favour of what the then military government of General Ibrahim Babangida called the new breed. But, despite the fact that the military pretended to encourage those who were earlier not in politics, the new breed politicians were not allowed to freely contest. “Hitherto, they have pencilled down a number of Nigerians they said should not contest elections without any just course. They disqualified several willing politicians from contesting. They banned those political associations, and they didn’t allow them to transmute into full-fledged political parties. Instead of them, and against all known democratic ethos, the government formed only two political parties for the people, the National Republican Convention (NRC) and Social Democratic Party (SDP) for the willing politicians. “They respectively described them as a little to the right and a little to the left. The formation of those political parties was a flagrant violation, or at least, devaluation of people’s right to association. The military dictators therefore forced the willing politicians into associations they didn’t willingly establish for themselves.” Adeniran maintained that what that meant was that the course of justice had been turned upside down because it was like-minded people that were supposed to form political parties of their own; based on their own convictions, agenda, their choice of ideology, their beliefs and their aspirations. He recalled: “The military chose only those they wanted to contest even primary elections. Against this backdrop, the political parties Chief MKO Abiola and Bashir Tofa contested on their platform, Social Democratic Party (SDP) and National Republican Convention (NRC), created by the military government cast a dent on the credibility of the contestants. It smacked of pre-arranged contrivance of whom the military wanted to win the elections. “From the standard practice, we believe that it is the party that should create the government, not the government creating party. The fact that it is the government that formed political parties and they gave them what they consider their names and ideology, the ideology that’s not clear-cut, a little to the right, a little to the left; those are contrived ideologies that you cannot equate within any particular governance principle and practice. “One cannot hold any government down to any ideological principle. How would one consider a political party to be a little conservative, and a little progressive? We’re aware that a party can choose to be welfarist, socialist or anything else; it must have a clear cut explicable ideological leaning but cannot be half way through. “That is where the military government of those days got it wrong and the people that jumped on the trail are those who have been waiting in the wing for the opportunity to come up, one of them was the celebrated MKO Abiola. This means that since those political parties upon which Chief MKO Abiola and Bashir Tofa contested were not a true choice of the people; those who contested too could not, in all sincerity, be said to be true representatives of the people. “This is because, like we earlier said, parties are supposed to be established by people of like minds, not that somebody will impose his own party on the people. More so, the imposed strange ideological practice of a little to the right and to the left is fraudulent in form, function and orientation. It means that all those processes have been corrupted by the system that wanted to remain in power in perpetuity. “This is because the body language of the military then implied that election would become inconclusive, the head of state would then have the opportunity of continuing in government. It would be correct that the military authorities conducted the June12 elections reluctantly because they were at the end of their wits on what reasons to give for further postponement of the transition programme. “They resorted to use the judiciary that was initially ignored, to stop the announcement of the results of the election when the results announced thence far showed that Abiola was in clear lead.” He recalled that the military contracted an irredentist politician, Chief Arthur Nzeribe, who with his amorphous organisation, Association for Better Nigeria (ABN), had earlier approached the court to stop the conduct of the election. He said: “Nzeribe found a willing ally in late Justice Bassey Ikpeme who ruled a night to the election that it should not hold as one of the reasons for the stopping the announcement of the electoral results. The ruling was described as ‘black market injunction’ by the late legal icon, late Chief Gani Fawehinmi. “Hence it could have been the realisation that MKO would not voluntarily hand over the proceeds of his electoral victory to IBB that informed the annulment of the election on June 23, two weeks after the election. This was despite the fact that a preponderance of Nigerians voted for Chief MKO Abiola and the complete results had circulated amongst the CSOs, media and the people since results were announced at each polling station and collation centres. “It therefore showed that the foundation upon which June 12 elections of 1993 was built was anything but neither fair nor democratic. This is because it was fraught with several manipulations, irregularities and outright violations of people’s right to associate, contest election and to elect their own leaders. “I want to emphasise that the former military President Ibrahim Babangida created SDP and NRC was dictatorial, self-serving, hypocritical, myopic, against the dictates of democratic norm. Political parties should create the government and not the other way round. We should also point out that there was a wide-spread apathy against that election. “A lot of eligible people didn’t vote in that election. This was due to the deep-rooted distrust in the then military regime as personified by General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida. IBB would swear to uphold his promise to transit power to the civil authority but kept shifting his own proposed and designed transition programme. “The serial postponement of the transition programme led the former NBA President who was also the then Chairman of the Campaign for Democracy (CD), late Mr Alao Aka-Bashorun, to accuse IBB of nursing a ‘hidden agenda’! “On June12 1993, only 14 million people came out to vote out of the population of about 84 million eligible voters. So, the apathy itself showed that whatever the outcome of that election was would be that the wish of the minority being foisted on the majority of people. Therefore, if the June 12 election was free, credible, peaceful, it is not fair. That is our own conclusion. “Nonetheless, we decided to accept the results on principle; even if it’s only one person that came out to vote, even if it is a goat or a jackal that became the winner of that election, such deserved to be conferred with the ‘laurel’ that he has won. “He had the right to enjoy the benefit of winning and that is where we, the people, came in: that this man cannot be cheated out of his winning. The civil society then mobilized the citizenry to speak in unison against the annulment of that election. We protested that the election should be revalidated. “We questioned why the then chairman of the National Electoral Commission, Professor Humphrey Nwosu, waited for so long before he concluded the announcement of the election result or why should the military president impose his will on the then NEC vis-a-vis the Nigerian people. “Those were some of the questions that the political activists were raising, and that was why the winner of the election, MKO Abiola enjoyed the support of a wide variety of the people led by activists to the extent that people lost their lives. It was the series of mass protests that followed that forced IBB, the then military president to ‘step aside’. “He replaced himself with an Interim National Government (ING) led by a business mogul, late Chief Earnest Shonekan. The ING itself was taken before Justice Dolapo Akinsanya of the Federal High Court in Lagos who declared it illegal. “It was this ruling that the late General Sani Abacha cashed upon to ease Shonekan out in a bloodless coup to establish his own military jackboot hegemony till 1998 when he suddenly died and General Abdulsalami Abubakar, who handed over power to civilian administration in 1999, took over. “It was really not because of Abiola, it was because we believed that if we needed to fight Abiola, he had to be fought legitimately. This is why I decided not to be persuaded that June 12 should be made Democracy Day because what happened on that date was the mockery of democracy. “Even the ‘Option A4’, Open-secret ballot system was a violation of voters’ right to privacy. The exercise led to all the regrettable outcomes and the aftermath of which is not something anyone can call democratic.”