‘While Nigeria faces several challenges in the manufacturing sector, there are feasible solutions to overcome them such as infrastructural development including transportation networks, adequate power supply, creation of industrial parks and clusters…’ SIAKA MOMOH The event, EMWA –Equipment &Manufacturing West Africa Exhibition and Conference held at Landmark May 30 – June 1, 2023. The big event was organized by Zenith Exhibitions. The Nigerian Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Breakfast Meeting themed ‘Reigniting Manufacturing to Drive Economic Growth and Development’ held on Day 2 of the exhibition and Conference event. EMWA For Joseph Oru, CEO EMWA, “EMWA is not merely an event; it is a dynamic hub where cutting edge technologies, revolutionary processes and visionary minds converge”. He says also, “It is a platform where manufacturers, suppliers, and stakeholders come together to showcase their latest advancements, exchange knowledge, and forge fruitful collaborations.” True. This was evident in the three-day conference and expo. In his words, at the exhibition, where a litany of companies participated, “we are surrounded by a tapestry of industrial marvels – innovations, ground-breaking automation solutions, sustainable manufacturing practices, breakthrough research and development…” Joseph Oru advised corporate organizations to explore the networking opportunities of the event to drive growth in their companies. Said he: “On our part, we are going to create a policy document filled with recommendations to drive the desired change in the manufacturing sector. NCCI POLL Ishmael Balogun, Nigerian Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry president wants government to do more for the manufacturing sector. For him, the manufacturing sector is currently operating below capacity as a result of the myriad of challenges bedeviling it chief of which is power. He suggested we must embrace renewable sources of energy such as solar, wind, turbine etc. to ignite the manufacturing sector. He advocated the need for government to create industrial clusters in communities, clusters that will make possible shared power supply, increase in revenue and reduced crime. Balogun argued: “While Nigeria faces several challenges in the manufacturing sector, there are feasible solutions to overcome them such as infrastructural development including transportation networks, adequate power supply, creation of industrial parks and clusters, improved access to finance through specialized lending programmes and reduced interest rate would stimulate investments.” For him, government must provide policy reforms that streamline regulations and provide clarity to attract investors and drive manufacturing activities. He also harped on the need for government to collaborate with the private sector to address infrastructural deficiencies, access to finance and implement policy reforms effectively. This, he said, would unleash the full potentials of manufacturing in Nigeria, drive positive economic growth, create jobs and foster economic development. Lagos State For Lagos State Permanent Secretary Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Mrs. Adetutu Ososanya, “Government is committed to restructuring the existing clusters. Engaging investors and development partners to facilitate energy generation for small businesses”. She said enterprise zones are located in different parts of the state “even though the demand far outweigh what is currently available”. She however added said plans were on to build more clusters. Mrs. Ososanya advised SMES to move closer to government to take advantage of the State’s MSME hub offerings. “Government”, she said, “is not resting on its oars and we are committed to doing it on a larger scale and will continue to intervene to grow small business in the state”.