LAGOS – The Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) has made donations of receptacles to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, Lagos, Kano and Rivers states. The bank in a statement said that this was in furtherance of its commitment to environmental sustainability and net zero ecosystems. The statement hinted that the receptacles were presented by the management of DBN to the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) as well as Kano and Rivers States Ministry of Environment, respectively. According to the bank, the donations were to commemorate 2023 World Environment Day, which was celebrated globally on June 5. Engr. Osilama Braimah The Director of Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), took delivery of the donated receptacles at the board’s headquarters located at the Central Business District, behind Defence College, Abuja, while in Lagos, Mr. Ibrahim Odumboni, the Managing Director, LAWMA, received receptacles at the agency’s Ijora Olopa headquarters. Besides, Aliyu Yakubu Garo, the Permanent Secretary of Kano State Ministry of Environment, received the receptacles at the ministry’s headquarters, State Secretariat, Kano, while Pastor Emmanuel Feneimeka, the Permanent Secretary, Rivers State Ministry of Environment, took delivery of the receptacles at the ministry’s state secretariat in Port Harcourt. Besides, the DBN’s staff took out time on the day by visiting some select schools across the country to interact with and provide training to students on recycling and other responsible behaviours towards the environment. Observed under the #BeatPasticPolution Campaign, the World Environment Day 2023 themed: ‘Solution to Plastic Pollution,’ was geared towards redoubling actions to reduce plastic pollution and its impact on the environment. POLL Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Tony Okpanachi, the Managing Director, DBN, said the donation of the receptacles was in furtherance of the bank’s commitment towards sustainability issues. He said: “Every year, DBN actively celebrates World Environment Day. This day has become a permanent event in our corporate calendar. It is our deliberate way of demonstrating our commitment to greening the earth and trying to improve current negative effects of environmental degradation.” According to him, this year’s theme for the World Environment Day, resonated strongly within its organization, stressing that the financial institution recognised and deliberately put in place measures to address the country’s carbon footprint. Okpanachi stated further that DBN commenced recycling activities within its offices across Abuja and Lagos in 2020 focusing on recycling PET bottles, cartons, and paper waste to imbibe in workers a culture of a safe environment. “Our goal is to gradually reduce our use of plastics over the next 3-5 years. An ambitious goal we have set for ourselves and we have already put in place a Net Zero plan to demonstrate our commitment. “We also recognise that just as we are taking deliberate steps internally, we must do the same for our immediate environments. This year’s theme enables us to demonstrate our commitment to this goal of waste reduction by donating these plastic receptacles to states where data and research have shown, are serious and passionate about recycling and waste management.” Okpanachi also expressed DBN’s delight in complementing the unwavering efforts of the FCT, Lagos, Kano and Rivers State governments at waste management. Representatives of the beneficiaries of the receptacles in their various responses expressed gratitude to DBN for the kind gesture and the bank’s commitment to the promotion of a safe, clean and secure environment.