GOMBE – The Yobe State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), has inaugurated the FUGA News magazine Chapel with the swearing in of it’s elected executive. The oath of office and swearing-in was administered by the Chairman of the State Council of the Union, Mallam Rajab Mohammed, who was represented by the Vice Chairman, Mohammed Kalusha. Kalusha urged the newly inaugurated Chapel to abide by the constitution of the Union and adhere strictly to the ethics of journalism, especially in the area of objective and balanced reportage. Present at the inauguration was the Vice Chancellor of the Federal University Gashua, FUGA, Yobe State, Professor Maimuna Waziri, who promised to provide all necessary support to the university chapel to enable them perform their duty efficiently. She said, “With your inauguration today, you have therefore been integrated into the Nigerian Union of Journalists; therefore, you have no excuse but to perform your duty with efficiency and professionalism. “Remember, I will not allow you to rest by ensuring that you carry out the task of showcasing the activities of this university not only to Nigerians alone but to the world at large,” the VC said. The newly elected officers of The FUGA news Chapel are: Adamu Saleh, Chairman; Kabiru Abdullahi, Vice Chairman; Abubakar Habu, Secretary and Yahaya Mohammed, Assistant Secretary. Others elected were Atinuke Aroge as financial secretary, Deborah Simon as Treasurer, and Malam Garba Saleh as Auditor. Responding on behalf of the new executives, the new Chapel Chairman, Mallam Adamu Saleh, promised to champion journalists’ welfare through capacity building and run an all-inclusive administration, assuring the university management of better service delivery. POLL The Yobe NUJ Council Vice Chairman was accompanied to the inauguration ceremony by the Yobe state Chairperson of the Nigerian Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), Hajiya Fatima Mohammad Ahmad, the NUJ Secretary Alhassan Sule Mamudo, Mohammed Mai Tela, and other state executive members. Others who also witnessed the inauguration were the University Registrar who was represented by Principal Assistant Registrar (PAR), Mallam Ahmed Isa Nguru, the Bursar Mallam Mohammed Ahmed Ali, Director Works Engineer Adamu Ahmed Janga, Director CIDS Dr Ibrahim Ahmed Jajere, and Chairman NASU Comrade Salisu Danladi. They all charged the leaders of the Chapel to live above board and ensure everyone is carried along.