Followers of this column will remember that I promised last Saturday to dwell on the transfer window today. However, while making the promise, I forgot that the UEFA Champions League final, the biggest sporting event in world football holds today in Istanbul, Turkey. There is no disputing the fact that no sport fan, nay football for that mat­ter, will be interested in any issue other than the Champions League. Even at that, there are still some shocking transfers in the last one-week that deserve comment, even briefly. The most shocking is Karim Benze­ma leaving Real Madrid with a year left in his contract, to join Saudi Arabian champions, Al-Ittihad, on a three-year deal. As Benzema was leaving, Jude Bellingham bids Bundesliga side, Borussia Dortmund bye to pit his tent with the Los Blancos after both clubs agreed an initial fee of €103 million. Lionel Messi ended all speculations about his future by announcing his destination, Inter Miami, USA. That PSG won’t renew his contract was set­tled even before the season ended. But speculation were rife as to t6he desti­nation of the seven-time Balloon d’ Or winner. Will he return to his former club, Barcelona or will he join Benzema in Saudi Arabia? Now it is settled; it’s Inter Miami. It’s worth knowing that David Beckham helped establish Inter Miami in 2018 with investors Jorge Mas and Jose Mas, with whom he continues to co-own the club. Beckham is believed helped influence Messi to join them. Liverpool have completed a £35m deal to sign midfielder Alexis Mac Allister from Brighton on a five-year contract. The fee could rise to £55m for the Argentina playmaker, who helped Brighton finish sixth in the Premier League last term to qualify for Europe for the first time. N’Golo Kante is set to become the latest high-profile footballer to sign for a Saudi Arabian club, report The Times. The French midfielder is set to join Al Ittihad on a two-year deal that will pay him £86m a season, after his Chelsea contract expires in three weeks’ time. He will join Benzema, who earlier this week signed for the club. With players’ transfer already in full swing, the future of several players like Spurs Harry Kane, West Ham’s Declan Rice, Brighton Moises Caicedo and Na­poli’s Victor Osimhen among others are still subject of speculations in the media. These are not the only players whose future are subject of speculation in the media. But this is not the case with Pep Guardiola, Manchester City manager, whose only concern now is winning the Champions League, a tro­phy that Cityzens covet seriously. POLL Guardiola’s three seasons at Bayern Munich ended without winning the Champions League, while in his seven years at City; it’s also the case of almost there. Chelsea denied him the best op­portunity of his first win in 2021 since leaving Barcelona. Today, City will play Inter Milan in the final. Will it be a Make or Break for the Spaniard? Will he be regarded a failure should he fail to win the Cham­pions League? Will winning it cement his greatness? Guardiola is looking to end a 12-year wait to claim a third Champions League crown, having won it twice while at Barcelona. He would become only the fourth manager to lift the trophy on three or more occasions, after Ancelotti, former Liverpool manager Bob Paisley and ex-Madrid coach Zinédine Zidane. Since Guardiola joined City in 2006, he has won five Premier League titles, two FA Cups and four League Cups, but not the Champions League at Etihad. Even if he fails to win it tonight, he will not be shown the exit door. But his greatest achievement in En­gland is not winning titles alone but that he has revolutionise English football. They way and manner he wins these titles are like someone from another planet. There is no football manager after Arsene Wenger at Arsenal that ever in­fluenced English football as Guardiola has. His influence on young English coaches is something else. Noel Gallagher speaking on bbc. sport noted that Guardiola winning or losing the Champions League would not define his greatness. Said he, “If the Champions League defines greatness then are Steaua Bu­charest [who won it in 1986] a great team? And Porto [who won it in 2004], are they European elite? “The best teams don’t always win cups, do they? Arsenal are lauded as one of the great British clubs of all time, and their Invincibles are called one of the best ever teams, but they never won the Champions League and no-one says Wenger was a failure, right? “As well as what Pep has won, when you look at how he’s done it, and the in­fluence he has had on our game, then for anyone to even suggest that he has failed in English football if he doesn’t pick up the Champions League is an idiot, a total idiot.” In the aftermath of City’s semi-final triumph against Madrid, Guardiola spoke of the “year of pain” his players have had to endure since losing to Ma­drid 12 months back.. Aside Guardiola, who winning the Champions League will cement his treble ambition having won the league and the FA Cup this season, today’s fi­nal will be an emotional occasion for Edin Džeko, who scored 72 goals in 189 appearances for City between 2011 and 2016. He was a member of City side that ended a 44-year wait for a top-flight ti­tle in 2012. The veteran forward is set to face his former club for the first time in the Turkish capital – seven and a half years after departing for Serie A. The 37-year-old’s fourth Champions League goal of the current campaign laid the foundation for Inter’s 3-0 aggre­gate victory over Milan in the semi-fi­nals. Another against City would make Dzeko the oldest scorer in Champions League final history, surpassing Paolo Maldini, who was 36 years and 333 days old when he opened the scoring at the Atatürk Olympic Stadium in 2005. Also victory for City would make them the 23rd club to win the Europe­an Cup. The Cityzens have come close on several occasions in recent years but have never gone the distance, reach­ing four semi-finals (2015/16, 2020/21, 2021/22 and 2022/23) and one final (2020/21). Three-time winners Inter last lifted the trophy in 2010, when they ended a 45-year wait for Europe’s top prize by beating Bayern in Madrid. The Ner­azurri’s previous triumphs came un­der Helenio Herrera in 1964 and 1965, meaning Inzaghi could become the first Italian coach to lead Inter to European glory. To Guardiola the greatness belongs to the players and the team should they win the Champions League today. He said after winning the FA Cup on Sunday, “Everybody knows it. We have done incredible seasons – five Premier Leagues, two FA Cups, Carabao Cups, but we have to win the Champions League to be recognised like the team deserves to be recognised. “We have to admit it, without the Champions League – it has been amaz­ing, it has been fun – but we are missing (something). We have to do it. “We are one game away. I would say it is incredible, remarkable, that in three years we have had two finals and one semi-final of the Champions League. “But in the end we have to win it. I know how it works. I said to the players, you have to put the pressure on yourself. To be recognised as something good you have to win in Europe.”