LAGOS  – Father of the 12-year-old Chrisland Stu­dent, who died on February 9, Mr Mi­chael Adeniran, on Thurs­day said that he did not know the use of the drugs that were administered to her daughter on January 20 by their family doctor, prior to her death. He made this assertion while being cross-exam­ined by the fourth defence counsel, Mr Ademola Ani­mashaun, before Justice Oy­indamola Ogala of the Lagos State High Court, Ikeja. When Adeniran was asked by the counsel, Animashaun if the defendant was aware that the combination of ni­trazepam and amitriptyline, which was given to the de­ceased on January 20 when she took ill could result in a disaster, he responded in the negative. “Do you know that the combination of the two drugs your family doctor gave to your daughter on January 20 when she complained of anxiety is a semi-disaster?” Animashaun asked? “Although I do not know what the two drugs were meant for, I disagree with you that the drugs prescribed by the family doctor are a semi-disaster. “On January 20 when I picked her from school and she complained of anxiety she was given the drugs and her mother made sure she used it the right way,” Whit­ney’s father said. The witness further told the court that he would not be surprised if the private pa­thologist hired by his family was a police pathologist. He added that he could not remember the name of his friends that came to Agege Hospital where the deceased was rushed to when she slumped. POLL It will be recalled that a vendor, three other staff members of Chrisland Schools, Ikeja, and the school are standing a two-count charge of involuntary man­slaughter and negligence which they pleaded not guilty to. The defendants are Ade­moye Adewale, Kuku Fatai, Belinda Amao and Nwatu Victoria. A certificate of identifica­tion issued by one Opeyemi Sunday and a USB flash drive containing a phone conversa­tion of Whitney’s father was admitted in evidence. Three documents were also tendered through Whit­ney’s father against Chris­land School on May 25 ten­dered Ikeja in the ongoing trial. The documents were a medical report from Agege Central Hospital, a medical report from Inland Hospital, Lagos, and a printout of a screenshot of conversations from a snapchat group page entitled “Lagos Housewives”. Subsequently, the judge adjourned the case till Octo­ber 12 for the continuation of trial.