…takes the oath of office for a second term IBADAN – The member representing Ibarapa East, Adebo Ogundoyin who was on Wednesday reelected as Speaker of the 10th Oyo State House of Assembly has promised to build on the enviable achievements of the 9th Assembly. He is the first Speaker to be elected twice consecutively in the history of the Oyo State House of AssemblyOgundoyin said this in his acceptance speech shortly after taking the oath of office as the Speaker of the 10th Oyo State House of Assembly. The Speaker appreciated the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde for believing in him and for all his support. He also expressed gratitude to all his colleagues for the trust and confidence they reposed in him for the second time. He said “I stand before you today with immense gratitude and a deep sense of responsibility as I accept the honor of being elected as the Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly for a second term. “I am truly humbled by the trust and confidence you have placed in me and other elected principal officers of the House, and I assure you that we will work tirelessly to exceed the groundbreaking achievements of the 9th Oyo State House of Assembly. “First and foremost, I want to express my profound gratitude to everyone whose support is the reason I am up here right now to continue as the Speaker of this great Assembly. POLL “While appreciating the Most High for making this day a reality, I am equally deeply indebted to His Excellency, Engr. Seyi Makinde for his all-round support, and for blazing the trail in good governance and quality leadership across the country. My warmest and sincerest gratitude also goes to all my colleagues whose support, encouragement and prayers made this dream and ambition a reality.” He described his reelection as significant and momentous and assured that the 10th Oyo State House of Assembly will build upon the foundation already laid by him and the leadership of the 9th Assembly. “This re-election is not just significant for me and my family, but also momentous for the entire people of my constituency and by extension the sons and daughters of Ibarapaland. “It is an epoch-making moment in the history of the legislature in Oyo state because this is the first time we are having a Speaker elected for two consecutive Assemblies uninterrupted. “It is equally not on record that a lawmaker from my zone has become a Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly on two occasions let alone a Speaker for two consecutive Assemblies. This unambiguously places a greater burden on me to deliver and to ensure that my name and that of the other remaining 31 honorable members are written in gold at the end of this 10th Assembly. “As we begin another journey of four years, I assure you all that our dedication and seriousness of purpose will only intensify. We will build upon the foundation we have laid, working in collaboration with all stakeholders to place Oyo State House of Assembly on a higher pedestal”, he said.