It was reported last week that the Chief Jus¬tice of Nigeria, Ibrahim Tanko Muhamad, has expanded the recruit­ment pool from where Supreme Court Justices are picked beyond the present es­oteric clique of privi¬leged serving judges to now include legal prac¬titioners from different vocational specialties. While it may sound like a novel development, it is actually a half-hearted attempt to return to best practice as it is the case all over the legal¬ly civilised world. Who gets appointed to the apex court and how he or she gets there would certainly go a long way in deter­mining how re¬sponsive and forward-look­ing a nation’s legal system could be. To have unduly restricted such key appointments to serving judges alone while there are hun­dreds of abundantly qualified law¬yers is a serious disservice to the legal order. Judicial appointments under the Con­sti¬tution are reserved for legal practi­tioners of verifiable integrity but with no restrictions whatsoever as to their ar­eas of legal practice. It was probably the self-serving and nepotistic empire-building instincts of those charged with the sacred responsibility of nominating justices into the Supreme Court that have incestuously cornered it in favour of those already hold­ing judicial appointments as if it were a vo­cational cult or a secret society and it has unwittingly de¬nied the nation the services of some of her best legal minds while at the same time promoting a myopic judicial outlook. A credible and good faith headhunt should naturally be extended to the Bar, the academia and wherever juristic talents are to be found. Some may argue that the need for prior expe¬rience on the Bench may have influenced the jaundiced selection process. It is also important to acknowledge the obvious fact that fresh ideas are always needed at the Supreme Court for the sake of its vibrancy and institutional capacity that it requires to judiciously respond to the ev¬er-changing realities and general institutional progress in the emerging dig­ital legal world. It is, therefore, questionable that in the entire history of the Nigerian Judiciary, only Justices Elias and Nnamani have been appointed to the apex court from outside the cult-like judicial establishment. Any wonder why the court’s jurisprudence has seemingly been stunted at a pitiable ante­diluvian level of technicalities instead of being the arrowhead in the conscious de­ployment of laws as credible instruments for social engineering? A Supreme Court does not only adjudicate, but it also pontif­icates, legally charting the way forward for societal wellbe-ing. That was how ground­breaking judicial pronouncements like in Marbury v Madison, Lakanmi v Attorney General of the Federation, Donoghue v Stephenson, etc., were invented but that depends strictly on the intellectual energy (not technicalities and precedential mate­rials) at the court’s disposal. We must not lose sight of the fact that the Su¬preme Court is also serving the nation, at least, for now, as her Constitutional Court. A typical Constitutional Court is normally composed of an admixture of legal practi­tioners and lay in¬dividuals from non-legal professions as a way of equipping the court to properly deal with disputes that cannot be resolved using technical legal rules with­in legalistic parameters alone. The Supreme Court does not only resolve legal questions, it also occasionally resolves funda¬mental questions of politics, constitutionalism and the philosophical basis of governance. It is already obvious that the Supreme Court of Ni-geria has not been able to acquit itself creditably in this regard. That has become quite evident in the sloppy way and manner it has mishandled some recent high-profile political/electoral dis¬putes that confound­ed Nigerians. So, the least that we can do to strength­en the analytical capacity of the Supreme Court for dealing with some of these dis­putes with tricky extra-legal dimensions is to bring to the Bench people who have devel­oped their legal skills outside of the strait­jacketed in-house judicial process thereby enhancing its overall capacity to insightful­ly process and resolve “cases and controver­sies” that do not readily lend them¬selves to traditional legal technicalities. Justice Augustine Nnamani used to dis­sentingly admonish his fellow justices to always try to tow the path of what he called “substantive justice” as against the dom­inant “technical justice.” Nnamani JSC, could think so creatively because he was not a product of judicial inbreeding. For example, a Justice who rose through the low-level magistrate system will, in all like­lihood, see things quite different¬ly from a SAN or Professor of Law who came straight to the Supreme Court with wider ju¬ristic exposure; their legal philosophies and worl­dviews would definitely be different both in scope and in depth. The present effort by the CJN to expand on the recruitment pool is inadequate as it still bears several aspects of the debunked assump¬tion that you may only join the Bench if you have been active at the Bar. From the circular sent to the NBA from the CJN’s office, a can¬didate is expected to submit his application containing the fol­lowing: “…A copy of the applicant’s Call to Bar Certificate; Evidence of payment of Bar Practicing Fees (BPF) for the past 10 years; Evidence of payment of NBA Branch Dues for the past 10 years; Evidence of at­tendance at conferences of the NBA; Evi¬­dence of membership of Sections or Fora of the NBA; Judgments delivered in contested cases the applicant conducted in the five years preced¬ing 2022 certified by compe­tent authorities for Legal Practitioners in Private Practice.” POLL These requirements look like those usu­ally specified for Senior Advocate of Nigeria appli-cants as if one must have been into ex­tensive courtroom forensic duels to under­stand and op-erationalise judicial processes which are actu¬ally more about intellectual clarity of the legal issues at hand than the mechanical (procedural) tools for resolving them. Otherwise, the addi-tional require­ment that: “It should also include a letter of good standing from the Chairman of the ap­plicant’s Branch confirming that he or she possesses the qualities set out in Rule 4(4) (1)(a), (b) and (d) of the NJC’s Guidelines for the Appointment of Judicial Officers for Superior Courts of Record” does not take into account of the possibility of inclusion of legal scholars whose vocational dexterity and competences in the law are measured differently. The US Supreme Court has a lot to teach us both in terms of legal reasoning, stat­ure and institutional aura. It is able to set the pace for legal analyses and direction in the country quite authoritatively as it has long settled into the tradition of always admitting legal schol¬ars into its fold. Dis­tinguished Law professors like Justice Felix Frankfurter and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg (“the notorious RBG” of bless¬ed memory) and many others have served on the US Supreme Court, and they usually ended up as judicial oracles often revered as “Great Justices.” From the look of things, a nominee to the US Supreme Court is more likely to scale through if the person is an ac­ademic. He would easily meet the extremely high standards of the deep-searching Ju­diciary Committee of the US Senate and would also easily avoid the often intense and brutal partisan grilling at judicial nomina­tion hearings. For the record, the current nine-man panel of the court has five (5) professors: retiring Justice Stephen G. Breyer was a law professor, Justice Alena Kagan, Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, Jus-tice Anthony M. Kennedy were all university scholars. Finally, Justice Amy Coney Barret, the latest appointee to the Court was, until recently, teaching law at the University of Indiana. It is, therefore, not a surprise that the US Su¬preme Court commands such enormous pres¬tige and unfathomable intellectual awe. Can we say such about all our judges, knowing how some of them got there as well as their individ¬ual intellectual and pro­fessional backgrounds which necessarily militate against quality ser¬vices delivery in terms of insightful outputs and intellec­tual prowess? I doubt it. …First published in February 2022