The immediate past President of the Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye has supported the proposed N200,000 minimum wage by the Trade Union Congress (TUC). Reacting to the removal of fuel subsidy by the federal government on a radio program on Wednesday, Olasanoye lamented the high cost of living, saying that the government needed to make provisions for a good healthcare system, good roads amongst others. Recall that the two labour centers; Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and TUC had threatened to embark on a nationwide strike before the TUC backed out to dialogue with the federal government. It later proposed that minimum wage should be increased from the current N30,000 to N200,000 before the end of June 2023, with consequential adjustment on cost of feeding allowance, like feeding, transport, housing, among others. According to her, when we look at it from the angle of needs, most workers spend more than the amount they earn. When we consider a house rent for a single, it is about N20,000 and for a family of four, you talk of a two-bedroom apartment, with cost of N200.000 as rent in a year coupled with the cost of transportation, healthcare, food and other things, you will see that the proposed minimum wage is not too much. Comrade Olasanoye said that “the demand of N200.000 by labour is not too much. If the government can put in place a good healthcare system, good roads, and provide good schools even if the government cannot meet the N200,000 demands, these amenities would augment the minimum wage the workers are receiving. “If the government can put other things in place, the N200,000 might not be needed. As my labour leaders have said, we believe so much in social dialogue and let this government do what will benefit the workers,” she added. The labour leader said that workers from the other sectors should not see the government workers as selfish, saying that their own purchasing power would influence other sectors of the economy. POLL Olasanoye stressed further that since the fuel subsidy was removed, she has reduced what she cooks in the house to cut expenses and that she now trek short distances to save cost. “I stopped buying items that are not really necessary,”