LAGOS – President Bola Tinubu during his visit to the palace of the Awujale of Ijebu land, Oba Sikiru Kayode Adetona, on Thursday appreciated the first class Oba and other traditional rulers for their support to his emergence as the President, stressing that he came to Ogun State to invoke the spirit of freedom at a very critical time, during his bid to clinch the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In his address the President was full of praise for the Oba in particular and other members of the council of traditional rulers in Ogun State. He noted that his visit to Ogun State was just a home coming and to also express appreciation to the people over their contribution to his emergence as President. He said, “I thank all of you for being there for me, and for being there for the country. You demonstrated so much loyalty towards my course, at a very crucial time. Your money was confiscated. The cash swap didn’t work. It was terrible then, and I came to Ogun State to invoke the spirit of freedom, for which we are known. “I invoked that spirit twice. The spirit of Baba, which is “Emilokan” that is Baba. He was decisive (referring to Awujale). The second spirit is that with money or no money I will succeed. And ever since, between the spirit that was driving me to serve. My visit today to homecoming. I just say that I need to see you Baba (referring to Awujale). Thank you for everything. I thank you for being alive to witness today. To witness the result of the election for us your children. The uncommon courage that you gave to us which we utilised to invoke the spirit of who we are as a people. “We are very proud people, very honourable people. People who are of great character. Our diversity is our prosperity. You will never be forgotten. While addressing the Awujale he said, “I appreciate your courage, commitment and steadfastness. I made a promise before the primaries that I will come back. After the election when I spoke with you over the phone you were down and spoke with difficulty. During our inauguration, and the day we had the swearing ceremony that was when work started. We thank God that you have witnessed this day. God will keep you and God will keep Nigeria. “I want to thank all the traditional rulers and all the Obas in this place. You people have been inspirational for me. It is home coming. I owe so much to all of you because of the way you have taken me, the way you have responded to me. You will live to see a better and prosperous Nigeria. POLL Tinubu was full of praise for business mogul, Mike Adenuga who was also present at the meeting. He said, “I am very proud of you and your contribution to Nigeria’s economy.” Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State appreciated the President for finding time to come in spite of his tight schedule. Dignitaries at the event are the Chief of Staff to the President, Femi Gbajabiamila, National Security Adviser, Nuhu Ribadu, Gbenga Daniel, among others.