The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Bayelsa State Command, has arrested no fewer than 193 suspected drug abusers in the state. The state Commander, NDLEA, Matthew Ewah, who disclosed this at a press briefing as part of activities by the command to celebrate the 2023 International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking in Yenagoa, at the weekend, said the arrests were made between July 2022 and June this year and they comprised 168 males and 25 females. Ewah noted that the theme of this year’s commemoration on June 26, the day set aside every year by the United Nations, is “People First: Stop Stigma and Discrimination, Strengthen Prevention”, and it emphasises treating people who use drugs with respect and empathy, offering alternatives to punishment and prioritising prevention, among others. He said the command seized a total of 88.019 kilogrammes of illicit substances which were made up of Canabis sativa (54.298kgs), cocaine (0.014kgs), Heroin (0.027kgs), Methamphetamine (0.128kgs), Tramadol (1.872kgs), Diazapam (6.952kgs), Swino/Raphinol 0.023kgs, Exol-5 (0.6kg), Pentagocine (1.65kgs), Mixtures of C/S and alcohol (22.455kgs) and ampules of injection13, 460ml. Ewah, who briefed alongside the Deputy State Commander in charge of Operations, Bertha Afiesimama, and the chairman of the Bayelsa State Drug Abuse Prevention and Rehabilitation Committee, Faith Izibenua, also said that the command filed 32 cases and secured nine convictions, while 28 matters were pending before the courts. He said, “Four (suspects) were arrested with three locally-made pistols, one battle axe and 11 cartridges, and transferred to the police. One (case of) kidnap was also transferred to the police.” According to him, the command under its Anti-Drug Activities carried out 150 drug-prevention education programmes in schools, marketplaces, communities, worship centres and media houses. Ewah also stated that the command, in conjunction with a Yenagoa-based non-governmental organisation, Brighter Future, also took its War Against Drug Abuse campaign to the Bayelsa State Pilgrims Welfare Board. POLL “The command also offered three months’ Counselling Intervention Services to eight drug-dependent persons selected and sponsored by the NGO from Amarata and Amassoma communities in a bid to sharpen awareness on drug abuse in the communities and the need to stay drug-free in the society”, he said. The NDLEA chief, who revealed that a number of activities had been lined up to mark this year’s event in the state, including a Road Walk on Monday, also noted that the command admitted 16 drug dependents and rehabilitated 15 of them while one underwent referral in the past one year. While disclosing that six clients were undergoing rehabilitation and care, he said the command also counselled 163 suspects comprising 151 males and 21 females and called for more partnership in the fight against drug abuse and trafficking of illicit substances in the society. Also speaking, the chairman of the Bayelsa State Drug Abuse Prevention and Rehabilitation Committee, Faith Izibenua, said the body had been given the mandate to curb the menace of drug abuse through sensitisation and rehabilitation of youths struggling with addiction. She added that the committee had been working with the NDLEA and other relevant agencies like the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), and other stakeholders to tackle the scourge.