Liverpool want to sign another central midfielder this summer – but not Southampton captain James Ward-Prowse. The Reds recently announced the signing of Alexis Mac Allister from Brighton in a £55million deal. The 24-year-old, who won the Qatar World Cup with Argentina, has penned a five-year deal and will bolster Jurgen Klopp’s midfield after a tricky campaign. Liverpool finished fifth in the Premier League this season just gone, missing out on Champions League football, and many critics believe that was due to a weak midfield. As such, Klopp wants to bring in another central star to boost their silverware hopes. Ward-Prowse, 28, was thought to be a target for Liverpool. The England international is expected to leave Southampton this summer following their relegation to the Championship, with West Ham, Newcastle, Tottenham and Aston Villa all said to be keen. But, according to The Athletic, Liverpool will not swoop for Ward-Prowse. Instead, they have compiled a five-man shortlist which includes Nice’s Khephren Thuram, Borussia Monchengladbach’s Manu Kone, Celta Vigo’s Gabri Veiga, Bayern Munich’s Ryan Gravenberch and Southampton’s Romeo Lavia. This is not a definitive list, however. Thuram, 22, is the brother of Monchengladbach star Marcus and the son of former Barcelona defender Lillian. He has made more than 100 Ligue 1 appearances for Nice since switching from Monaco in June 2019 and is believed to be valued at £50m. Kone, 22, has impressed since joining Monchengladbach from Toulouse two years ago. Unlike Thuram, he is yet to make his senior debut for France. As reported by the Daily Mail, Villa and Wolves are also interested in the £35m-rated star. Veiga, 21, has enjoyed a breakthrough season in Spain after making 39 outings in all competitions for Celta Vigo. The Spain youth international was named as LaLiga’s Player of the Month in February and would be a cheaper option, with a release clause of £34m. POLL Gravenberch, 21, has been linked with Liverpool for some time, but his future will depend on Bayern’s stance. The Netherlands international started just five games in all competitions this term just gone and wants to play more often next time around. Speaking to De Telegraaf, Gravenberch said: “I just want to play more, preferably at Bayern Munich. And otherwise at a club where I play 100 per cent. That is my preference. Because I don’t want to have another year like the one I’ve had now.” Lavia, 19, is the youngest of Liverpool’s four targets but has Premier League experience after a campaign with Southampton. The former Manchester City talent could be itching to leave St Mary’s following their relegation but is expected to cost at least £50m. All five players are much younger than Ward-Prowse, which is one of the reasons why Liverpool have cooled their interest in the Saints skipper. But he should still bag a Premier League move after scoring 27 goals in the competition since September 2020. Liverpool recently said goodbye to three players who are capable of playing in central midfield. James Milner, Naby Keita and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain have all been released, with Milner joining Mac Allister’s former club Brighton on a one-year deal.