In order to attain the best prac­tices in tax collection and ad­ministration, the Ogun State Inspector of Taxes Forum (ITF) has reminded members of their role as tools for reve­nue generation in the state. This was brought to fore at a day training programme orga­nized by the Inspector of Taxes Forum of the Ogun State Inter­nal Revenue Service (OGIRS), held at the Oba’s Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. The programme, which was aimed at enhancing job perfor­mance in the administration of taxes in the state, and also in line with the forum’s slogan ‘Professionalism is Key’. The state Head of Service (HoS), Mr. Kolawole Peter Fag­bohun, commended the initia­tive of the forum for recogniz­ing its position as a tool to drive the state’s revenue by organiz­ing a capacity-building session for members to be equipped in the quest to improve revenue generation, adding that the programme was coming at a time when the State’s quest for increased revenue generation was paramount. The HoS reminded the fo­rum to key into the schemes of service which compel Inspec­tors of Taxes, amongst others to carry out inquiries on com­panies and individuals for the purpose of taxation, examine companies’ accounts and raise assessments on them for collec­tion of taxes. He charged them to be wor­thy civil servants, profession­al, diligent and honest in the execution of their duties with commitment to the vision and mission of the present ad­ministration which is geared towards collectively building the State. In his welcome address, the Chairman of the Inspector of Taxes Forum (OGIRS), Mr. Hezekiah Sobayo, appreciated members, saying the training was mandatory and impera­tive for effective service deliv­ery. He urged members to make use of every available oppor­tunity for them to develop their professional skills, while pledging to make the exercise a continuous one, aside from the usual virtual training sessions. POLL The Director of Corporate Development, who was also the Chairman Planning Com­mittee, Mr. Taiwo Ogundimu, appreciated members for be­lieving in their knowledge and readiness to learn from their senior colleagues. “We all know that it is our assignment to ensure effective and increased revenue genera­tion for the state government to function in delivering her elec­toral mandates, we are tools for good governance,” he said. Speaking on the topic ‘In­spector Of Taxes Profession­als: Tools for Revenue Gener­ation’, Director Other Taxes, Mrs. Oluyomi Aderonke Dawo­du, stated that, “it is important for Inspectors of Taxes to work as tools through OGIRS with a view to generating revenue into the coffers of the State”.