LAGOS – A tech expert and founder of Milsat Technologies Limited, Taslim Salaudeen, has through his mentorship and brand’s initiative, created a platform to expose youths to the rudiments of location data management in order to empower them for gainful employment. Salaudeen, a fast rising Geography Information Service (GIS) expert in Nigeria, has emerged as a driving force behind a groundbreaking tech enterprise, transforming the way businesses operate across the African continent. According to the entrepreneur, Milsat was founded in 2020 as a tech brand, providing practical data solutions for businesses across various sectors of the economy. With his visionary approach and expertise in location data, Salaudeen’s company is enabling businesses to harness the power of geospatial information for enhanced decision-making, improved efficiency, and unparalleled growth opportunities. The entrepreneur posited that the rate of employment among the youth populace in Africa can be reduced to the barest minimum if youths can be encouraged to embrace technology. He said technology should be seen as a game changer in any field of life and African youths should be given the right support to come into the tech space and make a difference. The tech expert made his position known in a recent media briefing to highlight his organization’s effort at exposing youths to essential skills in data collection, handling and management. Salaudeen, giving more insight on his organization’s initiative said, “Our training initiative, the Enumeration Network, was designed to equip young individuals aged between 16 and 29 with essential skills in data collection, handling and management. It’s an ongoing initiative, meaning we welcome applications on a rolling basis. POLL “Through this programme, we take learners on a comprehensive journey of geographic data management, starting from the basics and gradually advancing towards more complex techniques,” he noted. The entrepreneur revealed that the response received from the initiative has been truly remarkable. “We’ve had the privilege of training over 25,000 participants through the Enumeration Network. These training sessions have provided direct upskilling opportunities in the field of data acquisition and management, allowing participants to enhance their abilities and knowledge. “To make our programme even more versatile, we’ve tailored it to meet specific client requirements, ensuring our participants are well prepared for diverse professional challenges,” he added. Speaking on what sets the brand apart, he noted, “What sets us apart is that we don’t stop at training alone. After participants complete the programme, we offer them real-world opportunities to apply their newfound skills. To date, we’ve engaged over 90% of these talented youths in various projects sponsored by prestigious organizations and governments. “This practical exposure is invaluable, as it allows participants to work in professional settings and make meaningful contributions using their newly acquired expertise,” he explained. The tech expert also revealed that he has mentored quite a number of youths when it comes to data acquisition, handling and management while his organization has been able to employ some of the participants on an internship scheme. “I’m particularly proud to mention that we retain a large percentage of the trainees in our network and engage them in unique projects on demand. Our aim is to empower these young individuals and open doors to exciting career prospects.”