LAGOS – Beulah World Initiative (BWI), a faith-based, non-profit, non-governmental organisation, whose major objective is to help bridge the socio-economic gap between the privileged and less privileged members of the society, is at it again. This time, the organization, which provides basic health care for the low income groups in rural and suburban areas, with support of friends and family, has given out unquantifiable succour to widows, elders and other vulnerable members of the society. Once every month, this organisation programmes itself to carry out medical outreaches to the needy, especially in towns and rural areas. In the last five months, the organisation has visited villages in Ogun State, such as Jibowu community, Ilogbo, Itele, Iju, Arobieye and Obere among others, giving out free medical treatment, reading glasses, groceries, clothing items and deworming children. In Lagos, BWI has touched the lives of less privileged in Egbeda, Ikotun, Idimu, Liasu and its suburbs. The organisation held a Campus Medical Outreach in Canaanland, Ota, Ogun State, on Saturday, May 27, 2023, during which it attended to over 200 participants, including widows, elders, children, dishing out over 80 eye glasses and attending to the people’s medical needs. This correspondent spoke with the Beulah World Initiative’s Coordinator, Ms Chichi Ononiwu, some BWI officials and a number of participants on their impression of the free medical outreach. Ms Ononiwu said, “God, has been the foundation behind what we do, and whatever we have achieved so far. I see my role as a divine assignment. Quoting the scripture, she said, ‘He who calls you is faithful, who also will do it.’ 1 Thessalonians 5:24” POLL Speaking with some of the beneficiaries, one Mrs Funmilayo Faleye, said, “This is my first time attending the programme. I am a widow. My husband died 25 years ago. “I have been managing on my own until I could not afford to pay rent. With the support of the Beulah World Initiative, I was able to stabilize myself with the cash donation given to me.” Mrs Yemi Gideon, another beneficiary of the free medical outreach, praised the organisation for helping her out of health predicament. “I have my blood pressure checked. I was able to see the doctor who diagnosed my ailment and gave me drugs.” Mrs Ajibola Ayobami praised BWI for reaching out to her with free medical treatment and groceries. “It helps to keep our body and soul together. I pray that God should continue to bless the organisation. As they are helping us, God will help them.” Mrs Agboja Comfort said, “My eyes’ challenges brought me here. After the eye doctor attended to me, she gave me this, (brandishing the eye glasses given to her). The Beulah organisation needs the support of all.” Mrs Blessing David who came all the way from Obere, near Ota, thanked the organisation for bringing joy and happiness to the poor and the sick. In her words, “I could not go to the hospital for a medical check-up because I have no money. Today, after my BP was checked, the doctor recommended urgent medical treatment. And I was given medications. God will continue to bless Beulah World. Speaking on the impact made by the BWI, the Welfare Coordinator of the organisation, Barrister (Dcns) Odaro-Osanyade said, “Today it is Campus Community Outreach. Last month, we were at Liasu Community, in Ikotun.” “Beulah has made a tremendous impact in the lives of the indigent people spiritually, financially, health wise and morally. “Many of these people have never gone to the hospital to check their medical status because they are financially handicapped. “For instance, there is a case of a woman here today, whose Blood Pressure was so high, we had to give her special treatment before her BP could come down. “This is why some people will be walking on the road and just drop dead. Beulah has made a tremendous impact in the lives of the people. You can see the excitement in the faces of these people,” she reiterated Dr Olaiya Olaseinde, the doctor-in-charge, corroborated what the Welfare Coordinator said. In his words, “Beulah’s impact in the lives of the rural community cannot be overemphasized. A lot of them receive free drugs, clothing, groceries and also know their medical status.” Mrs Olufunmilayo Ogunbiyi, Beulah World’s Chief Medical Scientist, said, “Since I joined this organization 6 years ago, I have seen a lot of souls saved and needs met, through the monthly medical outreaches. “BWI has made great impact spiritually, medically and morally in the lives of folks in the rural community.”