LAGOS – Pastor Paul Adefarasin of the House on the Rock Church on Friday celebrated Gospel Artiste, Minister Moses Bliss for his tuneful and soul-lifting ministration at The African Praise Experience 2023. At the event held at the Rock Cathedral in the Lekki area of Lagos, Adefarasin publicly acknowledged Moses Bliss’ talent before a cheering gathering of thousands of believers who gathered in the auditorium. According to the cleric and convener of The Experience, an annual, international free gospel music concert held at the Tafawa Balewa Square in Lagos Island, pristine talents are “exportable from Nigeria” and Nigerian gospel singers have the beat to build world-class careers without dabbling into secular music. Addressing Moses Bliss, who is the ‘Miracle No Dey Tire Jesus’ crooner after his ministration, Adefarasin took to the podium and announced that he is “exceptionally talented” and his will support him and other with opportunities that secular musicians get, stressing that he won’t let secular musicians “steal church boys” with enticing offers. Adefarasin said he will work with his networks all over the world to promote Nigerian gospel artistes because they deserve to have an industry even as they draw people closer to The Cross. The cleric said, “I need some strong business people to say we are going to take this Gospel Music to the best quality that it can get to and we are happy to be part of that process to scout for the very best engineers that we use; all my networks and contacts elsewhere in the world, we’ll look for the other guys because I am not going to let them steal church boys and the do secular music while church guys aren’t getting the same opportunity. “These guys have the beat. I’ve heard beats here that will sell and I don’t need them only in ministry. If the ministry is bringing Jesus in, then they deserve to have (an) industry. I don’t need any of them to be poor so that they are wealthy enough to sponsor networks and collaborations the way that African-Americans are doing there so that they have industry and can control the vastness of the sector.”