LAGOS  – British American Tobacco Nigeria is pleased to announce the pilot of its Post-consumer Waste Recycling Initiative. The initiative is part of its Extended Producer Responsibility (ERP) program mandated by the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA) and it is aligned with its A Better Tomorrow™ commitment to minimize the environmental impact of its business operations, in collaboration with the Facilitating Agency, the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA),according to a statement. This recycling initiative represents an upscale of the Company’s ongoing efforts, to further exemplify its dedication to a clean and green environment. The company further said that through its existing recycling projects, It has empowered numerous off-takers who have successfully transformed wastes into valuable resources such as infills, manure, and plastics. It added that with the introduction of the post-consumer Waste Recycling Initiative, the company expects to achieve similar success even as it fulfils its extended producer responsibilities in alignment with NESREA’s agenda to preserve Nigeria’s environment. “By implementing this initiative, BAT Nigeria aims to foster a circular economy, reduce the ecological footprint of our products, and contribute to a cleaner and healthier environment. Our commitment extends beyond compliance, as we strive to proactively address the challenges associated with post- consumer waste and play a vital role in building a sustainable future” remarked Yarub Al-Bahrani the Managing Director of BAT Nigeria. Agharese Onaghise, Executive Secretary, FBRA explained that the introduction of waste collection receptacles in designated consumer locations is a sustainable instrument for the Alliance to ensure post-consumer packaging waste is taken back by the producers for recycling”. This initiative is a great way to ensure that post-consumer wastes do not contribute to littering of the environment and encourages proper disposal in an environmentally friendly manner. She said, we look forward to making a tangible difference through the Recycling Initiative and create a greener Nigeria for generations to come.