LAGOS  – Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central at the Senate, has said that the G5, led by former Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, in collabo­ration with the All Progressives Congress (APC), are plotting to foist a stooge as the Minority Leader of the 10th Senate. Sani, while speaking in an interview on Monday, said: “What the members of ruling party are trying to do is to see how they can foist a Minority Leader that will be in sync with their programmes and policies and also the agenda of the National Assembly and by so doing, prevent the opposition from playing its role. They want a stooge, or someone who is not going to be hostile to them. “But what is actually going on in the National Assembly today and the politics of the minority leadership is that the major opposition, which is the PDP, has factions, the G5 faction and the mainstream party. “What the G5 is trying to do is to help have a minority lead­er that will play the card of the ruling party. If you have a mi­nority leader who is an agent of the ruling party, you will have a stooge. “He is going to synchronize and be another rubber stamp minority leader. In earnest, the minority leader is supposed to be someone who stands for opposition that will form an al­ternative representative in the parliament and the one that will represent and perform the agenda of his party. They are trying to prevent the opposition from playing its role and doing that in a due process means having a minority leader that will synchronize with the rul­ing party.” On what the PDP can do to stop that, Sani said: “PDP hasn’t taken a serious action against its members that betrayed or subverted its own course in the 2023 elections. They opted for the part of reconciliation but what is very clear is that the faction that broke away from the PDP to form the G5 is de­termined to work 100 percent in line with the ruling party. There is no way that you can call yourself an opposition if the people you are appointing in the position of leadership are simply the agents or stooges of the ruling party. “The former Rivers gover­nor, who is a member of the G5, all he is trying to do, I believe, is to have a minority leader that he anoints, which will give him the relevance in terms of his engagements with the ruling party. “I believe that the ruling party has enough membership to be able to get most of its pro­grammes, motions and bills too. But it is natural that it will need an opposition that will work to­gether with it but not to the point that you have an opposition that will be a rubber stamp.”