LAGOS  – The President of the Nigeri­an Academy of Engineering (NAE), Professor Azikiwe On­wualu, has stressed the need for strong institutions to be in place in order to effectively enforce all our laws and policies. Onwualu, dropped the hint in an address he delivered at the 2023 Annu­al Lecture, Investiture of new Felows and Life achievement awards ceremo­ny of the Academy held at the Profes­sor Ajayi Auditorium, University of Lagos,Akoka. His words: “As the new administra­tion at Federal and State levels settle down to the business of governance, we note that Nigeria is not lacking in policies and laws. “ In the past, we had Development Plans, Executive Orders, Acts and Bills of national and state Assemblies, in addition to global programmes by development partners. “We are also not lacking in natu­ral minerals as the country is blessed with rich land and water resources, oil and gas, solid minerals, agricul­tural products and above all ,smart human resources” He went on: “What we are lacking are: strong institutions for effective implementation of the policies and laws; appropriate feedback-based monitoring and evaluation systems and use of engineering and technol­ogy to optimize project implemen­tation. In this regard, therefore, the following are recommended for the new government at Federal and State levels. He identified the use of merit – based approach in selecting the hu­man resources to lead the various MDAs, taking into consideration, the need for inclusiveness, accommoda­tion of disadvantaged groups (wom­en, youths, physically challenged),­geographical, ethnic and religious consideration. Onwualu, further said that Profes­sional Miniseries should be headed by relevant experienced professionals. In particular, engineering based MDAs should be headed by professional en­gineers or allied professionals POLL He identified such Ministries as Power, Works, Environment, Commu­nication and Digital Economy, Water Resources, Science and Technology and Innovation, Industry, Trade and Investment, Transportation, Avia­tion, Mines and Steel Development. According to him, efforts should be made to build and strengthen institu­tions of government as they are key in policy implementation adding that the Academy recommends a systemat­ic peer review of MDAs towards some form of ranking, rationalisation and monitoring and evaluation to opti­mise performance and productivity. He pointed out, that technology is at the root if knowledge economy of today, adding that Nigeria should make conscious and sustainable efforts towards using industry 4.0 technologies for development in all sectors. According to him, for this to hap­pen government needs to strengthen the efforts in the area of acquisition and dissemination of emerging tech­nologies and using them for develop­ment. The NAE President said that the Federal Government should declare a state of emergency in the area of critical infrastructure including: Electricity Transpiration, Housing, Manufacturing and Security. He said that the Academy was ready to assist the government at Federal and State levels in providing advice in actualising the suggestions made and others in the area of using engineering and technology to drive development. Azikiwe ,said that following the induction of the Fellows, they are expected to join at least one of the following committees of the Acade­my: Agriculture, Editorial, Emerging Engineering, Engineering Business Promotion, Engineering Education, Environment and Climate Change ,ICT, Oil and Gas, Power, Quality and Standards, Renewable Energy amongst other committees in the Academy. According to him the new induct­ees would be required to present a technical paper in the first year of their induction at one of the Acade­my’s Fellows Forum, making recom­mendations on solution to at least one engineering problem in Nigeria. He further said the new inductees are expected to mentor young engi­neers and they are also expected join other Fellows in advocacy towards solving engineering infrastructural challenges of Nigeria. The Academy conferred Life Achievement Awards on three mem­bers who are above 75 years and 13 Fellowship bridging the total mem­bership of the Academy to 182 The Guest Speaker at this year’s ceremony was the Governor of Anam­bra State, Professor Charles Soludo. He commenced the Academy for putting up this year’s ceremony, add­ing that it was an auspicious oppor­tunity to discuss current national issues such as the removal of fuel subsidy which he described as ‘very timely and a step in the right direc­tion’. He said that it was no longer sus­tainable to continue to subsidize fuel pointing out that it was only benefit­ing only a few in the society while the larger populace continues to wallow in poverty. Among the inductees, was the Na­tional Secretary of the APC,Senator Iyiola Omisore who spoke on behalf of the inductees. The Lagos State Governor, Baba­jide Sanwo-Olu was represented by his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat.