ABUJA – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu on Thursday, inaugurated the National Economic Council (NEC) Chaired by Vice President, Kashim Shettima, but noted that there was no time for rhetoric as Nigerians were yearning to see pragmatic reforms that would help them escape poverty. According to Tinubu, the task on the ground is about turning around Nigeria’s economy from the age-long status of “potential to pragmatic.” He said he has kick-started the pro­cess with the removal of fuel subsidies and unification of exchange rates, but solicited the cooperation of the 36 state governors to join the fray of na­tional development. While inaugurating the National Economic Coun­cil (NEC), an advisory body comprising the 36 state Gov­ernors, CBN Governor, and other stakeholders, at the State House, President Tinubu listed eight priority areas for urgent attention. He called for collective frameworks that would stim­ulate a buoyant economy that meets the needs of the poor and vulnerable. The President assured the governors that the administra­tion would address the issues that devalue the lives of Nige­rians, with a focus on security, economy, jobs, agriculture, in­frastructure, monetary policy, and fuel subsidy. “It is worthy of note that the monthly meeting of NEC chaired by Vice President Kashim Shettima has re­mained officially the econom­ic platform for robust dialogue among the Federal Govern­ment, the 36 state governors, the CBN, and other key stake­holders. “In my inaugural speech of May 29, 2023, I expressed this administration’s commitment to improving the lives of Nige­rians in a manner that not just reflects our humanity, but en­courages compassion towards one another and duly rewards our collective efforts to resolve the social ills that seek to divide us. POLL “I also listed the principles that will guide our administra­tion and it is as follows: to be im­partial and govern according to the constitution and ensure the rule of law; to defend the na­tion from terror and all forms of criminality; to promote economic growth and develop­ment through job creation, food security and putting an end to poverty; to prominently feature women and youths in all our ac­tivities; to take proactive steps such as championing a credit culture and; to discourage cor­ruption while strengthening the effectiveness and efficien­cy of various anti-corruption agencies,’’ the President said. President Tinubu noted that policies and programmes of the government would be driven by compassion for the less privileged, and for more inclusivity, women and youths will be involved in the design and implementation of issues that impact their lives. “It is evident that the task of growing our economy is enormous but you and I asked for it. We campaigned for it, we even danced for it, we begged for it, so we have no reason to complain. We must harness the growth potential of Nigeria and bring about serious devel­opment that will take us from ‘a potential nation’ to a pragmat­ic economic development in a rapid manner,’’ he noted. President Tinubu urged NEC to stimulate ideas, through robust discussions, that will improve the livelihood of Nigerians, while highlight­ing the exigency for interven­tions on poverty. “Members of this country are behind us, they want re­form and they want it to impact their lives,’’ he added. Rallying the governors for national development, Presi­dent Tinubu said, “Collabora­tion is not a crime, please let’s do it.’’ The President noted that the three tiers of government will need to be involved in econom­ic development, including the Local Government Councils, in order to ensure inclusiveness, collectivity, and ownership of policies and programmes. “The National Economic Council was established by the provision of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Ni­geria as amended. As one of the key bodies of the Federal Gov­ernment, NEC has the man­date to advise the President on the economic affairs of the federation on appropriate mea­sures for coordination of eco­nomic plans and programmes of the government Ministries, Departments, and Agencies,’’ he said. The President emphasised that significant steps had been taken by ending the fuel sub­sidy and unifying the foreign exchange rate. “This government will con­tinue to transform the fortunes of our nation and bring about unprecedented development through good governance. We are committed to sustainable initiatives and programmes that will stimulate the rejuve­nation of the economy without causing inflation. “The plans and ideas we have presented underscore our confidence and ability to meet the challenges of the day and pave the way for a better future,’’ President Tinubu said. Membership of the NEC comprises the 36 State Gov­ernors, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, and other co-opted Government officials. Those in attendance at the time the meeting commenced were Kwara, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq; Osun, Ademola Adeleke; Kogi, Yahaya Bello; Ekiti, Biodun Oyebanji; Nasar­awa, Abdullahi Sule; Akwa Ibom, Umo Eno and Enugu, Pe­ter Mbah; Cross River, Bassey Out; Plateau, Caleb Muftwang; Kebbi, Nasir Idris; Katsina, Ali­yu Radda, and Benue, Hycinth Alia. Others are Zamfara, Dauda Lawal; Ogun, Dapo Abiodun; Anambra, Charles Soludo; Yobe, Mai Mala Buni; Tara­ba; Agbu Kefas Gombe; Delta, Sheriff Oborevwori; Rivers, Siminalayi Fubara; Niger, Mo­hammed Bago, and Sokoto, Ahmad Aliyu. Others are Ebonyi, Francis Nwifuru; Kaduna, Uba Sani; Edo, Godwin Obaseki; Abia, Alex Otti; Bayelsa, Douye Diri; Kano, Abba Yusuf; Bauchi, Bala Mohammed; Oyo, Seyi Makinde, and Borno State, Deputy Governor, Umar Kada­fur, and Deputy Governor of Ondo, Lucky Ayedatiwa. The Secretary to the Gov­ernment of the Federation, George Akume; Chief of Staff, Femi Gbajabiamila; the Group Chief Executive Offi­cer (GCEO) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL), Mele Kyari; Acting Accountant General of the Federation, Oluwatoyin Madein; Acting Governor of Central Bank, Folashodun Sho­nubi; Permanent Secretaries Budget and National Planning, Federal Capital Territory Ad­ministration, and State House. Meanwhile, the President also approved the appoint­ments of Special Advisers. Among the new appointees are Mr. Dele Alake, Special Ad­viser, Special Duties, Commu­nications and Strategy, Mr. Yau Darazo, Special Adviser, Politi­cal and Intergovernmental Af­fairs, Mr. Wale Edun, Special Adviser, Monetary Policies and Mrs. Olu Verheijen, Special Ad­viser, Energy Others include Mr. Zach­aeus Adedeji, Special Adviser, Revenue, Mr. Nuhu Ribadu, Special Adviser, Security, Mr. John Ugochukwu Uwajumo­gu, Special Adviser, Industry, Trade and Investment and Dr (Mrs.) Salma Ibrahim Anas, Special Adviser, Health.