Lagos – The sponsor of the annual JOF U-13 Football Tournament, JOF Nigeria Limited, has called on the four teams that will trade tackles on the final day of the 4th edition of the competition, to display high level of sportsmanship. The 4th edition of JOF U-13 Cup which kicked off on March 14, 2023 lived up to the expectations with 32 kids teams taking part in the tournament at the end of which four teams qualified for the finals holding at the Campos Mini Stadium on Lagos Island on Sunday, June 11, 2023. Playing in the third place match are Ojo Babes against Kudus Babes from Epe by 1pm, while from 3pm, the grand finale will be between Zamadek Boys of Orile and Wazbak Babes from Lagos Mainland. Speaking at a media conference held in Lagos on Thursday, Mr. Adeyinka Adetunji, Director, Strategic Support Services, JOF Nigeria Limited, enjoined the four teams to “let the spirit of fair play guides all participants in the forthcoming final matches coming up on Sunday, June 11, 2023. As the sponsor, we wish the four teams successful games. Adetunji, however, revealed that as part of JOF Nigeria Limited’s commitment to the sponsorship of the age grade football tournament, the company decided to raise the bar for the prizes for the winners in the finals. JOF doled out the sum of N950,000 for the four teams in the finals last year, but this year, it has been increased to N1.4 million. The winners will pock the sum of N500, 000 while the runners-up go home with the sum of N400, 000. The third position will get N300, 000 with the fourth position taking home the sum of N200, 000. The sponsor has also made provision for consolatory prizes for the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the competition, the Best Team and the Best Goalkeeper. POLL Adetunji, on behalf of the founder and Chief Executive Officer of JOF Nigeria Limited, Dr. Segun Olugboyegun, congratulated all the footballers, coaches, managers, parents and supporters in the competition for adding glamour to the tournament. “Let me reiterate the fact that JOF Nigeria Limited is sponsoring this competition to promote development of football at the grassroots and to help discover young talents in Lagos State. We also believe that through sporting activities, our youth can be positively engaged,” he said. The organisers of the tournament, Lagos State Grassroots Soccer Association (LSGSA), while thanking the sponsor for believing in the association with the continue sponsorship since 2020, revealed that the positive impacts of the organisation of the age grade football tourney is already being felt by the Nigerian football. One of the discoveries in the tournament in the first edition, Temiloluwa Oluwayimika Adelakin has been listed in the Nigeria’s U-17 Golden Eaglets, a testimony of the fact that JOF U-13 Football Tournament is producing talents for the country. Lagos State Grassroots Soccer Association described JOF U-13 Cup as a platform for upcoming talents to exhibit their God-given soccer talents and an avenue for raising future stars to showcase themselves to the world.