LAGOS – The Lagos State Government is partnering with a private firm, SIITECH on the digital registration of motorcycles and tricycles in areas that they are yet to be banned. A statement by Engr. Abdulhafiz Toriola, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation said that this was necessary in order to stem down the surge of threat to lives and property in the areas of the state where activities of commercial motorcycles popularly known as okada has not been restricted or banned. The statement hinted that Toriola made the statement at a Stakeholders’ Engagement Meeting and launch of the digital application organised for Motorcycle and Tricycle Unions in the state. He, however, maintained that the move should not be seen as an authentication of motorcycles as a viable means of commercial passenger transportation. Toriola who was represented at the occasion by Engr. Olasunkanmi Ojowuro, the Director Transport Operations in the Ministry of Transportation, emphasised that the importance and impact of the digital registration was to enhance the security and safety of lives and property through thorough regulation and efficiency capacity for operators and the community, hence the engagement of Messrs. SIITECH. He explained that the digital capturing process include proper documented and accessible to relevant stakeholders, which he said would enable greater transparency in managing and reducing the potential of operators on criminal activities in the state. He therefore urged motorcycle and tricycle operators to cooperate with SIITECH and other relevant authorities to ensure seamless running of the process at the designated centres in the Local Government Areas not yet covered by the ban. Also speaking, Comrade Musiliu Akinsanya, Chairman, Lagos State Parks and Garages Committee (LASPG), assured that the State Government would always support processes that would enhance safety and security in the State. POLL Akinsanya who was represented by Comrade Lemboye Olayiwola, the State Secretary of LASPG, urged its members to make themselves available in areas covered by the registration, for a smooth process, which he said would be done at zonal levels. He noted that the committee would continue to enlighten and educate its members on the need to key into the initiative. Representative of SIITECH Mr. Tijani Pekis, reiterated that digital registration of operators was the way to go, while soliciting the cooperation of operators. He added that the process would help solve the problem of mushroom operator springing up rapidly in the state. Also present at the meeting were the Lagos State Chairmen of Tricycle and Motorcycle Operators, Alhaji Kamoli Bakare and Mr. Azeez Owosheni, respectively. Recalled that the Lagos State Government had banned operations of commercial motorcycles in 10 Local Government Areas, (LGAs) and 15 Local Council Development Areas, (LCDAs) in the State which still persists.