IBADAN – The reigning Japanese Featherweight boxing champion, Ridwan Oyekola, famously known as ‘Scorpion’, has solicited the support of Nigerians and government ahead of his forthcoming bout on August 30 in Japan. ‘Scorpion’ appealed to Nigerians while briefing journalists about the much anticipated bout in Ibadan on Thursday. ‘Scorpion’, during a press conference which was part of his preparation for the coming fight in the Asian country, stated that he greatly relies on the support from Nigerians and governments at both state and national level. He stated that he was proud and honored to represent Oyo state and Nigeria well in Japan in the boxing competition which has produced him as the reigning Featherweight champion. While noting that the support from governments in terms of due recognition as a Nigerian dominating the boxing ring and making the nation proud in Japan, has not been really motivating, he expressed optimism in a better recognition in the future. Ridwan, an Okada rider turned Featherweight boxing champion in Japan narrated his grass to grace journey as a professional boxer, saying it all started in 2017 where he defeated his opponent, Oga Jimoh who he defeated within 17 seconds into the bout. While delivering his speech earlier, Scorpion specially thanked his manager, Shola Ayodele otherwise called ‘Shola Ford’, as well his sponsors and supporters including Jonathan Odusola, Victor Banwo, and Sammy Japan, who he said pushed him with their resources to earn his professional boxing career. Others he appreciated include the Chairman, Nigerian Boxing Federation; Rafiu Ladipo, Secretary; Remi Aboderin, the Chairman of Ilaji Hotels and Resorts; Engr. Dotun Sanusi, Horgan Jimoh, Gbenga Opaleye, and Bako Orowolo. POLL In his words, Scorpions said, “All these made me qualify to represent Nigeria at the upcoming Featherweight Japan Title Belt and WBO Asia Title Belt, and I Ridwan Oyekola will be fighting for the two belts on August 30. “I’m hereby using this opportunity to seek for support of Nigerians and the Nigerian authorities, most importantly, your prayers and every other means of supporting us. We’re committed to going to Japan to bring back home these two belts for Oyo state and Nigeria, especially for our new president, Bola Tinubu, and I’m sure we will return home victorious,” he said. Scorpion, however, expressed gratitude to his team, sponsors, promoters, and supporters for their faith and trust in his ability and capabilities in the ring to have continually invested huge resources in his career. Scorpion in his professional fighting career has defeated the likes of Prince Nwoye, B-Sugar (defeated in 22 seconds) to emerge national champion. Scorpion disclosed further that In 2020, he defeated Argentine boxer, Lucas Mattias Mortesino in a World Boxing Federation fight. It was also gathered that Scorpion who was earlier rated number 1 in Nigeria and 265 in the world also defeated the number 2 champion in Japan and 25 in the world, Jasqui Watanabi in a make or mar fight after which he went ahead to also defeated Japanese Fukunaga Ikaro and other fine fighters to emerge the reigning champion in Japan and ranked 139 in the world Featherweight Category. In his brief remark, former House of Representatives candidate, Honourable Sunday Oni, told journalists that his confidence in Scorpion’s capabilities in the coming Japan bout was absolute while rallying more support from well meaning Nigerians, governments and corporate sponsors to enable the boxer achieve the desired victory in the Asian country.