CHIOMA UMEHA Recently, the International Maternal Newborn Health Conference (IMNHC2023) raised the alarm over stagnation in the reduction of maternal deaths worldwide in over 60 countries in Asia and Africa, Nigeria and advocated a strong health system with improved data. Worried that the affected countries would not meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030, it stressed the need for them to invest in building a strong health system with improved data for planning to lessen newborn deaths. According to them, maternal and newborn deaths reduction which was 34 percent since 2000, stagnated from 2015 to 2020 as maternal deaths stood at 287,000 in 2020, especially in Asia and Africa. Indeed, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, bemoaned Africa’s high maternal and newborn deaths during the first plenary of the four-day event which held on Monday, May 8 at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC). He said, “Africa is where seven out of 10 women die due to pregnancy-related issues. Every year, 4.5 million mothers, newborns, and stillborns die from preventable causes.” According to Ghebreyesus, “Where a child is born or how much money its family has should not determine whether it lives or dies. But this is still the reality for many women and babies worldwide.” He spoke while giving his keynote statement to the delegates at the Maternal and Newborn Health Conference in Cape Town, South Africa. POLL Similarly, Dr. Koki Agarwal, Director, MOMENTUM Country, and Global Leadership, alerted that progress in reducing the number of maternal deaths worldwide in recent years is marginal and inadequate to meet the global United Nations (UN) SDGs targets. Dr. Agarwal, who is also a physician and seasoned public health practitioner, therefore called for increased collaboration and investment to improve maternal and newborn healthcare. She spoke in Cape Town, South Africa on the eve of the beginning of the first International Maternal and Newborn Health Conference (IMNHC2023). Dr Agarwal who also doubles as a Public Health expert, spoke while addressing a group of health journalists in her presentation on the state of maternal and newborn health, titled, “Global Maternal and Newborn Health in a Changing World.” SDG 3 aims to prevent needless suffering from preventable diseases and premature death by focusing on key targets that boost the health of a country’s overall population. The Vice President, DC Operations, Johns Hopkins Program for International Education in Gynecology and Obstetrics, (Jhpiego) elaborated the global and national goals for maternal and neonatal mortality. Giving the SDGs country target, she said, ‘The supplementary national target is that no country should have an MMR greater than 140 per 100,000 live births (a number twice the global target) by 2030. “By 2030, all countries should reduce MMR by at least two-thirds of2010 baseline. National Neonatal Mortality Rate (NMR) is 12 deaths per 1000 live births by 2030 (<10 by 2035) National Stillbirth Rate (SBR)<12 stillborns per 1.000 total births by 2020(< 10 by 2035). Giving the breakdown of SDG 3.1, she said, “By 2030, countries are expected to reduce the global maternal mortality ratio to less than 70 per 100,000 live births; and no country should have an MMR> 140 per 100,000 live births.” On SDG 3.2, Dr. Agarwal said, “By 2030, countries are expected to end preventable deaths of newborns and children under five years of age, with all countries aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 per 1.000 live births.” Analysing the global maternal and newborn child mortality rates, Dr. Agarwal said, although there has been some progress over the last few years, challenges still remain. “Progress is incredible. For example, in the last 30 years, global maternal deaths have dropped dramatically by more than 40 percent. Similarly, she noted that declines were seen for newborn deaths.” Dr Agarwal stressed, “But overall, progress is too slow to meet these goals in many places and global averages measuring progress hide important differences among regions and countries and, within countries, socio-economic and ethnic groups, as well as rural and urban communities. So now is not the time to let our foot off the gas.” Specifically, on maternal mortality, the Vice President, of DC Operations, Jhpiego citing the UN reports said that there was a decline of 34 percent since 2000, but a stagnation from 2015 to 2020 as maternal deaths stood at 287,000 in 2020. Concerning Under-5 and neonatal mortality, the decline continues in the region, but some slowdown (2.3 million neonatal deaths), the United Nations reports. However, on stillbirths, there were 1.9 million deaths in 2020, down from 2.4 million in 2010, according to a report developed UN Inter-Agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation, titled, Levels and Trends in Child Mortality. Decrying the trend, the report said that the figure sub-Saharan Africa has the highest and increasing share of the mortality burden being driven by slower decline of mortality rates, and increasing share of births in the world. In Nigeria alone, a new global maternal mortality report by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) showed that 82,000 women die from pregnancy and childbirth-related complications every year. Over the past five years, Nigeria’s infant and under-five mortality rates have remained steady in Nigeria, at 74 and 117 deaths per 1,000 live births, respectively, according to UNICEF. The organisers expect the conference to create pathways for collective collaboration, coordination, cross-country learning, and alignment within the maternal and newborn health community. In view of this, IMNHC 2023 brought together stakeholders worldwide to accelerate solutions to improve maternal and newborn survival and prevent stillbirths in a coordinated and inclusive manner. To achieve the 2030 SDG-era targets, the ongoing IMNCH is leading with evidence, sharing effective implementation strategies, reviewing joint progress, and nurturing collaboration and innovation within the maternal and newborn health community. The conference is the first biannual IMNHC, which would be held every two years to maintain global progress toward improving maternal and newborn health. The four-day event which was held at the Cape Town International Convention Centre brought together over 1, 500 people worldwide, including Nigeria. Dr. Agarwal’s presentation noted that the picture at the global level calls for a concerted effort against maternal deaths, noting that 800 women were dying every day in child delivery, comparing the scenario to the impact of two jumbo jets crashing every day. “Imagine what would be the news if that happens,” she said in the preconference session organised for a group of 12 international press fellows invited by the IMNHC. The data shows that most neonatal deaths occur on the first day of birth, and one-third of newborns also die on the first day of birth. Agarwal said the world was moving at about one-fourth of the pace needed to reach the health-related SDG targets before Covid-19, whose impact has further reduced that prospect. “We were off track to reach many health-related SDGs before the pandemic – and we are even more off track now,” she said, although she added that the impact appeared to be smaller in sub-Saharan Africa, with the exception of southern Africa. “But many programmes, including those serving the health needs of women and newborns, were deprioritised or paused due to a focus on, and disruptions from, the COVID-19 pandemic,” she stated. She listed other global trends that are impacting maternal and newborn health, including, urbanisation, food insecurity, conflict, digital transformation, and climate change. She stressed the need for immediate care, noting that women can bleed to death or die of shock as a result of Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) within two hours. Other deaths are due to eclampsia. She said, “Once convulsions set in, women can die within 12 hours.” The rest die due to prolonged labour, lack of transfer, and availability of C-sections leading to fistula, uterine rupture, and death. A pregnant mother could also die of sepsis within three days without immediate care, she added. Similarly, she pointed out how the three delays model, ‘Recognition/Decision to seek care is not made, transport to care, not receiving immediate or quality care and issue with referral contribute to maternal and newborn deaths. The expert in Public Health listed the underlying causes of maternal and newborn deaths, including poverty, malnutrition, illiteracy, tradition, gender inequity, and corruption. MNHC is organised by the AlignMNH, a global initiative funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in collaboration with the US Agency for International Development (USAID). About 180 sessions are planned during the course of the next four days. The conference would review and recognise country, regional, and global progress toward MNH targets and milestones. It would also prioritise actions to accelerate progress toward meeting the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.