The Leader Of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele has chided President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for removing fuel subsidy in the manner which he did. In a statement signed by his media aide, Osho Oluwatosin, Primate Ayodele noted that it is not yet time for Tinubu to remove the fuel subsidy and it will affect his government. He made it known there will be serious economic hardship and things will only get better through God’s mercy. Primate Ayodele explained that the president didn’t address the issue of subsidy well while asking Nigerians not to expect too much from the present administration. ‘’No matter how you want to put it, It is not yet time to remove the fuel subsidy, it will damage the present government. They should work on the subsidy technically. There is no way things won’t be hard, there is no way we won’t face economic hardship. Tinubu will not get this government better until 2026 if God decides to show mercy. There’s nothing bad in removing Subsidy but the method of removing it is what is causing issues now, Sincerely, Tinubu didn’t address the issue well. Nigerians should not expect so much from Tinubu within his first four years in office.’’ The man of God made it known there will be political drama in the new administration and so many lies will be told by government officials. He also posited that Tinubu will try to fight corruption but it will fight his government back and he won’t have the capacity to follow up. Primate Ayodele explained that God wants to use Tinubu’s government to teach Nigerians how to reference and appreciate his presence in whatever they do. He urged the citizens to be patient and prayerful because things will definitely be tough. ‘’There will be a lot of political drama that will shock so many people. Tinubu will step on toes and his political chariots. There will be too many lies in Tinubu’s government.’’ ‘’Also, Tinubu will try to fight corruption but it will fight his government back. There are things he will want to do for Nigeria but he won’t have the capacity to follow up. He will be a lesson to Nigeria. God will use Tinubu’s government to teach Nigerians how to reference him and appreciate his presence. ‘’ POLL ‘’Tinubu does not have magic. We will need so much patience for him to do what he wants to do. We need to pray for him and support him. Definitely, things will be tough, only God can make it better.’’ ‘’There will be an attempt to increase salaries, there will be an increase in the cost of living too and petrol will never go back to below N100.’’