BENIN – Stakeholders in the Micro, Small and Medium En­treprises (MSMEs) sector in Edo State, on Tuesday, agreed that having and im­plementing an MSMEs poli­cy in the state would develop the sector. The stakeholders shared their thoughts on MSMEs development in Edo during the validation workshop of Edo State MSMEs policy or­ganised by the state govern­ment in partnership with GIZ -SEDIN in Benin. GIZ-SEDIN is the pro-poor growth and promotion of employment on Nigeria Programme of the German Agency for International Corporation. SEDIN supports imple­mentation partners in im­proving the employment and income situation of MSMEs. Mr Akinropo Omoware, Head, Policy and Strategy, GIZ-SEDIN Programme, said the MSMEs policy was key in revamping MSMEs in Edo. Omoware said, “If you need to create jobs, reduce poverty, you need to focus on MSMEs development. MSMEs create about 84 per­cent of employment in Edo. “According to the Nige­rian Bureau of Statistics, about 700,000 people in Edo are employed, and the ma­jority of them are employed in the MSMEs sector. The MSMEs create jobs, hence they should be supported.” On his part , Mr Noma Iguisi, Edo State Chairman, National Association of Small Scale Industrialists, appealed to the state govern­ment for speedy adoption and improvement of the policy. POLL “The onus is now on the state government to adopt and implement the MSMEs policy. “This role falls largely on the government because we have come together as pri­vate and government stake­holders to draft a policy that will promote the growth and development of MSMEs. “We have brainstormed and put in all our best in the validation of the policy, and we believe that if it is adopt­ed and implemented by the state government, the MS­MEs sector will grow.” Meanwhile, Mr Moses Egbabor, State Manager, Small and Medium Entre­prises Development of Ni­geria (SMEDAN) Edo, sued for continued collaboration among relevant stakehold­ers in the promotion of MS­MEs development. “We need collaboration. If the stakeholders can collab­orate, I think we can work with the MSMEs policy to provide an enabling envi­ronment for MSMEs in the state.