ABUJA – A member-elect representing Ideato North South Federal Constituency of Imo state, Honourable Ikenga Ugochinyere (PDP), has said that the support to leading aspirants for Speakership, Deputy Speakership positions for the incoming 10th Assembly, Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas and Rt. Hon. Benjamin Kalu by Osun State Governor Ademola Adeleke has automatically increased the duo’s support from opposition members-elect. The Governor had on Wednesday while receiving Abbas and Kalu said, “We respect and support the APC zoning formula, I call on you all to support the PDP zoning arrangement in the House, and kindly reciprocate our gesture by supporting the PDP agenda in the House. “As we are supporting you, support Osun in our desire. We seek the support of the House for the appropriation of fund for the Osun State Airport project so that the facility can open up our economy”. Ugochinyere who’s also the spokesman, Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP in statement said Adeleke’s support has increased the main Opposition PDP members-elect and other oppositions parties by 80 percent and thereby increasing their chances of winning. This also, Ugochinyere said has also reduced to the barest minimum the opposition by the aggrieved aspirants to the duo anointed tickets. Ugochinyere disclosed that in the coming days, he will be pushing for the Peoples Democratic Party, other opposition parties endorsement of Abbas and Kalu as consensus candidates, but most importantly based on their competence. He said, “The coming days are very critical, we have more work to do. We at the Tajudeen Benjamin Kalu (TBK) group will continue meeting more of our colleagues, in the opposition parties towards the actualization of Tajudeen, Kalu ambition. The duo doesn’t need any introduction, their qualifications and legislative achievements speak for them. However we ain’t slowing down on our mission, as part of bridge building, peacemaking and in a bid to carry everyone along we will continue pushing for the endorsement of our colleagues. “Majority are with us already, at the moment as disclosed to the governor by Abass, over two hundred lawmakers, both serving and new are with us. But we will continue reaching out to the others. The success of every democracy rests squarely on the quality of the parliament hence the need to always have in place a solid legislature with sound players. POLL “Abbas and Kalu are sound players, with the legislative experience and competence to preside over the affairs of the incoming tenth national assembly. We are optimistic that more members-elect will join the team as time goes on and in the end both lawmakers will emerge victorious,” he reiterated.