Mrs. Ulam Gyang, 46, is bitter and angry, she was recently be­reaved, and her son, Kenneth Gyang, was killed by military personnel in Jos. She had thought that after the death of her husband, the deceased would wipe away her tears. Unfortunately, the boy who was the breadwinner of the family has been killed in a grue­some manner by an overzealous soldier, who also injured several others. The deceased mother, Mrs. Gyang, described his death as an unfortunate one to her and his siblings who would miss him dearly because of his generosity to them and everyone who came across him while alive. The bereaved mother who spoke with our correspondent in tears and a laden voice said Ken­neth had finished his secondary school and was working hard to further his studies, adding that he was very supportive to her and takes good care of his sib­lings. “Now I don’t know what to do and where to turn to for help, except God almighty. Who will help me with my farm work? I miss him,” she cried. It was learnt that the soldier who is attached to Operation Safe Haven was at a checkpoint when some youths were returning from the mortuary on Monday, May 5, with others escorting a corpse of their relative for buri­al when he suddenly opened fire at Vwei (Mararab-Jama’a) of Kuru District, Jos South Local Government Area of the state over a minor issue on the bike. It was in the process of the altercation with the bike rid­ers that a stray bullet from his service rifle hit Kenneth on the chest, while one Emmanuel Dan­iel, 38, was also hit by the bullet, and sustained severe injuries on his body. When our correspondent visited the bereaved mother of the deceased, sympathisers thronged her house to console and grieve with her over the loss of her son. POLL The widow said she doesn’t want her son to die in vain, she is demanding justice for Kenneth who was the third child of the four children of the family, but always supporting her financial­ly and helping her on the farm. Meanwhile, the Berom Youths’ Moulder Association (BYM) has condemned the sol­dier’s actions and also expressed sadness over the killing of Ken­neth in that manner and also injuring some other people. While condemning the act, the National Publicity Secre­tary of the group, Mr. Rwang Tengong, condemned the act and said the victims were in the procession from the mor­tuary for a burial of a relation at Kuru Community in Jos South LGA.