AUSTIN OBOH President Bola Tinubu made good his campaign promise to phase out fuel subsidy in his government by announcing this on the day of inauguration, May 29, 2023. It was a bold move which, he certainly knew, would trigger a sharp rise in the costs of fuel, transportation, and foodstuffs. He also knew that they would be a backlash, especially from workers and youths. In his inaugural address, Tinubu had said: “We commend the decision of the outgoing administration in phasing out the petrol subsidy regime which has increasingly favoured the rich more than the poor. Subsidy can no longer justify its ever-increasing costs in the wake of drying resources. We shall, instead, re-channel the funds into better investment in public infrastructure, education, health care and jobs that will materially improve the lives of millions.” Some observers have noted that the president’s decision was an uncommon one, especially because he opted to begin his administration on a confrontational note – something many other leaders would do anything to avoid. As might well be recalled, the Federal Government under Muhammadu Buhari had in November 2021, announced a plan to remove fuel subsidy and replace it with a monthly N5,000 transport grant for poor Nigerians but later suspended the plan after the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) threatened to embark on mass protests. This is a critical backdrop against which to look at the new government’s decision. Some observers have noted that it would have been much easier for the outgoing government to implement the unsavoury decision since it was actually within its remit to execute, deriving inevitably from the coming into being of the Petroleum Industry Act. Seeking Common Ground By the evening of Monday, when the presidential declaration was made, strange actions by fuel users and sellers had begun, as moves were being made to beat the gun. This led a stampede which, by Tuesday, manifested in long queues at petrol stations and eventual difficulties for commuters and others. The situation provoked threats by the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) who demanded immediate return to the subsidy regime, insisting the government had ambushed the people. For this reason, the government initiated a meeting with union leaders to find a common ground. But the meeting which took place on Wednesday at the State House, Abuja, ended in a stalemate. The organised labour was led by the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Joe Ajaero, and his counterpart for the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade Festus Osifo. POLL The former President of NLC and immediate past governor of Edo State, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the Permanent Secretary, State House, Tijjani Umar, the Head of Service of the Federation, Dr. Folashade Yemi-Esan, the Group Chief Executive Officer, of the NNPCL, Mele Kyari, and a Director in the Tinubu/ Shettima Campaign Organization, Dele Alake, among others, attended the meeting. Speaking after the failed meeting, Ajaero and Osifo stressed that the status quo be maintained on the prices of PMS while negotiations continued. Both labour leaders said another meeting would hold after discussions with members of their executives on the outcomes of Wednesday’s interaction with the Federal Government’s team. Ajaero said there was no consensus after the meeting, adding that “As far as labour is concerned, we didn’t have a consensus in this meeting.” He picked holes in the decision of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited to review the petrol pump price in its filling stations nationwide before the meeting, stating that the price increase put the labour unions in a difficult position during negotiations. His words: “That’s the principle of negotiation. You don’t put the partner, ask them to negotiate under gunpoint. The prayers of the NLC is that we go back to status quo, negotiate, think of alternatives and all the effects and how to manage the effects this action is going to have on the people if it is an action that must take off. “The subsidy provision has been made up to the end of June. And before then, conscious people, labour management, government should be able to think of what will happen at the end of June. You don’t start it before the time,” Ajaero said. Speaking on the outcome of the meeting from the side of government, Alake said talks on solutions to all issues at hand would continue. “We have been deliberating on finding very amicable solutions to the issue at hand, to the queue and all of that and the increase in pump price. We had a very robust engagement. We cross-fertilized ideas, ideas flew from all sides and there is one thing that is remarkable even from the Labour side, and that is Nigeria. We are all looking at the peace, progress and stability of Nigeria. That is what is paramount. “Of course, the NNPCL CEO is here, Mr. Kyari, we cannot go into details now because the talks are still ongoing. We cannot finish everything at one setting; so, we have adjourned now, we are continuing the talks at a later date very shortly. But the point is that the talks are ongoing and it is always better for all sides to keep talking with a view to arriving at a very amicable resolution that will be in the longer-term interest for all Nigerians. That is as much as we can say now.” NNPC’s Opportunism It is noteworthy that while the negotiations were ongoing, the NNPCL directed its outlets nationwide to sell fuel between N480 and N570 per litre, an almost 200 per cent increase from the initial price of below N200. The Chief Corporate Communications Officer of NNPC Ltd, Garba Deen Muhammad, said the price adjustment was made in line with “market realities”. Expectedly, the NLC faulted the move by the government, adding that the removal of subsidy or fixing of the price should be done after adequate consultation. “We are worried that the government through the NNPC despite the ongoing meeting of stakeholders in the oil and gas sector to manage the unilateral but unfortunate announcement by the President to withdraw subsidy on petroleum products, went ahead this morning to announce a new regime of prices under a new pricing template,” the labour union said. “This is an ambush and runs against the spirit and principles of social dialogue which remains the best platform available for the resolution of all the issues arising out of the petroleum downstream sector. Government cannot in one breathe be talking about deregulation and at the same time fixing the prices of Petroleum products. This negates the spirit of allowing the operation of the free market unless the government has as usual usurped, captured or become Market forces.” Ajaero called on the government to immediately instruct the NNPCL to withdraw the template to give room for dialogues between the government and labour leaders. Trade Union Congress (TUC) President, Festus Osifo, lamented that there had been no communication between the government and labour leaders. “If you listen to the president during the inauguration at eagles square, he said one of the hallmarks of this administration is going to be dialogue, is going to be consultation, that they are not going to lord it over us,” the TUC official said. He continued: “I’m trying to paraphrase what he said, that he is not going to be a dictator. And what has happened in terms of day has not shown what was written in his address. So, all we said before now was that we ought to have sat down, have this conversation before anything could have happened.” He noted that labour leaders had been open to conversations but that no such communication existed. He said: “So, there was no conversation whatsoever. So, for over a year, there wasn’t formal engagements and formal meetings. And because there wasn’t   formal engagements and formal meetings that is why we found ourselves in this. “If we had met before now, we would have proposed a lot of things. We have experts in our midst who could have proffered some solutions – even the CNG, how it could have been done faster. Because our own is, how do we protect the Nigerian people and the workforce? “So, it’s not about grandstanding but how do we protect the workforce. Clearly, we have stated in our meeting today, let the status quo ante remains while we go back and have conversations with our principal, because the workers are our principal, then we will reconvene for their discussion. But we hope that they will revert to the status quo ante.” As part of measures to calm frayed nerves, the Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited (NNPCL), Mele Kyari, revealed on Thursday that President Bola Tinubu had directed that some palliatives be put in place to cushion the effect of subsidy removal on Nigerians. Kyari disclosed this while fielding questions from journalists at the end of the closed-door meeting with members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) held at the national secretariat of the party. He also noted that NNPCL could not continue to be the sole importer of oil in the country. Kyari said: “There is a gradual process now of making a flexible and single effect regime. Everyone will be able to have access to foreign exchange and there is a transition going on now. And NNPC cannot continue to be sole importer. We know that this is going to vanish and the market will stabilize this.” On the rehabilitation of the four refineries, he said: “There is an ongoing process of rehabilitation and one of the refineries will come on stream this year. The second will come on stream next year and the third will come in 2025.” The NNPCL GMD said it was very obvious that the country could no longer afford subsidy payment and that it had to be removed. According to him, Subsidy bills had piled up. “The country is not able to settle NNPC for the money we are spending on the subsidy. Therefore, pricing this petroleum at the market is the right thing to do at this time. We believe that this will benefit the overall country in the long run and in a long term. I am aware that Mr. President has directed some engagement and some palliatives will be put in place, and I am very sure this will happen.” Kyari explained that there was provision for subsidy in 2022 but added that in 2023, not a single Naira was provided for the purpose of financing the subsidy. His words: “And ultimately while we held back our fiscal obligations, we still have a net balance of over N2.8 trillion that the federation should have given back to the NNPC. For any company, when you have negative N2.8 trillion, there is no company in the whole of Africa that will lend to you. You cannot have receivables. The provision of subsidy is there but absolutely there is no funding for it. It means it is only on paper. So, it doesn’t exist. “So, we no longer can bear it because of liquidity. If we continue, we will run into defaults and the defaults of NNPC is the default of Nigeria. Once NNPC goes into defaults and liquidity, it affects every borrowing done by the country. Even the sub-nationals. Your lenders will come back to you and say your country can no longer pay.” Seeing The Positive Side Kyari pointed out that when the President announced that subsidy was gone, within 24 hours, the bond market appreciated. “It is nothing else other than the statement around subsidy and balancing of the apex market. These two elements are major concerns that every investor all over the world, every partner that we have, is worried about. What is your apex regime and how do you deal with your subsidy? They know that this subsidy constitutes a huge amount of money and this country may not be able to survive and pay its debts. It is very clear that everybody understands this. “Before today, the average subsidy level was N400 billion every month. That means every month you can do one major capital project from money that you do not have. This is really what it means. There is nothing anybody can do about it. There is this common argument that the masses will suffer. That we are going to have problems with them. I agree. That once you increase prices of this proportion, as it has happened, it will have impact on inflation. There is no doubt about it. It is very typical. Also, it goes up and down. The market determines what happens next.” Kyari said the target of the president was to have 7 per cent growth of GDP, adding, “You cannot have this if there was distortion in demands and consumption patterns.” Practical as the Federal Government’s decision on fuel subsidy is, it would seem it will have a hard time convincing workers and other vulnerable sections of the society that it meant well in withdrawing subsidy, given the escalation of costs which is already manifest in every aspect of life, from transportation to food. Confronting The Security Albatross While trying to strike a chord with stakeholders on the new zero-subsidy regime, the Federal Government also engaged key players in the defence and security sector on Thursday in what has been seen as message that the new government would not accept the hitherto poor response of the military and security agencies to the security situation in the country. The president, who met with the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), service chiefs, Inspector General of Police (IGP) and heads of intelligence agencies, promised to rejig the country’s current security architecture. Speaking with newsmen after the two-hour closed-door meeting at the State House, Abuja, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd), said the president, during the meeting called for coordinated efforts among the military and warned that working at cross purposes would not be tolerated in the fight against insecurity. The NSA added that the president charged military officers and men to redouble their efforts and mandated all security agencies to quickly come up with a master plan towards eradicating the security challenges facing the nation. He disclosed that the president at the maiden meeting of the General Security Appraisal Committee (GSAC), consisting of the CDS, service chiefs, IG, and heads of the intelligence agencies, addressed the prevailing issues confronting the nation in terms of insecurity “and also mentioned his own philosophy towards dealing with national security issues”. According to the NSA, “First and foremost, he appreciated the armed forces and intelligence agencies and the wider paramilitary agencies for the work they have been doing in the past couple of years; their sacrifice, their loyalty, and he also paid tribute to those who died in defending this country, from the great big menace of terrorism, insurgency banditry, oil theft, sea robbery, piracy, etc, etc. “The president has made it very, very clear that he’s determined to build on whatever gains have been made and to reverse misfortunes and turn the tide in our favour. As far as he’s concerned, this country should not be on its knees struggling while other countries are walking and achieving greater heights. “The president has revealed that in moving this country forward, he needs the security agencies to redouble their efforts. And he’s also pointed out that his own philosophy is one of contemporary security measures dealing with the requirements of the time. “He has made it very clear that he will not accept a situation in which our fortunes keep declining. And his own trajectory is that national security has to be coordinated. There has to be wherever or whatever it says whether it is a basket system, but there must be a clearing house. “All agencies must work to achieve one single purpose. Working at cross purposes and colliding with each other is not something that he will condone. He has made it very, very clear that all the security agencies must comply with the demands of coordination, with the demands of frequent consultations and also timely reports which must be acted on. “He is going to embark on a lot of reforms in terms of our security architecture, he is going to take a closer look at our misfortunes in the maritime domain, focusing particularly on the issues of oil theft, that he is not going to tolerate. Wherever the problem is coming from it must be crushed as soon as possible. “He has already mandated the security agencies to come up with a blueprint as far as he knows and as far as he’s concerned, he doesn’t have the luxury of time. And whatever changes will be made have to be done as soon as possible. “The president also has decided that whatever ventures the armed forces are going to be engaged in, they must carry along those operatives in the theatre. They must be well fed, well kitted, motivated and given all that they require. “President has said clearly that he will do whatever is within his powers to enable the operational elements but the intelligence agencies must also make their work easy for them by providing the type of intelligence they require to carry out the assignment.” Watching The Optics The decisions taken thus far are attempts by the new administration to fix the long neglected defects of the economy in order to revive it while pushing to make the defence and security mechanism operators in the country to sit up. But commentators note that how much the initial efforts achieve, in terms of economic and security gains, would depend on whatever significant physical inputs the Tinubu administration is able to make in the overall structures of all the sectors in question, including the NNPC as well as military and security agencies. Meanwhile, the other significant decision of the new administration to unify the exchange rate in the forex market is also making impact as players and institutions in the financial sector respond to the possibilities which the end of multiple exchange rates create. Though analysts see a positive impact of the new decision, they find it difficult at the moment to predict the ultimate outcome of the decision on the value of the Naira.    