On Monday, the 12th day of June, 2023, Nigerians woke up to a na­tional multi-media live broadcast by President Ahmed Bola Tinubu. The speech was quite presidential both in its message and in delivery, in commemoration of the nation’s Democracy Day, the official anniversary of June12, 1993, the date Nige­rians overwhelmingly elected Chief MKO Abiola as a constitutional President. The historical significance of that day was not lost on President Tinubu who was actually a prominent participant in that ti­tanic struggle, which was fought against a brutal military regime as a part of the patri­otic effort to actualize the electoral outcome of the June 12, 1993, election that was crimi­nally annulled by the IBB-led junta. Those of us who believed and fought against the neo-fascist military dictators in pursuit of democracy, though were sub­sequently sidelined when democracy was finally won, have refused to give up on the struggle especially as it concerns its histor­ical significance which must never be for­gotten. Whereas Lagos State and a few other surrounding progressive states continued to observe it annually, the federal govern­ment of Nigeria, starting with President Obasanjo’s tenure treated it with unhidden contempt. So, when President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law the Public Holiday (Amend­ment) Act on Monday the 10th of June, 2019, which statutorily abrogated the irrespon­sible misnomer of imposing May 29th as Nigeria’s ‘democracy day’ instead of the historically incontestable June 12, 1993, it was a positive step taken by someone whose administration was generally known for its sluggishness and an uncanny aloofness. That positive act, even though relatively late, still annoyed some irredeemable bigots operating in the country. I recall responding that “since the presi­dential proclamation of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day a few days ago there have been some muted but misguided attempts to rob it of its legal and moral validity through the mischievous deployment of pedantic legalism and the deliberate misreading of the sacred purpose of the Rule of Law as a pliable tool for perpetuating injustice. “While it is conceded, and as conceded it must be, that people are at liberty with­in the expansive parameters of freedom of speech to express themselves whichever way they like on any subject that catches their fancy, it must however be said that it is use­less, tendentious and utterly irresponsible, to want to use the constitutional vehicle of free speech to be spreading falsehood and confusion while pretending to be executing some arcane intellectual project. The legit­imacy of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day should therefore not elicit any debate. “How can anyone rationally challenge an act that is as desirable, as honourable, and as redemptive as the due recognition of June 12 as the nation’s Democracy Day? There has to be some limits to petty politics, revisionist intellectualism or prejudiced legalism mo­tivated largely by petty hatred anchored on ethnic or sectarian bigotry if this country is ever going to fulfil its manifest destiny. I perfectly understand that not everyone was happy that Chief MKO Abiola of bless­ed memory won the June 12 election in the first place and that individuals were indeed responsible for his unfair annulment but to continue to deny June 12 its historical pride of place is ridiculous. For many years, these people were very happy about what they did to Abiola but now that justice has somehow been done to the matter, they have suddenly become very sad.” I went further to argue that “Under Sec­tion 5 of the Nigerian Constitution (similar to Article II of the US Constitution), the “Ex­ecutive Powers of the Federation” are vested in the President and “extend to the execution and maintenance of this Constitution, all laws made by the National Assembly and to all matters with respect to which the Nation­al Assembly has, for the time being, power to make laws”. POLL “The only question that I want to ask the unrepentant rejectionists of June 12 who are today frantically questioning the powers of Mr. President to declare June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day is whether or not he was validly elected and subsequently sworn as the President of Nigeria. If the answer were “yes”, then why would anyone want to deny him his legitimate constitutional preroga­tives to exercise presidential powers to make June 12 the legitimate Democracy Day in Ni­geria instead of the conceptually insulting May 29?” The Public Holiday (Amendment) Act signed by later by President Buhari may well be one of the few redeeming positive achievements in his generally barren reign. Well, all those contentions should now be laid to rest, especially after the heartwarm­ing June 12 Democracy Day speech given by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who was also a principal member of the NADECO war­riors, the pro-democracy group that strug­gled and suffered while battling the military juntas for the restoration of the political mandate given to Chief MKO Abiola in an election that was universally acknowledged as the “freest and fairest” in the annals of Nigeria. Tinubu was deep in the trenches alongside many other patriots some of whom have since passed on and those of us who are still alive. June 12 as a national holiday was some­thing some people once swore would never happen in Nigeria. The same MKO Abiola who they say was “not the messiah” has now been formally acknowledged as such and in perpetuity. Mr. President’s speech on Democ­racy Day carries with it tons of memories, hopes dashed and, thankfully, hope being renewed. Without the incident of June 12, 1993 and the titanic struggles that it generated, the military would not have seen the necessity to hand over power as well as to seek to pla­cate the South-west region where the victim, Chief MKO, hailed from. It was within that set of circumstances that Obasanjo was pre­maturely brought out of prison and hastily put on the campaign trail for the presidential election under the PDP that was peopled by members of the old guard, an election whose outcome had already been programmed in his favour. But like all ingrates, the same Obasanjo who undeservedly benefited from the fall­outs of the June 12 struggles promptly turned his back against Chief MKO Abio­la, who he once infamously lampooned as not being “the Messiah” and went ahead to selfishly proclaim May 29, his own inau­guration day, as Nigeria’s “democracy day” in an unabashed demonstration of self-ag­grandizement. It has been a source of annoyance to some of us that those who inherited the benefits of the June struggles were those who sat on the fence or actually aided and abetted the annulment while those who fought for it were left in the cold. So far, it is only with the election of President Ahmed Bola Tinu­bu that one of those who bore the brunt of the struggle for the actualization of June12 has seen the inside of the Villa in any mean­ingful capacity whereas those who conspired and colluded with the military to hunt down and torment members of NADECO and oth­er prodemocracy groups who were in the academia, the media, artisans, market trad­ers and, of course, the civil society, became mere spectators of the democratic process and because those now enjoying it never fought for it, they immediately embarked on a diabolical relay of grand corruption, nepotism and criminal cluelessness which in turn brought Nigeria to her knees in the fiendish manner of state capturers. Tinubu, who was in the trenches with us, is today, by the grace of God, the lawful oc­cupant of the Presidential Villa. Chief MKO Abiola must be looking down with ultimate satisfaction and fulfilment while watching President Tinubu give a really presidential speech in an unreserved commemoration of the heroism of the June 12 struggles, whose fruits he (MKO) was wickedly denied of by the evil forces that are still resisting progressive constitutional democracy. But as Mr., President said in his extremely ex­tolling speech, “we celebrate a day that has remained a watershed in our history, not just today, but for every June 12, for the endless future …” because June 12 has come to stay! Up June 12!! Up the Federal Republic of Nigeria!!!