The Soy Excellence Center (SEC), a U.S. Soybean Export Council (USSEC) initiative, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) of Nigeria to enhance capacity building and workforce training for early-to-mid career protein professionals and enterprises in Nigeria. Jim Sutter, CEO, USSEC said that USSEC’s Soy Excellence Center programming leverages the knowledge of the U.S. Soy industry and that USSEC is proud to collaborate with ITF to help advance the Nigerian protein industry, delivering a world-class training curriculum to empower trainees with relevant skills and help promote local economic growth. The partnership between the USSEC’s SEC and the Industrial Training Fund of Nigeria, according to him, funded in part by the United Soybean Board, marks a significant milestone in the SEC’s efforts to expand its training curriculum to current and potential trainees throughout Nigeria across the Agri Training Centers. By working together, he noted that the SEC and ITF aim to provide essential training and education to professionals in the protein industry, equipping them with the skills and knowledge necessary to drive innovation and growth in Nigeria’s agricultural sector while supporting the needs of protein enterprises to access world-class curricula. The Director-General and Chief Executive of the ITF represented by Lami Dakwak, Director, Technical & Vocational Skills Training Department, ITF emphasizes that, “This strategic partnership between ITF and USSEC in a curriculum-based skills training program through its Soy Excellence Center allows us to access world-class learning platforms and resources. “The focus on soybean farming, poultry, and aquaculture helps us address food security issues, promote good nutrition, and prepare our people to take on the challenges of trade and commerce. This partnership also delivers solutions to balance Nigeria’s current job creation, employability, and empowerment needs for Nigerian youths while building capacity in the agricultural and protein value chain. She said that the partnership is vital to the vision of a vibrant and rising Nigeria. Kevin Roepke, Regional Director – South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, USSEC said, “This historic agreement is emblematic of the power of public-private partnerships. By leveraging the Soy Excellence Center’s outreach, USSEC and ITF can further achieve greater nutritional security by creating value for Nigeria’s protein sectors. POLL “As 45% of Nigeria’s population consumes well below global protein recommendations, USSEC is confident this partnership will help be a catalyst to grow Nigeria’s animal protein industries.” According to him, this public-private partnership plays a vital role in Nigeria’s strategic planning as it prepares to accommodate a rapidly expanding population. “Currently ranked as the 15th most populous country globally, Nigeria is projected to become the third most populous nation within the next 25 years. Considering this growth, it is imperative to invest in capacity-building and workforce training initiatives to meet the future demands in this sector.” Dr. Michael David, Country Team Lead – Nigeria, USSEC says, “The Soy Excellence Center’s commitment to excellence in training and development, coupled with the support of our partners, signals its dedication to driving sustainable growth and prosperity in Nigeria. “Through collaborative efforts and the implementation of comprehensive training programs, we envision a future where skilled protein professionals contribute significantly to ensure the country’s economic development.” “The SECs remain dedicated to fostering a sustainable and thriving protein industry in Nigeria through comprehensive capacity-building and workforce training initiatives. With nearly 160 participants undergoing primary and intermediary courses in po The Soy Excellence Center (SEC), a U.S. Soybean Export Council (USSEC) initiative, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) of Nigeria to enhance capacity building and workforce training for early-to-mid career protein professionals and enterprises in Nigeria. Jim Sutter, CEO, USSEC said that USSEC’s Soy Excellence Center programming leverages the knowledge of the U.S. Soy industry and that USSEC is proud to collaborate with ITF to help advance the Nigerian protein industry, delivering a world-class training curriculum to empower trainees with relevant skills and help promote local economic growth. The partnership between the USSEC’s SEC and the Industrial Training Fund of Nigeria, according to him, funded in part by the United Soybean Board, marks a significant milestone in the SEC’s efforts to expand its training curriculum to current and potential trainees throughout Nigeria across the Agri Training Centers. By working together, he noted that the SEC and ITF aim to provide essential training and education to professionals in the protein industry, equipping them with the skills and knowledge necessary to drive innovation and growth in Nigeria’s agricultural sector while supporting the needs of protein enterprises to access world-class curricula. The Director-General and Chief Executive of the ITF represented by Lami Dakwak, Director, Technical & Vocational Skills Training Department, ITF emphasizes that, “This strategic partnership between ITF and USSEC in a curriculum-based skills training program through its Soy Excellence Center allows us to access world-class learning platforms and resources. “The focus on soybean farming, poultry, and aquaculture helps us address food security issues, promote good nutrition, and prepare our people to take on the challenges of trade and commerce. This partnership also delivers solutions to balance Nigeria’s current job creation, employability, and empowerment needs for Nigerian youths while building capacity in the agricultural and protein value chain. She said that the partnership is vital to the vision of a vibrant and rising Nigeria. Kevin Roepke, Regional Director – South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, USSEC said, “This historic agreement is emblematic of the power of public-private partnerships. By leveraging the Soy Excellence Center’s outreach, USSEC and ITF can further achieve greater nutritional security by creating value for Nigeria’s protein sectors. “As 45% of Nigeria’s population consumes well below global protein recommendations, USSEC is confident this partnership will help be a catalyst to grow Nigeria’s animal protein industries.” According to him, this public-private partnership plays a vital role in Nigeria’s strategic planning as it prepares to accommodate a rapidly expanding population. “Currently ranked as the 15th most populous country globally, Nigeria is projected to become the third most populous nation within the next 25 years. Considering this growth, it is imperative to invest in capacity-building and workforce training initiatives to meet the future demands in this sector.” Dr. Michael David, Country Team Lead – Nigeria, USSEC says, “The Soy Excellence Center’s commitment to excellence in training and development, coupled with the support of our partners, signals its dedication to driving sustainable growth and prosperity in Nigeria. “Through collaborative efforts and the implementation of comprehensive training programs, we envision a future where skilled protein professionals contribute significantly to ensure the country’s economic development.” “The SECs remain dedicated to fostering a sustainable and thriving protein industry in Nigeria through comprehensive capacity-building and workforce training initiatives. With nearly 160 participants undergoing primary and intermediary courses in poultry and feed milling courses in just this year, and with the active participation of nearly 360 protein professionals in our bespoke digital community, the SECs are democratizing access to our excellent and learned course advisors, other like-minded protein professionals in Nigeria and around the world. “This access to knowledge anytime, anywhere, digitally is crucial to scaling the vision and commitment of this MoU in support of a rising Nigeria,” he added. ultry and feed milling courses in just this year, and with the active participation of nearly 360 protein professionals in our bespoke digital community, the SECs are democratizing access to our excellent and learned course advisors, other like-minded protein professionals in Nigeria and around the world. “This access to knowledge anytime, anywhere, digitally is crucial to scaling the vision and commitment of this MoU in support of a rising Nigeria,” he added.