AWKA – The Chief Whip of the 8th legislature of Anambra State, Barrister Jude Chimezie Ngobili has said that he will deploy his office to ensure a rancour-free legislature as the House of Assembly reconvenes for plenary on 11th July, 2023. Ngobili who also represents Ihiala 1 state constituency in the 8th assembly, told our correspondent that as a lawyer of over 30 years of legal practice, he would ensure harmony amongst dissenting voices and equally ensure that constructive criticism is upheld during legislative sessions, stressing that the Anambra project is a collective responsibility. The Chief Whip said that the 8th legislative assembly is robust ; that the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has 16 members and other political parties made up the rest. He said he would ensure that all the members of the 8th legislature cue in into project Anambra so that they look at political party as a vehicle but the job to see that Anambra progresses would be the focal point for everybody. Ngobili said if anyone is criticising, such criticism must be constructive and must be tailored towards realising the vision for project Anambra as expanded by the governor Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo, whom he described as a very hard-working and visionary governor. He said insecurity really distorted progress in Ihiala 1state constituency but expressed happiness that insecurity is being tackled vigorously in the area, stressing that if security is gotten right, the job of representation will be visible. Ngobili emphasized that security is on the front burner of his stewardship for Ihiala 1 state constituency, adding that security for the citizenry, participation of the government in provision of security and provision of infrastructure will all be done simultaneously. Ngobili therefore assured the people of Ihiala 1 state constituency of quality and efficient representation in the 8th assembly. POLL He also stated that Governor Soludo is moving step by step in his developmental approach. That the way the governor is going and the rate he is going, the presence of the solution government will be felt all over the state including Ihiala 1 state constituency.