Emirates Airlines has recommended passengers to take time to plan their travel journey this June and July, as departure numbers increase significantly just before Eid al Adha on 24 June, and again on the 1 July as many families set off on summer holidays. With more than 80,000 passengers expected to depart Dubai on busy days, Emirates advises passengers to arrive at the airport up to three hours before a flight, take note of their boarding time to ensure they reach the departure gate on time, and take advantage of multiple check-in and baggage drop options to reduce time at the airport. Other top tips offered its passengers to Fly Better with Emirates include checking in and getting their digital boarding pass in advance, dropping luggage off beforehand , thereby avoiding airport queues and generally enjoying the world-class airport experience Passengers are encouraged to download the Emirates app on their mobile phone and are reminded that when departing from Dubai, boarding passes are now issued in digital format on the app, or by email when passengers check in online via Emirates.com. Both options allow customers to book and change flights, download a digital boarding pass for most destinations, check what meals will be served onboard, book a chauffeur drive service and even pre-select and plan movies to watch via ice inflight entertainment. Online check in and app check in are both open 48 hours ahead of flight departure time. To save time, Emirates passengers can drop off luggage at the airport the night before travel at no charge. Passengers who are departing from Dubai can check-in early and drop off their bags 24 hours before departure, or 12 hours before departure if flying to the US or Tel Aviv. Then closer to departure time, they can arrive at the airport and proceed directly to immigration. For a slick start to summer travels, passengers can try the brand-new City Check‑in and Travel Store in ICD Brookfield Place, Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC). Conveniently check in, drop luggage and enjoy the glamorous surroundings, as early as 24 hours and up to 4 hours before a flight.