LAGOS – MTN Foundation Thursday officially commissioned renovated Physics, Chemistry, and Biology Laboratories at the Queens College, Yaba, Lagos. Recall that the project, which is part of the second phase of the Foundation’s Science and Technology Laboratory initiative, is designed to improve the teaching standards and learning outcomes of science subjects in public secondary schools. Speaking at the commissioning of the laboratories, the Chairman of MTN Foundation, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi, said the foundation had been involved in making lives and people better in four significant areas of education, health, and economic empowerment. “Today we are happy to have commissioned the Biology, Chemistry, and Physics laboratories at Queens College to produce students who can cope with the demands of the future. “The Foundation has refurbished the Chemistry, Physics and Biology Science laboratories covering the installation of laboratory furniture, solar-powered borehole, and alternative power solution, and supply of laboratory equipment and consumables. “We must expose and support students to access quality education in the sciences and technology. We made a nationwide advertisement to schools to show interest. “We received hundreds of applications and we are happy that of the four that we have so far selected, Queens College Yaba is one of them. As you can see the students, teachers, and the school management are happy about the upgrade of the laboratories and science equipment. “In the course of the project, we discovered discovered there was an electricity deficiency at the college so we have provided solar to power the equipment with accompanying inverters. There was also the need for water in the laboratories, and we have also dug a big borehole and apart from servicing the laboratories will also take care of water challenges at the college. We are happy because the students are excited, the teachers are smiling and the principal is equally happy with the project,” the Chairman said. POLL Earlier, Mrs. Ifueko Omoigun Okaun, Director of MTN Foundation lauded the investment in the Nigerian child now and for the future. “The effect of what the foundation is investing in the education space may not be seen immediately but in the next couple of years, the impact will be evident as the products begin to impact society. The Director, MTN Nigeria who is also the President of the Queens College Old Girls Association described the project as a huge legacy investment, saying the way it was structured confers the responsibility of ensuring its sustainability on her shoulders. Ifueko, the outgoing president of the Old Girls Association said learning becomes fantastic when students can visualize what the teacher teaches, saying without standard laboratories science education becomes a challenging standard for effective learning. In the same vein, Mrs. Odunayo Sanya, the Executive Secretary, MTN Foundation assured me that the telecommunication firm would not leave any stone unturned in the education sector. In separate remarks, Mr. Andrew Adejo, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education and Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu commended the intervention project embarked upon by MTN Foundation in some parts of the country.