LAGOS – By all indications, it seems the devaluation of the naira by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in a bid to unify the foreign ex­change market may lead to anoth­er round of mergers and acquisi­tions in the banking sector. The dollar closed as at the time of going to press on Monday at N780 at the I&E window while it stood at between N770 and N790 at the black market. According to analysts at Proshare, shareholders of banks have taken a side glance at bank capital as the recent naira harmonisation of official exchange rates has led to a depreciation of the local currency and dis­counted the dollar value of Nigerian bank capital. The consequence, ac­cording to observers, is a need to re-establish the dollar value of bank equity to support their ability to finance large ticket trans­actions and protect their long and short-term credit ratings. Of particular con­cern is the relative size of the local tier-1 capital of banks. The recent Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) official exchange rate harmonisa­tion has hacked the dollar value of deposit money bank’s (DMB) capital at the knees. From a $250 million in 2005, the dollar value of bank capital in 2023 is $33.3 million at an exchange rate of N750/US$. The exchange rate in 2005 was N100/US$. Following banking re­forms in 2004, minimum capital requirement rose from N2 billion to N25 bil­lion with naira at N100/US$ to meet a minimum capital base of $250 million. The recapitalisation led to the shrinking of the sector resulting in 89 banks consolidating into 25 larg­er institutions as banks merged due to meeting the minimum capital base re­quirement. This, according to a few analysts, perhaps wrongly, suggests that Nigerian banks are now undercapitalised. POLL However, considering the fragile nature of the domestic financial market, analysts may have seen the need to initially increase banks’ equity base to N100 billion. The upward adjust­ment would strengthen tier 1 capital, enable banks to fund larger activities and support faster-paced gross domestic product (GDP) growth. Analysts at Proshare said, “The depreciation of the naira means a tempo­rary slashing of the coun­try’s dollar GDP number and a recalibration of ex­pected GDP growth. “However, this is not a problem. A focus on pro­ductivity, growth, and de­velopment in that order would quickly correct the situation”. In the alternative, the analysts suggested that the banks should raise their capital base to match prospective GDP growth while, in the interim, “the CBN should be made to re­duce the cash reserve ratio (CRR) from 32.5 percent to 20 percent to allow banks to extend further credit, re­duce interest rates, and cre­ate opportunities for man­ufacturing sector growth. “Cutting off the head to deal with a headache is nev­er a pragmatic approach to solving problems. The CBN may need to ease off the CRR throttle to allow the economic engine to purr ahead nicely. “All banks will require a fresh injection of capital to meet new capital require­ments. Tier 1 banks with dual listing appear to have the favourable advantage of leveraging quick access to capital market funding rela­tive to smaller institutions”. Reacting, Stephen Ilo­ba, a financial analysts, said the foreign exchange market is proving the gov­ernment wrong as the an­ticipated crash in dollar value has not materialised as predicted and this may have its consequences. “The consequences, according to Iloba, is that banks will be forced to look inwards to solve their re­capitalisation puzzle. We may likely see mergers of like minds and acquisition of weak ones by the capital­ised ones”.