ABUJA – Ahead of the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened that the opposition parties will set the pace during the election of the leadership of the parliament on the 13th of June. This is even as the party pointed out that the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are derailing democracy by their actions in the past few days. Addressing newsmen at a press conference in Abuja on Thursday, the spokesman of the party, Hon. Debo Ologunagba said that the opposition will deployed its strength maximally during the Inauguration of the 10th National Assembly. Recall that while Godswill Akpabio, Abdulaziz Yari, Uzor Orji Kalu and Osita Izunasor are gunning for the President of the Senate, Mukhtar Betera, Idris Wase, Tajudeen Abbas and others are gunning for the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The party threatened that the APC would find itself a minority party on the floor of both houses on Tuesday, having entered an agreement with other opposition parties ahead of the inauguration of the parliament. Although the party spokesman didn’t reveal, who is the candidate of the opposition parties, but he disclosed that lawmakers elected on the platform of the PDP are united and that opposition parties are ready to leverage on their numbers to have a say on who becomes the Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives. He said: “With regard to the current race for the Presiding Officers of the National Assembly, it is instructive to note that the opposition parties put together form a strong majority in the National Assembly and we are very mindful of that. “The PDP leadership is working together with our members-elect and opposition parties in the two chambers. POLL “Irrespective of the ongoing and claims in the media, I want to inform you that the PDP has a clear direction which we hold close to our chest, our members are united in that direction and it will show on the floor of both Houses of the National Assembly on Tuesday, June 13, 2023. “In all, we do not discountenance the fact that the opposition parties have the majority in the National Assembly which we are ready to deploy maximally “We are not taking our eyes off the fact that the process of the 2023 Presidential election is still on-going at the Presidential Election Petition Court and other Election Petition Tribunals across the country.” Speaking on the conduct of APC and INEC on the cases at the Election Petition Court, the party spokesman noted the undesirable conduct of the ruling party and the commission to derail the cause of justice in the Presidential Election Petition Court and various election tribunal across the country. He frowned at INEC’s objection to its evidence in court, adding that the commission is seeking to frustrate the court and derail the cause of justice He condemned APC’s attack on PDP members at Governorship election petition Tribunal premises in Ogun, Nasarawa, Kaduna, adding, “APC plots to sustain the attacks with the intention to instill fear on judiciary so as to derail the cause of justice. “This justifies PDP demand for live coverage of the tribunal proceeding as party members would have been watching at home instead of going to the premises.” The party, however, demanded the immediate transfer of the Ogun and Nasarawa Election Tribunals to Abuja for safety and guarantee of justice.