ABUJA  – The House of Representatives Speaker, Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, has assured that the 10th House of Representatives would work for all Nigerians. He said the overwhelming mandate given to him by his colleagues would spur him to work assiduously with every member to achieve a Nigeria that every citizen desires. According to a statement is­sued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Speaker Abbas spoke over the weekend in Abuja when he led a delega­tion of members, alongside his deputy, Rt. Hon. Benjamin Kalu, to thank the First Lady, Sen. Oluremi Tinubu, for the support given to them to emerge as the presiding offi­cers of the 10th House. He said they did not take the First Lady’s support for granted, which was why they resolved to visit and thank her, saying the 10th House would give the President Bola Ahmed Tinubu-led administration all the support to succeed. The statement further quot­ed Abbas as saying that the current administration would have a smooth sail as the pres­ident, the vice president, the first lady, the chief of staff to the president, the deputy chief of staff to the president and the secretary to the govern­ment of the federation were all members of the National Assembly, a development that would make them relate with the parliament from the point of knowledge. “This is the first time we are having this kind of ar­rangement in our history,” the speaker said, adding that the 10th House would ensure that the government succeeds. “Today is a very historic day. We have come to thank you for your support. We were here be­fore to seek your support and prayers. Here we are today; we have won. It was through your collective efforts—Mr. Presi­dent, yourself, governors and all the other stakeholders. “We have emerged in an unprecedented manner—353 out of 359 voted for me. It has never happened in our history. Our leadership is a leadership for all Nigerians. POLL “This is your leadership. We’ll collaborate and partner, particularly in one area that you requested last time, which is to carry the women along,” the statement quoted the speak­er as saying. He further stated that the 10th House would ensure that gender-based bills being passed by the 9th Assembly but not signed into law were recon­sidered and passed by the 10th House. The First Lady, Sen. Olure­mi Tinubu, in her remarks, according to the statement, congratulated the speaker and his deputy on their victories, saying with the caliber of lead­ership and membership of the 10th Assembly, Nigeria would be great again. “We didn’t come out to play. We came out to build and unite the old path that generations will take. Nigeria deserves all that we can put to keep it back on its feet. We have a great na­tion,” she said. “Your victory, it’s God that did it because without God, even if we put all our strength, it won’t happen. By the grace of God, we will work,” she said, calling on other political parties to join hands and work for Nige­ria, the First Lady was quoted. The statement further quot­ed the Deputy Speaker, Kalu, as saying earlier that the visit was to thank the first lady and assure the first family of their readiness to work with the executive for the growth and development of Nigeria.