BENIN – The trustees and members of the Benin Development Union (BeDU) has reacted to Esan traditional rulers’ visit to the Oba of Benin over the Edo 2024 governorship election, describing the royal visit as “something typifying hypocrisy and an attempt to drag the revered Oba of Benin into the murky waters of partisan politics” This was contained in a statement signed by Dr. Orumwense Aiyudubie, Secretary General, Benin Development Union (BeDU). According to the statement, “we read with utter consternation, the ultimate objective of the royal visit by traditional rulers of Esan extraction to the Oba of Benin last week, as something typifying hypocrisy. “They had sought to drag the revered Oba of Benin into the murky waters of partisan politics, apparently, with a view to reawake the old feud between the Oba and the outgoing Governor. “Every student of our contemporary history knows that since the return to democracy in 1999, no ethnic nationality has been deprived or outrightly excluded from seeking the gubernatorial primaries in our multiparty democracy. “So, why now ? Since we announced the endorsement of the quadruplet nobles of Benin extraction for the gubernatorial race namely Osarodion Ogie Esq, Engr. Chris Osa Ogiemwonyi, Dr. Solomon Iyobosa Edebiri MON, and Mr. Erhabor Emokpae – we have been under intense pressure with huge financial offers to rescind our decision and back a candidate from another senatorial district, we rebuffed the offer as it is totally sacrilegious to probate and reprobate over such an overwhelming ethnic nationality resolve. “The Esan people are no doubt a unique part of Benin historicity, with profound cultural solidarity with the Benin monarchy in very perilous times like the 1897 British invasion. Onojie Ogbidi the astute 19th century Onojie of Uromi rallied Oba Ovonramwen at great risks to his own life and the destiny of his own Dukedom as it were. We will continue to relish the symbiotic sociocultural bond between the Benins and Esan people. “Although in very recent.past, the Benins were subjugated under the apron string of powerful political leaders from other senatorial districts, we hold no grudge against anyone or group for that era of tyranny of the minority against the Benins. POLL “We are assuring our Esan traditional rulers, that the Benin Development Union (BeDU) will not wage any form of political antagonism against gubernatorial aspirants of Esan extraction as far as the 2024 gubernatorial race is concerned. “Our endorsed quadruplet candidates are nobles in upbringing, character and reputation. “All candidates of Esan and Benin extraction are beseeched to be persuasive in the conducts, before, during and after the gubernatorial candidates, even as we urge the four major parties – APC, PDP, LP and NNPP to especially consider our endorsed quadruplet candidates”.BeDU declared.