Dr. Felix Nwosu is a seasoned public affairs analyst. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on some of the actions taken so far by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, among other issues. Excerpt: The proceedings of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal have reached a critical stage. With the way things are, do you see the rulings being different from the declarations of the independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)? As long as they were not declared as winners of the presidential election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), I do not see them winning the cases at the tribunal and going on to win also at the Supreme Court. Note that INEC has the final say in election matters. In the history of Nigeria, I have not seen people win the presidential elections at the courts. Bola Tinubu has already hit the ground running, making appointments and taking decisions. Tinubu’s actions cannot be revoked. It will cause a lot of confusion in the country if the tribunal or the Supreme Court rules otherwise. In my view, the election cases ought to have ended before inauguration. Tinubu is now the Number One citizen recognised all over the world. In advanced democracies, election cases are concluded before inauguration. Even if the case goes to the Supreme Court, Abubakar Atiku and Peter Obi cannot rule the country. It is not too late for Atiku and Obi to withdraw. Presidential elections are different from the governorship and legislative elections which the courts can easily overturn and the people will accept. Right from the beginning of the democratic dispensation, the losers always go to court, but nothing good ever came from such actions. Former President Goodluck Jonathan was wise and did not dispute Muhammadu Buhari’s victory. Peter Obi should know that what happened to him in Anambra when he became governor through the courts cannot happen in the Presidential election. Atiku is a specialist in going to court and losing. Let Peter Obi and Atiku prepare for the next election and see if they can win. Judging by the actions taken so far by President Bola Tinubu, what type of president do you think he will be? Tinubu has guts. He does not look at anybody’s face. He did it in Lagos. He has the character of putting together a good work force. But, with the few appointments he has made so far, I have not seen the federal character principle. Those on board now are more politicians. He is the only NADEO person in power. But, so far, there is no imprint of NADECO in his government. There are some loopholes and fear of the unknown. However, I can see the influence of politics, ethnicity and religion. I am yet to see a Nigerian vision in his appointments. My fear is that he may continue with Buhari’s vision. The National Assembly leaders are his appointees. What he has done so far is his political vision, but they lack the national vision. Tinubu should use his appointments to correct the loopholes and mistakes of Buhari. He should give us a Nigerian vision in line with what NADECO stands for. If there is balance, there will be peace and progress. Nigerian vision should manifest in whatever Tinubu is doing. The removal of petroleum subsidies has led to an unprecedented rise in the cost of living. What is your view on the action and what should the government do to cushion the effects? As I said earlier, Tinubu is a man with guts. He is courageous. Even with his military background, President Muhammadu Buhari could not do it. Removal of subsidy is long overdue. While Nigerians were suffering, our neighbouring countries were the ones enjoying the benefits of the oil subsidy. As he has been advised, Tinubu should provide palliatives for Nigerians. What are those palliatives? That is what Nigerians are waiting for. He should act and make things easier for Nigerians. All the bureaucracy in power should also be broken so that Nigeria will move forward. He should set a standard for Nigerians and this is one of the ways of handling things and breaking corruption. Removal of petroleum subsidy is one great thing he has done. He has to deliver Nigerians. Mandela used one term to deliver South Africa. Tinubu should give Nigerians real change. There was a reason God gave the All Progressives Congress (APC) the opportunity to rule Nigeria. If they fail again, another opportunity may come for real change. But, it may bring judgment to the party. If Tinubu misses it now, it will be too costly. We want to use his brain, not his age. He should use his government to change the situation all over the nation. Considering how the 10th National Assembly emerged, do you see it becoming another rubber stamp body like the 9th National Assembly? POLL I cannot see this National Assembly, either the Upper or the Lower chambers, rubbishing him. They cannot work against his presidency. If they do, Nigerians will not make progress. The interference by Tinubu in the selection of the National Assembly leadership is not strange. It is part of politics to make governance easy for him and for his political vision to sail through. If he fails to interfere, the legislature will be a stumbling block to him. Also, if they bring up any policy from the legislature, he too will stand against it and this will not augur well for thenaion. His interference is to ensure balance in policy formulation and execution during his administration. So, in picking more officials of the National Assembly, there should be Federal Character. For now, what exists does not show Federal Character. Appointment of other Principal Officers like Majority and Minority Leaders, Majority and Minority Whips, Committee Chairmanship, ministerial positions, etc, should show Federal Character and carry every section along. However, I don’t see the 10th National Assembly as a rubber stamp. But, they will cooperate with the Executive. There will be understanding between the legislature and the Executive. This will augur well for democracy and the people of Nigeria. How do you see the plan of President Bola Tinubu to have 20 special Advisers? Don’t you see the action as running an expensive administration considering the fact that he will still have 36 ministers and a retune of Senior Special Assistants, and other top appointees? We are not talking of indebtedness. 20 Special Advisers are not too much for a president. They are his eyes and ears. He can even need 36 Advisers if he so desires. I expect these Special Advisers to be technocrats. But, the problem I see is that he may be bringing in cronies and those who sponsored him. I want him to bring Nigeria to be an enviable nation. We need results. I am not against the number of people he engages. What matters is the delivery. We do not want people who will be serving personal interests, but those who will advance the nation. What is your take on the arrest and investigation of the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele and the EFCC Chairman, Bawa? All the people that ran the nation in the past administration grounded the country. Hey brought huge debts, brought confusion. It was the way they ran the country that led to ENDSARS, a revolution that has not been seen before, from the CBN, EFCC, ICPC and all the agencies of government, they all need to be probed. The nation’s money did not just grow wings. They were stolen through these agencies. I believe Tinubu is aware of all these. The past government was spending money and making appointments till the last minutes. They still have watchdogs in government. More people need to be sacked the EFCC made to recover monies they embezzled. The EFCC is used to pursue political and business opponents instead of bursting financial crimes. Emefiele created hardship for Nigerians with their monies. He saw himself as a god because he had access to the president who does not know how things are done normally. Nobody said he should not change the Naira. But, he should not have put everybody in hardship. Even with the huge amount he spent to change the money,, where are the new currencies? How do you see the recent retirement of Service Chiefs and the appointment of new ones? That is how the government is run in our climes. The former ones were loyal to the former government. A president appoints those he trusts and who will help to run his vision. It happens even in state governments. It is only when one is re-elected that one re-appoints people who you feel are capable. Tinubu himself has said that the last government did not perform and they did not want him to come on board. He has put those who will help him run his vision and repair the nation and the former Service Chiefs were there and the nation failed. These new ones should know that Nigerians are watching them. Tinubu should also know that Nigerians are watching him. The time for blame games is over. He cannot at this time blame former president Jonathan as Buhari did. I believe, by his pedigree, he will perform. A lot of money had been spent on these Generals. It is good they are retired and new ones who are effective and have ideas are appointed to their positions. Nuhu Ribadu, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police has been appointed the National Security Adviser. Do you think he will enjoy the cooperation of the Service Chiefs who are military men? We should look at Ribadu’s pedigree when he was the EFCC Chairman. He was the one who really fought corruption. Tinubu knows Ribadu well and how effective he is. Ribadu knows he has unfinished works. He needs to purge these people with big tummies of corruption. He is not there to monitor the Service Chiefs, but to coordinate intelligence for the president. Although military tradition respects seniority, the Service Chiefs know how effective Ribadu is and the fact that he represents the President and Commander-in-Chief. You are from Imo State. How do you see the Imo governorship election? Do you think Governor Hope Uzodimma will retain his position not minding the popularity of PDP and Labour Party in the state? When you look at the politics of Imo State, there have always been ups and downs. But, the person that made the office of the governor in Imo stable was Rochas Okorocha who spent eight years in office. But, Uzodimma has been a senator for a long time. He sustained the position of senator until he became the governor. So he knows everything about Imo State. In the coming election, Uzodimma will win either with his power of incumbency or the federal might as an APC governor. Other parties in Imo are in crisis and the members are jumping ship. Security is a federal issue and no one can blame Uzodimma for the security situation in Imo State. But he has to do something about it because without peace, there cannot be progress. What is your advice to Nigerians at this critical period? My advice to Nigerians is to give every government support and opportunity to perform but, if they come up with bad policy, we will all rise up to protest so that they will drop it. Protest is better than agitation. The government must come up with people-oriented policies while the Labour Movement and civil society should also have a people-oriented mindset. Anti-people government is ungodly. We are not under dictatorship.