The Department of State Services (DSS) on Thursday called for vigilance prior to the Eid celebrations next week, saying reports had indicated plans to attack wor­ship and recreational centres before and during the festivities. It said this is evident in the recovery of primed IEDs among suspected terrorists. A statement by Peter Afunanya, spokesman of the DSS, said operators and patrons of public places includ­ing markets, malls etc are advised to be watchful and report any suspicious movements and persons to the relevant security agencies. It noted that the Service will continue to partner with sister agencies for neces­sary proactive drills to frustrate crimi­nals and their activities. Afunanya also said that a joint security team comprising the DSS, Nigerian Army and Police apprehended Abubakar Muhammad (aka Abu Direba), a suspected gunrunner, in an oper­ations carried out in Nasarawa and Kogi states. According to him, the team arrested Muhammad on June 19, along the Abuja-Keffi Expressway in Keffi LGA of Nasarawa State. Afunanya said during the operation, the team seized 486 rounds of 7.62 x39mm calibre ammunition; 22 primed IEDs, the sum of N31,500, and one Volkswa­gen Golf vehicle with registration number, RBC202XA. He said that in another joint operation in the early hours of Thursday, a team raided the hide­out of Kabir Bala (aka Okwo), one time jail breaker and notorious gang leader in Ejule, Ofu LGA of Kogi State. POLL Afunanya said Okwo and his gang members engaged the troops in a gun duel during which he was neutralised. “Others, however, fled the area. Items recovered at the scene were one AK47 rifle with three ful­ly loaded magazines, six locally fabricated weapons, two phones and charms”, he said. Many Feared Killed As Gunmen Invade Kogi Community Meanwhile, some gunmen have reportedly invaded Ejule town in Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi State, killing resi­dents in the process. It was learnt that the attack started around 3a.m on Thursday. A commercial motorcyclist and the wife of a youth leader in the community were reportedly killed in the attack. The okada rider was said to have been hit by a stray bullet while the woman was said to be looking for her husband when she was hit and died on the spot. Also, a family house in the town was reported to have been set ablaze by the hoodlums. “I cannot tell you the number of the dead now. Two have been identified, an okada rider and a wife of a known youth in the town have been confirmed dead as a re­sult of the early morning attack. “The situation is still tense, but more dead bodies are sight­ed on the streets. No one can go out now,” a resident said on the telephone. Commander Jerry Omada­ra (rtd), the Security Adviser to the Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, confirmed the in­cident but said he had yet to get the details. “Someone just drew my atten­tion to the incident. I am yet to get the details. I will get back to you shortly,” he said.