Officially, another bright colour has been added to the ever-enviably shining feathers of the Lagos State University, (LASU) even in its gleeful multifacet celebrations of the moment. The National Universities Commission (NUC) has just declared this Citadel of Learning With a Vision as the current trailblaizer in digital cum excellent academic delivery in the Nigerian comity of varsities. Making the official declaration on Tuesday, June 20, 2023 was Prof Abubakar Adamu Rasheed, the Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC) while making his opening remarks heralding LASU’s 26th convocation lecture at the crowd-exhausted1000-seater Buba Marwa Convocation Hall of LASU main campus, Ojo, Lagos. He hailed LASU for being a trailblaizer in digital-driven education in Nigeria, even as he affirmatively revealed that out of the 71 programmes currently being run by the institution, “seventy minus one (69) of the programmes are already fully accredited by the NUC. The frank-talking topnotch of the Commission congratulated the university’s authorities led by Prof Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello. “Two revolutions started globally about two decades ago and were changing the ways people live. POLL “They are Digital and Genetic Revolutions, The digital drives the generic. “LASU is certainly, definitely one of the best universities in Nigeria and a leader in digital-driven education. So, I congratulate you.”; the NUC boss exuded. Delivering the 26th convocation of the globally top-rated Best State University in Nigeria also in the commemorative celebration of its 40th anniversary, Sonny Echono, the Executive Secretary of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund, (TETFund), disclosed that the Fund has spent over N27.6bn on ICT-support intervention programmes on Nigerian tertiary institutions within seven years. In the special lecture titled: “The Impact Of Digitalization On Higher Education In A Digital Age.” hinted that the Fund has set up a National Knowledge Bank where theses of beneficiaries of its programmes would be stored in digital form for easy accessibility from anywhere in the world. The TETFUND boss also noted that the bank would help many people have access to education among other numerous benefits. Echono stated “Graduates now need a mix of skills more than in the past. Incidentally, most of the skills are hinged on digital literacy. Some companies have left the country because of the lack of people with the basic skills required in their sectors despite the high rate of unemployment in the country. ” To drive this home, 87 percent of McKinsey Global Survey respondents say they experience such skill gap too. The challenges of higher education are similar across other nations. We must review our curriculum and ensure that as we give people technical knowledge, we also give them real-life business practices to guide them in life. *We have developed a digital literacy roadmap, as there is the urgent need to reimagine our education system and review our curriculum periodically, as we experience changes in the world daily,”. This is even as he also disclosed that the TETFUND had tripled its allocations to ICT projects in the last few years, leading to the training of no fewer than 19,000 people on digital literacy. He added that digital education would reduce teaching and learning  costs, ease the access to education, and improve efficiency. The NUC boss said a comprehensive review of the curriculum in Nigerian universities had been done by the Commission. In her welcome address, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, the Vice Chancellor of LASU, noted that the university, by organising such lectures, with the intent to provoke debates on topical issues. 