The presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) during the just conclud­ed 2023 general election, Prince Adewole Ebenezer Adebayo, has described the labour unions attitude towards the fuel subsi­dy debacle as hypocritical. He said the unions were in support of the three major parties (especially the Labour Party that is supposed to be pro-workers’ interest) that promised to remove the fuel subsidy if voted in office. He wondered why the same unions, especially the Trade Union Congress TUC, is crit­icising the pronouncement of President Bola Ahmed Tinu­bu’s removal of the subsidy. According to him, “They supported the removal of the subsidy with the politi­cal parties. They (labour) are now looking for negotiation and discussion, meanwhile, when the government that made that policy was around; they didn’t go for negotiation.” Adebayo said it was too late for the labour unions to com­plain about fuel subsidy remov­al when they should have tack­led the Buhari administration while he was in office. According to him: “He wondered why they were complaining now when, in actual fact, all of them, in­cluding the Labour Party, all supported the removal of fuel subsidy. “TUC and the Labour Par­ty were not overseas when the Appropriation Act 2023 was passed. Where were they to engage on that issue? When the debate was still in the open as to whether we should form a government that would re­move subsidies or not, they went with the people that said they would remove subsidies. For as long as we continue and allow people to take advantage of the leadership of Nigerian workers, we would not address this issue,” he said. He noted that there were two positions the union can take on subsidy and they were on the side of removal. They were also around when the immediate past government passed the PIA as PEGAS­SAN, the industrial union representing them, was also in support of it. PEGASSAN met in Calabar and said the subsidy must go. In the course of electioneering, the Appro­priation Act was passed. They didn’t fight or argue with the government, and the govern­ment passed the law. POLL “The only reason why we are discussing this now is because of what I consider a mistake from the president to make a policy statement on such a sensitive issue in an unclear way during his inauguration’s address which has now caused some panic before the policy could even take effect”.