Sunshine State football club may perform outstandingly in the next football season if the statement ofOndo State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Bamidele Ologunloluwa is anything to go by. The state commissioner told sports writers in the state on Thursday in Akure, the state capital, during a parley that the management team was poised to do everything legitimate to ensure Sunshine Stars perform outstandingly in the Nigeria Premier Football League NPFL Super six in Lagos and subsequent leagues in the next season. Reeling out the strategy to be apied by the management, Ologunloluwa disclosed that the players and officials of the club would be motivated through different incentives to perform very well at the competition that would decide the 2022/23 NPFL winner. Besides prompt payment of salaries of the players, their match bonuseshavr been increased to motivate them In the Super Six, Sunshine Stars, Rivers United, Bendel Insurance, Enyimba FC, Lobi Stars and Remo Stars are the clubs that would slog it out with one another in the competition. The commissioner said: “We seek the support of all football stakeholders, including Sports journalists for us to emerge victorious at the competition.” Ologunloluwa, who commended the state Deputy Governor Lucky Aiyedatiwa and the Interim Management Committee for providing a good template on which his administration is working on, he assured that all stakeholders would be involved in ensuring the success of the club at the competition. He said: “I have been often time be misunderstood over the sale of Sunshine Stars, what the government said was to partner with the interested investors and not the outright sale of the club. POLL “What we need is an investor that would partner with us to reduce the financial burden from the government . “The name and the home ground of the team must remain, we are of the view that government should not be involved in sports business 100 percent. “For the umpteenth time , I’m calling on the private individuals and corporate bodies to join hands with the government to develop sports in all facet.”