One of the gunmen, who stormed a community in Akure and abducted two persons, has been arrested and paraded by the Western Nigeria Security Network (NSNW) otherwise known as Amotekun Corps. Parading the suspect at the Command Headquarters of the formation at Alagbaka, Akure, Ondo State capital on Wednesday, the Commander, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye disclosed that the suspect was arrested shortly after the five gunmen kidnapped two people in the community. He said: “Just yesterday, we got a distress call from a community in Akure, that two of their members were whisked away and within few minutes, we got there, cordoned off the area, rescued them and arrested one of the kidnappers who confessed that other four gun-wielding members have fled to the southern part of the country.” The commander, who doubles as the Special Adviser (Security Matters) to the governor, said the 16 abducted passengers in Akoko axis of the state last week, who were rescued was a great feat. He explained that the abductees were rescued without any ransom paid by their families, while their personal effects ransacked by the abductors were recovered also. Akogun Adeleye said: “We had a very serious kidnap issue involving about 18 people in Ose and Arimogija axis and we were also able to apprehend some of the culprits who have been identified. “There was a joint operation involving men of the 32 Artillery Brigade, the Nigeria Police, the NSCDC and the Amotekun Corps. “This involves an 18-passenger bus and, to the glory of God, we were also able, without payment of any ransom, to secure the release of 16 victims. Most of their properties that were littered were put together and delivered to them and have since reunited with their families.” POLL Parading 16 other crime suspects for varying crimes including armed robbery, kidnapping, cultism and a syndicate specialising in snatching and dismantling motorcycles among others. The Amotekun Corps Commander said: “Today, we have 17 criminals or suspected criminals and we have begun investigation to ascertain criminal offences in which they have committed. “Findings have shown that there has been decline in criminal activities, especially those that have to do with neighborhood criminal activities like house-breaking, stealing among others within the state in the last one month. “We have an unusual increase of influx of herdsmen into our communities and most of the time, it goes with kidnapping. “We also have some suspected armed robbers and cultists and we have a group that specializes in dismantling stolen Okada and sell to another group resident in Osogbo. “In collaboration with the Amotekun Corps in Osun State, we were able to arrest the kingpin who took us to the receiver in Akure. “I want to thank members of the public for feeding us with timely information and we assure, that informations given before and now will continue to be treated in the strictest confidence.” The Amotekun chief applauded the people of the state for their supports for the security agencies and determination to join them in the fight against crimes and criminals. He said: “This is why we say Ondo State is not a place where criminals and criminal activities can thrive. “To the criminals, exit Ondo State, there is no hiding place for you here.”