Babcock University has matriculated a total of 3,627 students admitted in the 2022/2023 academic session. The matriculation ceremony took place at the university Amphitheatre on Friday. Of this number, the School of Computing and Engineering Sciences topped the list of 12 schools with 1,144 students. Professor Ademola Tayo, President/Vice Chancellor, while speaking at the ceremony, congratulated the students and parents for choosing Babcock as the preferred higher institution of learning. According to him, fulfilling admission requirements of both Babcock University and Joint Admission and Matriculation Board “is an acceptance to be part of a network of scholar aspirated to transform lives through quality education of the minds and hearts.” Professor Tayo said in Babcock education does not deal with just learning the facts but also training the mind to think. “Our education is about problem solving and entrepreneurship. It is also an education that equips you in intelligence and character, to be locally relevant and globally acknowledged. “We intentionally ensure that all our programmes are accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC), Intentional Board of Education (IBE) USA and the Adventist Accrediting Association (AA), USA, as well as professional accrediting bodies, which give prospective candidates confidence to subscribe to Babcock University’”, he said. POLL As an institution founded on the golden principle of leadership through Christian education, Professor Tayo assured that Babcock would continue to applaud and celebrate the sterling qualities of integrity, faithfulness and godly conduct among students. But he, however, warned that the institution would not tolerate hooliganism, cultism, bullying, examination misconduct, stealing, drug addiction and other aberrant behavior among the students. Professor Tayo assured the matriculated students that the university would give them the needed support to achieve their dream, and to also model as worthy ambassadors of the nation, parents and the university. “We want to assure you that we will not fail or falter in this high calling. We promise you that with your cooperation and with the help of God, your graduation from this university will not be delayed by one day,,” he stated. While reminding them that there was no greatness without the element of discipline, hard work, determination and the recognition of god, Professor Tayo said the university “wants your victories to count much for you, to endure for you and be fond memories for you. “Therefore, shun unnecessary distractions, which may not make you fully devoted to your studies. Pay attention to your assignments, quizzes, tests and examinations,” he advised. Senior Vice President, Academics, Professor Philemon Amanze, also congratulated the students and parents and reminded them that Babcock University was an institution where failure was not an excuse. He said with the matriculation over, it was time for them to face the rigor of academic studies, and to dare to be different and to become a change agent.