AWKA – Governor Charles Chukwuma Solu­do of Anambra State and the La­bour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi, have felicitated with Muslims In Nigeria, wishing them a hap­py celebration of Eid Kabir. Soludo reiterated the spe­cial significance the annual Sallah celebration holds for Muslims worldwide, as it commemorates remarkable acts of faith and devotion to God while symbolising a spirit of sacrifice, gener­osity and goodwill among humanity. Soludo said he recognised the importance of upholding religious freedom and pro­viding an inclusive, secure environment for all. He acknowledged and appreciated the contribu­tions of the Muslim com­munity, which enriches the socio-economic fabric of our great state. He enjoined all residents and visitors alike, no matter their differences in faith and other persuasions, to em­brace the values of peaceful co-existence, compassion, selflessness and generosity that constitute the essence of this festival. In his own message, Mr. Obi urged the Muslim faithful to imbibe the spirit of love, brotherliness and peaceful co-existence, urging that “every faithful patriot must continue to serve God and country selflessly”. He appealed that this year’s Eid-El Kabir festiv­ities would engender the spirit of oneness while Ni­gerians should re-dedicate themselves to the virtues of love, patriotism and unity for the desired national de­velopment. “Eid-El Kabir gives us ample opportunities to ap­preciate our creator whose mercy and grace to us are enormous, even when we do not deserve them. Nigerian Muslims should use this sol­emn period of Eid-El Kabir to present Nigeria’s discom­forting situation to Allah for His prompt intervention. POLL “I urge Nigerians to de­vote themselves to the val­ues that unite and bind all citizens in love. Let us per­manently put behind all di­visive tendencies. “We should not despair and miss the essence and meaning of Eid-el-Kabir festivities, and the divine succour that it brings in assuring us that there is always a light at the end of every tunnel. A new Nigeria is POssible. Happy Eid-El Kabir,” Obi wrote.”