AUSTIN OBOH Two prominent figures in the government of Muhammadu Buhari have come under the hammer of President Bola Tinubu in the last two weeks. First, it was Godwin Emefiele, who, up till June 9, was governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The government said he was suspended to pave way for investigations into weighty allegations of abuse of office levelled against him. But he was just as soon taken up by the Department of State Services which initially denied reports of his arrest. In the same vein, the chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa, was on Wednesday suspended over similar weighty allegations and was also later picked up by the DSS. The two events occurred less than a week apart. Interestingly, the two men had had conflicting relationship with Tinubu before he became president. Coincidentally, they had also substantially won the displeasure of some sections of Nigeria which went as far as calling for their sack. While Buhari ignored the calls for their removal, Tinubu expectedly had no reason to. Emefiele’s Denouement Emefiele was suspended a year before his second five-year term is due to elapse. He took over from controversy-enamoured Lamido Sanusi on June 4 and should have honourably bowed out in June 2024. His predecessor, Lamido Sanusi, lost out in the political game when he dared to criticize the policies of then president Goodluck Jonathan, especially his Seven-Point Agenda, which Sanusi argued could simply have been reduced to a three-point agenda. Ironically, Tinubu was one of those who faulted the removal of Sanusi, today he stands accused of dishing out what he condemned yesterday. Emefiele was confirmed for a second term of five years by Buhari in June 2019 against expectations: he was not from the North and at the time not a member of the new party in power, the All Progressives Congress (APC). Perhaps, in appreciation for the surprising renewal of his appointment, he probably went beyond his remit and embarked on extra-monetary engagement in which he was reported to have diverted large sums of money into agricultural schemes in the north which are now believed to have been marred by sleeze. Perhaps, Emefiele’s biggest and saddest gamble was the Naira redesign project which he introduced very close to the general elections. He was roundly slammed for given an impossible deadline for the change from old naira notes to new ones with respect to the 200, 500, and 1000 nara denominations. Despite the widespread outcry against the ensuing stampede, he was supported by Buhari who later made some changes in the policy. But almost the entire nation decried the policy which gave rise to frustration across the country, violence and deaths in some states. In political circles, the policy caused a schism between the Presidency and the Bola Tinubu Campaign Team which saw the naira redesign as a policy designed to weaken the campaign efforts of the APC presidential candidate. The team called for extension of the deadline given by the CBN for the completion of the naira swap operation, but the latter demurred. POLL In Abeokuta, on January 25, a month to the presidential election, Tinubu alleged that the raging fuel crisis and naira scarcity (resulting from the naira redesign and currency swap) were orchestrated to sabotage his presidential campaign efforts. He said: “If they like, they can change the ink in the naira note, we will shock them, we will win the election; the opposition (the umbrella party) will be defeated,” he had boasted. State governors under the umbrella of the APC went to court to challenge the decision of the CBN. And in the first of March, the Supreme Court extended the validity of the N200, N500, and N1,000 Naira notes till 31 December. A similar ruling had been given on February 8 but was ignored by the apex bank. A seven-member panel of the court led by John Okoro unanimously directed that the CBN must continue to receive the old notes from Nigerians. The court held that the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari for the redesign of the new notes and withdrawal of the old notes without due consultation was invalid. Emmanuel Agim, a member of the panel, who read the lead judgement, also condemned the President’s disobedience of the court’s 8 February order that the old N200, N500, and N1,000 notes should continue to circulate alongside the new ones. He said the president’s broadcast of 16 February that only N200 notes should remain legal tender made Nigeria’s democracy look like a mere pretension while democracy was being replaced with autocracy. The court judgement was widely applauded but that was perhaps the climax of Emefiele’s silent war with Tinubu. The CBN governor had previously become suspect in the eyes of the Tinubu group when groups emerged to call for his participation in the presidential election while he was still holding his position as governor of the CBN. Many believed that Emefiele was behind the group, given the profound resources at their disposal, including campaign vehicles bearing his photos. Prior to his recent suspension, the DSS, on December 7, 2022, in an exparte application with reference no: FHC/ABJ/CS/2255/2022, sought an order to arrest the CBN governor. The security agency accused Emefiele of financing terrorism, fraudulent activities and economic crimes of national security dimension. The Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice J.T. Tsoho, however, refused to grant the application of the DSS. The court said such an application should have been accompanied with the presidential approval because of the grave implications for the Nigerian economy if the CBN governor was arrested and detained. In January, there were reports that police officers had been sighted laying siege at the Maitama home of the Central Bank governor. The armed police officers were said to have mounted at No. 8 Colorado Street, Maitama, Abuja, which was the CBN governor’s abode. But the rumour was refuted by Force headquarters which said it was unaware of any deployment of police personnel to the Abuja home of the CBN governor. Regardless, soon after his suspension on Friday, he was taken into custody by the DSS. “The Department of State Services (DSS) hereby confirms that Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the suspended Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is now in its custody for some investigative reasons,” Peter Afunanya, the spokesperson for the agency, said in a press statement. It was gathered that he was picked up from his home in Lagos and then flown to Abuja, guarded by a detachment of operatives. He was then driven to the DSS’s headquarters in the Asokoro District of the FCT. There were speculations Friday night that the SSS had arrested him shortly after he was suspended, but the law enforcement agency claimed Saturday morning that he was not in its custody. Bawa: Easy Come, Easy Go And while the dust was yet to settle over Emefiele’s suspension and arrest, Bawa of the EFCC was, on Wednesday, suspended. The suspension was announced in a statement by Willie Bassey, director of information, office of the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF). He said the suspension followed “weighty allegations of abuse of office levelled against him”, adding that Bawa should hand over to Abdulkarim Chukkol, director, Operations, in the commission. Bawa’s sins have not been officially spelt out but the campaign for his removal has been on since last year, championed consistently by civil society organisations. And recently, the immediate past governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle, had accused Bawa of asking him for bribe to the tune of two million US Dollars to stop an investigation against him, an allegation Bawa denied. The suspended EFCC chairman was also accused of spending millions of Dollars on a trip to Saudi Arabia with all members of his family for a religious obligation. They all, allegedly stayed at the posh Sheraton Hotels. Bawa was appointed by Buhari on February 24, 2021, to succeed Ibrahim Magu who was eased out by Buhari after he was suspended. Magu retired from the Police as an Assistant Inspector General of Police. Bawa may have won Tinubu’s displeasure at least once before he became president. Recall that in June, 2021, the EFCC boss had hinted that the Commission was investigating the APC leader but noted that the investigation would take some time. He claimed that the EFCC had a request for Tinubu’s assets declaration form. But the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar then, Malami, had refuted the claim, saying his office had no plans to investigate the former Lagos State governor. In any case, the suspension of Bawa was greeted with applause by CSOs who had long asked for his exit as an anti-graft chief. The CSOs embarked on a walk and later converged in a hall to address the media. They hailed President Tinubu’s administration for showing a bold will to fix the wrongs in critical areas of the Nigerian system and doing the right things in seemingly complex circumstances. They noted that Bawa’s suspension and that of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, was long overdue. According to them, genuine anti-corruption CSOs are happy that their struggle against the “politicisation of the EFCC, disobedience to lawful court orders and infringement on the human rights of Nigerians with impunity” has yielded a positive result. The anti-graft crusaders were led by popular human rights activists, including the Chairman, the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership, Debo Adeniran; Executive Director, Zero Graft Centre, Kolawole Sanchez-Jude; Declan Ihehaire of the Activists for Good Governance; Ayodeji Ologun, Transparency and Accountability Group; and Olufemi Lawson, spokesperson for the Coalition, among others. These groups had called on former president, Buhari, to direct the Inspector-General of Police to effect the arrest of Bawa as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction and commit him to prison for contempt. They also petitioned the president on the need for a thorough investigation into the activities of the EFCC under Bawa, saying weighty allegations of corruption had been levelled against him. Speaking for the CSOs, CACOL Chairman, Debo Adeniran, stated: “The Coalition of Anti-Corruption Organizations in Nigeria is delighted to receive the news of the indefinite suspension of Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, as the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “The suspension of Mr. Bawa, which is long overdue, is not only a welcome development, to the community of genuine anti-corruption organizations in the country but is considered by us as an opportunity for the thorough investigation into the many atrocious conduct of Mr. Bawa during his reign as the Chairman of the EFCC. “We wish to state that the decision of the President is very timely, especially when coming at a time it has become necessary to shore up waning public confidence in the EFCC. “It is very sad that the reign of Mr. Bawa as the Chairman of the EFCC was characterised by grave allegations of disobedience to the Rule of law with regard to court orders, alleged massive corruption and mismanagement of recovered public funds and assets. “The office of EFCC Chairman is one which must be high above reproach and any semblance of moral turpitude, therefore making the suspension of Mr. Bawa a necessary action to protect the agency’s troubled image. “For over six months, our Coalition consistently demanded the removal of Mr. Bawa as Chairman of the EFCC based on several allegations of disobedience to the Rule of Law, allegations of personal enrichment, subversion of the course of justice in particular cases prosecuted by the EFCC and open politicisation of the Commission’s activities. “This timely intervention of President Tinubu will not only help in restoring the confidence of Nigerians in the credibility of the EFCC but will further convince Nigerians about the readiness of the administration to tackle the menace of corruption. “Meanwhile, we are demanding a thorough probe of the activities of the EFCC during the reign of Mr. Bawa as Chief Executive of the Commission. “This will not only assist in unravelling the numerous misconduct and abuse of office by Mr. Bawa but will indeed send a serious signal to intending abusers of their public offices that it is no longer business as usual, and that there are indeed no hiding places in the extant laws and procedural systems of Nigeria for power and position abusers. “We wish to state our commitment, in partnering with the new administration, to ensuring the survival of the Anti-Corruption efforts in the overall interest of our dear nation.” Politicisation Of Public Institutions In his reaction, the head of Transparency International, Nigeria, Auwal Rafsanjani, said, on Thursday, that the suspension of the EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, did not come to the organisation by surprise. Rafsanjani, also the Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Center (CISLAC), said: “The suspension did not come to us by surprise, this is because of the way and manner the previous regimes or governments have always removed the EFCC leaders when they come into power. For this development, with regard to the removal of the EFCC chairman, we believe that already we knew that he was going to be removed because of so many political interests and changes that can happen.” He said that Tinubu would not likely retain Bawa because of the manner in which he was appointed and his affiliation. “He will want to get rid of anything that has to do with that. Also there are some political interests, some politicians associated with the government also have issues with the current suspended EFCC chairman and therefore they are likely not to be comfortable to have him there,” he added. Rafsanjani stated that the EFCC office has been unnecessarily made to be too much political. “Therefore, it is making it difficult to do what ordinarily government agency is supposed to do. So, we need to look at it from that context and from that perspective, so I’m not surprised.” Rafsanjani, however, said “what is important is that we must insist and demand that the anti-corruption and the good work of agencies, including EFCC must continue in the country”. He also advised the government to look beyond politics in appointing the next EFCC chairman. “In appointing the next one, I think first and foremost, let’s make that office to be a technically professional office,” he stated. However, another activist, Deji Adeyanju, has urged President Tinubu to release the two men, Emefiele and Bawa, in order to set himself from the lawlessness which the arrest and detention of the two men connoted. In a tweet on Thursday, the rights activist said both men should not be detained without trial. According to him, “The DSS must release Emefiele and Bawa or charge them to court. The era of political prisoners should be gone forever. The Tinubu government should not be a lawless one like that of Buhari where people are detained unconstitutionally without trial.” There appears to be an ongoing purge that may witness the erasure of all Buharian vestiges in the present government, especially in areas where the public have faulted the former administration for a long time, and the present government would brilliantly be fulfilling its own agenda on the crest of popular clamour, but the question at the moment is, after Emefiele and Bawa, who next?