LAGOS – Controversy has continued to trail the removal of a CRJ 1000 aircraft from the fleet of Arik Air. While the Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON), the receiver of Arik Air said the decision of the management to remove the aircraft from its fleet was due to the decision of JEM Leasing Limited and its finan­ciers, Export Development Can­ada (EDC) to sell the airplane, but JEM Leasing said it was not a party to such an arrangement. A statement by SY&T Com­munications, an agency to Arik Air in receivership said that the decision to remove the aircraft from its fleet was due to the de­cision of JEM Leasing Limited and its financiers Export Devel­opment Canada (EDC) to sell the airplane. The aircraft affected by this decision is 5N-JEE. The airline also said that the buyer of the affected airplane had decided to tear down the plane. The statement explained that Arik Air, as the lessee of the aircraft since 2014, operated the airplane pursuant to a lease agreement with JEM Leasing Limited. The statement, however, stat­ed that the airline discontinued operations of the CRJ aircraft in its fleet in 2019. “Arik Air would like to as­sure all stakeholders, including passengers, partners, and the general public that the decision by the owner and financier of the aircraft will not impact Ar­ik’s operations or compromise its commitment to providing safe, reliable, and convenient air travel services,” the statement added. It will be recalled that Arik Air has been under the receiv­ership of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AM­CON) since February 2017. POLL Since the airline was taken over under controversial cir­cumstances, its fleet of aircraft has continued to deplete. Presently, the airline has about four airworthy aircraft, while no fewer than 10 airplanes have either been recalled by the leasing companies or are no lon­ger in operation due to a lack of funds for maintenance. But, the management of JEM Leasing Limited owners of the aircraft said it was not a party to the sale of the machines, explaining that for the records, Arik Air is the only operator of the CRJ 1000 in Africa. JEM Leasing insisted it was not a party to any arrangement with “Arik Air in receivership” for the teardown of the aircraft.