Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya has constituted an Advisory Council to assist him in developing and implementing policy initiatives for the State. The policy initiatives, according to the State Government, are aimed at promoting economic growth, combating poverty, unemployment and other socio-economic challenges facing the state. A statement by the Director General, Press Affairs, Gombe Government House, Ismaila Uba Misilli, noted that a number of eminent sons and daughters of the state are to serve as members of the Council. The Council is chaired by Prof Idris Mohammed, a veteran academic and health policy expert with extensive experience spanning decades in Nigeria and overseas. “Additionally, Professor Mohammed has been actively engaged in harnessing the vast potentials that Gombe State possesses, especially in the fields of health care and higher education,” Misislli stated. He noted that all the honorary advisors, who are people of proven integrity and have reached the zenith of their respective careers, “are expected to bring to bear their individual expertise in their various fields of endeavors in the task of facilitating and consolidating the gains of good governance in Gombe State for a secure future.” The statement further listed members of the committee as follows: “Dr Ibrahim Jalo Daudu (Member): A retired Federal Permanent Secretary. He is also a former Head of the Gombe State Civil Service. A recognized leader in civil service reform and institutional capacity building for sustainable development, Dr Jalo is known for championing reforms within the civil service. “Malam MK Ahmad (Member): A highly accomplished technocrat and expert in economic development with extensive experience in finance, fiscal responsibility, accountability, and the development of human resources. He is considered one of the nation’s leading reformers in both the public and private sectors. POLL “Micah I Jimeta (Member): A seasoned public administrator with a strong community leadership background, he brings considerable experience in the public sector. “Prof Fatima B.J. Sawa (Member): A former provost of the Federal College of Horticulture, Dadinkowa. She is an academician of repute, environmentalist and agricultural development specialist who has been involved in the formulation of environmental protection and agricultural development policies. “Engr. Sa’idu Aliyu Mohammed (Member): He has been an important figure in the oil and gas industry, contributing greatly to the implementation of significant reforms in the natural gas and energy sectors of the country. “Arch Suleiman Mohammed Kumo (Member): Having served as a director of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Kumo has extensive working knowledge in the field of infrastructure financing and development. “Prof. Baba Yusuf Abubakar (Member): He is a highly regarded professor of animal science who has been at the forefront of research and policy for the advancement of agriculture in Nigeria and across the globe. “Engr. Abubakar Bappah (Member): The immediate past commissioner of Works and Transportation, has been involved in the development of critical infrastructure in the State since its creation in 1996. “Dr Muazu U. Shehu (Secretary): The Director-General of Research and Documentation, Gombe State, is a professional researcher with considerable experience in policy-oriented research in Europe and Africa.”