In April this year, the Nigeria Police Force introduced what it referred to as digitalised Central Motor Registry Information System (CMRIS) for seamless management of information on every motor vehicle and its ownership. CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the Force Public Relations Officer, in a release , stated that the CMRIS was introduced sequel to the inauguration of the rejuvenated Central Motor Registry (CMR) Unit and flag-off of the first phase of Stolen Vehicle Report Portal. He explained that the mandatory registration of vehicle information by the CMR introduced about seven decades ago and done manually was fraught with challenges which the CMRIS would now address. He added that the digitalised CMRIS would effectively serve the purpose of obtaining additional information from members of the public about stolen vehicles and populating the stolen vehicle database. This is to ensure that vehicles to be registered by the CMR are not stolen and if stolen would aid investigations with other vehicle-associated incidents. “Owners of motor vehicles and members of the public are therefore, notified of the new procedure for requesting the NPF CMR service on the CMRIS portal. “Consequently, all CMR certificates hitherto issued by the Nigeria Police Force are no longer valid and are no recognised forthwith. “Such services include, Motor Vehicle Information, Change of Ownership, Change of Engine/Chassis/Body, Change of Colour, International Motor Vehicle Certificate and International Drivers’ Permit, among others. POLL The Inspector-General of Police further directed the discontinuation of manual processing and issuance of all CMR documents/certificates and a migration to the digitalised NPF CMR platform. Urging members of the public to cooperate with the police as the digitalised CMR platform will provide motor vehicle information for robust and proactive actions. This is particularly in crime prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution, and efforts made at enhancing national security,” Adejobi stated. Jacob Adaobi, Director at Fletcher Autoline, Surulere, said “The CMR is one of the vehicle documents every car owner and driver should know about. Because, having a good knowledge of these your vehicle documents can help you stand your ground in case any law enforcement agent wants to ‘obtain’ you. “The Police Force, under Tafa Balogun as Inspector General, introduced the CMR, with Police report. The CMR shows a car is registered in a central computerized system with their owners’ data, engine and chassis numbers. “The purpose of the CMR is to checkmate theft of vehicles. It also serves to ensure adequate and accurate documentation.” He added. CMR takes two working days to be issued on average and it is not issued in Abuja alone, it’s issued all over the country. The purpose of the CMR is to checkmate theft of vehicles. It is also serve to ensure adequate and accurate documentation. CMR takes two working days to be issued on average and it isn’t genuinely issued in Abuja alone, it’s issued all over the country. To be eligible to obtain this CMR, you must be a vehicle owner in Nigeria. The registration to get this particular document is free of charge, and the document is valid until you transfer the vehicle to another owner. Added to that, CMR is one of the vehicle documents that is not renewed annually. To avoid any form of harassment, always ensure your vehicle documents are complete and up to date. On August 2, 2021, however, the federal government concluded plans to introduce the National Vehicle Registry (VREG) to replace the Central Motor Registry as controlled by the Nigeria Police Force. The then Minister of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, Dr. Zainab Ahmed, says the introduction of the National Vehicle Registry (VREG) policy of the Federal Government is to reduce vehicle theft, enhance national security and generate revenue for the government. Enumerating some of the benefits of the VREG then, Ahmed said records showed that the country is the hub of stolen vehicles but that the policy would address anomalies associated with the importation of vehicles, kidnapping, and other crimes. She emphasised that it is also a means to leveraging technology infrastructure to maximise revenue generation for Nigeria as well as to enhance national security such as curtailing kidnapping, utilisyation of vehicles in crime perpetration and terrorism. “The National Bureau of Statistics confirmed that between 2015 to 2020, Nigeria imported an average of 400,000 vehicles with an average of 28 percent increase annually, while an additional 40 percent are vehicles smuggled into the country annually, thus evading duty payment, 22 to 30 percent of these vehicles stolen.” She said. It was further revealed that Nigeria was the hub of stolen vehicles as Vehicle Identification Number in the country was usually unregistered, consequently, vehicles from the shores of Nigeria cannot be traced.” She said VREG is a “national repository of vehicular information that seeks to provide a singular platform through which all relevant agencies shall reference vehicular data with a view of ascertaining ownership and value information, capturing vehicular exchanges and utilizing the vehicle information number of all vehicles in Nigeria.” The Permanent Secretary in the ministry, said key agencies, parties and stakeholders involved in VREG implementation include Vehicle Inspection Officer, Federal Road Safety Corps, National Insurance Commission, Nigeria Police Force, and the Office of National Security Adviser, Nigeria Customs Service, Central Bank of Nigeria amongst others. Against this back drop some motorists who have been speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT on the CMRIS were divergent in their views. The respondents, who hailed the innovation of the police, said the new digital central biometric data system for vehicles will help in checking the high level of insecurity in the country. They added that the innovation will complement the various state internal revenue service’s and federal road safety corps. Others however expressed displeasure at the biometric data system saying that it is another form of impoverishing the citizenry, maintaining that what the police introduced has no clear difference from the vehicle number plate registration which they said contains vehicles owners passport photographs, fingerprints and other details. Another group that goes by the name Concerned Citizen Motor Vehicle Sub Sector, sent an open letter to Mr. President Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, titled ‘Lets Avoid EndSars Part 2, which reads; “As concerned citizens of Nigeria in the Motor Vehicle Administration Sector, we respectfully implore you to intervene in the matter concerning the Central Motor Registry. “The Inspector General of Police has initiated an objectionable scheme named the Electronic Central Motor Registry, which jeopardizes national security in exchange for a fee of N5,300. Furthermore, insurance costs have skyrocketed from N5,000 to N15,000, and the removal of PMS subsidies has led to an increase in fuel prices to N600 per litre. “While all these issues pertain to the Motor Vehicle sub-sector, our primary concern lies in upholding the rule of law. It is evident, as per the National Road Traffic Regulations section 73 (1-5) 2012 as amended, the Commission shall establish and maintain a Central Data Base for vehicles and drivers for the Federation. “Every Motor Licensing Authority in any State of the Federation shall provide to the Commission copies of any records, documents or particulars in respect of vehicles and licenced drivers. “The Commission shall keep records of all registered vehicles, licenced drivers and transport operators in the Central Data Base. “Any record kept in the Central Data Base may on request be made available by the Commission to the Police or any other authority. “The Central Data Base shall operate as the National Central Motor Registry and the Corps Marshal and Chief Executive of the Federal Road Safety Corps shall be the Registrar which the Nigeria Police Force ceased to bear responsibility for the Central Motor Registry since 1998. We are open to any clarifications. “This act further states that agencies such as the Police Force and State Security Service are required to collaborate with the Federal Road Safety Corps for information. We humbly stand to be corrected. “At present, innocent citizens face harassment by the police, who demand CMR documents and impose exorbitant fees of up to N6,000. “We trust that you will not condone such unlawful behavior within your administration. “If the Police Force refuses to cooperate, they should implement CMR without cost to motorists, considering the substantial funding allocated to the Nigeria Police Trust Fund for such projects. We are aware that certain states, particularly in the Southwest, are preparing to approach the Supreme Court regarding this matter. “Mr. President, by summoning the Inspector General of Police to adhere to your directives, you possess the authority to prevent further disorder. “We assure you that we will utilize our limited influence to wholeheartedly support your administration and prevent unnecessary conflicts that could have otherwise been amicably resolved. “Impunity shall no longer prevail. Let the principles of the rule of law reign supreme.