The Executive Governor of Plateau State, Barr. Caleb Manasseh Mutfwang has sworn in the Secretary to the Government of the State, Arch. Samuel Nanchang Jatau and the Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice, Barr. Philemon Audu Daffi. The Ceremony took place on Friday at the Yakubu Gowon Victoria Hall, New Government House Rayfield, Jos. According to him, all appointments to his cabinet would be based on merit. Governor Mutfwang tasked the appointees to bring to bear, their wealth of experience in order to add value to good governance in the state. He said, “By these two appointments made today, the functions of Government will begin to move on a faster lane. I am happy that the Head of Service was sworn in last Saturday and we are swearing in the Secretary to the Government of the State and the Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice today. This means that the critical arm of the Executive now has its leadership in Place. “I am impressed with the enthusiasm that I am seeing about the need for Plateau State to move forward and take a new direction. I have said this severally, that we are not here to witch-hunt anybody but we want to ensure that the system works efficiently. “In the coming days, we are going to make appointments and by the grace of God, we are going to look out first, for merit because we must move Plateau State forward. Secondly, I want to assure you that there will be good spread across the state.” POLL He appealed to the citizens of Plateau State to be patient and committed to strengthening the virtues of brotherhood, especially as government makes further appointments because it is not everybody that will be appointed. Governor Mutfwang admonished citizens to stop running down fellow citizens in the search for appointments but pray for one another for the state to succeed. He insisted that “Plateau is ours, Plateau must succeed, Plateau we must preserved, Plateau we must move forward.” He stated. The newly sworn-in Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice, Barr. Philemon Daffi responded on behalf of the Secretary to the Government of the State. He solicited for prayers from citizens to enable them to accomplish their assignments. “I wish to thank His Excellency for the opportunity given to us to serve at this moment, God brought us on duty at this time for a purpose and the purpose is to accomplish His purpose which He has proposed right from time. “Therefore, two things we ask from you, hold our hands in prayers that His Excellency will have the political will to do what is right.” He stated.