Benjamin Onigbinde, Chief Executive Officer of Sigvent Group and convener of Ogbomoso Economic and Investment Summit, has said that the Ogbomoso Investment Roadshow, Lagos, will mobilise investment to develop the value chain for selected strategic industries in Ogbomosoland. According to Onigbinde, this event, a private sector led initiative, is a follow-up to the Inaugural Ogbomoso Economic and Investment Summit held November 23-24, 2022 in Ogbomoso with the theme: “Exploring Economic and Investment Potentials of Ogbomosoland: Engage, Collaborate and Invest.” He said the Lagos event is expected to create a value chain connectivity with the Lagos economy in agriculture and industrial inputs, stressing that it will also address typical salient issues in economic development of the second largest economy in Oyo State. He added that it provides expert insight into the key opportunities and challenges, as well as the roles that the government can play in creating an enabling environment that supports investment networking and builds a sustainable connected economy. Onigbinde said the focus of the investment roadshow is to promote investment in agriculture through development of Agriculture Processing Zone, SMEs, Industrial, Medical Tourism, Mining and Solid Minerals, and Vehicle Transit Area. “In order to achieve this without necessarily putting much pressure on the government, we need to attract both local and foreign Investors, engage and collaborate with government development agencies. “This event will provide a platform for investors and entrepreneurs to engage each other, as well as policy makers,” he said. Onigbinde said the event is scheduled for 24th of August 2023 at the Commerce House, Idowu Taylor Street, Victoria Island. POLL He said Lagos as the biggest economy in Nigeria is consistently growing with the need to cater for its massive industrial inputs like agriculture and minerals resources, which Ogbomoso has in large quantities. “The cashew and mangoes quality from Ogbomoso are acclaimed to be the best in the world. The supply of skilled labor is also in large supply,” he said.