In African mythology, the iroko tree is the father of all trees. It is usually tall, and huge, and its branches serve as shelters for different kinds of birds, whereupon they also build their nests and raise offspring. In a similar vein, the leaves are comestible for animals, even as it also provides shade for human beings, particularly farmers and hunters. It also serves as a strong windbreaker. Its lifespan is naturally long as its average lifespan is approximately two hundred years; although there are trees on record that are as old as four hundred years. The trunk is so gargantuan and wide that nobody can climb it with bare hands. Thus, when an iroko tree falls, the inhabiting birds will wander aimlessly in the forest. Their nests built on the branches are shattered. The newly hatched young ones growing in the nests either die off or are left to the mercy of the prey. The sound of fallen iroko vibrates and shakes the foundation of nearby houses. Its huge and beneficial trunk is sawed and used for various purposes, ranging from roofing and furniture. The offshoot branches and sawdust are utilised for cooking and warming. The iroko tree serves multi-purposes. It is uncommon, even as it is also a proverbial ancient tree. Given the foregoing, it is little wonder that when a Very Important Person (VIP) in African parlance goes the way of all mortals, it is said that iroko has fallen, entailing that an important and great personality has gone to meet his or her ancestors. Therefore, when the news was made public on Sunday, not a few people agreed that an Iroko has fallen in the person of His Serene Majesty King Prof. T.J.T Princewill, Amachree the XI, and Amanyanabo of the Kalabari Kingdom who has passed on. In a statement titled “The King has departed, long live the Kingdom” his son Prince Tonye Princewill on behalf of the family said, “It is with a very heavy heart that I am formally announcing the departure of my father, our King and His Serene Majesty, King Prof. T.J.T Princewill, Amachree the XI and Amanyanabo of the Kalabari Kingdom. He was not just my father; he was also my best friend. “Earlier today, the Buguma Council of Chiefs and the Kalabari Council of Chiefs were formally briefed, all in accordance with Kalabari tradition, thereby opening the door to our now officially informing the world, as the cart cannot be put before the horse. “Further announcements will follow in the days and weeks to come, but we call on you for your prayers and your good wishes, not just for the family, but for the entire Kalabari Kingdom. He’ll truly be missed. “ His Serene Majesty King Prof. T.J.T Princewill, JP, CFR, Amachree XI, The Amanyanabo & Natural Ruler of the Kalabari Kingdom was born on the 4 January 1930 in Buguma City into the Royal Family of King & Queen Jacob Tom Princewill, Amachree the VII. POLL Academically, he attained his professorship in the year 1984 at the University of Port Harcourt. He was the first Head of the Department of Microbiology, the first Professor of Microbiology, and the first black Professor to be Dean, Faculty of Science, Rivers State University of Science and Technology where he finished his stint in academia. Traditionally, he was installed King Amachree XI on the 23rd day of March 2002, thus making him the first Professor to become a King of the Kalabari Kingdom and by extension Rivers State. HSM King Prof. T.J.T Princewill was appointed Chairman of Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers on the 1st of January, 2010 by His Excellency Rt Hon Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, thus becoming the first Professor King to be Chairman, of Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers as well as the first King of Kalabari extraction to be Chairman, Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers. In 2011, he was honoured with the National Award of Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by the Administration of HE Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan GCFR, former President and Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Though a Professor of international repute, his in-depth knowledge of the tradition and custom was such that he was the second King after King Kariboye- Abbi Amachree IV to have adorned and played the famous Egbelegbe masquerade to the admiration of the people of Tombia from whom the masquerade was acquired by King Kariboye Abbi Amachree IV. The sum totality of his being was peace personified even in the face of persecution; hence he was fondly referred to as His Serene Majesty. As gathered, “The Kalabari are a sub-group of the Ijaw people living in the eastern Niger Delta region of Nigeria. Originally, they were known as the Awome. The name Kalabari was derived from their ancestor Perebo Kalabari who was a son of Mein Owei. Their original settlement was spelled as Calabar by the Portuguese which was pronounced Kalabari. This settlement (town) was abandoned as the people moved to other fishing settlements. Portuguese settlers continued to maintain the name Calabari which became surrounded by the Efik people of Duke Town. When the British came the word Calabari was pronounced as Calabar (Kalaba) instead of Kalabari. At this time the original Ijoid Kalabaris had moved to a new location which became the new Calabar territory since the old Calabar is occupied by different people. Old Calabar became an Efik town with time which has the name Calabar. “Elem Kalabari became a large kingdom that has about 35 settlements including Bakana, Abonnema, Buguma, Tombia, and others. “The Kalabari people are Ijaw-speaking settlers who came from the lineage of a man called Mein Owei. The people were originally fishermen before the coming of the Portuguese to the West African coastline. “The Kalabari, like most Nigerian coastline tribes, were wealthy as a result of their interactions with the Europeans. There are some Ijaw who considers the Kalabari as a different ethnic group and vice versa”. Historically, Kalabari settlements have always been close to a river, this is because they believed their powers came from deities in the water. “There are a variety of traditional dishes (or native food) of the Kalabari, the three popular dishes are Onunu (pounded yam, ripe plantain, and palm oil), Tominafulo (fresh fish, prawns, periwinkle and oil star, and other local ingredients), Odo’fulo (aka Native Soup made with fresh seafood and other local ingredients). “Kalabari people have one of the cheapest forms of legal marriage in the south-south region of Nigeria, their marriage is cheap compared to the neighbouring cites such as the Ikwerre, Okrika, Ahoada, Ogoni, Bonny, and Opobo. The cheapest form of marriage which is recognized in Kalabari is called “Ari Ibara emi” (meaning she is with me). As the name implies, her parents should not look for her elsewhere, for she is with me. Kalabari tribe has about three types of marriages, the Iya, Igwa, and Waribiobesime. “The Iya marriage is said to be the highest and most expensive form of marriage in the Kalabari culture. The Iya is the most expensive form of marriage in Kalabari land. The special thing about this type of marriage ceremony is that, at first, there are some catchy traditions that may seem weird for other cultures or tribes, but all of them are respected and they must be honored in the ceremony. For instance, the marriage cannot be complete until the ceremony of BIBIFE (buying the mouth) is done. BIBIFE signifies that the potential wife cannot eat any food until her “mouth is bought”. There must be a rite in order to “buy her mouth” and only after that, she is able to eat in her husband’s house. This BIBIFE signifies the responsibility and role of the man towards his wife which shows his willingness to care and feed her for the rest of her life”.