LAGOS  – The Telecommunications and Technology Sustainability Working Group (TTSWG), has perfected plans to participate in the upcoming Internet of Things (IoT) West Africa Conference and Exhibition 2023. The highly anticipated event will be held from July 4th to 6th, 2023, at the prestigious Landmark Center in Victoria Island, Lagos. Themed “The Future is Connected,” the IoT West Africa Conference and Exhibition serves as a vital platform for industry leaders, innovators, and experts to gather and explore the transformative potential of the Internet of Things (IoT). The event will provide a unique opportunity to discover game-changing technologies, dazzling innovations, and best practices, allowing attendees to stay at the forefront of IoT advancements. Amongst the great lineup of speakers and facilitators for the event is Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, Director-General/CEO NITDA; Vincent O. Olatunji, Honourable National Commissioner/ CEO NDBP; George Uduku, General Manager, GE Healthcare; Abimbola Olufore Wycliffe, Head Investment and Technology Promotion Office, UNIDO; Lanre Ayoola, Executive Chairman, TRANTER IT; Tolu Odukale, Partner, KPMG; Victor Odumuyiwa, Ag. Director, NITDA; Hakeem Onasanya, Head, Startups, LSETF; Zechariah O. Akinpelu, Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), Unity Bank; Karn Gulati, Director of Strategy and Transformation Leader, 9Mobile; Folarin Oreoluwa Aiyegbusi, Head of Startup Ecosystem Africa, Google; Nommy Paul, CTO, Spectranet; Damilare Shittu, Data and Analytics Lead, Microsoft; and so many others. As sustainability continues to gain importance in the technology and telecommunications sectors, the TTSWG’s presence at the conference underscores its commitment to driving positive change in the industry. The working group, comprised of influential stakeholders from across the sector, has been at the forefront of promoting sustainable practices, environmental responsibility, and social impact within the telecommunications and technology domains. “As a sustainability advocacy group, we recognise the power of collaborations in driving positive change. Our presence at the IoT Conference highlights the importance of fostering partnerships for a sustainable future. Join us as we showcase our collective efforts at ‘The Future is Connected’ event, where we will demonstrate how technology and collaborative initiatives can pave the way for a greener and more connected world,” said Bekeme Olowola, Lead Consultant, TTSWG Secretariat. The IoT event provides an ample platform to meet thought leaders in the industry, government officials, visionaries, entrepreneurs, researchers, and other key stakeholders, as well as discover the most advanced cyber and IoT solutions for digitally transforming your business. POLL With a membership that boasts prominent industry leaders including 9Mobile, Airtel, HP, MTN, SystemSpecs, Quomodo Systems Ltd, IHS Towers, and so on, TTSWG continues to prioritise fostering collaborations and partnerships to ensure sustainability within the technology ecosystem in Nigeria.