With the assumption of office of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has assured of its readiness of the capital market to aid in infrastructure development. This assurance was given by the Director General of the SEC, Mr. Lamido Yuguda during an in­terview Thursday. Yuguda expressed the belief that the Nigerian Capital Mar­ket, being an organised and specialised financial market that drives capital mobilisation through domestic savings and foreign capital inflows, is well positioned for the realisation of the infrastructure objectives of the nation. According to him, the bene­fits of adequate infrastructure in any economy cannot be overem­phasised as they help to speed up development and create wealth. “If we are able to get well thought out infrastructure in this country, it will do a lot of things. It will raise the level of economic activities in the coun­try as a whole and these activities will need people to be employed so they can carry out those ac­tivities. “That means the youths and our people will get more em­ployment and as you get more employment, people get more disposable income and need to find outlets to spend that income. That means people can set up small,” he said The SEC boss recalled that in the past most famous industries were sited close to rail lines to aid the transportation of heavy machinery and raw materials as well as finished products to consumers. “You can have several carriag­es in the train carrying various products. Today we do not have the rail lines and we need to re­vive these infrastructures,” he said. POLL The SEC DG who expressed hope that the nation’s economy will bounce back and thrive with the aid of the capital market, said “I have a lot of hope in our econ­omy. “Right now if you do the GDP ranking, Nigeria is about num­ber 30, but I am very confident that if we get our infrastructure right, our ranking will improve tremendously.” He stated that Nigeria has the population and the market right now, which means that in­vestment in infrastructure can pay back in Nigeria faster than in other parts of Africa because the nation has more people that can use the infrastructure. He, therefore, urged the gov­ernment at all levels to look to­wards the capital market for fi­nancing such investments which he said would aid the much-need­ed economic development.