Police in Gombe says it recorded great success in arresting sixteen youths belonging to four different groups of notorious armed robbery and ‘Kalare’ gangs that have been terrorising some parts of Gombe metropolis. Gombe State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Mahid Muazu Abubakar, an ASP, said most of the suspects were arrested following credible reports from members of the public. The first gang, he said, comprised of five boys from Checheniya quarters, Gombe whose ages ranges between 18 and 22 years who were arrested and would be charged for criminal conspiracy and armed robbery. According to him, Police report revealed that on 4th of June, 2023 within 2pm and 3pm, a formal complaint at Gombe Divisional Police Headquarters was made by four persons that they were robbed of their valuable items by the following suspects, Abubakar Adamu 22yrs; Hassan Kabiru 18yrs; Abubakar Babayu 19yrs; Yusuf Ahmad 20 yrs and Abdullahi Abubakar 20yrs at different locations in Gombe metropolis. On receipt of the complaint, Detectives from the Division swung into action and successfully arrested the suspects in connection to the crime. They all confessed to have committed the crime and will soon be charged to court for prosecution. The suspect, Abubakar Adamu and Yusuf Ahmadu were identified by the complainants and the following exhibits were recovered from the suspects, five cutlasses; one stabilizer; samsung Galaxy S8 plus; two small phones (1Tecno and 1 Itel phone); one bundle of wrapper and one wall cotton. The PPRO paraded another gang comprising of Adamu Mohammed 21yrs; Abdulmummini Saidu 20yrs and Ibrahim Adamu 19yrs whom he said Police report indicated that on the 8th of june, 2023 at about 11:20hrs, a formal complaint was received by the principal of G.S.T.C Kwami L.G.A that on the 4th of june, 2023 at about 18:30hrs, four of his students, one Jonas Johaida aged 17yrs, Jonah Jonathan 19yrs; Ezra Luka 17yrs and Suleiman Musa 17yrs while on their way to school, the arrested suspects conspired among themselves and attacked the victims with cutlasses and sticks. Mahid said the suspects robbed the students of the following items; one Gionee phone F200 valued at fourteen thousand naira (#14,000.00k) with an airtel sim card; one Tecno Canon valued at nine thousand (#9,000.00k); Vivo A51 valued at seventeen thousand (17,000.00k); one mp3 player and cash of #500. POLL One receipt of the complainant Police detectives from Bojude Division swung into action and successfully arrested the suspects who confessed to have committed the crime. They will soon be charged to court upon conclusion of the investigation for possible prosecution. Exhibits recovered from the suspects included, two sharp cutlasses; one stick; one mp3 player and two mobile phones. Also paraded was another gang of three namely, Abdulaziz Abubakar 20yrs; Abdullahi Shuaibu Alias Dealer 25yrs and Hassan Adamu 18yrs who were arrested for criminal conspiracy and theft. The PPRO said Police report revealed that on the 11th of June 2023 at about 02:00hrs, men of the Gombe Division while acting on an intelligence report that a syndicate of thieves who specialize in using tricycles to steal goats from Malam Inna and Wuro Kesa communities and selling them, arrested the suspects at their various hideouts. The suspects voluntarily confessed to having carried out the act. Investigation is still ongoing and the suspects will soon be charged to court for prosecution. Exhibits recovered from them included, one tricycle and one goat. A gang of notorious “Kalare” (street criminals) namely, Nura Abdulhamid 20yrs, Yakubu Ibrahim 22yrs, Abubkar Sale 20yrs, Nuhu Yusuf 20yrs and Haladu Bello 24yrs were also paraded. Police report indicated that on the 8th 06/2023 at about 22:30hrs, the Team of Operation Hattara while on township patrol intercepted two suspects namely Nura Abdulhamid and Yusuf Ibrahim all of Jeka da fari Quarters Gombe, after they criminally conspired among themselves and dispossessed one Abdulrahman Sani of Hayin Misau of the sum of three thousand five hundred nairas (N3,500.00k). The suspects were armed with a knife. In the same vein, one Abubakar Saleh 20yrs old, was arrested at Bolari quarters having trespassed into the house of Abdulrahman Yusuf of the same address and made away with one infinix note 12 model phone valued at N110,000:00 and also one Nuhu Yusuf suspected to be a member of the Kalare gang was arrested. The case is under investigation and suspects will soon be charged to court for prosecution as soon as investigation is concluded. Exhibit recovered from them included one cutlass two knives and two phones.