LAGOS  – Justice Rahmon Oshodi of a Lagos Sexual Of­fences and Domestic Vi­olence Court, Ikeja, has sentenced a man, Eniola Wasiu Ibrahim, to life imprisonment for raping his girlfriend. The judge found him guilty following a charge filed against him for having sexual intercourse with his girlfriend without her consent. He committed the offense on June 6, 2012 at his residence at Lateef Dosunmu Street at about 2 p.m. Wasiu was arraigned on De­cember 1, 2021 and he pleaded not guilty to the charge. The government had said his offense contravened the provision of Section 260 of the Criminal Law Ch. C17, Volume 3, Laws of Lagos State, 2015. During the trial, the pros­ecution called four witnesses among which the survivor and her survivor supervisor testi­fied. The prosecution tendered various documents which the court admitted as exhibits. The survivor in her testi­mony narrated to the court how he knew the defendant, invited her to his house and forcefully removed her trousers and pinned her neck to his bed, and then raped her when she went to visit him on his house on Sunday afternoon. She recounted that she visited the defendant’s house, a room and parlour. “So, I sat in the parlour, and he told me that he was happy that I came to his house. He asked me what I wanted to eat and I told him I had eaten from home, that I was okay. POLL She continued that, she in­formed the defendant that she did not want to stay long and he said okay. “He said that he likes my hair, and he also likes me, and he asked me where I came from, and he asked about my age. He then asked me [about] my gen­otype, [and] I said I don’t know. “He said at this age I am supposed to know my geno­type. After that, he hugged me and was touching me. So, I told him I want to go and he said that I cannot go, that I have not stayed long. After that, he went and locked the door. “Then he carried me from the parlour to the room, and he carried me to the bed. He now forced my trouser open, and he slept on me and was now snapping my nude picture. He forcefully had sex with me, and I was shouting and struggling.” The survivor further told the court that she used her leg to hit a glass and the glass got broken.”He then left me, and my wristwatch was broken. When he stood up, he started abusing me and said that I will pay for everything I damaged in his house before I leave his room.” She said that the defendant brought out a cutlass to threat­en her when she was crying and shouting. “I was now begging him that he should not use the cutlass on me. So, he gave me my clothes to wear, and he said he will call his friend to come before his landlord called him on the phone so that he will report what happened in his room to the police. “He went out of the room to meet the landlord. The landlord said that he was hearing noise coming out of his room, and the defendant said nothing hap­pened. Then his friend came to his house. He then explained to his friend everything that hap­pened and the friend begged me that I should not be angry.” However, after closing the prosecution case, the defendant opened his defence and told court that he only romanced, flirted with her but did not have sexual intercourse with her. However, Justice Oshodi in his judgment held that, the prosecution has proved the nec­essary ingredients to establish the offence of rape. He held that the prosecution was able to demonstrate the application of force, intimidation and threat when the defendant had sexual intercourse with the survivor. The judge further held that the defendant’s landlord’s testimony was sufficient and corroborated as well as the medical report. Justice Rahmon said he has critically reviewed all the materials, consisting of the written submissions of coun­sel already identified, and the entire record of proceedings. The judge also said he has considered the remarks made by the defendant that he loved the victim and that the court should temper justice with mercy. ” I listened to your coun­sel’s submission that I should have mercy on you. I have also considered the prosecution’s re­quest that I must sentence you by section 260 (1) of the Crimi­nal Law of Lagos State (supra). ” You must not hurt people that you love. The evidence, in this case, demonstrates that you did not just rape the victim, but you did it in a ferocious and animalistic way. You hit her on the face which made it swollen. She had bloody eyes and swol­len lips. You pinned her neck to your bed and raped her. A man like you, who has com­mitted sexual violence against a woman, should be ashamed and must be punished. ” I must add that a woman or a girl who is a victim of sexual violence has commit­ted no crime; she need not be ashamed. In this case, the vic­tim was not ashamed. She per­sisted in their quest for justice. “She gave damning evidence against you, which led to your conviction. Our laws in Lagos State have zero tolerance for sexual crimes. The charge of rape, for which you have been convicted, carries a mandatory sentence of life imprisonment, which sends a signal that it is unacceptable!