The police in Delta state have arrested six suspected kidnappers, two armed robbery suspects and a syndicate who specialized in stealing from innocent members of the public. The Police Public Relations Officer of Delta State Command, DSP Bright Edafe who made this known in a statement on Sunday, stated that the six suspected kidnappers were arrested after a kidnapped/armed robbery victim on 15/5/2023, reported at Ovwian/Aladja Police station that he was intercepted by some suspected kidnappers who abducted him and his wife and put them in the trunk of their car, drove them to an unknown destination, where they emptied his bank account through bank transfer before releasing them. He stated further that the DPO discovered that a similar case was also reported on the 7th of April 2023 by another victim, and coincidentally, the modus operandi of the suspects are the same. According to the statement, “the DPO Ovwian Aladja division CSP Aliyu Shaba, detailed detectives to carry out a discreet and intelligence led investigation and ensure that these suspects are arrested and brought to book. “On 20/5/2023, following a series of intelligence led investigations, the detectives arrested a POS operator (name withheld) whose account these hoodlums always transfer money from their victims account. The POS operator who claimed ignorance of the antecedents of these suspects cooperated and availed the police with credible information that led to the arrest of the gang leader, named Adim Lucky Onweiyali ‘m’ age 33yrs on 1st June 2023. “The suspect led the police to the houses of other gang members and also to the house of one Akporido Stanley ‘m’ age 56yrs who hide the weapon for them. One locally made gun, and three live cartridges were recovered. The suspects are in custody. POLL “Also l, On 3/6/2023, while police operatives attached to Ekpan Police station were on stop and search duty, they intercepted a tricycle carrying four occupants. One of the passengers jumped and escaped, when the tricycle was searched, one locally made cut-to-size gun and four live cartridges were recovered. His other two accomplices, namely Ogheneovo Abdnego ‘m’ age 17yrs, Chidi Okpanachi ‘m’ aged 31 years, were arrested, though they claimed the gun belong to their friend who escaped. “”The DPO, Ozoro police division on 2/6/2023, also received a distress call from a victim whose motorcycle was stolen some time ago that he sighted his motorcycle at a filling station in Ozoro. Operatives were quickly mobilized, and they arrested the duo of Chibuike Ochula ‘m’ aged 30yrs and Izuchi Uzochi ‘m’ aged 20yrs, and the motorcycle recovered. The suspects later led the police operatives to Kwale, where three other stolen motorcycles were recovered”, it added.