While not a few Nigeri­ans believed that the Super Eagles would have booked the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations ticket in Côte d’Ivoire quite early on ac­count of countries in Group A of the qualifiers, others believe that such insinuation has lost ground in modern football with the popular cliche of ‘no min­nows in football.” However, with countries such as Sierra Leone, São Tomé & Principe and Guinea Bissau in Group A, Nigeria finally berthed in Côte d’Ivoire during the match-day five of the quali­fiers where they needed at least a draw against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone but eventually scrapped a 3-2 win in the match played at the Samuel Kanyon Doe Stadium in Monrovia, Li­beria. In that match, all eyes were on Victor Osimhen as the play­er has earlier led Napoli to their first Scudetto in over 30 years, scoring a whopping 26 goals in the process to finish top of Se­rie A chart and in the process, smashed so many records while setting new ones. His brace, combined with Kel­echi Iheanacho’s stoppage time winner, saw the Super Eagles beat Sierra Leone 3-2 to quali­fy for the biannual competition billed to take place in January and February. It was a closer battle than the Super Eagles would have liked, especially given their history against the Leone Stars. Nigeria fans were given echoes of that nightmarish collapse from 4-0 to 4-4 against the same opponent not so long ago in Benin City. They watched their team go two goals up within the open­ing 30 minutes, only to give up the two goals to tie the game 2-2 with six minutes left to play. But there was to be no deja vu, as Zaidu Sanusi’s linking run set up Iheanacho for an easy tap-in, in injury time. However, booking the ticket for the AFCON in January mere­ly threw up other discussions which should attract the atten­tion of Coach Jose Peseiro ahead of the AFCON proper. The team failed to get their scoring tact together as they could have had upwards of four or five goals in the first half. POLL With 10 shots on target, Ni­geria could have been well out of sight of Sierra Leone in the first half, and it would have been mostly down to Serie A golden boot Osimhen. The Napoli striker, with the prospect of a mega transfer looming this offseason, could have been forgiven for approach­ing the game with a play-safe mentality to avoid injury. But that attitude is alien to Osim­hen. He was a constant menace to the Sierra Leone back four, put­ting them under pressure with his pressing and aggression. The two goals he grabbed were just reward for his efforts, but not only could he have had a hat-trick, he could have finished with at least four assists if Sam­uel Chukwueze, Moses Simon and Kelechi Iheanacho had put away the clear goalscoring op­portunities he created for them. In any case, the forward’s two goals saw him move up to joint sixth, with Sunday Oyerukhua, in Nigeria’s all time scorer’s list with 17 goals, leapfrogging Odi­on Ighalo and Ahmed Musa. It has taken him only 26 games to get there, giving him the all-time best goals to games ratio (0.65) of any Nigeria striker. In the goalkeeping depart­ment, the Hapoel Jerusalem goalkeeper, Adebayo Adeleye, showed the glimpse of what to come from him. While he was also vulnerable, he showed com­posure and merely kept Nigeria in the game with his stretches. Recall that high profile mis­takes from both Francis Uzoho and Maduka Okoye have meant that Nigerians have craved for a possible better option in the last man of defence and the match against the Leone Stars pro­vided a good chance for the Is­raeli-based goalkeeper to prove himself. Recall that Okoye and Uzoho manned the posts in Kumasi and Abuja respectively as their er­rors led Ghana to edge out Nige­ria in the race for the last World Cup in Qatar. Adeleye has been touted as a possible option, especially since Okoye lost playing time after his move to Watford. The match-day five AFCON qualifier was a chance to stake his claim on the goalkeeping position. While Adeleye passed his au­dition, it is hard to say he did so with flying colours. He was barely tested, and on one occa­sion made a nervy punch out that could have proved disas­trous. He couldn’t be blamed for either of Sierra Leone’s goals, although an argument could be made that perhaps he could have come off a bit earlier to narrow the angle for the first. While he looked quick on his feet, showed fine position­ing and good reflexes, there re­mained the question of wheth­er he did enough to make him they went down 0-1. In the re­verse fixture in Guinea Bissau, they mustered 20 attempts with six on target and scored one for a 1-0 win. Only against São Tomé e Prin­cipe did the lines fall in pleasant places for them with 27 attempts, 17 on target yielded 10 goals. The wayward shooting is something that Peseiro needs to address before the Cup of Nations proper. The defence was a bit com­posed. For example, FC Porto star Zaidu Sanusi, combined very well with Aribo and Ndi­di and he showed very strong mental character in the area to ward off threats. Similarly, Ken­neth Omeruo, the captain in the night, proved to be a good exam­ple. He coordinated his backline properly and was always cool. However, he was found wanting in some situations. However, Nigerians are of the view that the Leganese of Spain defender, Omeruo, should be nearing his time in the team with analysts believing that the combo of Sanusi and Bright Osayi-Samuel in the heart of Super Eagles defence would be vital going forward as they are relatively younger and hungri­er. Speaking on what should be done before the Cup of Nations, AFCON winner, Mutiu Adepoju, said the opportunity has been presented to the coach to test players in positions he suspect is not very viable. He said with the qualification of the team with a match to spare, the coach can have a look-in in other players of interest. “Thank God they have qual­ified. This is a good chance for the team to try out players on some positions. “Yes they are doing well but they are not yet there: there is still room for improvement and I think this is the time to try out some new and exciting players to see where they can fit in,” he said. Godwin Izilien, on his own, noted that the coach should look at players that have past their prime and change them quickly before the Cup of Nations. “I am sure not all the players presently deserve regular shirts in the team because some of them have been there since. “When you have such players, it will slow down the rhythm of your team and this is the time to look for fresher talents so that there will be balance and hun­ger in them before the Cup of Nations.” For Julius Aghahowa, the players need to reawaken the hunger to win, saying that they are not lacking in talents to win the Cup of Nations next year. “There are lots of talents in that team but the hunger seems not to be there and this is the key. “If you don’t hunger, you can­not deliver. They should show hunger to win and I can tell you that they can win the cup next year,” he said. However, there is still a maze of uncertainty hanging in the Super Eagles regarding the fate of Coach Peseiro as his contract runs to the end at the end of this month. Coaching position is vi­tal in a team for cohesion and balance. However, with Nigeria having qualified for AFCON, the ques­tion is who will be in charge for the final game of the series, and lead the Super Eagles to Côte d’Ivoire early next year? Peseiro’s contract is up and while he continues to insist he wants to win the Nations Cup with Nigeria, the NFF are skint and are being suffocated by the weight of his $70 000 per month wages. It is so bad that his Nigeria assistants, including former internationals Finidi George and Ike Shorunmu, were asked to alternate games, so only one would need to be paid. Worse, Pe­seiro has been limited to calling up just 19 players based abroad per squad. So far, it is unclear whether the NFF will keep him, although sources say he may be asked to take a significant wage cut to stay on. If he is let go, the NFF are looking at local replacements, with Emmanuel Amunike and Finidi the front runners. This is one issue that needs to be sorted out fast in order for the team to have a substantive manager that would galvanize plans for preparations ahead of the AFCON.