ABUJA – The National Association of Ogun State Students has appealed to the former Governor of the State, Senator Gbenga Daniel to initiate reconciliation with the incumbent, Prince Dapo Abiodun in the interest of the development of the state. The students noted that now that the 2023 general elections are over, there was a need for relevant stakeholders to support Governor Abiodun in a bid to provide a democratic dividend to the people of the state. National President of NAOSS, Comrade Ogunrobi Gbemileke in a statement on Tuesday, said there was no need to distract the Governor with unnecessary criticism and fight that would rather cause setbacks to the state in terms of development. The statement read in part: “Since the conclusion of the last general elections, it has been observed that things have not been the same following the fallout between the incumbent Governor and Otunba Gbenga Daniel. “This is resulting from the perceived betrayal of trust on the part of Otunba Gbenga Daniel whom Prince Dapo Abiodun entrusted with so many expectations to support his second term ambition as the governor of the state. “Rather than uphold the trust of the governor, the former governor and now Senator representing Ogun East chose to betray this trust openly by working against the second term bid of the governor. “It is rather unfortunate that this personal clash between the duo has metamorphosed into a state issue drawing back the ruling party and government to unite in addressing pertinent interests of the good people of Ogun State. “We have watched with dismay how the former governor directly, or through his political ally and aides have been throwing attacks and instigating unfair criticism against Prince Dapo Abiodun Administration. This is causing unnecessary distractions. POLL “It is unfortunate that rather than reciprocate the goodwill which Prince Dapo Abiodun has extended to him, the ex-governor has chosen to make himself an instrument of distraction to the incumbent administration. “Having followed the trend of the event, we are concerned and worried that the personal feud of this duo is becoming a state problem. Where unity and common will is expected, division and superiority contests has been prevailing. This is negatively affecting the state “To this, we are calling on the former governor, now senator representing Ogun East to recall his adversaries orchestrated by Senator Ibikunle Amosun who is now is emergency friend. The world, particularly the younger generations are watching with disappointment how Otunba Gbenga Daniel has betrayed the trust of his benefactor by aligning with opposition groups for selfish interest. “This does not portray the attribute of ‘Omoluabi’ which the Yoruba people place much value to. We are advising the ex-governor to as a matter of public interest, forgo his selfish agenda against Prince Dapo Abiodun and give the incumbent governor the necessary support expected of a sitting senator and former governor. “When two elephants fight, it is the grass on which they stand that suffers the effect mostly. The people of Ogun State are expecting holy reconciliation between the duo in the interest of the public. “Our fear is that should this conflict aggravate further, the state would suffer the loss and not these two personalities. We are also enjoining Prince Dapo Abiodun to embrace his friend for this purpose,”.