Bayern Munich are in advanced talks with Manchester City over the transfer of full-back Kyle Walker from the Premier League to Bundesliga, according to Sky Sports Germany. Walker has scored six goals and 18 assists in 254 appearances for Man City since he was acquired by the club from Tottenham Hotspur for 52.7 million euros (about $57.6 million) in July 2017. His speed and strength make him one of the world’s top in his position and he has made key contributions to the five Premier League titles, two FA Cups and one UEFA Champions League trophy the club has won in these years. However, Walker’s position in Man City’s rotations was shaken during the 2022-23 campaign. In the Champions League final against Inter Milan, manager Pep Guardiola replaced Walker with Manuel Akanji in the starting lineup. Back in April, Guardiola told reporters that Walker cannot play in his system. “He cannot do it,” Guardiola said of Walker. “He will always have pace; Kyle at 60 years old will be the fastest player in this room. To play inside you have to have educated movements – he doesn’t have every one of the characteristics.” Losing his place Man City’s starting squad gave Walker the idea of leaving. Bayern’s manager, Thomas Tuchel, played a key role in convincing Walker to come to Allianz Stadium as well, according to ESPN. Though Bayern won the record 11th straight Bundesliga title this season, the club is hardly satisfied with their performance in the Champions League, DFB-Pokal or even the process of winning the domestic top honor. That’s why they fired CEO Oliver Khan and sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic. Nonetheless, before the German giants make more moves to improve their squad, their defensive pair, Lucas Hernandez and Benjamin Pavard both seek to depart. Therefore, landing an experienced full-back in Walker will be vital to Bayern. Man City will also need to be ready for Bernardo Silva and Ilkay Gundogan to leave. Silva still has one year left of his current contract. According to Sky Sports, Man City will not stand in his way a suitable offer is proposed. Both Paris Saint-Germain and Barcelona are interested in signing him. Barca also want to land Gundogan who will become a free agent after the end of June.