…As Henry Savy EvictedLAGOS – The top five contestants from Season 8 of Nigerian Idol, sponsored by Bigi, put on an electrifying performance on Sunday night that won over the judges and audience with standing ovations. The live show’s theme was “Show Stopper.” Henry Savy, who received the fewest votes out of the 22 million cast during the final performances, had a different story as Ose Daniel, Goodness, Victory Gbakara, Precious Mac, and Quest took the stage to perform for the judges, Obi Asika, Simi, and D’Banj. The dancers who accompanied the contestants as they performed, each showcasing his or her talent to make it to the next edition in the show that will see the winner claiming over 100,000,000 (One Hundred Million) worth of prizes, added colour to the evening show, which was sponsored by Rite Foods Limited’s Bigi brand of carbonated soft drinks. The renowned dancer, dance instructor, and fitness coach Dr. Kaffy Shafau, who guided the performers through the fundamentals of the numerous dancing patterns that should go along with their chosen songs on stage, added to the show’s mix of style and impressive dance performance. First, to take the stage, Ose Daniel sang Adekunle Gold’s “High” with such amazing stage presence and vocal prowess that the judges and crowd stood to celebrate his outstanding performance. Asika said, “That was a special act with an unbelievable rendition,” and Simi stated, “He killed the song with good voice control,” all while praising Ose Daniel. “You are a good entertainer, and that was a diamond rendition”, said D’Banj. While Victory’s fascinating lyrics of Bruno Mars’ “Locked Out of Heaven” enthralled the crowd to the very end and received positive feedback from the judges, Goodness stormed the stage with Rihanna’s “We Found Love” and an excellent voice and dance routine that the judges also appreciated. Asika remarked, “Victory, you are a natural performer,” D’Banj agreed, saying, “You surprised me and you did it well with the dancers, you are born for the stage,” and Simi stated, “That was entertaining, quite amazing.” POLL The last performance by Quest received a loud standing ovation from the three judges, with up to about two minutes of applause. Simi said “You did well, you killed the song,” D’Banj said “you did well, l must greet you especially,” and Asika said, “That was marvelous.” D’Banj thought Precious Mac’s “Rockabye” by Clean Bandit was very captivating. In fact, Bigi has increased the show’s excitement through online engagement with viewers, who have praised the Bigi-Powered musical talent hunt show for the brand’s efforts to promote entertainment. Also, for lending its support to the Nigerian Idol by sponsoring the event for three years in a row, Seasons 6, 7, and 8 respectively, for young Nigerian singers to showcase their talents as well as to be discovered and nurtured as future stars. Every Sunday at 7 p.m. on DStv Channel 197 and GOtv Channel 11 (Magic Showcase), the musical reality competition for the Idol crown continues.