Seeks Support For Akeredolu, Tinubu AKURE – The Member representing Ondo State on Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Governing Board, Hon. Gbenga Edema, on Wednesday, congratulated Muslim faithful in Ondo State and across the country on Eid-el-Kabir festival. A statement by his Spokesman, Dr. Tob Loko, made available to newsmen in Akure, the state capital, Edema emphasized on the need to reflect on the need for sacrifice, obedience and faith in Allah. He described Eid-el-Kabir as an opportunity for Muslims to renew their faith and commitment to Allah and to emulate the exemplary characters of Prophet Ibrahim (AS) and his son, Ismail (AS), who demonstrated obedience and sacrifice in their devotion to Allah. The former Chairman of the Ondo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (OSOPADEC), therefore, called on Muslims to seize the occasion to pray for peace, unity, and progress of the state and the nation in general. The ex-lawmaker solicited for prayers for the quick recovery of the state governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who is currently on medical leave. Edema also urged the citizens to support President Bola Ahmed Tinubu in his efforts to rescue the nation’s economy, noting that they would all benefit immensely from the steps taken so far. The statement reads in parts: “It is with great joy and gratitude to Allah that we celebrate Eid-el-Kabir. This special occasion reminds us of the obedience, sacrifice, and faithfulness of Prophet Ibrahim (AS) and his son, Ismail (AS), to Allah’s command. POLL “As we celebrate, let us remember the true meaning of the occasion and emulate the exemplary characters of Prophet Ibrahim (AS) and his son, Ismail (AS). Let us be obedient to Allah’s commands, sacrifice for His sake, and show faithfulness in all our dealings. “In this regard, we should reflect on the importance of sacrifice in our lives and how we can use it to benefit others. Just as Prophet Ibrahim (AS) was willing to sacrifice his son for the sake of Allah, we too should be ready to make sacrifices and show compassion to those around us who are less fortunate. “As we celebrate this joyous occasion, let us also remember those who are less privileged and extend hands of kindness to them. We should share our joy and happiness with them, just as Prophet Ibrahim (AS) shared his son’s sacrifice with his community. “I urge all Muslim faithful to continue to pray for our dear country, Nigeria, the Muslim community, and its people. Let us pray for peace, unity, and progress in our land. We should also use this occasion to reflect on the virtues of love, compassion and forgiveness, and strive to incorporate them into our daily lives. “May Allah accept our sacrifices and grant us His blessings, mercy, and grace. Let us use this occasion to strengthen our bonds of brotherhood and sisterhood and work towards a more peaceful and prosperous society. “Let us all come together in prayer and support Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, SAN, CON. “We look forward to our governor’s safe return to our state and his continued leadership in the months and years ahead.”