ABUJA –Justice Osatohanmwen Obaseki-Osaghae of the National Industrial Court sitting in Abuja, on Friday dismissed a suit challenging the alleged discrimination in the implementation of the pension policy in the country. The suit was filed by some aggrieved retirees from the six geo-political zones of the country against the Federal Government over The retirees are Chike Ogbechie, Hajiya Fatima Ahmad, Olarewaju Ale, Vitas Ajaegbu, Alhaji Abubakar Giza, Samuel Oladosu Ajayi, Dama Peter Douglas and Alhaji Muhammed Maccido. Defendants in the suit are the Attorney General of the Federation, Minister of Labour and Employment, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Director General, National Pension Commission and Chairman, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission. The suit marked NICN/ABJ/CS/1310/2022, was filed on behalf of the retirees by Chief Chiesonu Okpoko SAN. The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice (1st defendant) and Chairman, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission (6th defendant), made no appearance during the hearing of the originating summons. The court refused to make a declaration that by virtue of the provisions of section 1 of the Pension Reform Act 2004 re-enacted by the provisions of section 3 of the Pension Reform Act 2014, the Federal Government introduced and established the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) to apply to all employees in the Federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and the private sector. The court refused to grant relief one for the reason that the Pension Reforms Act 2004, has been repealed, and therefore cannot be applied in the instant case. POLL “An enactment repealed cannot sustain an action, it is considered dead and of no effect whatsoever. Justice Obaseki-Osaghae held that from the evidence adduced before the court, “claimants have not been deprived of their pensions”. Consequently, other reliefs sought by the retirees also failed having no foundation to stand. “The claimant’s case fails and is dismissed accordingly. Parties are to bear their cost” the court held. Earlier in the judgement, the court discountenanced the preliminary objections raised by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning (3rd defendant) and the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (4th defendant). The 3rd and 4th defendants had filed preliminary objections challenging the jurisdiction of the court to hear the matter on the grounds that the claimants had no locus standi to file the suit. The court noted that the issue of jurisdiction is fundamental and a threshhold issue. It was the opinion of the court that though the suit was not filed as a representative action, but one filed by the claimants in their individual interests, the Justice Obaseki-Osaghae held that it falls under public interest litigation and as such, the court has jurisdiction to hear the matter. “Locus standi ennures in favour of the claimants. This court is not deprived of jurisdiction to entertain the suit, Justice Obaseki-Osaghae stated. By the suit, the retirees had asked the court to determine the legality and applicability of section 173 of the 1999 Constitution, Pension Acts of 2004 and 2014 and circulars issued by the Federal Government agencies relating to pension implementations. Specifically, the plaintiffs challenged the alleged refusal of the Federal Government to review upward, their pensions in line with provisions of section 173 of the 1999 Constitution. “Declaration that by virtue of section 173 (3) of the 1999 Constitution, the pension shall be reviewed every five years or together with any Federal Civil Service salary reviews whichever is earlier. “A declaration that by the plain language of section 173 (3) of the 1999 Constitution, the maximum period for review of pensions is five years. They also sought a declaration that the defendants are the relevant agents of the Federal Government that formulate government policies on Pensions and supervise the implementation of the policies in the discharge of their respective duties. ‘Declaration that it is discriminatory against the provisions of section 173 (3) of the 1999 Constitution for the defendants to have reviewed and increased salaries in the civil service with similar review and increment of the old Pension Scheme three times but excluded the Pensions in the Contributory Pension Scheme to the detriment of the plaintiffs and all retirees under the CPS. “Declaration that the failure of the defendants to review and increase pensions in the Contributory Pension Scheme in violation of section 173 (3) of the 1999 Constitution is detrimental to the entitlements of the plaintiffs and all the officers that retired from the Civil Service of the Federation under the Contributory Pension Scheme and that the failure constitutes a continuous injury to rights of the plaintiffs. “Declaration that the rights of the plaintiffs who have served the minimum mandatory period of for gratuity in 1999 when the Constitution came into force with extant pension laws provided for gratuity cannot be extinguished by the 2014 Act. They also asked the court to declare that the Pension Reform Act, 2014 Act does not have a retrospective effect to take away the rights that had accrued before the coming into effect of the 2014 Pension Reform Act. Plaintiffs further sought a declaration that having put into the service, the minimum mandatory period for gratuity before the 2014 Act came into being, are entitled to their gratuities notwithstanding the coming into effect of the 2014 Pension Act. More so, they applied for an order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendants and their agents from further denying them and other retired officers on the Contributory Pension Scheme who had put into service the minimum years for gratuity before the effect of the 2014 Pension Act their earned entitlements. The retirees also sought an order of mandamus compelling the defendants to compute with immediate effect, all their financial entitlements and those of officers on Contributory Pension to Pensions and gratuity to put an end to the continuous injury being inflicted on them by the refusal to review upward their pension.