The Nigeria Volleyball Federation has released a list of 12 players picked for the country’s participation in the 2023 CAVB U21 Girls Zone 3 Nations Cup in Niger Republic. The CAVB U21 Girls Zone 3 Nations Cup is holding from 3rd to 10th July, 2023 The NVBF, in a statement in Kaduna on Thursday by Chief Martin Melandi, its Technical Director, said the team would depart Nigeria on Sunday. Topping the list of players is the 2022 Most Valuable Player (MVP) in the Nigeria Volleyball Premier League, Kelechi Ndukaba and 2022 Best Libero at the CAVB U19 Girls Championship, Mariam Usman. Rakiya Mohammed will lead the U21 Girls team to the Zone 3 Nations Cup. She will work with Dennis Eleri (Assistant Coach); and Anthony Torbundeh (Assistant Coach). Nigeria U21 volleyball women’s team coach, Rakiya Mohammed promised that her technical team are working diligently to make the nation proud. The much travelled coach said the Nation Cup will help build the confidence of the players and put them in shape ahead of the FIVB U19 World Championship next August. She said, “We know that some work still has to be done within the next few days to put the team in great form,” said Mohammed, who was Nigeria’s U17 assistant coach. POLL “I am happy with the level of work we have done and the kind of playing personnel at our disposal. I believe everything will come together beautifully and we will have a team that will make the country proud at the tournament.” “A large nucleus of the team is dominated by the U19 Girls who are preparing for the FIVB World Championship. I believe the Zone 3 Nations Cup will be an avenue for them to put them in shape”. While calling for volleyball community support as they begin their campaign, Ugbade said; “I am soliciting for the prayers of every volleyball stakeholders to please support us because we are technically, tactically and psychologically strong as well. We will do everything to bring you happiness.” THE FULL LIST Aisha Abdulraheem (CNS Spikers), Kelechi Ndukaba (Niger Ravens), Maryam Ibrahim (Niger Ravens), Sarah Ali (COAS Spikers), Deborah Chukwu (COAS Spikers), Fadilat Ibrahim (Kada Emeralds), Verity Onyegwu (CNS Spikers), Mariam Usman (CNS Spikers), Ifunaya Udeagbala (Anambra VB), Aliyat Usman (CNS Spikers), Mary Ishiaku (Life Camp VC) and Chilota Marvellous (Kada Emeralds) Coaches: Rakiya Mohammed, Dennis Eleri and Anthony Torbundeh.