The Okun council of tradi­tional rulers has commend­ed Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State for his outstanding performance as the governor of the state, stressing that the number one citizen of Kogi has etched his name in gold in the hearts and history of the Okun people. A press statement made available to journalists on Thursday noted that Bello received the Okun area tradi­tional council at his residence in Okene, led by the Obaro of Kabba, His Royal Majesty, Oba Solomon Dele Owoniyi. Governor Bello used the opportunity to extend his heartfelt congratulations to the people of Okunland and the entire Kogi State on the recognition of Kogi State Uni­versity, Kabba by the Nation­al Universities Commission (NUC) and other relevant ter­tiary education authorities. He said the establishment of a university in Okunland is a sweet fulfillment of the age-long desire of the people. The Obaro of Kabba noted that the purpose of their visit was to express gratitude to the governor for his remarkable efforts in developing Okun­land, particularly the estab­lishment of a state-owned university in Kabba. Oba Solomon Owoniyi stressed that the visit coincid­ed with the holy Sallah, and it was deemed necessary to extend their heartfelt appre­ciation to God for using the governor as an instrument to bring the Kogi State Universi­ty to fruition. Owoniyi further stated, “Since the 1980s, the people of Okun have yearned for a uni­versity, but various challenges prevented its realisation. “However, our responsive governor, with unparalleled speed and zeal, diligently fa­cilitated the establishment of the university through the necessary state and federal processes. POLL “Today, we are overjoyed and grateful for the actualisa­tion of the university, making it the 62nd state university and the 265th in the country,” he said. The Obaro assured that Okunland possessed a wealth of professors who would col­laborate with their counter­parts from other parts of the state to ensure the optimal functioning of the university. The traditional rulers in Okunland pledged to provide a conducive environment for the smooth operation of the university. The Obaro appealed to well-placed Okun sons and daughters to contribute their quota towards the resounding success of the institution. Expressing deep appreci­ation, Obaro acknowledged that Governor Bello has etched his name in gold in the hearts and history of the Okun people.