The Nigerian House of Representatives on Thursday stepped down a motion seeking to stop young Nigerians from leaving the country in search of greener pastures, popularly known as “Japa Syndrome”. The resolution of the House was a sequel to a motion of urgent national importance brought by Hon. Phillips Agbese, member representing Ado/Ogbadigni/Okpoku federal constituency of Benue State, on the urgent need to declare emigration of young Nigerians Abroad a National emergency. Hon. Agbese noted that there is a 40 percent increase in the number of young Nigerians leaving the nation compared to the number captured in 2019, as the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs reported that international emigration from Nigeria in 2020 total 1.7million, which is a substantial increase from 990,000 in 2010. The lawmaker again noted that the Nigerian population is made of two-thirds of persons under the age of 30 and that a good number of the persons are already afflicted with what today is acceptably referred to as the“JAPA SYNDROME”. He further noted that the recent Reports by the African polling Institute indicated hat 69 percent of young people would opt to relocate abroad if given the chance or if the opportunity presents itself. “Concerned that the growing statistics of young Nigerians leaving Nigeria and securing permanent residence in the United Kingdom, the USA, and Canada portends a grave danger for our nation in many ways from Economic to intellectual and Social aspects”. According to him, those leaving the country are not just the poor but middle class who possess skills/workforce including Bankers, Lecturers, Health care practitioners,Doctors, Nurses and trained manpower, all of whom were trained in Nigeria. Agbese expressed concern that if the scenario continues with the nation’s able minds, brains and skilled personnel leaving, Nigeria may fall into grave crisis in its critical sectors from education to healthcare, thereby making a bad situation worse. POLL He urged the House to called for a national summit to address the factors causing the problem. Debating the motion on the floor Hon. Sada Soli, member representing Jibia/Kaita federal constituency of Katsina state, speaking against the motion, argued that the motion contravened the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria, which provides that it is the liberty of a Nigerian if he is qualified, normal and has all the grant rights of movement anywhere he wants. Another lawmaker Jaha Usman, member representing Damboa/Gwoza/Chibok federal constituency of Borno state, who ke in favour of the bill, argued that the bill does not seek to stop young Nigerians from relocating abroad but for the urgent need to address the factors causing it. After much deliberation on the motion, speaker Tajuddeen Abbas put the motion to voice vote and majority members voted to step it down as he adjourned plenary to 4th July, 2023.