LAGOS  – The African Institute for Economic Development and Planning (AIEDP) and ambassadors of the African diplomatic corps have called for speedy implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM), urging member countries to show more commitment to removing barriers in the implementation of both projects. The stakeholders made the call at a high-level roundtable on the status, challenges and prospects of AfCFTA and SAATM, under the theme, ‘The Year of the AfCFTA: Accelerating the Implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area.’ Both parties said they aim to generate a greater political commitment to trade as a development agenda for Africa, with a view to building linkages with member states, African Union (AU) organs, private sector actors, development partners and other stakeholders, who have important roles to play in accelerating AfCFTA’s implementation. Karima Bounemra Ben Soltane, AIEDP Director, said both AfCFTA and SAATM are linked to each other, contributing to the movement of capital and people as well as facilitating investments. An effective functioning of SAATM, she said, would allow Africans to gain in comfort and choice of airlines, reduced flight times, increased business opportunities and strengthened cultural ties through the progressive development of business and leisure tourism. Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Senegal, Aminata Maiga, said the successful implementation of AfCFTA would require close coordination between the United Nations, AU and member countries to ensure beneficial and sustainable trade policies. On his part, the Ambassador of the Republic of Gabon and Dean of the Africa group of Ambassadors in Senegal, Michel Régis Onanga Mamadou Ndiaye, regretted that Africans continue to have great difficulty in moving from one country to another within Africa, adding that it was time to take ownership of AfCFTA and SAATM, two closely-related and fundamental issues for the continent. Secretary General, AfCFTA Secretariat, Wamkele Mene, said though AfCFTA faced many obstacles, it offered opportunities for the creation of a single market in Africa. AfCFTA and SAATM are two of the 12 flagship projects of Agenda 2063 and are in line with the historic Abuja Treaty establishing the African Economic Community. The AfCFTA agreement entered into force in 2019 and implementation began in 2021. POLL The Declaration on the Establishment of a SAATM was adopted in January 2015 and was officially launched in January 2018. In addition to the expected increase in frequencies on existing air routes, SAATM would allow for economies of scale of about $500 million in passenger fares, free competition, the opening of new commercial routes and environmental protection, as well as the development of the private sector in civil aviation.