Representative Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, Member of the House of Representatives (MHR) has congratulated Yemi Mobolade for being the first black elected Mayor of Colorado Springs City. Akande-Sadipe, who represents Oluyole Federal Constituency in the 10th Assembly, was the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Affairs in the 9th Assembly. She extended her warmest congratulations to Mobolade on his remarkable achievement as the newly elected Mayor of Colorado Springs, through a statement on Friday, June 9th, 2023 in Ibadan. She noted that Yemi Mobolade, a Nigerian native who moved to the USA as an international student, to further his studies, and stayed on to build a life, has undeniably made a statement in that political space through his historic win. According to Akande-Sadipe, his victory marks a momentous milestone as the first elected black mayor of Colorado Springs, symbolizing the progress and diversity of American democracy. Akande-Sadipe said, “Notably, Mayor Mobolade’s success is further accentuated by his affiliation as a non-Republican mayor, showcasing the evolving political dynamics in the United States.” Rep. Akande-Sadipe commended Mayor Yemi Mobolade for his unwavering determination and his ability to inspire hope through his journey from Nigeria to the United States. As the former Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Affairs, Rep. Akande-Sadipe said she recognizes the tremendous potential for collaboration between Nigeria and the United States, particularly in areas of diaspora engagement and inclusive governance. POLL She believes Mayor Mobolade’s historic win will serve as an inspiration for aspiring leaders within the Nigerian diaspora and beyond, fostering greater participation and representation in politics. “His victory speech which resonated with a strong vision for Colorado Springs is inspiring, He expressed gratitude to the residents of the city for their trust and support, emphasizing his commitment to serving the community with dedication and integrity. Mayor Mobolade outlined his key priorities for his term, including fostering economic growth, promoting social inclusivity, and enhancing the quality of life for all residents. “His leadership and determination to create positive change are evident, and Rep. Tolulope looks forward to potential collaborations that will be of great benefit to both Nigeria and the United States”, Akande-Sadipe said.