SAINTS have confirmed the appointment of Russell Martin as their new first team manager. The 37-year-old joins from Swansea City, signing a three-year-deal at St Mary’s. The announcement has been expected for a round a month and was understood to be held up due to compensation being negotiated to bring Martin to the South Coast. Martin becomes the fourth Saints manager in eight months and takes over as the club prepares for their first Championship season since 2011/12. Southampton FC Chairman, Henrik Kraft said: “We are extremely excited to welcome Russell to Southampton. “Russell was the stand-out candidate throughout our recruitment process and we are confident his strong track record, alongside the experienced leadership of our new Director of Football, Jason Wilcox, will deliver great results.” Wilcox added: “Russell has shown fantastic qualities in his managerial career so far and is someone who we believe will thrive in the great environment we have here at Southampton. “He is a fantastic fit for what we are trying to achieve, with a strong record of developing and nurturing young, talented players to fulfil their potential and deliver results on the pitch. POLL “We can’t wait for Russell to get started working with the team at Staplewood as we get ready for the new season.” Martin added: “It’s a privilege to accept this opportunity at Southampton, a club with such a long and rich history. “My aim is to get this club back where it belongs – in the top flight of English football. “I am ready for this challenge and will give everything to achieve this aim and to give the supporters a team that makes them proud. “I’m thrilled to be here and cannot wait for the work to begin.” During his most recent two seasons in South Wales, Martin guided Swansea to 10th place in the Championship, finishing three points off the playoffs having gone undefeated in their final nine games. Under his guidance, Swansea also completed the first-ever league double over their South Wales rivals Cardiff City. Following a playing career that saw him represent Scotland 29 times and make 125 Premier League appearances, Martin transitioned to a coaching role at MK Dons in 2019.