AWKA – A business man and industrialist, Mr Christopher Enemuo, has said that Nigeria needs more things to be done to move it from consumption to producing nation. Enemuo spoke in Awka on Saturday in reaction to unified exchange rate which some people are hailing, though he said the recent policy of unifying exchange rate, and the law for independent power generation signed by President Bola Tinubu, are steps towards meeting the needed target, but we’re not enough. According to him for Nigeria to truly become a producing nation, a lot more needed to be done, including placing manufacturers as priority citizens, and accessing their values, and using it to help the country. He said: “The present government has made moves toward addressing some key factors which would go a long way to solve difficulties encountered by manufacturers in Nigeria. “The unification of exchange rates and the independent power generation policies are two aspects propelled toward relieving about 45% of the problems. “To jump-start consumption-to-production, there are configurations of relatively common factors which are germane in the objective, and they include making manufacturers priority citizens and accessing the intellectual values of manufacturers. “Manufacturers need to be in a position of advantage in the course of their manufacturing activities. “There is need for direct partnership between production industries and the government. Like quick issuance of all necessary documents, for instance licences and Certificate Of Occupancy (C of O) where applicable.” POLL Among other things, health insurance for eligible manufacturers, direct access to government-subsidized funds, facilities and benefits, quick judicial adjudication where a manufacturer is involved and fast-tracking the clearing of industrial equipment at the ports and berths. “Again, he continued, most financial institutions in Nigeria are more interior in the aspect of lending. The institutions are more concerned with fixed assets because that is what their physical eyes can see; hence, they are shallow on the intellectual scope notwithstanding its solid and futuristic nature. “There need for the federal government, through the Central Bank Of Nigeria (CBN) and Bank Of Industries (BOI) to meet the financial needs of the manufacturers”. According to him, disbursing financial institutions are sunk into the outdated facility system paying all attention to fixed assets, landed properties and bonds. On the contrary the intellectual aspect which is more valuable and visible is not only ignored but most times subdued and eventually eliminated. “This oversight is more discouraging when the disbursing banks are the manufacturer’s bank which has enjoyed uninterrupted tons of turnover for decades. “This is how interior most financial institutions in Nigeria are,” Enemuo lamented.