Ikeja Golden Lions Club has constructed and commissioned an eight-unit toilet facility to Baptist Senior Secondary School, Obanikoro, Lagos. State. Speaking during the commissioning of the facilities on Wednesday, Lion Aare Lekan Owolabi, the District Governor of Lions Club District 404B2 Nigeria, praised the leaders and members of Ikeja Golden Lions Club for thinking it wise to build and donate the facilities to the school. He said that the construction and donation of the facility was a realization of his vision to increase the impact of the club on the poor and less-privileged in society through building projects and structures. Owolabi said that the club has commissioned more than 56 projects since his assumption of office in July last year. He urged the Lagos State government to recognize the contributions of the club to the development of the state. He asked the state government to allocate a piece of land to the club to build its secretariat. Also speaking at the event, the president of Ikeja Golden Lions Club, Lion Yetunde Balogun, said that the club chose the project after conducting a needs assessment on the school, adding that the facilities will help to improve hygiene among the students. She stated that the government cannot provide all the needs of students in Lagos State and stressed the need for non-governmental organizations to step in to assist the government to do projects in the education sector. POLL In her remarks at the event, Mrs. Bolanle Ajala, who represented Mrs. Anike Adekanye, permanent secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Education, District 2, thanked the club for building and donating the facilities to the school, adding that they will help to improve hygiene in the school. However, Mr. Kolapo Okotore, principal of Baptist Senior Secondary School, said that the facilities will relieve the challenge the students face when they want to ease themselves. According to him, before the new facilities, the school had just three toilets to about 1,000 students, adding that the club has brought a new lease on life to the students.