KOLA OWOLABI I think I have very good news for everyone reading this today. Nigeria has now been presented with its brightest chance to actually leapfrog from a Third World status to First World. Nigeria successfully leapfrogged from analogue telephone system several years back to GSM technology, which was from a Third World status to the best that the First World is using today. Something similar is about to happen particularly talking about opportunities available entrepreneurs. We are not talking politics here but real business. I have been an active player in the business sector in Nigeria for over thirty years now. Since I can remember, Nigeria has had fuel subsidy and dual exchange rates. These two issues had bred so much corruption and inefficiency and had made the business landscape grossly uncompetitive with opportunities available for only a privileged few. The new government within two weeks has liberalised the economy by dealing with these two issues frontally. No fuel subsidy and only one foreign exchange window. What does it mean to us in business? The business environment has been reset to zero. These two issues together, in my opinion constitute up to eighty percent of what happens to businesses in a developing country like Nigeria. When we talk of fuel subsidy, the previous experience had been one of gross inefficiency and heavy pressure on our scarce foreign exchange reserves. In addition, we can all see from records making the rounds, that the government had actually been coughing out, times three of what we were paying for fuel and due to official corruption, a larger part of that money was going into private pockets. How about the dual exchange rates? We all know what round tripping has cost Nigeria. People have been feeding fat collecting FX from the banks at official rate and turning round to sell same at the black market making nearly hundred percent gain without doing anything. Goods in the market have been produced with FX procured at two different rates meaning some people have been having so much competitive advantage over others, with the small businesses the worst hit since most of them were accessing FX from the black market. The implication of the new policy direction is that we are having a more level playing ground in business. All things being equal, the environment will be fair to all of us and those who are ready to offer the consumer real value will make it in business. POLL Bye bye to business tycoons who rode to success under the rent seeking dispensation which kept Nigeria perpetually as a third world country despite the fact that we have first world potential. The lack of a truly competitive market meant that only those with government connections were competitively positioned and since this set of people were only interested in thier own pockets, the market was suffering due to non existence of serous business people with market transforming vision and entrepreneurial drive. I want to encourage my fellow entrepreneurs to brace up for opportunities that will catapult Nigeria to the status of a first world business destination and by extension carrying we entrepreneurs along in a very short time, shorter than anyone can anticipate. How can this be done? We shall be highlighting specific opportunities particularly judging from the body language of the new administration in Nigeria.. • Kola Owolabi is the Principal Consultant and CEO of David Richard Associates. He is a Business Plan preparation expert and has been very active in the Business Development landscape in Nigeria in the past 23 years”. He was a leading consultant in many prominent business development projects in Nigeria, i.e., World Bank Growth and Employment Project (GEM) and YOUWIN Connect He can be reached on 08023203198