LAGOS – Olanrewaju Suraju, Chairman, Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) Resource Centre) has said that about 70 per cent of corruption in Nigeria is traced to the oil sector. Suraju stated this yesterday while speaking in Lagos at the public presentation of its latest publication titled: ‘Spotlighting the Oil & Gas: A Review of the 2020/2021 Marginal Fields Bids Licensing Round in Nigeria.’ He said that the organisation was extremely worried and con­cerned about the corruption in the oil and gas sector, stating that it’s been the worst any country could have anywhere in the world. “It is not only about Nigeria and that is the point we have made over time, that this is also about many of our foreign oper­ators that are here. It is not only about the public sector but also the private sector including the banks that you have in Nigeria and the banks you have abroad. “The whole corruption that actually revolved around the OPL 245 that I mentioned earlier, it was not only about Nigerian banks it was even including JP Morgan Chase Bank, based in the UK which is why Nigeria actually takes JP Morgan Chase Bank to court in UK for failing to undertake some necessary due diligence about the know your customer thing. “About 70 per cent of corrup­tion in Nigeria is traced to the oil sector and that is the area where you also have international play­ers being part of the process. It means that these international players are also meant to be held to account for some of the things that are happening here,” he said. Speaking further, Suraju said that Nigeria has had only two successful marginal fields bid licensing rounds (2003/2004 and the 2020/2021) in history and that the study was necessitated given that Nigeria was at a critical time in its oil history replete with neg­ative indices. He said among these indices were low discovery and drilling activities, high cost of produc­tion, declining joint venture (JV) production and revenues earnings, and other gamut of challenges. POLL “The other challenges includ­ed manifest decline in gas for power supply, job creation, proj­ect funding constraints, matur­ing fields amidst aging facilities without corresponding devel­opment of new fields, growing insecurity compounded by oil theft, and uncertainties around stalled reforms anticipated from the implementation of the Petro­leum Industry Act. “All of these stifled invest­ment and production outputs in a sense that terribly affected the growth and development of the oil and gas industry,” he said. He said according to the find­ing of the study, the 2020/2021 marginal fields bid licensing round recorded anticipated milestones including, expan­sion of the space for indigenous participation in the oil and gas industry, potential for growing proven reserves, revenue gener­ation to the tune of N200 billion and US$7 million to the Federal Government.