WITH AGENCY REPORTS – The World Health Organisa­tion (WHO) is about to classify aspartame, a widely used arti­ficial sweetener globally, as a probable carcinogen, forcing it up against the food industry and authorities, according to sources with knowledge of the process. WHO’s International Agen­cy for Research on Cancer (IARC) said that aspartame found in items like some Snapple drinks, Mars’ Extra chewing gum, and Coca-Cola diet sodas, will be designated as “possibly carcinogenic to humans” by next month. The decision was reached by a group of external experts who assess whether products present a potential hazard based on all the published ev­idence, according to agency reports. The IARC’s choices, though, have occasionally come under fire for raising unnecessary anxiety. Prior to this, IARC classified using mobile phones as “possibly cancer-causing,” similar to aspartame, along with eating red meat, and work­ing overnight, all of which are “probably cancer-causing” be­haviours. Aspartame Is Safe—- Reg­ulators Its latest report does not take into account how much aspar­tame a person can safely con­sume. This advice comes from a body known as JECFA, an international expert commit­tee on food additives adminis­tered jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN and WHO. Since 1981, JECFA has said aspartame is safe to consume within accepted daily limits. For example, an adult weigh­ing 60 kg (132 pounds) would have to drink between 12 and 36 cans of diet soda – depending on the amount of aspartame in the beverage – every day to be at risk. Its view has been widely shared by national regulators, including in the United States and Europe. Reacting, the International Sweeteners Association (ISA), whose members include Mars Wrigley, Coca-Cola, and Pep­sico, said it had “serious con­cerns with the IARC review, which may mislead consum­ers. POLL “IARC is not a food safety body and their review of as­partame is not scientifically comprehensive and is based heavily on widely discredited research,” said Frances Hunt- Wood, secretary general of the ISA said. JECFA is also reviewing as­partame use this year. It is due to announce its findings on the same day that the IARC makes public its decision – on July 14. However, the industry com­munity and regulators worry that releasing distinct reviews would confuse the general public. “We kindly ask both bod­ies to coordinate their efforts in reviewing aspartame to avoid any confusion or con­cerns among the public,” No­zomi Tomita, an official from Japan’s Ministry of Health, wrote in a letter to Zsuzsanna Jakab, WHO’s deputy director general. Aspartame has been ex­tensively studied for years. Last year, an observational study in France among 100,000 adults showed that people who consumed larger amounts of artificial sweeteners – includ­ing aspartame – had a slightly higher cancer risk. Aspartame is authorised for use globally by regulators who have reviewed all the available evidence, and major food and beverage makers have for de­cades defended their use of the ingredient. The IARC said it had assessed 1,300 studies in its June review, online agency reports.