ENUGU – The family of Umu Obunoko of Ihewuzhi, Ogui Nike Community in Enugu North Local Government Area of Enugu State have cried out over an illegal encroachment of their land. They alleged that some government officials in the past administration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi want to dispose them of their family land. The land according to them is known as “Amofia land in Asata River Layout”, located at the densely populated Ogui Nike community in Enugu North Local Government Area of the state. They said land was shared among the family members some years ago. Speaking with Journalists in Enugu, the eldest son of Dr. Sam Anibueze, Barr. Chidubem Anibueze, said “we are addressing you today because of some persons who were functionaries in the past government of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi Who wants to take over our family land. “On a particular occasion, they demolished a house being erected by my Cousin, Rtd General Abel Ani. “We filed an action against them in court over a long period of time, they did not put any defense because they have none, and the court deliver judgement, Justice Eya of Enugu state High Court delivered judgment and our family has taken back our land but in a surprise move by some persons in the past administration, within a week for them to leave office, they came here and started bulldozing our property but we refused that they wouldn’t do that because we have a judgment against them. “So we are here today to tell the people and to notify the press that they have left office but they still want to come and take our land. I don’t even know how somebody will even reason that way. POLL “You entered somebody’s land, the person took you to court, and you refuse to come to court. After many adjournments, serving you hearing notices, you didn’t file any defence. The court entered judgment for the plaintiffs, Now you want to enter through the back door. “Somebody was telling us that they allocated the land to some persons, I was like it can’t happen.We have judgment obtained from the Enugu state high court.So we have called you people today to inform the people what some persons in the past administration are doing” he said When asked to name some of the past officials trying to grab the land, Barr Anibueze said “These persons arefaceless, they are using the Ministry of Lands but we can’t find any face who has come here. The last time they came here, some thugs numbering about 20 came with bulldozers to pull down this place, we asked them who sent them, and they said it was the government, I said no and we show them the judgement. “And the judgement is final because they have not to appeal. They have not filed anything in court. They just believe that they have might because they have been in government which was past administration. When asked if the present state government has been notified on the issue, he said “ The new government just came but We wrote a letter to the commissioner for lands about a week before he left office. We did a letter to him that your people irrespective of the judgement of court are coming here. He now minuted the letter to some of his people and one day a lady came here on the instruction of the director for lands in which the ministry of lands came here they wanted to ascertain whether this was government land or not. And after we looked at the survey plans, everything she told us was that she was sure that this is not government land and that she was going back to the office to report that this is not government land. So that is how far we have gone. This one happened about two or three weeks before the end of the tenure of this past administration. “But we will surely go ahead to intimidate the new government of what is happening,” he said Meanwhile, the Umu Obunoko family had on April 5th, 2023 through their Counsel/Solicitors petitioned the Commissioner of Police in the state, informing him of the plan to take over their land using men of the Nigerian Police. According to the petition titled : “Report Against plan to take over our clients’ property with the aid of Enugu State Police Command”, noted categorically that Umu Obunoko family are the Customary Owners of the Amofia land in Asata River Layout, Ogui Nike, Enugu. “It is a private layout belonging to the people of Ogui Nike, in Enugu North L.G.A”, the Petitioners maintained. Contacted on ground, the former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Edward Ubosi who said he has allocation from the government noting that “I’m hearing this for the first time , they told me they have a judgement against the government, I asked them if I can see the judgement because you can’t have a judgement, and as a law maker, I will come into the land . “We are family and in a relationship capacity, if I ask the family to give me land, I know they will give me so I can’t encroach into the land . And they know that I have try for this community, Ogui as a community so if I see the judgement, I will respect it because I can’t fight the judgement because I am a law maker. “The only thing is that I have allocation here from the government but if I see the judgement , then my allocation is void,”