ABUJA – Amid shock expressed by former occupants of the UTC Shopping Complex in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory Administra­tion (FCTA) has disclosed that the centre was demolished in or­der to make room for the area’s recovery. According to the administra­tion, a restructuring of the build­ing was long overdue to make it conform to the shopping complex model needed to expand Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs) and meet the demands and chal­lenges of a global marketplace. The buildings had to be up­graded to the level that would comply with international busi­ness norms, according to Hassan Ogbole, Deputy Director, Moni­toring and Inspection, Depart­ment of Development. Ogbole said that arrange­ments had been made for the complex’s shopkeepers and oth­er residents to Ogbole stated that provision had been made for the traders and other occupants of the complex to enable reconstruc­tion of the place. He also stated that enough notices had been given to the occupants to enable them move out and allow the construction to start, but many of them refused to vacate, while some deliberate­ly refused to move out. According to him, “The place is in state of disrepair, the place is no longer habitable for occupa­tion and business activities. The place has to give way for a new development. “The company handling the development has informed De­velopment Control and we are here to enforce compliance. We have given them enough notices for them to remove their goods, to enable us start the work.” Also Speaking, the Secretary, Command and Control, FCTA Department of Security, Peter Olumiji, said demolishing the complex was also needed to cur­tain the security challenges in the Area. POLL Olumiji noted that apart from restructuring the place to meet global standards, there was need to curtail the criminal activities prevalent in the place. He disclosed that plans to re­modeling the place, was carefully designed to end the thuggery that rubbishes the image of the place, especially faking of official doc­uments. One of the traders in the complex, Mr. Samuel Onuchuk­wu, said the traders and other occupants of the complex were worried because the temporary site provided for the developers, was not secured for business. Onuchukwu disclosed that many of the traders were yet to remove their goods and proper­ties from the shops and offices. According to him, they woke up early in the morning on Satur­day to learn that the whole UTC area had been barricaded and de­molishing going on, with people’s personal goods still entrapped.