…As Delta Youth Coalition Congratulates Ned Nwoko On Inaugural Celebration … DYC Boss, Comrade Chibuzor Agunwa Tasks Him On Youth Inclusion, Empowerment, Employment & Development. Barr. Prince Ned Munir Nwokp, Senator Representing Delta North in the Senate (Upper Chamber of the National Assembly) and Former Federal House of Representatives Member Representing Aniocha/Oshimili Federal Constituency between (1999-2003), has been tasks on the need to ensure that he keeps his campaign promises to the people of Delta North Senatorial District of the State and Nigeria in general by Comrade Chibuzor Agwunwa (a.k.a Mr. Dash), the President-General of Delta Youth Coalition (DYC). The media learnt this today being on Sunday, June 18, 2023 from Comrade Chibuzor Agunwa popularly known as Mr Dash, the President-General, Delta Youth Coalition, DYC led by its President-General, Comrade Chibuzor Agunwa (A.k.a Mr Dash) as Senator Representing Delta North Senatorial District in National Assembly, Prince Barr. Ned Nwoko Celebrateshis successful inauguration recently at FCT, Abuja with Delta Northerners, DYC group at mount Ned Nwoko, Ned’s official residence, country home at Idumuje-Ugboko, Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State as group Congratulates Ned Nwoko on victory, successful inauguration as Senator. Delta Youth Coalition is a Socio-political pressure group with foremost formidable structures in the 25 LGAs of Delta State and beyond that had lived in line with its major objectives of protecting the interest of citizens; advocated for grassroots political participation, Youths, Women empowerment and development, PVCs registration and collection sensitization; whose vision and mission statement are to help elect good leadership that will bring the actualization of good Democratic governance to citizens and promote grassroots development. DYC President-General, Comrade Chibuzor Agunwa speaking to newsmen sees campaign promises as election manifestos, program, guarantee made to the public, plans put forward, statement made by a candidate or political party during electioneering campaign to fulfill to the electorates or citizens as set of activities to be carried out over a given period of time if he or she wins an election. Comrade Chibuzor Agwunwa who came to the celebration alongside DYC Executives and some members of the group from Delta North Senatorial District, and across the 25 LGAs of Delta State he used the medium to congratulate Sen. Ned Nwoko on his victory, successful inauguration and assumption of office as Senator Representing Delta North Senatorial District in the National Assembly. Agunwa stated: “I must say a very big congratulations to Sen. Ned Nwoko. Senator Representing Delta North Senatorial district, On the inauguration ceremony. Indeed is a victory for all. Your sound representation shall not only bring good tidings to the good people of Delta North via your legislative experience but give opportunity to the voiceless, vulnerable and of course the grass root of which we represent. DYC is for good governance!” POLL Comrade Chibuzor Agwunwa then urged Sen. Ned Nwoko to ensure that he keep his campaign promises to the entire Delta Northerners, especially the Youths who made him to actualize his vision of becoming a Senator after years of struggle. DYC while praying for his successful tenure as Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, then commended Prince Ned Munir Nwoko for his past and present support to the Youths of Anioma Nation, Delta State and Nigeria in general in areas which bothers on Inclusion, empowerment, employment opportunities and others as group urges him not to relent on his positive efforts towards Youths development, Socio-economic and sustainable development of Anioma Nation, Delta State and Nigeria in general. Quoting from the words of Senator Barr Ned Nwoko’s campaign promises during the 2023 electioneering campaign before his victory as DYC visited him. DYC Boss stated: “The best way to resolve ethnic agitations is through dialogue. These agitators are part of us, mostly seeking inclusiveness, referendum, and responsive governance. The use of violence by the government to subdue them will only lead to revenge killings, colossal damages, waste, and decline in the country’s economy. War is expensive, the federal government spends nothing less than 15 billion dollars, yearly, in buying arms and other war equipment. It doesn’t make sense that we spend such amount of money to kill our own people when such amount can be used to empower the youths”. “I am looking forward championing a bill that, for a start will pull about a million Nigerian youths, annually, out of abject poverty, by giving each qualified youth a grant of N50million to support his or her already existing business. 15 billion dollars is more than enough to finance this lucrative plan, If channelled into developing the youths.” The leading Delta North senatorial candidate explained”.