LAGOS – The operatives of the Delta Police Command, said they killed three suspected armed when members of the gang  engaged them in a shootout. The police disclosed that following the exchange, they recovered one pump action rifle, one cut-to-size locally made gun and live cartridges. Bright Edafe, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Delta State Command, disclosed this in a statement made available to Saturday Independent. Edafe, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said on June 22, 2023,  at about 10.20am, operatives attached to ‘B’ division, Warri, led by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), SP Bolarinwa Alabi, while acting on a distressed call about an armed robbery operation along Ugborikoko/Giwa-Amu airport road,  that armed hoodlums were operating in an unregistered black Toyota corolla car. He said the team raced to the scene where the hoodlums on sighting the advancing police, fired gun shots at the Policemen and the team retaliated, engaged them in a serious gun duel, during which three of the hoodlums were fatally wounded while other members of the gang escaped with bullet injuries. “The injured suspects gave up the ghost, while they were being taken to the hospital. “Exhibit recovered includes one cut-to-size locally fabricated gun, two live cartridges, an unregistered black Toyota corolla car, and eight different vehicle keys. “Manhunt for the other fleeing suspects is-ongoing.” In another development, the Delta State Police image maker said that on June 22, 2023, at about 10.30am, operatives of Rapid Response Squad (RRS), while on visibility/confidence building patrol along Asaba-Benin Express Road, by Issele- Azagba, sighted a suspicious looking young man with a sack (bag), pretending to be waiting for a vehicle. POLL “As soon as the operatives alighted from their vehicle, the suspect took to his heels abandoning the sack bag. “He was chased but he escaped. Upon searching the abandoned bag, one pump action gun and six live cartridges were recovered. Effort is on to arrest the fleeing suspect,” Edafe said. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Delta State Command, CP Wale Abass has called on members of the public, particularly Deltans to be mindful of their environment and ensure that any suspicious persons or movement within their environment was  promptly reported to the nearest police station or through any of the following phone numbers CONTROL ROOM NUMBERS: