As various stakeholders, party faithful and other Nigerians jostle for ministerial appointments, a renowned group instrumental to the election of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has called on the President, to consider one of her great financiers and backbone for the position of Minister. President Tinubu is expected to forward names of Ministerial nominees to the Senate for confirmation, on or before 28th July, 2023, to beat the deadline stipulated by law. At a world press briefing in Abuja Thursday afternoon, the group, All Progressives Congress’ Youth Development and Solidarity Forum (APC-YDSF), said the nomination of Chief (Dr.) Michael Achadu would place APC as a party that rewards loyalty, dedication and commitment. Chief Tobias Ogbeh, President of the group said it was a honourable thing for President Tinubu to reward those who spent personal resources, time, energy and Goodwill to bring the APC to victory across the country, stressing that some of those who are currently jostling for appointments around the Presidency did little or nothing to make the party reclaim Benue. “We are aware of those who are currently lobbying for appointments, both in Benue and around the Presidency in Abuja. But we must tell ourselves the truth, some of them could not even deliver their polling units or wards during the last elections. What is their contribution to the success of the party in the last general elections? “We remember some of them, when, during the buildup to the Presidential primaries in 2022, we were almost stranded and needed a boost financially to continue our activities in support of Asiwaju; we approached many of them in Benue, Kogi, Niger, even in the south, but they failed us. “It was just a few of them who genuinely believed in Asiwaju to become President and one of such persons is Chief Dr. Michael Achadu (Ph.D). The man practically took over almost all the expenses of our organisation and many other interest groups I can remember. All through the primaries down to the general elections, he was always there to support the course of Asiwaju. “It was also Chief Achadu who singlehandedly released funds that prosecuted the elections of APC and that of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in his country home of Okpokwu Local Government of Benue State and caused victory for our party, for the first time, in the traditional home of PDP since 1999. This was in addition to his stretch of benevolence and support to our party men and women across other council areas in Benue and beyond”, Chief Ogbeh said. POLL When asked if Chief Achadu was interested in becoming a Minister and if he has the capacity, the group said, of all the names flying from Benue State, Achadu remained the most competent and one with technical know-how to occupy such position. Ogbeh described Achadu as a “philanthropist, an icon of diligent services, professionalism per excellence, with global economic expertise, a consummate business mogul and an epitome of hope to the youthful generation”, saying, he is “a well-known serial entrepreneur with interest in brand development, hospitality, construction, manufacturing, farming and humanitarian services. “He has over 20 years robust working experience in the corporate sector managing and developing big brands for multinationals across Africa. He has over 3,500 youths workforce spread across all 774 local governments in Nigeria”. Ogbeh alluded that, Chief Achadu’s venture into partisan politics was driven by the need to offer an alternative to the general narrative.