LAGOS – Electricity is an important component for the development of any economy and hence for the prosperity of the citizens. It is an important factor of production with capital and labour in economic models. The availability of electricity will improve economic growth and development in ways. Electricity improves household well-being and creates efficiency gains, such as time savings, communication, and educational investments. Electricity is an essential part of modern life and important to the Nigerian economy. People use electricity for lighting, heating, cooling, and refrigeration and for operating appliances, computers, electronics, machinery, and public transportation systems. Electricity contributes to advancing and improving people’s living standards by stimulating other sectors like health, education, commerce, and industries. However, the non-availability of adequate supply of electricity has led to underdevelopment of the Nigerian economy and many people have had to source power from alternative sources to run their companies and households. It was in the bid to solve the energy crisis in Nigeria that Mr. Adebayo Johnson established Ecotech Nigeria, a company that sells generators that do not use fuel or gas. The generators that Ecotech sells are also noiseless Speaking in an interview with Daily Independent on Wednesday in Lagos, Johnson said that the generators range from 5KVA to 500KVA and more. According to him, “These generators are a new source of power that is completely safe, free, and efficient; the durability and design are top-notch. These generators are unlike other generators; they do not have an engine that consumes fuel/gas and they do not make noise. Instead of an engine, it has a DC motor battery which is powered by a 12volts 75Amps motor battery and recharges itself as it operates.” POLL He added, “Like the 6Kva generator, you can use it to power your home, office, or shop. You can use the following gadgets: two numbers of 1hp each air conditioner, one refrigerator, electric cooker, microwave oven, TVs, and other regular home appliances or the equivalent. “In order not to overuse and overheat the generator, it s advised that you use it for 20 hours per day. This action will make it to last for a long time. This amazing new technology was developed in Korea and the generators are assembled in Nigeria by a team of experts and we have the complete accessories in the country.” Johnson disclosed that the company two offers years guarantee period, adding that “the generators are 100 percent tested and trusted.” Speaking on the advantages the generators offer, he said that anyone who buys them will not run the risk of running out of electrical power and will not have to contend with the payment of electricity bills. He disclosed that the company offers two years guarantee on every item and a seven-day return policy. Johnson stated that he established the company because he wanted to ease the pain that Nigerians go through in the bid to access power, adding that power is critical to economic development. He said that small business owners have the opportunity to buy a generator that is affordable, accessible, and easy to maintain. He added that people and businesses that are in the rural of who are off-grid can now have power at an affordable rate. He described Nigeria as a country with a huge potential for growth, arguing the growth of the Nigerian economy is being hampered by an inadequate supply of electricity. He stated that Ecotech was established to bridge the gap and make the country a better place for all. The entrepreneur claimed that the use of the generators will reduce noise and air pollution in the country. Johnson said that his company was looking for distributors who will take the products to all parts of the federation.