Since the introduction of the contributory pension scheme (CPS) into the pension administration in Nigeria in 2004 via Pension Reform Act (PRA 2004) now amended, various component states in the federations have tinkered around the most appropriate pension model to adopt within the ambit of the extant law. One of these states is Jigawa State which has remodelled its pension administration to submerge both the old Defined Benefits Scheme and the newly introduced Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) to form what they currently have as Contributory Defined Benefits Scheme (CDBS) in 2005. Though the 2005 enactment was amended in in 2015 and 2020 respectively, this did not alter the pension model the state has been operating with ease for about two decades. Jigawa State and Local Government Contributory Pension Scheme Law was enacted in 2005. The law was amended in 2015 and amended again in 2020. Jigawa State operates a Contributory Defined Benefit Scheme (CDBS) and the state has set up the Jigawa (State and Local Government) Contributory Pension Scheme Board. The CDBS does not require the registration of employees and opening of Retirement Savings Account (RSAs) with Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs). The state remits 17per cent employer and 8per cent employee Pension Contributions under the Contributory Defined Benefit Scheme. The State conducted an Actuarial Valuation to determine the employees’ Accrued Pension Rights in December 2018. Group Life Insurance Policy is not required under the CDBS. Recently, the Jigawa State governor, Mallam Umar Namadi has approved the constitution of of 28-member committee to review and appraise the state and local government contributory pension scheme board. According to the statement by the State’s Head of the Civil Service, Alhaji Mustapha Aminu will serve as the Chairman of the committee, while the Head of the Civil Service will be the Co- Chairman. POLL Other members of the committee include Muhammad Shu’aibu Kiri, Former Executive Secretary of the Contributory Pensions Scheme; as well as Muhammad Dagaceri, Permanent Secretary, Directorate of Administration and Finance, SSG’s office; Nuhu Haruna, Permanent Secretary, Directorate of Establishment, office of the Head of Service. Also in the committee are representative of the Ministry of Justice, Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and National Union of Local Government Employee (NULGE), among others. According to the statement, the committee will be inaugurated by Governor Namadi in June, 2023.