Engr. Michael lgbini was a two-time Governorship candidate in Delta State. The human rights activist in this interview with Isaac Asabor spoke about Nigeria’s politics, corruption in fuel subsidy, the welfare of Nigerians, and other issues. Excerpt: As a chieftain of a leading opposition political party, the Peoples Redemption Party, (PRP) what is your reaction to the emergence of Bola Tinubu as President of Nigeria? I am so excited. I see the beginning. of rising again for our beloved country and Nigerians. My long-held belief that our Nigeria shall overcome and must rise again is sure to begin to come to reality. I have never been this optimistic since May 29, 1999, except when Umaru Musa Yar Adua emerged as President in the year 2007. Sadly, we lost him to death. May his soul continues to rest in Peace with Almighty God. But it is on record that prior to the emergence of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the Presidential candidate of APC, you were strongly advocating for a Southerner who must be a Christian Yes, it is true, I did. This is in line with my over 25 years of consistent and unrepentant advocacy and struggles for equal ownership, belonging, and duty to Nigeria by all geographical zones of Nigeria. It is to guarantee our collective commitment to building and advancing our country to the enviable height that God destines it to be. In other words, I am for rotation and zoning of certain critical political offices at federal, state, and local government councils. And you now support Bola Ahmed Tinubu who is a Southern Muslim after a Muslim President Buhari? It was initially very difficult for me to accept that Tinubu emerged as the candidate of APC having earlier been unhappy that the People Democratic Party (PDP) produced Atiku as its candidate which meant retaining the Presidency in the north for straight 16 years in total disregard and disrespect for Nigerians of southern extraction. My initial objection to Tinubu’s emergence was because of his age and health status then. Religion has never been a very critical factor in my insistence on the rotation of political power for balancing and equity. What is of importance to me is ensuring a balance between the geographical north and south of Nigeria. After all, in all states of Nigeria, we are both Christians and Muslims. Or is there any state where there are Nigerians of only one religion? Honestly, I was initially all out in support of the Presidency going specifically to the south-east geopolitical zone and the person I was rooting for was former President of the Senate, Senator Ken Nnamani; the best President of the Senate Nigerians ever had since 1999. A man who displayed so much maturity, intelligence, courage, and above all, a high level of patriotism at a time that the third-term ambition of former President Obasanjo was pushing our country and nascent democracy to the point of explosion and Nigerians needed the Senate to intervene to save Nigeria. He did not disappoint. He saved Nigeria. So it was so devastating for me when I heard that he pulled out of the APC Presidential primary. POLL So the emergence of Peter Obi of the Labour Party perfectly fits into your demand for a President from the southeast and a Christian after Ken Nnamani pulled out. Am I correct? Peter Obi is someone I naturally love and defended from the day the PDP-dominated Anambra State House of Assembly unconstitutionally removed him from office as Governor. He has some qualities I admire from a distance but frankly speaking, much more is required for me to support anyone to be President. What then are the qualities you see in Tinubu that made you support him? First, because he is the man who turned the then quasi or near state of total collapse of Lagos state before May 29, 1999, to the 6th largest and most prosperous economy in Africa today. Nigeria is sadly in the same situation as Lagos state was then and therefore the urgency needed for someone to take full charge and bring in Tinubu’s magic to save Nigeria. Peter Obi and Bola Tinubu had both been Governors so it helped me compare their performances vis-a-vis the challenges they inherited and how well they confronted and defeated same. Secondly, there are very critical and important factors I considered which are proven patriotism, courage, and intellectual capacity to confront and defeat huge societal challenges and obstacles to national progress and prosperity. Another factor is that of deep knowledge and understanding of the politics of Nigeria and management of Nigeria’s oil and gas sector coupled with extensive friendship with people across all parts of Nigeria. I knew how horrible Lagos State was before May 29, 1999. Public Infrastructures had almost all collapsed and insecurity became the order of the day. I recall vividly that in the 1990s while I was serving in my company, Total Energies Upstream Nig. Ltd, in Delta and Rivers States, I made up my mind never to accept any transfer to work in our Lagos state head office. I rather resign because I couldn’t see myself living in Lagos state. Have we forgotten in a hurry, the dreaded Oshodi where unimaginable crimes were committed in broad daylight? What is the situation today? I remember how the Ocean once or twice surged and took over Victoria Island to the extent that state governments and big businesses abandoned their multi-billion naira lodges/liaison offices and properties. Experts even predicted and warned that that area of Lagos state was going to be washed away or consumed in a few years by the Ocean. Bar Beach was gone! This is the Lagos state that Tinubu courageously confronted and defeated. Today that same Victoria Island hosts the Eko Atlantic City, increasing numbers of high-rise buildings and head offices of multinational companies moving in there from other parts of Nigeria. This is the same Lagos State today where we have the Banana Island, Estates in Lekki and Ajah, and Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical Complex. This is the Lagos state that Nigerians today “Japa” to from their states of origin for a better life while Nigerians in diaspora find confidence in returning home to invest and live in. This is the true story of Tinubu’s Lagos state in the last 24 years that Tinubu is fully in charge.  Why then should I waste a second in wholeheartedly supporting a man who made all this happen?  Tinubu is a patriot who was part of NADECO and other Pro-Democracy Movements that fought the military regime for the enthronement of the democracy we have today. He has friends from all parts of Nigeria. He is a very intelligent man and has deep knowledge of the Oil and Gas Sector of Nigeria. His ability to identify other intelligent, creative, and patriotic minds and gives them critical assignments President Tinubu recently said he wants to secure the collaboration of the Multinational Oil Companies operating in Nigeria towards ensuring stability, transparency, and fair competition in the sector. Is this the right step? Yes and no. I say yes because it is the right move if and only if he correctly identifies the right persons in these IOCs to collaborate with. On the other hand, I say no, because he can’t achieve this without first retaining the position of Minister for Petroleum Resources. I am therefore strongly advising him as I did to former President Buhari in 2015 when he became President, that he must never ever appoint anyone else as Minister of Petroleum Resources. He must retain this position as doing otherwise will jeopardise Nigerians’ Renewed Hope in him to rescue our country. He must be the substantive Minister of Petroleum Resources But this is the same way you advised former President Buhari and he heeded your advice yet the situation became worse in the oil and gas Sector. Don’t you have any regret now? No, I don’t. I only feel so pained for him that he meant well but he made the costly mistake of appointing some people he so trusted to help him sanitise the sector but they failed him. Either some of them meant well but were grossly incompetent or some who were competent were grossly unpatriotic You are aware that President Tinubu has set up a committee led by Vice President Shettima to negotiate with Labour Leaders, and other stakeholders in order to come up with palliatives to cushion the harsh effect of subsidy removal on Nigerians, part of the measures includes an increase in salaries of workers, purchase of mass transit buses, production of gas-powered vehicles, electric vehicles, etc. What is your take? This is going round in a circle like a barber’s chair, with due respect to them. Are these not the same measures previous Presidents took and implemented and they all failed woefully? Why do we keep doing the same wrong things and expect different positive results? Why? My Colleagues, the Labour leaders of today, adopt new approaches for the overall good of all Nigerians. This is the reason I didn’t agree with their initial threat to embark on nationwide strike action and to keep blaming only the federal government for this seemingly unending crisis in our oil and gas sector. If they want the situation to be sanitised and the Refineries to commence production today, they can do it But we hear of Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) going on in the four refineries that will take months to complete. What is their understanding of TAM? What does it mean in Engineering? I don’t know. All I know is that these refineries can commence operations today if our Labour Leaders are patriotically committed to it. This is all I will say for now. If President Tinubu wants me to guide him more, I will patriotically do so. This is my beloved country, I have no other one to serve with all my heart Now let’s talk about the 10th National Assembly. What is your advice to the Presiding Officers and why? As far as I know, the National Assembly is the true symbol of representative and constitutional democracy all over the world and is very critical to its survival and progress. Particularly the Minority Leadership of the Senate and House of Representatives. These positions are even more critical than those of the Presiding Officers because they are the ones constitutionally saddled with the responsibility to checkmate every decision and action taken by the ruling political party, being the APC for now. And two men stand out today going by my very close monitoring of the activities of the National Assembly since the year 2015 And who are the member and why? They are Comrade Hon. Kingsley Chinda, representing Obio-Akpor Federal Constituency of Rivers State in the House of Representatives, and Senator Abaribe of the Senate. Particularly Hon. Chinda who is a very patriotic, courageous, and intelligent man, committed to his duties, humble, and relates very cordially with his colleagues and members of the public. He is a Comrade in the struggle for democracy and is incorruptible.  When he was the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of the 8th House of Representatives, he revolutionised the way Public Accounts of the Federal Government are thoroughly screened and Audit, and queries issued by the Office of Accountant General of the Federation are attended to. He introduced the use of modern technology in the documentation and archiving of documents and Audit Queries. He also made the process of Audit querying and replies to be online, in real-time, and streaming online for Nigerians in all parts of the world to sit in the comforts of wherever they are to view the proceedings of the Committee in the House of Representatives. This was the first time any Parliament in Nigeria and the whole of Sub-Saharan Africa will witness this type of revolution. It exposed the Ministries, Department, and Agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government such that it drastically reduced the level of looting and massive corruption within the period of 2015 – 2019 that he served as Chairman. Nigeria’s War on Corruption begins at the National Assembly which by the provision of sections 88 and 89 of the Nigerian constitution is saddled with the responsibility to expose such vices in MDAs and recommend appropriate punishments and means to eliminate them. But I don’t know if this innovation was sustained and advanced after his tenure by those who took over from him. If they didn’t, then it is very unfortunate and not good for our quest for Renewed Hope for Nigeria devoid of looting and fraud in our public sector. With this innovation he introduced into the Public Accounts Committee Workings it would have been impossible for the Accountant General of the Federation to steal over 100 billion Naira from the federation account