The Main Organizing Committee (MOC) of the maiden edition of Engineer Olobatoke Aka Jubilee National Scrabble Championship has increased the prize money and spread for the event which holds on Saturday (tomorrow) at the Hotel de Bentley in Utako-district, Abuja. The Chairman of the Main Organizing Committee (MOC), Chukwudi Ehibudu made this known on Friday during a meeting with the Technical Committee and the Ceremonial Committee of the one day Championship. Ehibudu explained that the increase in prize money and spread is aimed at motivating as well as encourage all the over eighty five players who beat the registration deadline to give their all on the board come Saturday. “It’s a Championship that is been used to celebrate excellent, hard work, dedication and about all passionate love for the game of words the President Toke Aka epitomised, so increasing the total prize money by twenty five percent captures that essence of the occasion.” The MOC chairman stressed. The winner of the Masters category will now get 300,000 naira, second player at the end of the 12 rounds of games will smiles home with 210,000 naira and the third place finisher wins 150,000 naira and the Organizing Committee will also reward the top 15 players instead of top 10 in both the Maters and Intermediate categories. The best Intermediate player in the expanded Masters category will also get the PANASA President’s Cup ticket which is worth about 250,000 naira. The best player in the Intermediate event has 180,000 naira to take home along with full sponsorship to the PANASA President’s Cup in Lagos, come August, 126,000 naira goes to the second spot and 90,000 naira is reserved for the third position. The veterans were not left out in the new arrangement, the top prize is now 150,000 naira, first runner up pockets 105,000 and the second runner up’s account will be credited with 75,000 naira. The prize spread for the Veterans is 1st to 9th top players. POLL 32 players will be competing for honours in the Masters, 28 are in the Intermediate and 25 Veterans will be on board when the first round of matches will be called by 8am Saturday at main of Hotel de Bentley in Utako-district, Abuja. Three former African Champions, Wellington Jighere, Dennis Ikekeregor and Nsikak Etim are among the top players in the Masters category. Current National Green Jacket holder Oghenekaro Paul Eta, two other former NSF Green Jacket holders Dipo Akanbi and Olatunde Oduwole who is also the Champion of Champions are battle ready for the Masters category. Check out the super heavyweight contingent of dynamites, landmines and grenades that will exposed tomorrow (Saturday) in the Masters event. The Intermediate lineup is equally loaded to the hilt with big game players in likes of Tunde Saporu, Chiamaka Gabriel, Victor lokoja and Clarkson Ismail just to mention but a few. Scrabble wizkid, eight years old, Saviour Onazi who is part of the Intermediate party will surely kick some established names badly. This is the row call of players fighting for the intermediate prize pool. The Veterans category has in its fold, chief Engineer Toke Aka in who honour the Championship is being stage. After the Engineer Olobatoke Aka Jubilee National Scrabble Championship, the Main Organizing Committee (MOC) led by Chukwudi Ehibudu will be hosting a pool side party for the NSF President Engineer Toke Aka, fondly called the Jagaban of African Scrabble.