LAGOS – For the Art of Healing, the Search for Meaning & the Future of African Spirituality, London based Barrister, Omobolanle Popoola-Eleagu who is also an IFA priestess (Iyanifa) has warned Africans especially, the youth and the Yoruba people who are losing interest in practicing and consulting Ifa divination, which goes hand-in-hand with growing intolerance towards traditional divination systems in general. In a statement made available to the press, read: “We have recently seen a few men and women alike repositioning themselves to take on the responsibility of preserving this precious heritage. One such person is Omobolanle Popoola-Eleagu a Barrister with 11 years of experience, an IFA priestess (Iyanifa), and devotee. Iyanifa is a trained clinical herbalist who engages in healing therapies. Over a decade ago, she founded the Ifadiwura Temple in London, England. Speaking further on the African tradition, the group said: “African spirituality is a vast and complex topic, encompassing a wide range of beliefs and practices. However, there are some common themes that run through African spirituality, including the belief in a Supreme Being, the importance of ancestors, and the power of nature. There are often similarities between traditional African religions located in the same subregion. Central Africa, for instance, has similar religious traditions in countries of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, Zambia, and Malawi. West African indigenous religions are primarily practiced in the countries of West Africa, such as Nigeria, Ghana, and Senegal. Examples of West African indigenous religions include the Yoruba religion of Nigeria, the Akan religion of Ghana, and the Bangwu religion of Cameroon. The Yoruba people of West Africa have a rich and vibrant spiritual tradition. At the heart of Yoruba spirituality is the belief in a Supreme Being called Olodumare. Olodumare is the creator of all things and is seen as a benevolent and all-powerful force. The Yoruba also believe in a multitude of lesser deities, known as orishas. The orishas are associated with different aspects of nature, such as the sun, the moon, the earth, and the sea. They are also associated with different human qualities, such as love, war, creativity, and wisdom. Some focus points of the Yoruba belief system and tradition include: The belief in a Supreme Being called Olodumare. A belief in a multitude of lesser deities, known as orishas. A belief in the importance of ancestors. A deep respect for nature. A focus on community and social harmony. Yoruba spirituality is not just about individual salvation, but also about the well-being of the community as a whole. In times past, there has been a negative connotation attached to the African belief system & tradition. In a UNESCO article, it was stated that under the influence of colonial rule and religious pressures, traditional beliefs and practices were discriminated against. The Ifa priests, most of whom are quite old, have only modest means to maintain the tradition, transmit their complex knowledge, and train future practitioners. As a result, the youth and the Yoruba people are losing interest in practicing and consulting Ifa divination, which goes hand-in-hand with growing intolerance towards traditional divination systems in general. Iyanifa believes that the negative connotation of African spirituality is a result of the Western mind trap which is a colonial tenet; nonetheless, she’s aware of some crooked practitioners globally who have brought disrepute to it but she ultimately believes the onus lies on people like herself to do their quota in order to reverse this undue demonization. POLL “We are all here as an act of service to humanity, so be kind and fair; as a custodian, the universe will surely reciprocate.” – Omobolanle Popoola-Eleagu African spirituality is a living tradition that continues to evolve. It is a tradition that is rooted in the past, but that also looks to the future. African spirituality offers a unique perspective on the world, and it can provide a source of strength and inspiration for people of all backgrounds. According to Jacob Olupona in an interview with Havard Gazette, “African spirituality simply acknowledges that beliefs and practices touch on and inform every facet of human life, and therefore African religion cannot be separated from the everyday or mundane. African spirituality is truly holistic.”