Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has again commended President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for signing into law the Student Loan Bill, saying the bill will provide opportunities for the children of the poor to realize their dream of acquiring tertiary education. Governor Sanwo-Olu, noted this during the 26th convocation and 40th-anniversary ceremonies of Lagos State University (LASU) on Thursday, enjoining all Nigerians, especially the intended beneficiaries, to embrace the opportunity in good faith. He noted that under his watch, the Lagos State government is focused on assisting students in government tertiary institutions within the state to discover their talents, harness their potential and refocus toward excellence, entrepreneurship and self-sustenance. “As a government, we are not unaware that university operations are service-oriented and as such, the need to continually improve on quality benchmarks is a continuum. “Very importantly, we are also not unaware that sustaining an effective university that can compete favourably on a global stage requires huge financial investments,” Sanwo-Olu said. While congratulating the university on the successful completion of an academic program, the governor said: “It becomes more significant when this convocation ceremony coincides with the 40th anniversary of a great institution that has continued to live up to the expectations of its founding fathers. “In addition, and to further lend credence to this milestone achievement, we are celebrating an incredible feat attained by Miss. Yusuf Aminat Imoitesemeh who is not only graduating as the best student for the 2021/2022 academic session but also attained a perfect 5.0 CGPA. “It is, therefore, with great pride that I felicitate with the Chancellor, the Pro-Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor and the entire University Community on this 40th anniversary and convocation, which will go down as the most celebrated in the history of the university. POLL “I congratulate Miss. Yusuf Aminat Imoitesemeh on her excellent academic performance which reflects her exceptional brilliance, hard work, sacrifice and focus.” Commending LASU for attaining 40 years of excellence, he congratulated the “University ‘for remaining steadfast in its commitment to the provision of a high standard of education, which has produced highly skilled men and women over the years, many of whom are being celebrated at home and abroad.