BENIN – The African Democratic Congress, ADC, has called for the restructuring of nation’s democracyby reducing the current cost of governance in the country which it said was too expensive to manage. ADC in a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Mabel Akomu Oboh stated that the first step to be taken by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu in reducing the cost of governance is to scrap the bicameral legislature. According to Mabel Oboh, it has become imparative to suggest to Mr President that the only easiest way to move the country out of the present economic quagmire is for him to commence the immediate restructuring of the nation, Nigeria, by first of all reducing the cost of governance which has been known to all to be too expensive. “The first step to be taken is to scrap the bicameral legislature. One house is enough. Then collapse the ministries to manageable size that will also lead to the reduction of the number of ministers to be appointed. “As can be seen, the masses are growing lean on daily basis due to inadequate feeding and care at the expense of a few politicians in the name of democracy. “We agree it is the most difficult suggestion to make by asking for the collapse of the two Federal legislative houses into one as a first step to reduce the cost of democracy in Nigeria but it is the true situation on ground no doubt. “We are not yet suggesting the scrapping of the present Presidential System of government and opt for a Parliamentary system that will reduce the cost of governance but the present presidential system no doubt has inadvertently placed on the country excruciating economic burden. “The proposed actions apart from removing the headache of borrowing to pay salaries, would also reduce federal staff and‎ ministries, enhance national peace and harmony and be a solution to agitations and foundation for growth. POLL “A restructured Nigeria democracy will survive the debt burden and economic hardship currently surforcating the country and her citizens as well as saving the nation from international embarrassment now loading in the air” ADC spokesperson declared