Konga, Nigeria’s leading composite giant, has partnered with Samsung, a multinational manufacturing conglomerate to offer shoppers free delivery and installation as well as free installation kits when they purchase any of the Samsung Consumer Electronics products on Konga. This exciting offer is part of activities for the month-long Konga Mid-year Shopping Festival, a hugely popular annual sales fiesta, which kicked off on the 30th of May and ends on the 30th of June, 2023. Through this incentive, shoppers on the Konga platform can now have their Samsung Electronics products delivered at no cost, in addition to having certified technicians handle the installation at their residences free of charge. This offer covers items such as Samsung TVs UHD 65’ & above and QLED 55’ & above; all Samsung Air Conditioners; Samsung Washing Machines Front Loaders 6kg & above and Samsung Refrigerators Double Door (300Ltrs & above), Side by Side, French Doors and Be-Spoke. Furthermore, customers will receive free installation kits for Samsung TVs and Residential Air Conditioners as part of this offer. Also adding to the excitement is the option of same-day delivery for all ordered items through KongaNow, an unprecedented initiative pioneered by Konga in May 2013. KongaNow addresses the twin problems of fake products and delayed deliveries by ensuring that verified products are delivered to shoppers within one to six hours, provided orders are placed before 2 pm. Any item labeled KongaNow on the Konga website is entitled to same-day delivery in Lagos and Abuja. Shoppers in other cities will also enjoy fast-tracked delivery, although with slight delays owing to logistics reasons. This development is bound to add an extra kick and special flavour to Samsung Brand Day, an exclusive one-day sale of Samsung products on the Konga website scheduled for Tuesday, June 13, 2023. For the Samsung Brand Day, shoppers are set to enjoy special pricing and discounted deals on various Samsung products cutting across its Mobile Phone range and accessories as well as Consumer Electronics such as TV sets, AirConditioners, Refrigerators and Washing Machines, among others.