The Leadership of the National Frontiers and Mobilization Initiative (NFMI) led by its National Coordinator, Ms Isioma Theodora Ndah has described as unfounded and venomous, statements credited to Primate Ayodele on the 10th Senate leadership. The group stressed that the contest of the 10th Senate leadership which saw the emergence of Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio as the Senate President was a process that was transparent and fair as it was aired live by different National and international news stations. They stressed that a bulk of the aspirants who were majorly of Igbo extraction willingly stepped down their aspiration before the conduct of the election and most of them queued behind Senator Akpabio’s Candidature. In a statement signed by its Secretary, Mr Austin K. Abel, the group said,  “Our attention has been drawn to a statement entitled; “Akpabio emerging Senate President huge slap to Igbos, I see unexplainable trouble” credited to a very controversial and unstable Christian cleric, Primate Ayodele which is now trending in other social media platforms. The statement read “Ordinarily, we would have kept mute on the usual but cheap gimmicks scheme of Primate Ayodele who is popular for his fake political prophecies and lure for political patronage by desperate politicians. We are however constrained to respond in order to use the opportunity to set the records straight for the sake of public learning.” “Senator Akpabio outside being the most qualified for the Senate President, is a product of democracy who grew from a common commissioner to become a two-term governor of the oil-rich Akwa Ibom State and, thereafter, became a Minority Leader in the 8th Senate after he was democratically elected as Senator representing the Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial District in 2015. ” As a beneficiary of our growing democracy, His Excellency, Akpabio will ever stand against any elements that are capable of destabilizing and incapacitating democratic procedures and rules.” “Ayodele was quoted in the publication as saying: “Bringing in a Christian senate leader should be Igbo’s turn, not a south-south person. A south-south emerging is a slap to the Igbos.’’ we want to remind Ayodele that the South-East and South-south regions are not in a rival relationship and both regions have in the past united for a common National purpose that saw several Senator of Igbo extraction emerged as Senate President, deputy Senate President, deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives and other principal positions in the National Assembly. In previous Presidential elections, the Southeast and South-south regions had at different occasions given full support to each other once a Presidential or Vice Presidential candidate emerged from either side.” POLL The group said the long-term political relationship saw the domination of Southeast by former President Goodluck Jonathan in the 2015 Presidential election and in the 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar dominated South-south because of Peter Obi who was the then Vice Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic party (PDP). In the recent Presidential election, the South-South votes which ordinarily should have been given to His Excellency, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu in a whole, were divided because of the mutual relationship the South-south is sharing with the Southeast region.” “That Ayodele was quoted in the controversial statement saying ‘’I still see troubles ahead, we should be prayerful and watchful. Something is about to happen that will be unexplainable” this further revealed his usual fake prophecies and statement that had made many to question his calling as an acclaimed “Servant of God”. As a people, we have heard and read many prophecies of this nature that later doomed the image of those who spilled them. Nigeria is on the course of greatness with President Tinubu’s Renewed Hope mandate which the Senate under the leadership of Senator Godswill Akpabio (CON) has keyed into.” The statement therefore called on Nigerians to be wary of statements coming from the likes of Primate Ayodele as they are made of deceit, divisiveness and construed to cause unrest and challenge democratically elected authorities. “We also use this opportunity to congratulate Nigerians especially the just inaugurated Senators of the 10th Senate on their successful inauguration. We also thank them for standing by His Excellency, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in endorsing and electing the Akpabio-led leadership of the Senate”. The group added.