LAGOS – Findings have shown that Nigeria’s biggest banks, Access Bank, Zenith Bank, FBN Holdings, United Bank for Africa (UBA) and GTCO made a total of N4.5 trillion in total earnings in the 2022 full year financial reports. This is a 20 per cent growth compared to N3.6 trillion posted in the corresponding period of 2021. These five banks are also referred to as Tier 1 banks. A breakdown of the gross earnings of the banks for the 2022 financial year showed that Access Holdings recorded the highest figure amounting to N1.4 trillion as against N971.8 billion posted in the corresponding period in 2021. Zenith Bank followed with N945.5 billion, 24.5 per cent higher than N765.6 billion recorded in 2021. UBA ranked third with a gross earning of N853 billion, up from N660 billion achieved in 2021. FBN Holdings trailed with N748.6 billion compared with N716 billion recorded previously while GTCO’s gross earnings also rose from N447.8 billion to N539.2 billion. The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) loan-to-deposit ratio, which requires banks to increase real sector lending for improved economic growth, is pegged at 65 per cent. Data from the CBN show that credit to Nigeria’s private sector rose to a record level of N41.8 trillion as of December 2022, representing N6.61 trillion in net loans compared to N35.19 trillion as of the beginning of the year. For 2023, credit to the private sector rose N1.6 trillion month-on-month (MoM), or four per cent to N43.06 trillion in Marc from N41.5 trillion achieved in February. POLL Analysts who spoke with Daily Independent said the performance of these banks shows that the banking sector is doing well amidst the poor economic climate in the country. A Lagos-based financial analyst, Stephen Iloba, said the performance of these big banks is an indication that the banking sector is doing well. He said, “This is an indication that the banking sector is performing well even with the not-too-impressive economic outlook. If you check, you will see that middle range and small banks are doing well too”. Other who spoke to Daily Independent argued that banks belong to the service sector that benefits from the performance of the real sector, adding that if the real sector is depressed, it ultimately affects the incomes of the banks. President of the Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Moses Igbrude, said the growth is an indication that the banking industry has improved despite the harsh operating environment. However, he noted that the improved performance might not be sustained except the current operating environment, which the manufacturers and operators in with, improves. the real sectors are contending “I fear that if after dividend payment the economy does not improve, the banks may run into problems because banks have lent much to the private sector. “Also, sustainability of this trend through good corporate governance is also a key issue that should be the bedrock of the managers of these institutions,” he said.  