ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress Integrity Group has described as a new low, attacks against candidates contesting the office of the President of the 10th Senate of the National Assembly. The group in a statement issued in Abuja, said that “it is unfortunate that some persons who want Nigerians to believe that they have the country’s interest at heart, would subscribe to the temptation to cast aspersions on the interest of a fellow contestant in their satanic hope that such a move would clear their path to success.” The APC affiliation in condemning the allegation of rape against Senator Osita Izunaso expressed dismay that the alleged victim of the dastardly act has since the rumuor broke, not made herself known to the public. It equally wondered why no security agencies can corroborate her story, as it tasked those behind the “campaign of calumny” to provide any court ruling indicting the Lawmaker in the alleged. A joint statement by the national coordinator of the group, Dawu Mohammed, and its national secretary, Chisom Nwakanma, stated that “The recent campaign of calumny against a Chieftain of the party, and a leading contender in the race for the Senate President, Senator Osita Izunaso, by surreptitious sponsors of blackmail, is indicative of desperation, evil intention, desire to usurp the interest of the people, and above all, unpatriotic. “The APC Integrity Group wonders why the said victim of the alleged rape incident, one Chioma Chikere, remains a ghost whose Photo and real personality is a phantom. “The publication which referenced a student of Imo State University (IMSU), who cried out to Nigerians, and who is said to have lamented that the Senator-elect should not be allowed to be the Senate President of the tenth National Assembly, is nothing but anti-gregarious, and an illegality which should not be allowed to fester. “If indeed the respected Distinguished Senator-elect was culpable of any such misdemeanor, why is there no court ruling or verdict in that regard? POLL “That this merchant of cheap blackmail would wait until now to go to street with such frivolous, baseless and corrupt atmosphere of cheap tales, tells of the tainted state of their minds, especially when it is against a man of such public image who has been in public domain, walking freely and has by no means be found wanting or declared wanted by any security apparatus. “We challenge the peddlers of this irrational, shameful and disgraceful tale to bring the face of the accuser indicting the Distinguished Lawmaker of the allegation, otherwise, the APC Integrity Group would be compelled to engineer a lawsuit against the purveyor of such ‘graveyard story.’ We call on the supporters of Senator Izunaso in the Senate, APC, and Nigeria at large to disregard the frivolous allegation and support the Distinguished Senator to help bring the new Nigeria anticipated for.”