The planter, Christ Apostolic Church,  BOANERGES Worldwide, Prophet Ade Ologbonyo has described the fuel subsidy removal by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu as a perfect and timely action. Speaking at a  press conference heralding the weeklong activities lineup for the 14th-anniversary celebration of the ministry in Ise/Orun Ekiti, Ologbonyo posited that early steps taken so far by the new administration clearly suggested that Tinubu means well for Nigeria. The programme, according to him, will feature praise night, couples summit, and free health mission that will attract ministers of God like Prophet Isaac Olu Eyebiokin, Pastor Anu Ojo, Pastor Gideon Oladokun Prophet Sam Olu Alo, lady Evang, Bisi Alawiye among others. The cleric, therefore called on Nigerians to rally around President Tinubu, in order to deliver on his campaign promises and fix the ailing economy. The man of God also called on Nigerians to always say positive things about the country and prayers for leaders and the nation, adding that the action suggested that the new government wants to do things right. The cleric, who however, pleaded with the federal government to come up with palliatives to ease the effects of the removed subsidy on the people said, “We should not expect magic from the new President, but I think he has taken the right step by removing the fuel subsidy. ” It is a perfect step by any Nigerian leader that will do right. Nigerians just need to be patient a little and government too needs to keep negotiating and come with palliative ease the impacts of the fuel subsidy on the people. “I think if we are patient with this new government, think their body language, is telling us that we have hope, if is out politics, so let’s keep praying for them”. POLL He added the palliatives should start with the civil servants with the upward review of their salaries saying if their salaries are jerked up the effects of the fuel price increase on them would be lessened. “This will increase their purchasing power, the money will trickle down to others within the society”. “Also, the government should come up with an economic policy that will stop traders and service providers from increasing prices of the good and services by 100 percent whenever there are fuel issues. “Let there be a price control policy and a policy that will help the government to monitor the activities of market women and other traders thereby stopping them from charging outrageous prices for their goods and services in order not to bring hardship to the masses. “For instance, when President said in his inaugural speech that the fuel subsidy is gone, almost petrol station across the country, including Ekiti state, immediately shut their station and refused to sell to the people but later started selling at unauthorized prices”. So, the first thing we need to do for the new government is to pray for them, that God should guide them right. Like in the second stanza of our national anthem said, “Guide our leaders right, help our youth the truth to know”. “We are separated and divided already. He must bring the country back together. The Hausas shouldn’t see themselves as Hausas, ditto Igbos and Yorubas. We should all see ourselves as Nigerians first, forgetting our tribes and ethnic groups and where we are from. “Secondly, Mr. President should prioritize the security of lives and properties. It is the primary responsibility and first assignment of every responsible government. Nobody should be going about with the police and bodyguard in a society that is safe but some people can do without this because of the security situation in our country. Security is important because should be able to sleep with their two eyes closed. “He should as well work hard to fix the country’s economy which is in shambles. Since the fuel subsidy has been removed, palliatives should follow immediately to reduce its harsh effect on the people”. The cleric who recently embarked on an evangelical tour of Europe said he visited a ministry of the church in the UK and was also at an RCCG  church in Dusseldorf, Germany on the invitation. Ologbonyo added that he went to Rochester to make finding on his research work on what will become of African churches in the next 200 years. “The  Rochester church, with a tourist centre which has been existing for over 2000 years was my case study. In this ministry, we have what I called “Project 100′. The vision came about 6 years ago, that where will CAC BOANERGES be in the next hundred years. We have to plan ahead. So, if am no more, whoever comes in will continue from wherever I stopped on the same project so that they will not deviate from the primary purpose of this calling”. Speaking on July 7, Abuja celebration, he said “It is to appreciate God for sparing his life and that of members of his congregation when on July 7, 2017, when herdsmen attacked them with a gun. “I made a promise that every July 7 of every year we will be glorifying God for 24 hours”.