…Major Oil Marketers Donate 100 Mass Transit Buses …Say Subsidy Would Have Gulped N6.7trn By December …Tinubu’s Courage To Remove Subsidy Reassuring — Govs INNOCENT OWEH ABUJA – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has directed the National Eco­nomic Council (NEC) led by Vice President Kashim Shettima to begin the process of working on interventions to cushion the impact of subsidy removal on Nigerians. This is even as the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nige­ria has pledged to donate no few­er than 100 high capacity buses to the Federal Government for mass transit operations. The cheering news was dropped by the governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, who led the representatives of Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) on a courte­sy visit to President Tinubu at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Wednesday. Addressing State House cor­respondents after the closed door meeting, Abiodun said the mar­keters were in the Presidential Villa to express solidarity with the president for his bold deci­sion to end subsidy regime. POLL He noted that Tinubu’s action showed his determination and courage to remove the hemor­rhage that had bedeviled the country for decades. The governor said that while there would be some discomfort on the part of the people, the move would eventually pay off as there can be no gains without pains. Also speaking at the brief­ing, spokesperson of the major oil marketers, Dame Winifred Akpani, said the courtesy visit was to express their joy for the removal of fuel subsidy, adding that they have waited for too long for the removal of subsidy on pe­troleum products to happen. According to her, Nigeria has already spent in five months over N2 trillion on subsidy and by year end will spend over N6.7 trillion mark, pointing out that the country cannot sustain it anymore. She revealed that the market­ers are aware that the removal of subsidy will hurt Nigerians in the short term but will benefit the masses in the long run. She, therefore, announced the intention of the major oil mar­keters to donate 50 to 100 mass transit buses as a way to help the success of the initiative, hoping that other well meaning corpo­rate bodies can do the same. Those who came with Ak­pani, who is the Chairman of Northwest Petroleum and Gas Company Limited, are Gabriel Ogbechie, MD/CEO of Rainoil Ltd; Chris Igwe of Mainland Oil and Gas Ltd and Chairman of MOMAN. Dame Akpani said, “We came on a courtesy visit to express our utmost support and solidarity with the government. That is borne out of the fact that we have desired, we have prayed for this day to come. And we’re happy that the day is finally here. “We know the difficulties this move has created for the populace. We know what the re­actions have been. And one thing we have done is that we’re going to help the government to dis­seminate the right information on what this is all about. It’s not simply about making transpor­tation more expensive. “It’s not simply about mak­ing fuel so expensive, and it’s suddenly out of the reach of the ordinary person so to say. It’s about repositioning this coun­try. I think Nigeria has suffered for too long. It’s about putting your money in the right place. We spent like N4 trillion last year. We have spent N4 trillion this year for the first three, four months already. We’re at about N2.7 trillion in subsidy by the end of this year, would have been at over N6.7 trillion. How much of that really goes to the populace? “We have been feeding the whole West African sub-region with fuel. Since last week Mon­day and it’s difficult to believe that it’s only 10 days that this happened. If you check, all those neighbouring countries have all their prices shot up. Probably maybe Niger is the cheapest with about N580 per litre because they were all feeding on Nigeria’s fuel. But that’s not to say that because others are benefiting wrongly, Ni­geria cannot be subsidising the whole of Africa, when we have a lot of our own problems. “So, we came today to express our support and to see how we can cooperate with government because ultimately, you can’t kill the people you’re trying to save. So we’re not going to sit back and say, hey, yes, you have removed subsidy, so it’s fine. There are aches, there are pains, what can we all do? “The suggestions we have made today on how we can real­ly move this forward. I wanted I came up with is that over time we have all depended on PMS be­cause it was cheap. We didn’t de­velop our gas. There’s electricity. So we’ll have alternate sources of energy. It doesn’t have to be PMS. “Now suddenly, we now re­alise that we have gas in abun­dance. There was no fresh invest­ment. Nobody is going to invest in an economy that is not free. You’re going to have restrictions. Since maybe July last year, I don’t think NNPC has paid anything into the Federation Account. “As a matter of fact, we’re actually going to start billing the federation because it was spend­ing more on subsidy than they were earning. So these are the problems and that’s why we said it was important for the govern­ment to understand that we do support and we are very willing and able to help Nigeria transit this situation. “The President did listen to us very graciously. And it was inter­esting, because we all suddenly remember that he’s an accoun­tant first and foremost. “He asked and he interjected with very, very intelligent ques­tions, and he understood what we meant by saying we want a com­plete free market. Free market to want to have one exchange rate so people can stop trading in dollars. “These are the things we need to pay to write, we have gone through so many years of no fresh investments, all you ever see are new depot being built? Why is that because that’s all it takes. If you do that, then you become a marketer and you can begin to sell fuel, but no. And we also try to explain that whereas you were buying 10,000 metric tons of petrol for N4 billion, today you have to pay N12 billion. So it’s also important to recognise the fact that the pain is not only for the populace is for the marketers, we’re going to see mergers. “We’re going to see some un­fortunately will have to drop off because that’s a lot of money. But that’s also not to say that we’re going to have scarcity, no. Final­ly we’re going to have our real volumes. We have stopped feed­ing most of Africa already, the volumes have dropped. And it’s not only because you’re saying we can’t afford transportation. It’s only the man who has a Jeep that will spend N70,000 now to fuel his car. “The man who doesn’t have a car doesn’t have to worry about that. All he needs is transpor­tation. And to that extent, we recognise this fact that we have to have an effective mass transit system so that people don’t want to be bothered to drive cars, have alternatives, and they’re not go­ing to be stuck at home because they can’t move. “So most of what we talk­ed about is how do we go from here? How can we actually make it work? How can we go back to almost the points where we were before? It’s possible. And I say that with all sense of respon­sibility. And one good thing we also have to recognise is the fact that a lot of jobs are going to be created, new businesses are go­ing to come up. That’s an adage that says sometimes if you don’t shut a door a window doesn’t open. And you will find out that maybe that window that opens because of the timing, there’s a lot of opportunity that comes through that. “So for us, it was a very, very good meeting. And we had an input, we also were able to dis­cuss about helping the econom­ic team, participating in what they’re doing, because they were the people on the field, they were the ones doing this distribution. What can we do differently? “And one thing that the presi­dent also stated clearly is that we must minimise frictions in this system. We must have a free mar­ket that works. Whether is licens­ing if you say you are licensing, how long does it take to license, it has to be done promptly. “So in a nutshell, I think that covers essentially what this meet­ing was all about. We believe by July, which is only a month away, we’re going to begin to really see what is being put in place to help, to assist and to make sure that peo­ple can go back to seamless living.” Tinubu’s Boldness To Remove Subsi­dy Reassuring — Govs Forum Meanwhile, state governors on Wednesday expressed strong support for President Bola Tinu­bu’s decision to end fuel subsidy payments in the country and other early policy initiatives of the administration. The governors, who took turns to speak when the pres­ident hosted members of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), led by the chairman, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State, at the State House, expressed happiness with the president’s subsidy-removal de­cision, all-inclusive leadership and statesmanship. They congratulated President Tinubu for tackling the fuel sub­sidy behemoth, promising to work with him to ameliorate the short-term impact of the decision. President Tinubu had earlier called on the governors to collab­orate with the Federal Govern­ment in tackling the menace of poverty in the country, saying the level of impoverishment was un­acceptable. The president advised the po­litical leaders to downplay their differences and jointly focus on alleviating the sufferings and pains of the people. “We can see the effects of poverty on the faces of our peo­ple. Poverty is not hereditary, it is from the society. Our position is to eliminate poverty. Set aside partisan politics, we are here to deliberate about Nigeria and na­tion-building,’’ he said. President Tinubu stated that the nation should be seen as one big family. “We are a family occupying one house, and sleeping in dif­ferent rooms. If we see it that way and push forward, we will get our people out of poverty. A determined mind is a fertile ground for delivering on results,” he added. The president said good gov­ernance would safeguard the future of democracy. “Present in this room is our diversity in culture and politics, but we are one nation. The unity and stability of the country rest upon us. “We are in a democracy and we have to nurture the democ­racy. It is a hard-earned system and not easy to manage. If any­one thinks it is easy, look at other nations who are over a hundred years in democracy. “We have managed ourselves very well to have a democracy. We have campaigned and arrived at our present destination. We must work for our people,” President Tinubu told the governors, while assuring them that he would maintain an open-door policy. The president said he was pre­pared to share ideas, strengthen institutions, and create bot­tom-up frameworks that will improve the livelihood of Nige­rians. “What do we do in the face of crushing poverty? What do we do with our development goals? We took the bull by the horns by re­moving the elephant in the room, before the nation sinks. “We need synergy to fight other vices like corruption. We are trying to get smugglers out of the way. How do we work togeth­er to galvanize the economy, and put resources in place. We must think and perform. “After removing subsidy, there must be savings accruing to the Federation Account,” he noted. President Tinubu said the ed­ucation sector must be improved as part of efforts to reduce pover­ty and penury. “How do we address the unacceptable level of poverty? How much are we investing in education, which is the only tool against poverty? I am ready to collaborate with you.” The president also drew at­tention to the security problems in some states, admonishing the governors that all efforts should be put in place to tackle the secu­rity situation, without thinking it’s only for those facing it. The Chairman of the NGF and governor of Kwara State, AbdulRasaq, thanked the presi­dent for the invitation to deliber­ate on the challenges of poverty and security, promising that the governors would support the Fed­eral Government in meeting the targets of human development. The meeting, which was at­tended by Vice President Kashim Shettima and new Secretary to the Government of the Feder­ation, George Akume, had 22 governors and two deputy gov­ernors from Edo and Niger states in attendance.