LAGOS  – Prince Wale Oyekoya, a public analyst and an Agriculturist has called on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to bring all the stakeholders in agric sector to a roundtable to discuss way forward and to appoint technocrats and experienced professionals into the sector. Oyekoya in an interview, while setting agenda for the President, said the agriculture sector have been long neglected and have caused food crises in the country where most of the prices foodstuffs affordable by average Nigerians. On things that needs to be done immediately, Oyekoya pointed out that land must be made available for real farmers and not speculators, also title like the CofO should be given for the land so that farmers can approach financial institutions for soft loans. He also called for the provision of mechanised equipment to open up the land for cultivation. Other things that needed to be done according to him, is to empower the field officers to visit farms and educate farmers, introduce modern technology into the agric business such as small modern equipment to till, plant, fertilised, weed, harvest and storage facilities. He also called for the provision of storage facilities to all the farm settlements or congregation of farmers and also provide grants or soft loans through the banks to the real farmers and not to political farmers. Speaking further he said there is need to improve on the value chains of farm produce through processing and also packing of farm produce to meet the international standard. “By doing this, the youths and our women will be gainfully employed and reduce all this ‘JAPA’ syndrome to Western countries. POLL “The states and local governments are in the best position to revamp our agric sectors and provide more jobs to their citizens”, he said.. He stated that the President should call all the state governors to build food processing centres in all their senatorial districts thereby adding values to their farm produces. “The President should ban any importation of any food that could be produce in Nigeria. We should grow what we eat and eat what we grow. Why importing rice, palm oil, maize, Vegetable oil, among others when we can grow and produce them in our backyard.” Oyekoya, however, lamented that most of the so called intervention funds were given to portfolio farmers instead of real farmers and so should be scrapped.