LOKOJA  – The Vice Chancellor Feder­al University Lokoja (FUL), Professor Olayemi Akinwu­mi, has warned students against misuse of social media platforms, cultism, indecent dressing, saying culprits would be severely punished. Professor Akinwumi gave the warning during the administration of oath to 4,347 fresh students into six faculties including Col­lege of Health Sciences for the 2022/2023 Academic Session, held at the Adanko­lo Campus of the university in Lokoja, Kogi State capital. The VC who admonished students to take their studies seriously, said the mission of the university is to provide quality education, foster crit­ical thinking, and produce well-rounded graduates who are equipped with the skills and knowledge to contribute meaningfully to society. He added that the insti­tution was working hard to be the best among the nine newly established federal universities in Nigeria in 2011 and one of the top ten universities in Africa. He disclosed that the school is maximising both human and material re­sources to become a world-class university recognised for excellence in teaching, research, and community en­gagement and urged them to be part of the transformative agenda of the institution. According to Professor Akinwumi, “Today marks the beginning of a transfor­mative chapter in your lives, and I assure you that the Fed­eral University Lokoja com­munity is here to support and guide you every step of the way. “It is a symbolic event that formally marks your induc­tion into the University fam­ily. It signifies your commit­ment to academic excellence, personal growth, and the pursuit of knowledge. “As you take the matric­ulation oath today, you are embracing the values and ethos of Federal University Lokoja, and I encourage you to cherish this moment as a turning point in your lives,” he said. POLL He explained that these guiding principles on which the university pride itself should be the compass for their attainment of academ­ic innovation, social respon­sibility, and transformative impact. He urged the matricu­lants to take their lectures seriously; attend classes regularly, actively engage with their lecturers, and seek clarification whenever necessary. He informed them that lectures are the founda­tion upon which academic success is built through acquisition of necessary knowledge, insights, and skills to navigate the chal­lenges of their chosen field. He charged the students to embrace the opportunities to learn, ask questions, and ex­pand intellectual horizons, while imploring them to ad­here strictly to the code of conduct, honour academic integrity, and to treat fellow students, faculty, and staff members with dignity and kindness. “Discipline and ethical behaviour form the bedrock of a thriving academic com­munity. Federal University Lokoja, upholds these values and expects every student to do the same. “I encourage you to ex­plore the rich array of ex­tracurricular activities and student organizations avail­able on campus. Engage in sports, cultural events, clubs, and societies that align with your interests and passions. These experiences will not only foster personal growth but also provide you with invaluable opportunities for networking, leadership development, and holistic de­velopment,” he encouraged. He however chides against membership of all unregistered clubs and as­sociations, indecent dress­ing as the university will not hesitate to sanction any deviant student.