ENUGU – The Enugu State Government says it plans to earmark over 100,000 hectares of land to boost cassava production for export, even as the Federal Government has expressed its desire to collaborate with the state government on agriculture. This was disclosed by Governor Peter Mbah during a courtesy visit to his office by a delegation of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning led by the Permanent Secretary, Nebeolisa Anako, Tuesday. While noting that his administration had already identified agriculture as one of the productivity sectors that would drive development and growth in the state, the governor said cassava production would go beyond consumption to export. He said that the value chain that would generate revenue for the people such as cassava flour, cassava cake, cassava chips, among others, would be created from cassava production. “This project is in sync with our developmental plan. We’ve identified agriculture as one of the productivity sectors. “Enugu has arable land that yields five times more than other states. We will be working with you closely in this regard and we’re ready to provide you all the things you need to start the pilot project in our state,” the governor added. Speaking earlier on, the Permanent Secretary expressed delight at the warm reception by the state, saying the high delegation from the ministry comprised multi-sectorial team members eager to chart the way forward for the development of the country’s economy. He recalled that the Federal Executive Council had earlier given approval for a pilot project on cassava production to commence in the South East zone, adding that they were ready to collaborate with the state government, including their universities, to grow the economy. POLL According to him, the project would be starting with sensitization programme on the biosphere, cassava, and palm production. Mr. Nebeolisa also disclosed that the project would grow the economy, attract massive employment, and engage the youth. He added that the federal government would be making grants available to Enugu farmers in respect of the project.