The leadership of the Senior Staff Association Statutory Corporations and Governed Owned Companies (SSASCGOC), Marine Branch, has warned against victimisation of workers at the Lekki Free Port Terminal The union, while pledging its support for the management of the terminal, promised to defend the organisation. The President, SSASCGOC, Maritime, Comrade Akinola Bodunde, made the call at the inauguration of the new executives of the union at Lekki terminal on Thursday. He added that the essence of inaugurating the union in the terminal is not to witch-hunt the management but to enable efficiency at the facility. He said: “We did not come here to fight the management; rather, we are here to partner with you so that things can be done in the right way. “Unionizing our members here is aimed at increasing your productivity. The era of banging tables is over. In Nigeria today, we are one of the unions to reckon with. “I promise that you will see the best of your workers but what we will not allow is victimisation of the workers. “Our priority is the progress of the organisation. The union will stand by the management and the workers and we are ready to defend the organisation.” POLL Speaking further, Comrade Bodunde warned the new executives against greed, selfishness, victimisation and sentiments. “To the executives, we won’t tolerate greed, victimisation, sentiments. Your priority is how the job will move forward. As executives, carry everybody along,” he submitted. Also speaking, President General of the Maritime Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MWUN), Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, emphasized that both unions work in harmony. Comrade Adeyanju, who doubles as the Deputy President of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and represented at the inauguration by Harry Tonye, Deputy President General of MWUN, quipped that the union was not out to fight the management but to help it to grow and make the organisation efficient. His words: “We will ensure that we nurture the project to maturity. We will not allow victimisation of workers. “You have to cook good food for the workers to be able to deliver efficiently because if you don’t cook good food and we have to cook for you, you will not be able to eat it.” He, however, admonished the new executives to carry the workers, union and management along in whatever they do. He implored them to adopt dialogue over banging of tables as means of negotiating with the management of the organisation. Earlier, the Chief Executive Officer of LFT, Yann Magarian, stated the resolve of the terminal to work with the workers.