…As Yari’s Camp Describes Akpabio’s Election Free, Fair ABUJA – Reactions have been trailing the emergence of Godswill Akpabio as President of the Senate. Akpabio on Tuesday emerged as President of the Senate after defeating his opponent, Abdulaziz Yari with 63 votes against 46 votes. Reacting, the Deputy Director General media of the Yari Senate Presidency campaign organization, Senator Addul Ningi, (PDP, Bauchi Central) commended the election that brought Akpabio on board. He described the process as free, fair and credible, without much-anticipated drama. He said: “That is what makes the institution of the Senate different. The animosity, the fear of what happened in the last two days completely vanished. You go into the hall and you see how people were embracing themselves and that is parliament and that is democracy. “We have refused to be intimidated by any enforcement and that is why we said there must be an election and those who came with the idea of theater party and the sitting government had the day we have no problem, we know we are in the minority, we were in a total disagreement, the election was free and fare and to be honest I was expecting it to be so. “Some people actually went to negotiate and that is parliament but I believe in the next six months or so we are going to bind together by putting the nation first like I said in my several interviews, the nation first and when you come to the National Assembly you drop the party leaning, or region. Once you know that, it becomes the protector of the masses. POLL “When you introduce religiosity and political affiliation then the parliament takes the back seat. Democracy is maturing, you could see a government-backed candidate won with just 17 votes, which shows that we are maturing. If it were before, it would have been a landslide so we are growing. “We should not border by what happened today. It is an eye-opener. We will go back to the drawing board and look at what we have not done well and try to amend.” The Director General of Akpabio/Barau for Senate President campaign, Senator Ali Ndume said, “This has demonstrated that every part of the country has received justice, and laid to rest various agitations over marginalization.” One of the Contester from South East, Senator Osita Izunaso, said “I feel happy that members of the 10th Senate have made their choice, have elected their President and Deputy President. I think from there we can hit the ground running because a lot is expected from us by Nigerians. “We have the responsibility to Nigerians. The most important thing now is that we are senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, not necessarily for your constituent and senatorial district. I believe that this 10th Senate will do a good job for Nigeria. Describing the election of Akpabio as free and fair, the Government of the Federation (SGF) Senator George Akume, said that the senators have decided in their wisdom to put the interest of the nation first. “This is what the President, Bola Tinubu has been talking about and we are very elated with the outcome of this election,” he said. The Chairman of the Akpabio/Barau campaign organization and immediate past governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, said “I’m grateful to God that there is nothing I engage in that God is not involved. So, I’m very grateful to God for giving me success. It’s me that got that success, because as chairman, if he has failed (God forbid), I would have failed in my first assignment.”