LAGOS – Like many policies of the government, the foreign exchange liberalisation, otherwise known as “Naira Float” by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in agreement with President Ahmed Tinubu’s administration may have its pains and gains. The CBN has removed the cap on rates movement at the Importer/Exporter Window. Banks can now buy at the going market rate and sell subject to a spread of one Naira. For travel allowances for both businesses and individuals, they will still approach the banks for their requirements. Dr Boniface Chizea, an economist and public affairs contributor, said: “The applicable rate would also be market determined based on the weighted rate on the previous day. Therefore travelling outside the country will now realistically going forward be strictly restricted particularly when you factor in out-of-reach costs of tickets. “For government transactions, the rates would also be determined by the market. And therefore to all intents and purposes, we have now berthed a single rate of exchange in the country depending on to what extent we are able to manage the inevitable challenges along the way. What would now be of interest is for us to speculate on the likely far-reaching consequences”. He added that some of the consequences are already manifesting, such as erratic price increases which we hope will soon stabilize. “What one suspects are that economic agents, for now, have tended to overreact as prices are increased. There are bound to be adjustments downwards as the impact on demands hits home. Therefore at the level of individual households, there will be the need for inevitable adjustments following negotiations. “At the fiscal authority’s level, this is where this development will have far-reaching implications. For the budget, it will translate to a quantum leap in revenue calculations. Therefore all estimations of revenue flows from oil will increase in Naira terms by more than 200 per cent. Unfortunately for some time now the revenue from oil we were told was spent on the payments of phantom subsidies. POLL “Otherwise, such inflows will double on paper under the prevailing scenario which should have an overall effect on the position of our budget and therefore there should be the possibility of a balanced if not surplus budget. On the other hand, our debt stock to the extent that they were due to sources outside the country will double. “I have already seen figures being bandied around but suppose that is premature as the situation is yet to crystallise. Therefore, all calculations of familiar indices; budget balance, debt to GDP, debt to revenue, and tax to GDP ratio remain uncertain until the situation settles”, he stressed. Going forward, he said: “Now that the Naira has been floated by the Central Bank in response to the directive by Mr. President in his inaugural address, we wish that our experience this time around will be different and that we are able to stay the course. “I say so because several attempts have been made to float the exchange rate in response to the prodding by the International Monetary Fund and the appreciation of the sheer difficulties with demand management, but as the consequences begin to unfold the authorities did not have the political will to persevere and stay the course. “This is so because nobody wants to be accused of unleashing hardship on the citizens as inflationary pressures pile up. And therefore like it or not as the rates fall and the Naira appears to be going into a free fall and the touted benefits are slow at materialising, panic sets in and we beat a retreat and reverse the process. “Often in response innovative approaches are dreamt up as escape routes. It is often so as besides the fact of the inflationary implications of the depreciating rate exchange, most leaders are worried about the judgement of history when it is going to be recounted how the exchange rate depreciated under their watch”.