The Gombe State Police Command has paraded a twenty-year-old man, Babangida Isa, for luring and raping a five-year-old girl behind a Tsangaya (Almajiri) school in Bajoga town, Funakaye LGA of the state. In a release made available to newsmen in Gombe, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the State Command, ASP Mahid Muazu Abubakar, said the suspect was reported by the girl’s father, Yahaya Isa. According to Police report, “on the 6th of June 2023 at about 5 pm, one Yahaya Isah male of Bajoga came to the Division and reported that Babangida Isa lured his 5-year-old daughter, whose name was withheld, behind one Almajiri school and forcefully raped her”. He said, on receipt of the Complaint, the said suspect was arrested where he voluntarily confessed to the crime adding that both the suspect and the victim were taken to the hospital for a medical examination. The suspect, according to Mahid, will soon be charged to court for prosecution. In another development, the Command said they were able to recover 21 cows rustled by a 30 year old Sale Kabo, of Bandila village, Gulani LGA, Yobe State who was equally arrested. According to the Police report, “On 6th June 2023, OneJauro Ahmadu, a 75 -year-old man of Shuwari village via Bajoga Funakaye LGA, reported to the Bajoga Divisional Police Headquarters that his 21 cows valued at 7 million nairas had been stolen from his village at night. POLL Mahid said the Divisional Police Officer detailed his personnel who immediately commenced an investigation. After conducting a thorough investigation, the suspect was arrested in connection with the theft which he confessed he had committed. All the stolen cows and other relevant exhibits were recovered. The suspect is currently in police custody and will be charged to court as soon as the investigation is concluded. ASP Mahid also expressed the State Commissioner of Police, Oqua Etim’s commendation over the efforts of the detectives attached to the Bajoga Division who were involved in the investigation for their swift action and dedication to duty He assured the public of the command’s readiness in ensuring the safety and security of all citizens and urged them to report any suspicious activities and to cooperate with the Police in their efforts to maintain peace and order in the community. The Cp also encouraged officers and men of the command to work tirelessly in ensuring that criminals are brought to justice and that the State remains safe and secure for all residents.