With the formal inauguration of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as Presi­dent and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Fed­eral Republic of Nigeria on the 29th of May 2023, all eyes are now on him to see those he would, within the purvey of his consti­tutional prerogative, invite into his cabinet as well as the army of specialist aides and other appointees to man the expansive bu­reaucracy and agencies that would make up his administration and it needs no em­phasis to say that the quality and capacity of his appointees will determine the failure or success of his government. This postulation anchored on the general expectation that the new President will hit the ground running even as we have begun the inevitable countdown to the magical “First 100 Days” heralding his unique ac­complishments immediately after inaugura­tion. Considering our not-so-pleasant recent experiences characterised by inexplicable procrastination and extra-ordinary gover­nance sluggishness or simply, “go-slow”, un­der the immediate past administration, the nation can justly heave a sigh of relief that the new Tinubu’s Presidency has already carved an exceptional niche for itself as far as operational alacrity, policy responsive­ness and leadership agility and focus are concerned and as they say lately, he has hit the ground running. These changes became manifest in the breakneck speed that we have seen in the rollout of certain fundamental policy ini­tiatives on the longstanding national chal­lenges which many past administrations did not have the mental energy or political will to approach, much less solve, such as his prompt removal of the corrupt and wasteful fuel subsidies and the elimination of the in­congruous multi-tier forex market that has created the economic perfidy in which mon­ey, instead of being a medium of exchange, became itself the commodity for open sales and haggling as the “currency market” be­came the biggest and most profitable market in the nation’s economy. With the pending appointments across the government and its numerous agencies, people are once more asking with respect to ministerial appointments, why can’t the President simply attach specific portfolios to the various nominees which he presents to Senate so that the public can have articu­late, productive and insightful confirmation hearings? We are eagerly looking forward to a change of approach in this regard this time around. People should know a few crit­ical things about those who are being hired to serve them. It is an indisputable fact that under the Constitution, it is the President’s preroga­tive to nominate ministers, but it is the spe­cial duty of the Senate to screen and approve those nominations. So far, the previous Sen­ate screening processes seem to have unduly trivialized the all-important constitutionally mandated hearing process that is intended to determine the suitability or otherwise of nominees as would-be ministers of the government of the federation. That purpose is defeated by merely requesting that min­isterial nominees to choreographically step forward to “take a bow and go” away with­out much of serious introduction followed by questioning them such as we regularly see from the US Senate and other civilized democracies where nominees are purposely grilled by asking relevant, meaningful and rationally probing questions designed to ex­pose their strengths and weaknesses Some senators in the past apparently thought of such ministerial screening ex­ercises as mere “waste of time” and others see them as mere grandstanding photo-op occasions. Not quite so, Senators! The whole world watched how the US Senate grilled Senator Jeff Sessions, one of their own, Trump’s first nominee for the position of US Attorney-General. They did not say because the Senator was one of them, he should therefore simply take a “bow and go”. Rather, they wanted to know what he was bringing to the office; they methodically grilled him for days about the possibility of his antecedents impacting negatively on his new appointment during which time the American people had a foretaste of what to expect from him. But in Abuja, it is always hilarious “take a bow and go” occasions. One of the principal components of pres­idential powers is the prerogative to “hire and fire”. Presidents traditionally use their appointing powers to set the tone and direc­tion of their administrations as well as used it to expand on their personal political capi­tal. In this connection, most of the appoint­ments made by President Buhari in his first term, in retrospect, could not be said to have achieved any of these institutional strategic goals. First, he procrastinated in appoint­ing them and when he finally came up with the list, people were disappointed about the names on the list because it was more or less an assemblage of geriatric lay-abouts and analogue oldies, deadwoods and individu­als of dubious operational standings whose only qualifications was that they were all “close” to him – nepotism at its worst. Little wonder therefore that the administration performed predictably badly. Under our peculiar Nigerian law, Mr. President is expected to appoint a minister each from the 36 states of the federation. Al­ready, that means he must have a minimum of 36 ministers whether he really needs them or not. At the end, we are faced with a situation in which a President is made to operate with a motely crowd that he hardly knew about their individual competences and qualities as they all came in the cabinet through diverse routes of which patronage and the famous national cake sharing syn­drome constitute the surest paths. POLL There is no doubt that partisan party affiliations and constituency loyalty are some of the key determinants in a political system that feeds on patronage and crony­ism. There is however the exception that is often made for the presidential system of government which is that every president is ultimately responsible for the performances of his ministers, good or bad. Given the well-known pedigree of President Tinubu as an astute political human resources manager, there is every hope that the nation will avoid this public recruitment sinkhole this time around. On the surface, it seems incongruous that a Nigerian president cannot appoint ministers unilaterally; they usually come from various and incompatible sources. The implication of this is that Nigeria is being unduly denied the services of capable citizens as ministers because of the “fed­eral character” requirements. Supposing the President finds most of those who have the requisite competences to satisfactorily executive his mandate within a few states. Because he must appoint ministers from all the states of the federation, he is forced to forsake available quality materials for some whose only qualification is that they are representing some local godfathers and vested interests. It is like trying to form a national football team on the basis of federal character. Should that happen, it would be a prescription for inevitable failure in com­petitive tournaments. I concede that it is the reality of pres­ent-day Nigeria that has made such a self-de­feating method of ministerial nomination the norm as it is just possible that without the federal character constitutional clause, a rabidly nepotistic President could go ahead to appoint as “ministers” only his kinsmen and cronies who may actually be the most incompetent hands in the land. It is to avoid such a selection calamity that the restrain­ing clause was placed on the powers of the President to “hire and fire”. I am trusting on the already well-laid precedents that President Tinubu estab­lished from his days as governor that all the avoidable pitfalls that dogged his prede­cessors’ nepotistic recruitment process are avoided this time around and there is every hope there will be a significant departure from those past practices.