LAGOS. – The Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) has called on the Federal Government to take necessary urgent steps to put an end to the dollarisation framework of the nation’s economy to ensure moderation in energy costs for the manufacturing sector. Dr. Muda Yusuf, CPPE’s Executive Director in charts with Daily Independent, also called on the government to take urgent steps to reduce the cost of LPG to households. He acknowledged that though the recent reduction in the LPG price is laudable, but the price reduction trajectory should be sustained to ease pressure on households and prevent deforestation. He said: “Import duty, VAT and other port charges on Semi Knocked Down parts for the assembly of mass transit buses should be waived. This would not only make mass transit buses cheaper; it would enhance industrial capacity utilisation of the vehicle assembly plants in the country. “Import duty on passenger buses of 15 passenger capacity and above should be reduced by 50 per cent for the next year. Import duty on fairly used cars of engine capacity of 2000cc and below should be reduced by 30 per cent. This would enhance access of the middle class to vehicle ownership in light of the high deficit in the provision of public transportation. Drastic reduction in import duty on intermediate products for the food processing industry in the country. “The government should engage major food processing companies to determine specific policy options for the realisation of this objective. “This would moderate food inflation. Introduce incentives to stimulate private investment in pipelines. This would sufficiently reduce the distribution costs of petroleum products. “Abolition of all forms of taxes and import duty on renewable energy equipment to boost the adoption of renewable energy by households and SMEs. Such waivers would make renewable energy adoption affordable. POLL “This reduction should cover relevant equipment like solar panels, inverters, batteries, etc. This would make citizens less reliant on the electricity grid.”