By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba) republished in May 2015 INTRO: Last week, this column repub­lished ‘The Avoidable Oppres­sive Burden of Fuel Subsidy’. The article emphasized that the solution to the subsidy dilemma has been evident, yet ignored. All republications can be found in the archives using the below link. (See www.betternaijanow. com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) This week’s republication fol­lows a series of selected articles by the Late Sir Henry, on the fuel subsidy dilemma. Do we remove subsidy and intensify the suffer­ing of Nigerians, local industries and consequently the economy? Or keep subsidy amidst increasing costs due to spiraling inflation? With inflation being the common denominator, today’s article ad­dresses this thoroughly. Will Ni­geria’s leaders finally listen? As you read through the below article taking note of previous events and rates, keep in mind its first republication (2015), a clear indication that Nigeria’s economic situation remains stagnant even as we face the year 2023. The severe social discom­fort and economic dis­location caused by fuel scarcity nationwide may stampede the incoming Admin­istration of President-elect Mu­hammadu Buhari to settle the outstanding invoices of Petrol Marketers, and also accept over N200bn penalty interest charge for delayed payments and exchange rate differentials consequent upon the almost 20% recent Naira de­valuation. Some critics may suggest that the government representatives who accepted liability for such oppressive penalty charges, would not readily make such an under­taking if they represented their own private corporations or fam­ily assets, particularly in the face of a bleeding revenue base and rapidly increasing debt burden. POLL Nonetheless, Buhari may be forced to tow the same path of reckless financial management, if petrol marketers remain adamant and insist that government should first settle alleged outstanding debts before they commit to any fresh fuel importation; unfortu­nately, the longer it takes to reach an agreement on actual liability, interest payments may continue to increase and further bloat gov­ernment’s indebtedness. Clearly, however, the retired General certainly does not need an early confrontation with the public or indeed Labour who will as usual insist that subsidy should only be removed after sufficient local refineries can meet domestic consumption! In the event howev­er, that refineries (depending on size) have between 18-36 months gestation, this may suggest that subsidy may not be wished away very soon! Furthermore, Labour and Civ­il Societies also recognise that it would be foolhardy to accept de­regulation, if the Naira rate con­tinues its steady plunge against the dollar as fuel prices will simul­taneously continue to spiral! Con­versely, Buhari’s Team may plead that it is not sensible to dedicate over 20% of federal budgets to sub­sidy and almost 50% of total Crude Export Revenue to consumption of imported fuel annually. We cannot predict the length of the ensuing stalemate, but as usual, in the interest of the nation, government and Labour are likely to once more agree to split the sub­sidy burden. Clearly, government’s share of subsidy will nonetheless rise if the Naira continues its downward slide or if “fortuitous­ly” or “unfortunately”, crude oil prices rebound once again. For example, if the Naira is left to float as currently proposed by the Banker’s Committee, Naira could well exchange for over N300=$1 be­fore the end of 2015, particularly if the instigation of systemic excess Naira remains an abiding feature of CBN’s monetary strategy. Invariably, with such Naira depreciation, fuel prices will spi­ral about 50% above the price on which subsidy was initially calcu­lated. Consequently, unless pump prices are adjusted upwards, gov­ernment’s share of the subsidy burden will once again balloon and bring us back to square one, where subsidy exceeds 20% of an­nual federal budgets. Furthermore, in the absence of fiscal discipline, subsidy refunds to marketers will invariably be delayed and will accumulate as usual, until the issue of delayed payments and exchange rate dif­ferentials surface once more to trigger fuel scarcity with the atten­dant painful, social and econom­ic dislocations. Similarly, higher crude prices will also translate to higher fuel prices and increasing subsidy values. In his attempt to end this hor­rendous cyclical narrative, Buhari will be well advised to recognise that subsidy can be eliminated if crude price remains below $50/ barrel, so that ex-refinery cost remains low; ironically, if this happens, our oil revenue base will unfortunately remain deplet­ed and further threaten the Naira exchange rate as is currently the case. Ultimately, increasing specu­lative dollar demand will instigate further Naira depreciation which would inadvertently pump-up fuel price and also swell the existing value of subsidy. Clearly, if weaker Naira rates instigate higher fuel prices and fuel subsidy values, it stands to reason that an increasingly stron­ger Naira should also reduce fuel price and ultimately eliminate subsidy while new refineries will be established with the complete deregulation of the sector. For example, if Naira exchang­es for N100=$1, this would be a 50% appreciation from the current N200=$1, in this event, the unsub­sidized current actual fuel price of about N150/litre will immediately fall below N80/litre, and make N7/ litre available as sales tax if the current regulated price of N87/li­tre remains unchanged. Notably, the relative sales tax potential will increase beyond N7/litre if the Naira strengthens below N100=$1. The million-dollar question how­ever, is how the Naira can appreci­ate when oil revenue is dwindling; after all, as some experts claim, it is the size of our reserves that de­fines the exchange rate of the Nai­ra! Curiously, in the Nigerian con­text however, in order for CBN to build up its dollar reserves, it must consciously continue to induce the suffocation of the domestic money market with surplus Naira, despite the adverse attendant economic consequences. Expectedly, with such a Naira antagonistic strategy, the Naira exchange rate will be pummeled when it is constantly pitted against the paltry dollar rations, auctioned weekly by CBN from its caché of public sector dollars which were earlier captured and substituted with Naira allocations at an exchange rate that is unilat­erally determined by the Apex Bank. This bizarre payment strat­egy apart from instigating excess Naira, also induces the unforced error of the official provision of presumably ‘scarce’ public sector dollars for the unsubstantiated forex requirements of the black market. Instructively, however, if the foreign exchange component of federal allocations is paid with dollar certificates rather than the outright monthly substitution of Naira values which precipitate the constant spectre of surplus Naira and its oppressive train of infla­tion, huge cost of funds, a weaker Naira as well as higher fuel prices, which make the removal of subsi­dy impossible. Incidentally, the above rec­ommended reform in fiscal allo­cations, will gradually mop up the unrelenting flood of surplus Naira which swallow the dol­lar rations sold weekly by CBN; clearly, if this fiscal payment prac­tice is sustained, the Naira may still ultimately exchange below N100=$1despite reduced crude oil revenue within Buhari’s first year in office. Thus, Buhari will avoid a pro­tracted social and economic dislo­cation, if he quickly engages Or­ganisedLabour and Civil Societies on a consensus to sustain partial deregulation with government, “reluctantly” conceding 50% of the difference between the cur­rent N87/litre and the unsubsi­dized current actual market price of about N150/litre; with this ar­rangement, the agreed pump price would be set at N120/litre exclud­ing government’s subsidy of about N33/litre. Clearly, the implication is that when the Naira ultimately ex­changes for N100=$1 because of better managed Naira liquidity, the government could also recoup over N10/litre as sales tax on 40 million litres of fuel consumed daily. Such returns from petrol sales tax will continue to rise as the Naira exchange rate improves with the reform in government’s payments strategy. Save the Naira, Save Nigeri­a