Dr. Wahab Ademola Azeez is the Provost of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka. At the completion of his first tenure of four years, the immediate past administration of President Muhammadu Buhari renewed his leadership of the college for a second tenure. The provost in this chat with OYENIRAN APATA reviews his stewardship and his drive to achieve more: Dr. Azeez in his review of his first four years as the Provost of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, considered as primus inter pares having pioneered the establishment of the Technical Teacher Education programme in Nigeria in1967, enumerated his modest achievements. Apart from achievements, Azeez also listed his strategic plan to entrench the national technical vocational training and skills acquisition for national development. He expressed appreciation to the former administration of President Buhari’s administration for the support given to education in spite of the economic crisis in the country through the remarkable impact on tertiary education, especially through the encouraging TETFUND intervention support. Azeez listed accomplishments during the first four years including relative peace and stability of academic sessions over the years amicably through dialogue and peaceful negotiations. “The College Administration has continued to give adequate attention to the protection of lives and property on campus; and provision of social amenities to enhance the quality of life significantly through massive illumination of the college environment with solar-powered lights to supplement the irregular public power supply by the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). “Others are procurement of more generating sets to increase productivity and efficiency of staff and increase the number of boreholes sunk to meet the demand for water supply in the college. Hostels have constantly been renovated for students to make their stay comfortable and safe. “Full accreditation by our regulatory agency the NCCE at the last accreditation exercise carried out in the college and uninterrupted academic calendar outside government closure of schools and COVID-19 holidays. POLL “We have expanded the frontiers of academic programmes by introducing Marketing Education and Entrepreneurship Education in the School of Business Education. Also, arrangements have been concluded for another affiliation with the Lagos State University (LASU) to run some other programmes on a part-time basis leading to the award of Bachelor Degrees in Science, Vocational-Technical and Business Education Programmes.” He disclosed that the college under the current administration demonstrated the relevance of public/private partnership in education by establishing two directorates called the Centre for Vocational, Technical and Entrepreneurship Development (CeVTED) and Centre for Endowment, Development, Advancement and Alumni Relationship (CEDAAR). “CeVTED has trained and certified many outsourced members of the public in diverse entrepreneurial skills and about 1,172 students across our NCE I, II and III students are undertaking training in different entrepreneurial skills of their choice. On the physical development of the college, he said, “The directorate also viably secured funds from Senator Oluremi Tinubu to meet indigent students’ needs and more from other philanthropic individuals like Messrs. Ododo Owodeha Ashaka and Tolulope Abiola as accommodation subsidy for an indigent student. Emphasising the need for intervention in Technical Vocational areas of training, he said the college remains committed and determined to put the country on progressive and accelerated speed as far as Technical Vocational Education is concerned. On his plan for the next four years, the provost said, “We shall put fabrication of teaching and learning equipment and tools and improvisation of materials on our priority list in order to reduce the cost on procurement of these items. “We shall use the existing human capital and facilities of the College to generate more income to augment the support of government and other funding agencies. Collaborate with foreign experts, institutions and partners in the areas of training of our staff and students, especially in the areas of exchange programmes in technical skills and training. “Emphasis would be placed on digital and technological training of staff and students in order to meet the demands of the modern workplace. Training of staff will be given priority in order to promote productivity and effectiveness in our college. “We shall work towards generating our own power energy that can serve the academic community in order to increase our productivity in all ramifications. We shall invest and produce our own alternative power energy by partnering with experts in Renewable and Solar Energy Power and Infrastructure. These include Wind energy, Solar energy, Biomass energy, Biofuels etc. We shall encourage our scholars and researchers to go for training in these energy areas for the ultimate benefit of the College and country.