LAGOS – A Lagos-based lawyer and human rights activist, Kabir Akingbolu has called on the immediate past Minister for Labour and Employment of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Mr Festus Kayamo , SAN to immediately refund the illegal and unconstitutional salaries and allowances he collected during the four years he spent in office as a Minister. Akingbolu, a partner at Salawu, Akingbolu & Co. said it is shocking and disappointing that as a social crusader and respected Senior Advocate of Nigeria, he (Keyamo) could permit himself to be used to occupy an illegal office whereby he continues to receive illegal money for a whole four(4) years. He added that it is highly disappointing and leaves so much sad taste in his mouth that he can participate in such criminality. Recalled that the Minister during the valedictory session presided over by President Muhammad Buharito mark the end of the Federal Executive Council, FEC meeting said President Muhammadu Buhari that it is an aberration to appoint a Minister of State. In a letter dated 29th of May, 2023 addressed to m Festus Kayamo as seen by our correspondent, the lawyer stated that some people like him believe that the past Miniter only said what he said during the Valenditory speech, in order to get better patronage or appointment as a substantive minister in the new government. Akingbolu letter reads in parts: “With utmost respect and humility, I write you in respect of the above subject. As citizens and ministers in the temple of justice and good governance watchdog, it is our civic responsibility to advance and advocate the entrenchment of the principles of the rule of law in the country for the purpose of strengthening good governance and constitutionality. The sacred duty is not bestowed on only me but also every citizen. POLL Our attention has just been drawn to your sincere advice and recommendation to the Federal Government of Nigeria in your speech at the valedictory session presided over by President Muhammad Buhari to mark the end of the Federal Executive Council, FEC meeting, under his (Buhari) administration, at the Council Chamber, of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, to consider appointing different ministers to handle individual portfolios since the Minister of State was a constitutional aberration which further strengthened the position of an elder statesman Stephen Oronsanye’s white paper recommendation on public sector reforms in telling truth to the power. This act is salutary, laudable and commendable by all Nigerians for it is an act alien to Nigerian politicalclass. We are not much surprised about this based on your antecedents as a People’ Advocate who always stand by the Nigerian masses as a crusader for democracy and constitutionalism for the evolvement ofNigerian young democracy continued to be maladministered by the inept successive government due to a lack of political will to right the wrongs in our political system. It is our strong belief that your recommendation was borne out of your usual characteristics and sincerecontribution to the advancement of our constitutional democracy which has been the bane of our political and economic development for ages. Arising from the foregoing is the fact that, since you have deemed it fit to stand by the truth at this time, belatedly though, by exposing the unconstitutional acts of governments for the sake of advancing ourconstitutional democracy, so, it will be improper, hypocritical and out of character for you to withhold the products and proceeds of this office not recognise by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We, therefore, demand that you immediately refund all the illegal and unconstitutional salaries and allowances paid to you as an appointed Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs and later redeployed as Minister of State for Labour and Employment for the past 4 years. Although, it is shocking and disappointing that as a social crusader and respected Senior Advocate of Nigeria, you could permit yourself to be used to occupy an illegal office and you continue to receive illegal money for a whole four(4) years. This is highly disappointing and leaves so much sad taste in the mouth that you can participate in such criminality. This has made some people like us to believe that you only said so in order to get a better patronage or appointment as a substantive minister in the new government. Too bad. In any event of neglect or refusal to comply or give attention to this innocuous demand, we shall be left with no other option than to file for Mandamus by approaching the court to compel the Economic andFinancial Crime Commission (EFCC) to prosecute you for fraudulently enriching yourself with Nigerian tax payers’ money and in addition compel the Federal Government to expunge your name fromgovernment record as one of the former Ministers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.While thanking you in anticipation, highest professional regards always.”