LAGOS  – The Acting National President, Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr. Kayode Farinto, has asserted that those fueling the crises in the association do not believe in positive change, but still under the illusion of old order. Farinto, a front line contender for the ANLCA top job, made this assertion when he toured the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, chapter of the Association, where he met members as part of his preparation for the coming election. Farinto received a rousing welcome with fanfare and drumming from different tribes. Dr Farinto and his team of contestants among the association’s chieftains have continued their campaign tours to various chapters of ANLCA in preparation for the July 5th, National Executive Committee (NECOM) election of the association. Speaking to his members at the Chapter’s Secretariat at the NAHCO complex, he said the crises in the association were the battle between the old and the new orders of the association. He said some people in the association wanted the old way of doing things to rise up and protect the association and their profession. “In the past five years, we have been in crises, the trouble is that the old people don’t want to give way to the new order which has kept ANLCA where it is today. We must begin to do things right and protect our profession. Over 90% of our jobs especially Project Cargoes have been taken over by foreigners. How many of you even at the airport here are clearing project Cargoes. POLL “Government agencies will take decisions without involving us as critical stakeholders, all these must stop. If am elected, everybody will be carried along in the decision making that concerns our profession.” The ANLCA presidential candidate said if elected, he would implement his ten point agenda which has to do with welfare of members, training and retraining among others. “As a member of CRFFN and Chairman Education Committee, the Act says you must have at least a Diploma in Freight Forwarding before you are allowed to practice and it is going to be enforced in 2024. So, we will focus on training and retraining of our members even to know how to clear dangerous cargoes.” He urged them to vote for a good team that will lead the association well. “In my short period as the Acting National President, even amidst crises, we tried our best, please if any group of people comes to you; ask them what they have done in the last two years in ANLCA. The same people who were hiring hoodlums and thugs destroying and trying to burn down the National Secretariat of ANLCA are the people who are going round claiming to want to lead you.” The highpoint of the event was the team visit to the Customs Area Controller’s office at the Airport Command. Dr Farinto also introduced his team of contestant in various positions to include Chief Dennis Okwu, who is vying for the position of Vice President, Chief Lawrence Uba for National Secretary, Chief Chuks Okoro for Financial Secretary and Segun Alabi as Assistant National Secretary. Alhaji Afolabi Abdulazeez, who is vying for the position of National Treasurer, also from the chapter was officially handed over to Dr Farinto by the Chairman of the chapter, Adewusi as their preferred candidate and ambassador of the chapter. Others are Emmanuel Onyeme for NPS and Alhaji Femi Anifowose as Western zone Coordinator. The campaign will continue in other chapters of the Western zone as the team has already concluded campaign visits to both Eastern and Northern Zones of the association. Meanwhile, the National President of ANLCA, Hon. Tony Iju Nwabunike has said that Farinto remains the best candidate to lead the association. Nwabunike in a statement made available to Daily Independent said: “I have read back and forth stories of endorsements on the most suitable National President of Association of Nigeria Licenced Customs Agents (ANLCA), one coming from a former president who endorsed his then Vice President, Emenike Nwokeoji. “One is therefore, compelled by the reality of our recent past, and this season to refresh our memory and extol those noble virtues that make Dr. Kayode Farinto stand out as the best man for the job to steer ANLCA to greater height. “By providence and the popular will of ANLCA voters, Dr. Fairinto emerged Vice President to me from the Enugu election held on March 8, 2018 “The many battles we wrestled with, started on the eve my inauguration as President where Farinto and I started managing multiple threats and avoidable distractions. Dr. Farinto showed to be a selfless individual, team player and one who is ever ready to defend this great association in deed and in truth. “I see in him a loyal, consistent and forthright individual who believe in the sustainable institutional framework that holds ANLCA together, come rain come shine,” Nwabunike further asserted. Farinto, he continued, believes in consultation and dialogue with listening ears that will foster an all-inclusive ANLCA in unity and love. He noted that ANLCA Secretariat is not a beer parlour or drinking base, adding that Farinto being a thoroughbred professional will run it with basic etiquette required to administer a corporate head office. “I hereby plead with our people to choose wisely and build a stronger ANLCA by voting Dr Kayode Collins Farinto as National President of ANLCA and all his team members contesting for other NECOM Offices. “They are a team of credible, dedicated and result oriented people.” About his opponents, the ANLCA President said: “I want to appeal to the various managing directors of licensed customs agent companies and their representatives that will be voting for new ANLCA Executives in July 2023 to be firm in their love for the association by not committing our NECOM into the hands of those who subjected our secretariat to multiple attacks. “Our only offence against them was coming out victorious in the face of all odds even with the endorsement they enjoyed from the then incumbent president. “They vowed to make the association ungovernable by generating excuses like running a parallel BoT, instituting multiple court cases, distracting us with chains of police invitations over false allegations, coming with thugs armed with guns and charms to attack our secretariat and even sponsoring physical assault against my person.” According to Nwabunike, these are people that are joyful when the secrerariat is locked up. “They jubilate taking delight in things that connotes downfall. “In their desperation, they say boldly that it’s either they hold the reins of power or they make trouble in a do-or-die fashion. “This was shamelessly exhibited severally by those who are Farinto’s opponents today. “Like the fake mother in the case of biblical king Solomon, the opponents were asking that the baby(ANLCA) be divided into 2 parts while we begged like the real mother that dividing the baby means destroying a young life. “Today, they are asking to nurture the same baby they demanded be divided yesterday. “Don’t trust them. Don’t allow them. “People who insists that it’s either they lead or else everything gets destroyed should not be entrusted with leadership because they can use it to hurt the association. “A customs broker is not a thug and should not be seen as a sponsor or patron to hooligans because of anything, not even because of association leadership,” Nwabunike enthused.