ASUS on Tuesday announced the exciting new Zenbook S 13 OLED (UX5304), reputed to be the world’s slimmest 13.3-inch OLED laptop. It is also the most eco-friendly Zenbook-ever, and takes the brand’s signature qualities of ultraportable design, sustainability, and on-the-go performance to a new level, proving conclusively that less can be more. With a world-beating super-slim 1 cm profile and a super-light 1 kg chassis, the sophisticated Zenbook S 13 OLED delivers no-compromise performance, connectivity, and battery life, making it the epitome of ultraportable design, and is finished in brand-new Basalt Gray or classic Ponder Blue. As announced by Simplice Zaongo, Country Manager of the company, “It is also designed with the environment and carbon neutrality firmly in mind, using recycled metals and plastics in its construction, FSCTM Mix-certified packaging, an elegant new eco-friendly plasma ceramic aluminum for the Basalt Gray model, and halogen-free electronics, to make this the most eco-friendly Zenbook model we’ve ever produced. Reputed to be the world’s slimmest 13.3″ OLED, the ultraportable laptop is the most eco-friendly Zenbook ever, with a lightweight design, sustainability, and performance to deliver more with less. Its Unique Selling Points (USPs) cut across being super-slim and super-light: World-beating 1 cm profile and only 1 kg light, while its sustainability considered to be all-around is by virtue of its being designed for carbon neutrality with recycled metals and plastics, eco-friendly plasma ceramic aluminum, and 100% FSCTM Mix packaging. As gathered, the Zenbook series excels at delivering unrivaled on-the-go performance, and Zenbook S 13 OLED is no exception, harnessing the power of up to 13th Gen Intel Core i7 processors with 32 GB of LPDDR5 RAM and a 1 TB PCIe 4.0 x4 SSD. There’s a full set of I/O ports for on-the-go connections and a long-lasting 63 Wh battery. For immersive true-to-life visuals, Zenbook S 13 OLED has a gorgeous 16:10 2.8K (2880 x 1800) ASUS Lumina OLED display that’s Dolby Vision certified, with Pantone Validated color rendering and VESA DisplayHDR True Black 500 certification, ensuring incredible detail and the deepest black levels. At the event, Simplice Zaongo, Country Manager, for ASUS English Speaking Africa, spoke about the new Zenbook S 13 OLED and said “Stunning innovations like Zenbook S 13 OLED represent the pinnacle of the Incredible Comes from within Zenbook spirit. The entire Zenbook series is designed and built for those in pursuit of the incredible, defining new industry standards for portability, performance, and battery life, with stunning ASUS Lumina OLED displays. He added that “To achieve the super-slim 1 cm profile and super-light 1 kg weight of Zenbook S 13 OLED, several advanced techniques and materials are used in its design and construction to reduce the weight and dimensions compared to the previous generation, without compromising performance, connectivity or battery life”. According to Edward Chen, Country Product Manager, English Speaking Africa, “As for its Display layer infusion: To achieve the incredibly slim profile, we’ve embedded a thinner yet fully featured FHD IR camera directly into the CNC-machined lid. We’ve also used a specially designed ultra-slim OLED panel, resulting in a lid that’s 30% slimmer. POLL “Optimised internal layout: By using precision CNC machining, we make more space available in the interior for components. We use circuit boards with fewer layers and a higher wiring density, with many more transistors, giving a better performance with less weight in a more compact space. The motherboard is precision-engineered to house an additional, ultrathin fan that increases airflow for better cooling. This makes the lower part of the laptop about 25% slimmer. “Materials choice: To minimize weight, durable and lightweight magnesium-aluminum alloy is used for the keyboard deck, formed with a CNC cutting process to create a rigid structure that doesn’t need any extra support. An extremely thin glass covering is used for the touchpad, resulting in a further 25% reduction in thickness in the keyboard deck. The result is a class-defining ultraportable laptop that takes thin and light to a whole new level without compromises: it supports up to 14 hours of video streaming while offering improved cooling and performance compared to its predecessor. And despite its world-beating compact dimensions, Zenbook S 13 OLED retains full usability and features a comprehensive set of standard I/O ports”. Regarding its All-round sustainability, ASUS assured that its team is committed to do more with less through Zenbook, saying that the device is an EPEAT Gold registered product that has a positive environment across the entire product lifecycle, from material use and manufacturing to assembly, use, and end of life. It explained that its carbon footprint has been mitigated by incorporating recycled materials and designing more eco-conscious packaging. As gathered, the device is the most eco-friendly Zenbook ever made, incorporating post-industrial recycled (PIR) magnesium-aluminum alloy in the keyboard cover, chassis, and lid, reducing its carbon footprint by more than 50%. The keycaps and speakers incorporate post-consumer-recycled (PCR) plastics, and the speakers also use ocean-bound plastics, even as ASUS redesigned the packaging to be 100% recyclable, with reusable and compostable materials. It uses 100% FSC Mix-certified paper from responsibly managed forests, controlled wood, and recycled sources. The paper packing inserts can also be easily transformed into useful laptop stands. In addition, Zenbook S 13 OLED also exceeds the ENERGY STAR energy efficiency standard by 43% to reduce electricity consumption. It added that by virtue of the foregoing that sustainable actions, the overarching goal of the device’s sustainability initiatives is to achieve carbon neutrality. Zaongo explained that “For the first time, we have used a special manufacturing process to create an ASUS-exclusive plasma ceramic aluminum material for the lid. This process uses pure water and electricity, and no organic compounds, strong acids, or heavy metals are required. Instead, this low-environmental-impact bath-based method produces a physical and chemical transformation of the aluminum. This results in increased wear resistance, corrosion protection, thermal management, hardness, and lifespan. Along with the physical advantages, the look and feel of this material is similar to natural stone which resonates with the spirit of the Zenbook series. Incredibly, this makes each lid individually unique. No two are alike. A longer laptop lifespan also reduces long-term waste, so Zenbook 13 S OLED is stringently tested using the latest MIL-STD-810H US military-grade durability standard, with up to 12 test methods and 26 individual tests;  the world’s most strictly tested laptop durability”. The Laptop’s performance on the go as disclosed at the event is been sustained as the Intel Evo-certified Zenbook S 13 OLED delivers the perfect blend of performance and portability, featuring up to a 13th Gen Intel Core i7 processor that can be boosted by 20% to a thermal design power (TDP) of up to 20 watts. It was added that this is supported by up to 32 GB of LPDDR5 RAM and an ultrafast 1 TB PCIe 4.0 x4 SSD, with a long-lasting high-capacity 63 Wh battery. WiFi 6E enhanced with ASUS WiFi Master Premium ensures fast, stable connections. Chen explained that “Even though it’s ultra-compact, Zenbook S 13 OLED includes a full complement of I/O ports, so users don’t need to carry dongles or adapters on their travels. The two ultrafast Thunderbolt 4 USB-C ports support fast charging, 4K external displays, and up to 40 Gbps data transfers, and there’s also a USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A port, an HDMI 2.1 port, and a 3.5 mm audio jack. He added that “For enhanced video conferencing experiences on the go, the FHD IR camera includes AI-powered visual effects and AI noise-cancelation technology. It also supports fast and secure face login with Windows Hello. The powerful Harman Kardon-certified audio system with immersive Dolby Atmos sound has a smart amplifier combined with ASUS Audio Booster technology to boost volume by up to 5.25X. “The 9.5%-larger ASUS Ergo Sense touchpad allows easier navigation and is smooth, comfortable, and responsive, with an easy-to-clean anti-fingerprint coating “ASUS Lumina OLED display: More accurate. More adaptive. More reliable. “For an immersive viewing experience, Zenbook S 13 OLED is equipped with a 16:10 ASUS Lumina OLED display — our brand-new name that’s only given to superior OLED displays that meet our strict quality criteria, and offer a visual experience that’s more accurate, more adaptive, and more reliable. ASUS Lumina OLED displays standardized highly-crafted visual solutions around the best OLED experience. The name also highlights the unique advantages and superior visual experience that go beyond traditional OLED displays. ASUS Lumina OLED displays feature exclusive ASUS technologies, such as ASUS Splendid and ASUS OLED Care, as well as new features like Delta E <1, power-saving, and panel protection. By integrating these elements, ASUS has created a highly-crafted solution that represents the pinnacle of OLED technology. He continued, “With a resolution of 2.8K, a 0.2 millisecond response time, and a color accuracy of Delta E <1, the stunning ASUS Lumina OLED display on Zenbook S 13 OLED delivers clearer, brighter, and more vivid colors. As well as offering Dolby Vision certification, the display is also Displayed True Black 500-certified for brilliant whites and the deepest blacks and carries the Pantone Validated badge for industry-standard color fidelity. The cinema-grade 100% DCI-P3 color gamut delivers ultra-vivid colors, and ASUS Splendid allows the user to easily switch between this gamut and sRGB, Display-P3, or the native OLED gamut. “The display is also certified for eye care by TÜV Rheinland and SGS with 70%-lower blue-light emissions, ensuring that the user’s eyes are comfortable for even during long viewing sessions. ASUS also provides free OLED screen exchange for any burn-in issues during the warranty period.