ABUJA – The newly elected President of the Senate, Godswill Akpabio, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Tajudeen Abbas and other lawmakers have been charged to enact laws that will engender unity, as well as promote equality and justice in the country. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Anambra State, Chief Kodilichukwu Okelekwe, gave this charge at the weekend. Congratulations Akpabio, his deputy, Jibrin Barau, the Speaker, Abbas and his deputy, Benjamin Kalu, on their election as presiding officers of the 10th assembly, Okelekwe expressed confidence in their ability to discharge their responsibilities creditably. Okelekwe, who was the APC senatorial candidate, for Anambra Central Senatorial zone, in the 2023 polls, urged the Senate presiding officers to note that their first reaction to their elevation must be a deliberate decision to give hope to the society that put it trust in them. Okelekwe, in a statement, on Saturday, said the country is yearning for growth and development, adding that the onus is on the National Assembly leadership to make laws that define a progressive society. Okelekwe, in his felicitation to Akpabio and Barau, said “your leadership credentials are very well known. Your vast and varied expertise have exceptionally prepared you for this highly challenging position. Your first reaction to your elevation must be a deliberate decision to give hope to the society that has put this trust in you by choosing you to represent them. “Laws shape and define a nation. The laws regulate and reshape the destiny of a country, and must reflect the interests and aspirations of the people. You are in a position to chart a new course for our nation by building a bipartisan coalition that will be all inclusive and carter for the whole country. We must put aside our very avoidable misunderstandings and rise above our primordial prejudices which have hitherto hindered our national progress.” In the same vein, Okelekwe tasked Abbas and Kalu to use the opportunity of their election as leaders of the Green chamber to make laws that will usher the country into “its long awaited greatness.” POLL He said: “You have the opportunity and responsibility of moderating the Representatives and leading them to make laws that lead our country into its long awaited greatness. You have a rare opportunity to redirect our government into plans that will ensure the commonweal. “Our country is crying out for a new society of progress, growth and development. They desire and demand a change to new ways of transparency, accountability and justice. “You are well positioned to give them what they want. Please do it for the sake and greater good of our country. We know you are well qualified and capable of doing this for our country.”