Two notorious commercial motorcycle snatchers over the weekend narrowly escape mob attacks as they tried to overpower a commercial motorcycle operator (okada) in Agaie, Agaie Local Government Area of Niger state. The two suspected motorcycle snatcher whose activities is said to be causing residents of the area sleepless night almost lost their lives when the operator raised the alarm that attracted instant response from passersby around Government Reserved Area (GRA), Agaie and subsequently descended on them. Daily Independent gathered that the two suspects specialise in snatching motorcycles from both commercial and private motorcycle owners and as well stealing valuables from their victims amongst others at Agaie and its environs. But like the common saying, ‘every day is for the thief but one day is for the house owner’, the two suspects in an attempt to continue their nefarious activities at about 12 midnight suffered setback as the mob that gathered to catch a glimpse of them descended on them and gave them the beating of their lives. Their latest victim, our correspondent leant fiercely fought back in defence of himself and his motorcycle as they tried to snatch his motorcycle and subsequently raised the alarm that attracted instant response from people who came to his rescue. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Niger state command, DSP Wasiu Abiodum confirmed the attack and subsequent of the suspects adding that the two suspects had posed as passengers but with unterior motive to snatch motorcycle from the owner. “At about 10pm, two suspected motorcycle snatchers; one Isaac Peter and David Gambo were being conveyed as passengers by a motorcyclist in Agaie, and on reaching GRA area, they attacked the motorcyclist by hitting him with a stick in order to overpower him”. The victim raised alarm that attracted mob action and the two suspects were seriously injured. The timely intervention of the police operatives at Agaie Division saved the suspects from being killed as the police quickly mobilized to the scene and rescued them from the mob. However, Abiodun said the case under investigation and two suspects will be prosecuted at the completion of investigation.