Ben Langat, Managing Director, FrieslandCampina, WAMCO, in this interview with CHIOMA UMEHA assures on the company’s commitment to improving dairy supply and farmers’ lives, among other issues. Excerpts: How much local content has FrieslandCampina WAMCO created for its products? From a milk production point of view, Nigeria has a hot, humid environment which typically is very good for beef cattle and that is why you see a lot of the Fulani cows doing very well. To grow high milk-yielding cows, you have to put in extra effort and this is what we have been doing for many years. For over 12 years, FrieslandCampina WAMCO has continued to invest in the Nigerian dairy sector as it has been sourcing raw milk locally for manufacturing. We are also the highest off-taker of fresh milk produced locally from five states in Nigeria. Right now we are running several factories – the Evaporated milk factory, Powder factory, Yoghurt factory and the mobile Yoghurt factory. The Yoghurt factories are running on local milk, so we can say we have brands that are 100 percent Nigerian in our portfolio. However, to be able e to meet the total dairy nutrition demands in a country as large as Nigeria, the local milk currently available is still very much inadequate. So in my opinion, the model that the country will run will still have a reasonable mix of importation of some of the raw materials, while local content is developed over a period of time. What environmentally friendly measures are you implementing to improve milk sourcing locally in Nigeria while promoting animal welfare, environmental protection, and conservation? The cattle population in Nigeria is about 20.7 million and they are well scattered across the country, which means that from a density point of view, it is not a major threat to the environment. The cattle numbers are not as high as what is seen in other countries like The Netherlands which are small yet have lots of animals. Having said that, our dairy development initiative is currently ongoing in Oyo, Osun, Ogun, Ondo, Kwara and in the north. In these locations, we are working with about 12,000 farmers. Most of them are pastoralists who have cows that roam about. This means that in terms of carbon footprints, there are no major issues. The issues to focus on are resources like water, afforestation, grass and pasture use, and the like. To this end, we train and support these farmers; to help them grow trees within their communities, which form part of our dairy development sites. When these farmers deliver milk during the rainy season, we plan to give them seedlings from our farm in Fashola where we do pasture development in collaboration with Barenbrug, one of the world’s leading hybrid pasture seed production companies. We also help them with pasture development and show them how to use the pasture for cattle grazing in sustainable ways that do not encourage soil erosion or any form of deforestation. All this is coming at a time when the world has moved so high up on the sustainability agenda and thus there is already a lot of knowledge on what to do. Given its fifty years of corporate presence in Nigeria, would you classify FrieslandCampina WAMCO as an indigenous company? It is always a pleasure to have this kind of engagement with the media. FrieslandCampina WAMCO is truly a Nigerian business. First of all, WAMCO, which is an acronym for West African Milk Company was registered in 1973 as a corporate entity. Then it became Friesland Foods WAMCO Nigeria PLC in 2005 and FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria PLC in 2009. Today, we are Nigeria’s favourite dairy nutrition company. Our flagship brand, Peak Milk, has been in the Nigerian market, nourishing our teeming consumers since 1954. It first came into Nigeria through an import model and I think so far, almost every Nigerian I have interacted with has been nourished by Peak Milk at some stage of their lives. So FrieslandCampina WAMCO is Nigeria’s foremost dairy company and Peak is Nigeria’s foremost milk brand. Next is Three Crowns Milk, another iconic brand that has been here for more than 30 years; also nourishing Nigerians all through this period and we are very proud of that heritage. Furthermore, we are also very proud that we are the first company that truly went into local dairy development, as far back as 1984. We are truly Nigerian. When the country gained independence in 1960, Peak was already here; nourishing Nigerians with quality dairy nutrition. Our brands are localised and we are truly a part of Nigeria’s history. POLL How do your dairy operations affect employment in the communities where you are located? We are doing all the right things if you look at it from the employment perspective. Among the 12,000 farmers we work with, there are about 1500 Fulani women, who basically have been at home not fully engaged. Today, they are productive and have an occupation for which they are being paid regularly and their families are much more prosperous than before – the farmers, their wives and children. In some cases, their mud huts have been rebuilt into brick houses and their children now go to school, which they could not afford before. We have 29 milk collection centres (MCCs) in the country. These are physical locations with an average of five people who are directly employed. The farmers producing the milk are different from the riders who deliver the milk to these MCCs. Then we have the extension officers and milk truck drivers. If you go on the routes to Oyo, Abeokuta or Ibadan and stand somewhere along the road, you would see quite a few of our milk trucks carrying raw milk from the MCCs. That said, there are tens of thousands of people who are engaged in all of these activities both directly and indirectly. What is the actual amount of local content in your goods and how do you deal with Forex restrictions and scarcity when buying dairy raw materials and equipment? We are proud to say that some of our products are 100 percent locally sourced and very well priced like NuNu Yoghurt which comes in sachets that mothers can easily add to their children’s school lunch boxes. However, in terms of the dairy nutrition needs of the country, local milk sourcing is still at a very low level. It’s such a big task that we have ahead of us as a nation. That notwithstanding, at FrieslandCampina WAMCO, we want to prove that it is doable, as we source about five million litres of milk per annum locally today. We are the highest so far as no other organisation has reached that number. However, we’re talking about a country that requires more than 100 million litres of milk, so when you do the calculations, you would see that the percentages are still low. There is still a long way to go. Countries like Kenya and South Africa started local dairy development way back and they have continued on that journey. Nigeria kind of left this topic for a long time and that is why we are still in this phase of backward integration. How do you continue to make a difference while consumer spending declines and competition grows? In the face of the dwindling purchasing power of consumers, as I said, we try to play with Revenue Growth Management. Sometimes we reduce the size of the packs. Other times we try to price our products in ways that keep them affordable for our customers or change the configuration of the product to make it more affordable. We also play along with innovation just like you see in the case of NuNu Yoghurt which we launched last year at Fifty Naira per sachet. We have many brands like Peak, Three Crowns, Infant Nutrition and others; now we are looking at products that can be locally sourced so that we can take away or significantly reduce the forex implication. NuNu Yoghurt is made from 100 percent local milk and is produced in a unique mobile factory; the first of its kind in Africa. Thus from local milk, we have been able to produce this nutritious and healthy yoghurt for school children. What has happened in the market is that the Fifty Naira price point has been vacated as very few people still produce anything worth Fifty Naira. We are however able to achieve that with locally sourced milk. It’s not everywhere yet; it’s predominantly in Lagos but we are ramping up. The more local milk we are able to collect, the higher the quantity we would produce of this affordable yet highly nutritious yoghurt. We also introduced Milky Pap which is a tasty and nutritious multigrain cereal with milk; another innovation which is also affordable. What makes us stand out from competitors is that we have very strong brands as well as strong execution in the trade. One of the biggest strengths we have as a company is our Route to Market. It has to do with the way we distribute our products across the country. At the moment, we have reached more than 320,000 active outlets in the country. Very few competitors have that reach and that is why you can go to any part of the country and find Peak Milk, Three Crowns or a brand from us. So, we have a combination of strong brands, a strong distribution network and great marketing communication which in my view is probably one of the best. Innovation then comes in. We have been able to get the basics right. Additionally, talking about our backward integration, we are now in eight states in Nigeria; we work with over 12,000 farmers of which about 1,500 are women; we work with 23 dairy cooperatives; we collect more than 40,000 litres of milk daily at peak periods and we have best-in-class raw milk quality, one of the best in Africa. We have 29 milk collection centres and our own locations where we do dairy development. We have the Maya demonstration farm in Oyo state which is near completion and is going to be open soon. We also have another large farm settlement, about 300 hectares which we are developing in Fashola, a village located in Oyo West Local Government, south-west Nigeria. We recently just signed another MoU for a big farm in the north, Jos to be precise which interestingly is where we started our dairy development in the 80s and now we are going back there. The farm sits on 172 hectares. These are all locations where we carry out or will carry out best-in-class dairy development.