ABAKALIKI – Ebonyi State Governor Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru has said that no one or group could stampede him into making hasty political appointments, saying he is taking his time to assemble professionals in various areas to help him drive his policies and programmes. Nwifuru was reacting to a statement credited to the Association of Ebonyi Indigenes Socio-Cultural in Diaspora (AEISCID) which urged him to take firm control of the governance of Ebonyi State or resign, hinging their call on the ground that the Governor has not appointed his kitchen cabinets days after assuming office. The group also alleged that the immediate past Governor, David Umahi, was still in charge of the affairs of the State, not the incumbent Governor. But Mr Nwifuru in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Dr Monday Uzor, berated AEISCID for what he described as their futile attempt to distract his administration, which is just a few days old. The Governor maintained that he was fully in charge of his administration, contrary to the claim of the group. According to him, the appointment of ‘kitchen cabinet’ as contained in their diatribe remains the prerogative of the State Chief Executive and has nothing to do with performance. He also restated that no group or elements could cause disaffection between him and his predecessor, and warned those fanning such embers to desist. The statement reads: “The attention of the Governor of Ebonyi State, Rt Hon Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru has been drawn to a cheap and malicious statement allegedly credited to an amorphous group, AEISCID that struggled to descend on the arena of infamy. POLL “Without condescending to the level of the said group, it is pertinent to note that the issues raised in the so called press release and whatever they sought to achieve came dead on arrival as the Governor will not be distracted by their naked dance. “Governor Francis Nwifuru is not only in charge of his government but has the support and love of the entire people of the state who have absolute confidence in his ability to deliver on his campaign promises to Ebonyi people. “It is on record that the appointment of ‘kitchen cabinet’ as contained in their diatribe remains the prerogative of the State Chief Executive and has nothing to do with performance especially for a governor who just took over few days back. “The Governor is taking his time to assemble professionals in various areas to help him drive down his policies and programmes and therefore will not be stampeded by any faceless group into rushing into appointments just to favour a certain group whose stock in trade is to fight every administration in Ebonyi State. “The appointment of Principal Officers as alleged by this group does not in any way signify strength nor weakness of the present administration under Governor Nwifuru. “As a lawmaker, the Governor fully understands the principle of seperation of power as enshrined in the Nigerian constitution and will at the fullness of time and in full constitution of the legislative arm of government, send names of his Commissioner nominees and other appointees to the House of Assembly for screening and possible confirmation. “The Governor however enjoins the good people of Ebonyi State to continue to support his administration as he has put every efforts to bring experienced and worthy hands to bear in the governance of the State without succumbing to the whims and caprices of the opposition elements masquerading in the name of the so called group. “Governor Nwifuru had made it clear that no amorphous group or elements can cause disaffection between him and his predecessor, the immediate past Governor and therefore calls on those fanning such embers to desist from such.”