ABUJA  – Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), has said that the current NEPZA Act, established almost 30 years ago does not conform with the realities of modern Special Economic Zones (SEZs) regulation and administration both locally and internationally. At a media briefing on Monday in Abuja, Adesugba said the obsolete Act has created many challenges in zone operations, as the Act does not provide incentives that support skills acquisition and technological transfer to domestic market, nor for enterprises to drive backward linkages to the customs territory which is the key to economic development To address this challenge, the NEPZA boss said the Authority was driving the process of ensuring a change in the regulatory framework for the Authority. He noted that an up- to- date legal and regulatory framework is crucial to support the current SEZ landscape. He however, revealed that the Act has been reviewed with input from key stakeholders and a bill has been drafted that seeks to comply with international best practices for the scheme. He said: “This draft bill has been submitted to the Honourable Minister Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment for transmission to the legislature for debate and adoption. “Successful passage of this bill into law will position the Authority on the right course to successfully achieve its mandate.” It would be recalled that NEPZA is an agency under the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (FMITI), established through the NEPZA Act 63 of 1992 with the mandate of licensing, regulating, monitoring, and promoting the operations of Free Trade Zones in Nigeria. POLL The mandate seeks to provide a conducive investment climate by offering a competitive incentive regime, streamlined administrative procedures and world class infrastructure. With the Commissioning of the Dangote Refinery, the Authority now has a total of 52 Free Trade Zones under its supervision with a total of an estimated 35 billion US dollars combined investment profile. Adesugba further identified infrastructural deficit and imposition of levies and taxes within the Free Zones by other agencies of government as some of the challenges confronting NEPZA. According to him, “Basic infrastructure within zones is critical for investors to conduct effective operations so as to yield return on their investments within a reasonable time frame. “Previously, inadequate funding for provision of basic amenities such as power, water, roads (internal and external), and fast internet service within zones have plagued the scheme to date. “In line with my vision of establishing “plug and play” technologically driven zones, this is being addressed through cordial engagements with the FMITI, Federal Ministry of Finance, and Federal Ministry of Budget and National Planning and has resulted in an increase of N20 billion in capital allocation from N1.5 billion to N21.5 billion for NEPZA. “This engagement also attracted N35.4bn in budgetary allocation for the upgrade of power generation and supply to Kano Free Trade Zones (KFTZ) and Calabar Free Trade Zone (CFTZ). “An additional N18.1bn approval by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) was also received for development of infrastructure within Zones. “This includes the access road infrastructure for the proposed MSEZ.” He pointed out that the Free Zone Scheme has shown that it is the easiest way of creating jobs for Nigerians, as over 170,000 people are currently employed in the Free Zones.