P/HARCOURT  – In a bid to revitalise local commerce and stimulate economic growth, Chairman of Khana Local Government Area, Dr. Thomas Bariere, has unveiled plans to reconstruct the Bori Motor park to improve commercial activities. Bariere said the initiative holds great potential for fostering economic development within the LGA, positively impacting businesses, employment opportunities, and the overall prosperity of the community. The Council boss made this known when he addressed members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW and business owners at the Bori Motor Park. “Bori Motor Park, situated at the heart of Khana LGA, serves as a bustling hub for transportation, trade, and economic activity. Its strategic location connects rural communities, neighboring towns, and cities, making it a vital economic lifeline for the region. “This Motor Park serves as a major transit point for various goods and services, facilitating trade, and driving the local economy”, he said. Dr. Bariere’s reconstruction plan for the Motor Park focuses on upgrading and expanding the existing infrastructure and facilities. This, he said, includes “improving the layout and design of the Motor Park, constructing modern terminals, providing proper parking spaces, establishing designated loading and offloading areas, and enhancing security measures. “By creating a more efficient and organized transportation hub, the plan aims to attract more businesses and customers to the area. POLL “It is expected to generate a significant number of employment opportunities. As the Motor Park develops, there will be a growing demand for personnel to oversee operations, manage logistics, provide maintenance services, and operate ancillary businesses such as food vendors and shops. This will help to alleviate unemployment rates and improve livelihoods within the local community. “It will not only act as a pivotal center for trade, but will facilitate the movement of goods and services between different regions. “With the reconstruction plan, the park will attract increased commercial activities, leading to a surge in business transactions and revenue generation”. He continued that “local entrepreneurs, traders, and small business owners will benefit from the improved infrastructure, attracting more customers and expanding their market reach. “One way of measuring the success or failure of government in modern societies is to access how successful such governments are in developing the conditions for satisfying the basic needs of the people they govern. “These needs include basic infrastructure, social services, public services and, most importantly, helping to create an efficient and productive economy.”