YNV Tech Talent, a leading provider of tech, cybersecurity, and digital skill­ing solutions across the world, has ex­panded their service to provide a more comprehensive package. The collective services of Tek Ex­perts, elev8, and Cytek aims to revo­lutionize and impact the Nigerian IT market by bridging the tech talent and digital skill gaps whilst creating more comprehensive end-to-end IT talent solutions to meet the needs of busi­nesses of all sizes. With an existing footprint in Nige­ria, Tek Experts’ global expertise in IT talent sourcing and managed services, combined with elev8’s deep under­standing of the local Nigerian market to empower workforces with innova­tive live and virtual instructor-led and self-paced training solutions will fur­ther drive digital transformation in Nigeria. And recently launched Cytek pro­vides the latest and most comprehen­sive suite of cybersecurity services, including cost-effective third-party ad­visory, implementation, and managed security services. With a more robust range of solu­tions, YNV Tech Talent helps organi­sations in Nigeria fill their tech talent gaps, deliver the exceptional experienc­es customers deserve, and achieve the outcomes the business needs. It further positions the group to meet the demands of larger enter­prises and government institutions through skills mapping and role-based training, cutting-edge technolo­gies, digital transformation training, and innovative technology education. According to the Country Manager of Tek Experts Nigeria, Olugbolahan Olusanya, “The tech talent gap is a major challenge facing organisations in Nigeria. According to SAP research, 80% of Nigerian companies expect to experience a skills gap in the next year. This challenge is a major blocker for businesses to be able to grow. “We are committed to helping Ni­gerians develop the skills they need to succeed in the global workforce. Elev8 partners with the government, en­terprises, and universities to provide unique opportunities for Nigerians to gain the skills and experience they need to begin and grow their career in the tech industry.