LAGOS  – Nigeria’s efforts to encourage the use of Compressed Natu­ral Gas in order to mitigate the impact of the recent re­moval of fuel subsidy is ex­periencing some challenges, Sunday Independent can report. President Bola Tinubu recently announced that fuel subsidy would no lon­ger exist in the government after the end of this month, prompting service stations in the country to increase their pump prices of fuel. Transport fares and cost of economic activities in the country have skyrocketed amidst unending discussion between the Federal Gov­ernment and the organized Labour over fuel subsidy which the former maintains is an economic drain and un­sustainable. Although the government has encouraged a roll out of CNG in the country to com­plement existing sources of fuel, the prevailing environ­ment has not appreciably paved way for more Nigeri­ans to see its benefits, includ­ing reduction in transport fares. It was gathered that the cost of gas which was earlier around $120 standard per cu­bic feet has increased to $200, which is sending shockwaves down the spine of users of CNG. This development is not welcome enough for a coun­try that has huge deposit of gas and spreading campaign for the patronage of Com­pressed Natural Gas, energy expert, Adewale Soliu, told Sunday Independent. Compressed Natural Gas is a fossil fuel substitute for gasoline (petrol), diesel fuel or propane/LPG. Its combus­tion does not produce green­house gases. It is a more environmen­tally clean alternative to pet­rol and diesel fuel, and much safer than other fuels in the event of a spill. POLL Sunday Independent re­ports that Infrastructure de­ficiency is also causing users to have a rethink because it’s now tough for vehicle own­ers to convert their tanks to Compressed Natural Gas compliant. It was also gathered de­spite apprehension on the part of most motorists to embrace the CNG, the ease of doing so is severely chal­lenged and worrying for stakeholders in the gas sec­tor. Sunday Independent re­ports less than 200 cars have been converted to CNG ones amidst fresh fears that the development will balloon cost of transport and living in Nigeria. It was also gathered that more motorists are now chas­ing few conversion centres as companies express regrets over infrastructural chal­lenges in the sector Some stakeholders also told this paper that hic­cups militating the CNG spread should be clinically addressed if Nigeria really desires deregulation of the downstream sector. A Senior official of NIPCO Plc, a pioneer CNG company, told Sunday Independent that his company is expedit­ing action on the expansion of its CNG projects in Nige­ria in the wake of removal of fuel subsidy in the country. Besides, the company is expanding its CNG business as the number of vehicles running on Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) in Nige­ria has hit 7,000. Managing Director, NIP­CO Gas Ltd, Nagendra Ver­ma, maintained that his company, with over $100m investment in the sector, has deepened gas investment and remains a market lead­er in Auto CNG realm in the country. He said: “We started our CNG operations in 2009 in Benin City by providing natural gas to Industries by way of PNG & CNG to auto­mobiles by way of AutoGas (AutoCNG). NIPCO Gas is the pioneer company in CNG distribution in Nigeria. “Presently, Nipco Gas operates 12 CNG stations in Edo, Kogi, Delta, Ogun state, and Abuja. Four CNG stations are under various stages of construction and approval in Oyo, Lagos, Akwa Ibom state, and Abuja FCT. “These CNG stations cater for Auto Gas requirement of vehicles, providing a clean­er, safer, economical, proven, and indigenous fuel. Nipco Gas presently fuels 7000 ve­hicles with AutoCNG. “Nipco Gas has 4 AutoCNG conversion workshops in Ogun state and Abuja FCT to convert PMS vehicles on AutoCNG. More and more fleet operate converting their fleet on AutoCNG due to safe­ty, availability, and economic reasons.” Edo State governor, God­win Obaseki, recently called for investments in alterna­tive sources of energy, such as natural gas, in the wake of subsidy removal which has led to a hike in transporta­tion costs. The governor said NIP­CO Gas is a JVC with Nige­ria Gas Company Limited (NGC), adding that the ini­tiative for vehicles to run on CNG was rolled out in 2007 and commissioned in 2009. He noted that the state has the largest deposit of on­shore gas in the country. “We are blessed with a lot of gas in Edo. There is really no reason why our tricycles and vehicles should be using petrol. We have more gas sta­tions in Edo than any other state. We should be using more gas. “Price levels would always go up. What we have to do is open up the economy, so that people will have more work to do. We need more manu­facturing companies in Edo state,” he said.