LAGOS – In celebrating this year’s Id el Kabir festivities, the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), has admonished residents to bag and containerise waste generated appropriately, for a clean environment. Mr. Kunle Adebiyi, the Executive Director, Finance, of LAWMA, in a statement, assured the public that comprehensive measures had been put in place to ensure a clean and hygienic environment throughout the celebration, adding that PSP operators had been assigned to work tirelessly to clean up the city, maintaining a round-the-clock schedule. He urged residents to shun all forms of indiscriminate waste dumping on road medians, canals, uncompleted buildings, and other unauthorised locations, assuring that LAWMA would intensify efforts at ensuring that the festivities were observed in a clean and healthy environment. Adebiyi said: “LAWMA is determined to combat improper waste disposal practices that contribute to environmental degradation within the metropolis, especially during the forthcoming Id el Kabir celebration. PSP operators have been mandated to provide efficient services, while LAWMA will provide backup services in areas where noticeable service gaps exist. In addition to that, district and operational heads have been on 24/7 operational duties, aimed at supporting the operation of service providers across the state”. He said the Authority would publish the names and phone numbers of management team members on national dailies, who had been assigned to monitor the environment during the festive period, urging residents to call the numbers or LAWMA toll-free lines, 07080601020 or 617, for waste management related matters. The LAWMA Executive Director also called on motorists to ply the roads with caution, to safeguard the lives of sanitation workers who would be busy cleaning the roads and highways during the festive period. POLL He extended warm felicitations to residents, while appealing to them to avoid actions that could negatively impact the environment during the celebrations.