Barcelona’s season officially came to a close yesternight when they traveled to Balaidos to take on Celta Vigo for the final game of the season. While they did not have anything on the line, having already won La Liga, the club wanted to end on a high note. Celta’s starlet Gabri Veiga had different plans, though, and ruined the party for the visitors. The 21-year-old midfielder opened the scoring with a slick finish to the bottom left corner after finding space between Marcos Alonso and Andreas Christensen. 20-something minutes later, he added a second with a cross that clipped the Barcelona woodwork and bounced in. This brace took his tally to 11 for the season, along with four assists. Unsurprisingly, there are multiple teams keeping tabs on Veiga ahead of the summer transfer window, including Barcelona, according to reports from Fabrizio Romano. Real Madrid were also in the race to sign Veiga, but it seems rather difficult now, after four of their forwards have left the club. Liverpool were also quoted with an interest, but recent reports claim that Barcelona now lead the race to sign the brilliant midfielder. While the Barcelona midfield was stacked to its brim last season, with Gavi, Frenkie de Jong, Pedri, Franck Kessie, and Pablo Torre fighting across two spots, there could be departures in that position this summer, which could open the door for new signings. Kessie and Torre are best-positioned to leave the club, while the other three midfielders are pretty much untouchable for the club. POLL Reinforcing central midfield is not their priority, though. Barcelona are dealing with the departure of Sergio Busquets on a free transfer. They are in the market for a pivot, with names like Martin Zubimendi, Sofyan Amrabat, and Ruben Neves on the table. Veiga would not be Barceloa’s priority target, though. They are hoping to sign Ilkay Gundogan on a free transfer at the end of the season, but face an uphill battle against Manchester City, who have decided to improve their extension offer for the player.