BENIN – Comrade Philip Shaibu, Edo state deputy governor, has reacted to allegations of a pressure group known as Afemai Vanguard, accusing him of being responsible for the alleged non-nomination of commissioner nominees from the three Etsako local governments areas of the state, saying that he was not aware of any meeting where the issue of commissioner nominees was discussed. The Afemai Vanguard had in a statement made available to newsmen in Benin City, a few hours after the state governor, Godwin Obaseki sworn in 15 new commissioners, accused the deputy governor of the brain behind the non-nomination of commissioners from the three local governments. The three Etsako local governments are Etsako West with headquarters in Auchi, Etsako Central, headquarters in Fugar and Etsako East, Agenebode. The statement signed by Harrison Igbafe as the Convener, Afemai Vanguard alleged that the commissioner slots for the three local councils were not filled because the Deputy Governor of the State, Comrade Philip Shaibu, did not attend the meeting where the commissioner nominees was rectified. Harrison alleged that the meeting was called to reach a consensus on the list of commissioners from the affected areas. According to him, meetings were called and the Deputy Governor, Shaibu, did not attend. It is not known what the reasons are but his absence was what resulted in the area not having commissioners. “We expect that the meetings will be held and commissioners would eventually be appointed into the cabinet from the three Etsako Local Government Areas,” he said. But the deputy governor Philip Shaibu who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Ebomhiana Musa asked if there has been any meeting before the submission of names of commissioners. POLL “There is no meeting they called that he was not there and you don’t need to call a meeting before you know who to represent you in the three local governments as leader of Edo North in PDP. “I am not aware that the deputy governor boycotting any meeting. If somebody on the tour of Edo North trying to reconcile aggrieved party members, do you call that boycotting meeting? “He knows those who are qualified and fit to be commissioner so he doesn’t need to attend the meeting to decide that,” Musa stated. Musa, who, however, assured that Etsako East, Etsako Central and Etsako West local governments will surely get their commissioner added that they are doing it in batches and their own will come.