LAGOS – The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has named a new General Secretary to run the affairs of the Christian religious organisation. He is no other person than Professor Samson Adetunji Fatokun. According to a statement signed by signed by Archbishop Daniel Okoh, President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), the appointment followed the retirement of Barrister Joseph Daramola, who had served the organisation with distinction in the past 11 years The statement reads: “It is my pleasure to announce the appointment of Professor Samson Adetunji Fatokun as the new General Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). “This appointment follows the retirement of Barr. Joseph Daramola, who has served our organisation with distinction in the past 11 years. “Professor Fatokun is a distinguished scholar and professor of Christian Religious Studies at the University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria. “He brings to this position a wealth of experience in church leadership and administration, as well as a deep commitment to the Christian faith. “We are confident that Professor Fatokun will continue to uphold the values and principles of CAN, and work tirelessly to advance the cause of Christianity and promote religious harmony in Nigeria. POLL “We would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to Barr. Joseph Daramola for his dedicated service to CAN. His leadership and contributions have been invaluable, and we wish him all the best in his future endeavours. “We pray for Professor Fatokun as he assumes his new role, that God will grant him wisdom, strength, and grace to lead with integrity, promote unity among Christians and advance the cause of Christ in Nigeria. Amen.” About Prof Fatokun Professor Fatokun is a Professor of Church History, Doctrinal Theology and Pentecostal Studies, Department of Religious Studies, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria. Prof. Samson Fatokun emerged from the CPFN/PFN Bloc of the association, to replace Barr. Joseph Bade Daramola, who officially rotated out as the General Secretary of the association on May 31, 2023 after a good long record of service. Professor Fatokun is an Apostle in the Body of Christ, being a member of the General Council of The Apostolic Church Nigeria (TACN), First Classical Pentecostal Denomination and Mother of Apostolic Pentecostal Denominations as far as Nigerian Pentecostal Church History is concerned. Professor Fatokun is the Director, Directorate of Archives, Research and Development, TACN LAWNA Territory; Chairman, Board of Trustees Samuel Adegboye University, (Glorious Vision University), Ogwa, Edo State.