Neem organic fertilizer is made from neem cakes and animal dungs. Neem is the by-product obtained in the process of cold pressing of neem tree fruits and kernels, and the solvent extraction process for neem oil cake. Neem Based Organic Fertilizer -NPK is manufactured by the proportionate blending of Neem oil cakes and animal dungs such chicken manure, cow dungs or compost from saw dust and ash that has macro and micro nutrients to nourish the field crops naturally and to condition the soil texture of the agricultural fields. It is a totally organic plant food, which increases productivity and soil fertility. Organic Neem Cake Neem has demonstrated considerable potential as a fertilizer. For this purpose, neem cake and neem leaves are especially promising, when mixed with animal dungs, it works effectively. What You Need To Know About Neem Based Organic Fertilizer • It is used to enrich the soil by providing essential required nutrients. POLL It also acts as a bio-fertilizer by providing the required nutrients, nitrogen and phosphorus necessary for growing crops and plants. • It has an adequate quantity of NPK in organic form for plant growth. Being a totally botanical product it contains 100% natural NPK content and other essential micro-nutrients: N(Nitrogen 2.0% to 5.0%), P(Phosphorus 0.5% to 1.0%), K(Potassium 1.0% to 2.0%), Ca(Calcium 0.5% to 3.0%), Mg(Magnesium 0.3% to 1.0%), S(Sulphur 0.2% to 3.0%), Zn(Zinc 15 ppm to 60 ppm), Cu(Copper 4 ppm to 20 ppm), Fe (Iron 500 ppm to 1200 ppm), Mn (Manganese 20 ppm to 60 ppm). • It is rich in both sulfur compounds and bitter limonoids. Mechanism of Action According to research calculations, Neem based organic fertilizer seems to make the soil more fertile due to an ingredient that blocks soil bacteria from converting nitrogenous compounds into nitrogen gas. It is a nitrification inhibitor and prolongs the availability of nitrogen to both short duration and long duration crops. It protects plant roots from nematodes, soil grubs, and white ants probably due to its residual limonoid content. It also acts as a natural fertilizer with pesticidal properties. Neem based organic fertilizer also reduces alkalinity in soil, as it produces organic acids on decomposition. Being totally natural, it is compatible with soil microbes and rhizosphere microflora and hence ensures the fertility of the soil. Neem organic fertilizer improves the organic matter content of the soil, helping improve soil texture, water holding capacity, and soil aeration for better root development. Pest Control In Neem Based Organic Fertilizer Neem organic fertilizer is effective in the management of insects and pests. The bitter principles of the soil and cake have been reported to have seven types of activities (a) antifeedant (b) attractant (c) repellent (d) insecticide (e) nematicide (f) growth disruptor and (g) antimicrobial. The Neem cake that is part of the organic fertilizer contains salannin, nimbin, azadirachtin and azadiradione as the major components. Of these, azadirachtin and meliantriol are used as locust antifeedants while salannin is used as an antifeedant for the housefly. How To Brand Neem Based Organic Fertilizer The raw materials are locally available in large quantity even if you want to go into it in large scale level. The major raw materials and equipment are: – • Neem cake: You can get it from the norther part of Nigeria in large quantity • Animal manure from chicken, cow, goat etc • Ash (optional) • Grinding machine • Mixer to be used to proportionally mix the compositions • Bags for bagging • Weighing machines The proportion depends on individual, but Neem cake should not be too much as it will become harmful to the plant. With the high cost of inorganic fertilizer in the country this Neem based organic fertilizer demand is increasing by day because of its affordability and nutritional base for the crops. You too can make money from fertilizer this season by going into neem based organic fertilizer. Contact us for more information. Agbaji Chinedu writes from Kaduna: 08035004617.