ABUJA – The Coalition of Northern Groups(CNG) has alleged that there are plans to block lawmakers-elect opposed to the Senate Presidency’s ambition of Godswill Akpabio from gaining access to National Assembly on the day of the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly. A statement on Sunday issued byAbdul-Azeez Suleiman, CNG Spokesperson, also expressed worrythat some elements bent on smearing the good relationship of the President, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the North, are hatching evil plans to get key northern aspirants to the House of Representatives speakership as well as the aspirants to the Senate Presidency such as Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari and some of his strong support pillars arrested and intimidated out of the contest for insisting on due process. Suleiman said the sinister plot also extends to aspirants to positions in the Federal House of Representatives who are targeted for undue harassment and intimidation. He said the plot as widely speculated, involves the introduction of a suspicious electronic voting system in the process meant to track the pattern of voting in the National Assembly. The CNG explained that it is worried by its sincere conviction that these elements are hatching these evil plans without the consent of Mr President, with the sole aim of pitching him against the larger northern interest. “CNG is, without the slightest doubt, convinced that by Tinubu’s democratic antecedents and abiding faith in the rule of law and sanctity enfranchisement, Mr President shall never be party to any conduct that tends to impeach anybody’s right to personal liberty and freedom from harassment. “This realisation and other manifestations of evil being perpetrated by some unscrupulous political merchants, who pose as his friends, are the reasons why from the onset, CNG cautioned the President against the antics of desperate political dealers with very negative intentions by allowing the legislators to freely and fairly produce their leaders. “As concerned northerners and well- wishers of Mr President, we feel dutybound to once again draw his attention to this brewing plot and to call on him to move quickly and re-assert his commitment to good, impartial governce to halt this sinister plot that potentially aims to set him up against particularly the North. POLL “We are sure Mr. President cannot afford to allow anybody no matter who, to cause any form of misunderstanding between him and the North, where he enjoys solid support and genuine friendship. “It would be difficult not to remember that northern votes overwhelmingly went to President Tinubu and the APC to comprehensively ensure their victory at the polls. “We are therefore calling on Mr President to move quickly as a renowned democrat and respecter of the rule of law to stop the ploy to intimidate anyone for exercising his right to vote and be voted for,” the statement explained. The Group further advised President Tinubu not to interfere in the leadership selection process of the National Assembly, which is the sole prerogative of the elected legislators, and to alert him that “those undertaking this insane scheme are not his friends; they are people who will not want to see him succeed.”