Rev. Victor Adeyemi, the Senior Pastor of Global Harvest Church, in this interview with Christian Benefit Magazine speaks on his Christian experience and his foray into ministry. Excerpt: Could you briefly tell us about yourself? Victor Adeyemi hails from Odo Ere in Yagba West local government area of Kogi State. I had my early life in Mokwa, Niger State and Ilorin, Kwara State. At that time, our part of Kogi State was still in Kwara State. Our dad decided to return to Ilorin and this brought us closer home. I was raised in a nominal Christian family. We attended ECWA Church, Ilorin, as our family church. Our grandfather, Reuben Adeyemi, had converted to Christianity. His children took after him in Christianity and the grandchildren continue in the Christian faith. How was life growing up in Ilorin in a nominal Christian family? Life was very simple growing up in our humble Christian family. We had all we needed to be comfortable till our dad forayed into politics in the second republic. When the military took over that led the family into a lot of financial challenges. It did also impact me academically. At the end of the day, I attended Kwara State Polytechnic (Kwara Poly) for a Diploma in Law. That was after I had already gone into the ministry. When I was done with my diploma, I returned to the ministry. Due to the rapid growth of the church I was to pastor temporarily in Ibadan, I abandoned my academic pursuit. Since then I have been in full-time ministry. How long have you been in full-time ministry now? I have been in full-time ministry since July 1989. I started pastoring churches from September 1, 1990, starting with Rhema Chapel International Churches. I received spiritual tutelage under Rev. George Adegboye, the founder of Rhema Chapel International Churches. He became a spiritual father to me in May 1985 when I began fellowshipping in his sitting room. The fellowship was called the Holy Ghost Caucus Fellowship. I was one of the fellowship leaders until Rev. George left to start Rhema Chapel in 1987, and I followed him. I started pastoring under him in September 1990 until I left Rhema Chapel in 1995 to start Global Harvest Church, my present work. Could you share with us your rebirth experience before your foray into ministry? POLL My rebirth experience was not dramatic at all. The fact that I was raised in a nominal Christian home predisposed me to the things of God. My uncle, Dr. Moji Adeyemi (he went home to be with the Lord recently) had advised me that when I resume secondary school I should look out for a Christian fellowship. Interestingly, he was the leading light of the gospel in our family. He was a very close friend of Rev. George Adegboye. We first knew Rev. George as our uncle’s friend who visited him regularly before we knew him in the Christian circle. So, from Form 1 of those days I joined F.C.S Egbe in Kogi state, I heard the salvation message preached many times and I answered many altar calls. I got baptized at the age of 12 in ECWA church, Egbe. I was rather religious and said the sinner’s prayer often but lacked the power in my life. I was always doubtful about my salvation experience until my uncle eventually led me to Jesus Christ again in 1981. How would you describe your walk with the Lord these 39 years of your rebirth? My walk with the Lord since 1984 till date has been very consistent. There has been no looking back. I won’t say the enemy did not try to distract or tempt. They have also been years of service to the Lord. There is something about serving the Lord that helps to keep you on the straight and narrow way. It has been quite a journey. Almost immediately I surrendered totally to the Lord. I had the sensing of God calling me into ministry. I knew there was a calling into ministry. I didn’t know whether it was full-time or not. I didn’t know the ramifications; immediately or that it would come later. But, I knew there was a calling into ministry. So, for me my heart was fully captivated in the love for the Lord and in the pursuit of Him. As a young believer, could you tell us your mentors or role models in the faith? The first person was my uncle, Dr. Moji Adeyemi, who led me to Christ as well as other members of my family. He was one of the people I looked up to. He prayed a lot. He was a prayer warrior. He challenged us to pray. He made us pray for hours. The second person was his friend, Rev. George, who would later become my spiritual father. Besides my parents, Rev George was the second greatest and the most significant impact in my life. In the long run, he had a greater impact in my life than my parents except for the fact that he didn’t bring me to the world. He became a great inspiration. I also looked up to some brethren in our Holy Ghost Caucus at that time like Pastor Joseph Saliu, who was also my uncle’s friend. He presently pastors Stone Church in Lagos founded by Rev. Alex Adegboye, the elder brother of Rev. George. He took special interest in me as a young Christian when he met me at a crusade organised by Bishop Francis Wale Oke in Ilorin. He also helped me raise N66 at the Holy Ghost Caucus fellowship to buy GCE form at the time my parents said they didn’t have money for me to retake the exam. I took the exam and got admission into Kwara State Polytechnic. He also used to invite me to his house every Monday evening and shared the word of God with me. He introduced Kenneth Hagins’ Word of Faith magazine to me, and also The Light of Hope Magazine of The Apostolic Faith Mission. He lent me these magazines on a weekly basis to read. He and his fiancée then (now his wife), Sister Shade (Rev. George’s younger sister), would pray with me for 30 minutes every Monday evening; just prayed about my life and future. He had a significant impact on me as a young Christian. Another person I will mention is Rev. Akintola Oni. He now pastors TREM in Akoka, Lagos. He was also a member of the Holy Ghost Caucus Fellowship then, and he played a significant part in the fellowship. He became a full-time volunteer administrative secretary of the fellowship when he graduated. Before I got admission into school, I was the church janitor to help clean the office and run errands. I was like his office assistant and messenger who supported him in the office. These were the people that I looked up to as a young Christian. What are the factors sustaining you in the Christian life? It is very important to be accountable. When people ask me the keys to what God has done in my life I tell them having a spiritual father is one the greatest blessings God ever gave to me; a Rev. George Adegboye that I could be accountable to. He is someone I revered as an excellent role model for me. There are some young ministers who unfortunately find themselves under people of poor character, people with moral laxity and financial rascality that affect them negatively. I was brought up by a man of moral excellence who exemplifies financial probity and integrity before me, a man who also demonstrated his passion for the word of God, prayers, fellowship with God and the relentless pursuit of excellence in ministry. I am more than grateful to God because I know it is a divine orchestration. Another thing that is so crucial which I learned from him is consistency in fellowship with God. Jeremiah 2:13, God said, “For my people have committed two evils; they have forsaken me the fountain of living waters, and hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water.” The fact is that we need God every day and every hour. We must start our day seeking him in prayer. We must spend time in His Word. Without Him we can do nothing. It is from Him all blessings and lives flow. Since God is the source of all lives we must go to Him for daily impartation and daily blessings. That, for me, is the second among the list of the most significant things that have kept me on the straight and narrow path. The third is related to the first, but not in the matter of a spiritual father. It is a good association. 1Corinthians15:33, “Be not deceived: evil communication corrupts good manners.” Proverbs 27:17, “Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friends.”