A leadership Support Group for the 10th National Assembly has hailed the Speaker of the House of Representatives, RT. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas (PhD) over his appointment of 35 personal aides to assist him in the discharge of his legislative duties. The Speaker’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Musa Krishi, in a statement on Monday, stated that the new appointees was charged by Abbas to discharge their duties in compliance with the new schedule of duties in the office of the speaker with utmost commitment to the implementation of the legislative agenda of the 10th House of Representatives. On the list was Engr. Jamil Ahmed Muhammed (Chief of Staff, Administration), Dr. Dunkwu Chamberlain (Deputy Chief of Staff, Legislative), Hon. Ahmed Dayyabu Safana (Special Adviser, Special Duties), Dr Hamisu Ibrahim Kubau (Special Adviser, Political Matters), Bar Samuel Ajayi (Special Assistant, Legal Matters), Bar Osazee Melody Ogudijie (Special Assistant, Legislative Matters), Bar Aminu Ramalan (Special Assistant, Finance), Chief Press Secretary, Leke Bayeiwu and Special Assistant, Print Media, Ahmed Musa Baba. Also appointed are Amb. Ibrahim Hamidu Gusau (Special Assistant, Inter-parliamentary Affairs), Lamir Umar Ibrahim (Special Assistant, Youth Matters), Yetunde Adeniji (Special Assistant, Women Affairs), Hon. Rachael Nnana Igbokwe (Special Assistant, Intergovernmental Affairs), Zakari Aliyu (Principal Private Secretary), Nura Adamu (Special Assistant, Broadcast Media), Olabamiji Enitan Jowosimi (Special Assistant, New Media) and Aliyu Garba Waziri (Special Assistant, Executive Relations and Job Creation). Others include Mohammed Salame (Special Assistant, ICT), Hon. Friday Itullah (Special Assistant, Political Matters, South-South), Hon. Godfrey Gaiya (Special Assistant, Political Matters, North West), Mark Tersoo (Special Assistant, Political Matters, North Central), Hon. Zakari Galadima (Special Assistant, Political Matters, North East), Abdulsalam Babakayode (Special Assistant, Political Matters, South West), and Hon. Okwudili Christopher Ezenwankwo (Special Assistant, Political Matters, South East).” Reacting to the news, the NASS support group in a statement signed by its Directors, Ernest Njesi and Charles Oka praised Abbas, saying that his choice of Aides is evidence that he’s ready to lead a successful 10th parliament. The statement reads: “The Speaker already hit the ground running with these new appointments, this shows that he’s ready to lead a successful 10th parliament. From the calibre of people chosen, you can tell that Abbas is a man who prioritises the competence and unity of Nigeria. “He and his aides, we are sure are well prepared for the task ahead. He would not disappoint Nigerians and under his leadership and his Deputy, Rt. Hon Benjamin Kalu, the 10th House will take Nigeria to the next level of good governance”.