Nigerian legendary Olympics boxer, Jeremiah Okorodudu, is currently battling with stroke and diabetes in Dan’s Hospital, Thomas Laniyan Street, Irawo Bus-stop, Ikorodu in Lagos. Okorodudu is lying at the hospital, unable to speak coherently and without the ability to talk or walk and awaiting amputation surgery. Okorodudu, aged 64, has been in that debilitating condition for two years now with partial stroke and diabetes that has brought a foot ulcer awaiting amputation. His wife, Adenike Okorodudu, according to a report, decided to make the situation known, stating that the family is out of funds and cannot cope with his treatment. An investigation shows the boxing community, comprising of coaches, boxing referees and boxers is tinkering on how to raise funds for his treatment and the Nigerian Boxing Board of Control (NBBC) may be coordinating the new move after a video clip that shows Okorodudu trying to mutter some words for help. Jerry, as he is called in boxing circles, was a Bronze Medalist at the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane, Australia from 30th September to 9th October and was controversially edged out at the quarterfinals of the 1984 Olympic Games at Vigil Hills on split decision of 3-2 by North Korean Sun Sho Shp which the Nigerian camp vehemently protested. That 1982 Olympics was where Nigerian Boxer, Peter Konyegwachie won Silver in the Featherweight category and the Nigerian 4 x 400 Relay Men won Bronze. Jerry was a Gold Medalist at the National Sports Festival, Oluyole ’79. POLL He had 83 Amateur fights and 40 Professional boxing bouts but BOXING RECORD, a publication on world pugilists, states that Jerry had 21 international Pro bouts with 135 rounds and fought between 1986 and 1992. Jerry told the media he was inspired to go into boxing from secondary school at Benin City in Nigeria through the brilliance of the man “that flies like a Butterfly and stings like a Bee”, Muhammed Ali who he never met. You may reach his wife, Adenike on +2348084200018 or send your token to his bank account: Jeremiah Okorodudu, Account Number 0011203501 Eco Bank.Eniola Olatunji reporting for Patmos Media Line.