The appointment of Nuhu Ribadu as the National Security Adviser (NSA) by President Bola Tinubu didn’t go down well with some people who believe that the culture has been for the NSA to be someone with military background, unlike the case of the former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) who is a retired police officer. Maj. Gen. Ibrahim Malgwi Haruna (retd), former Federal Commissioner for Information and Culture, in this interview, expresses displeasure with the manner Ribadu, a politician was lumped with professional military officers, and warns against treating professional military officers like politicians, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What are your thoughts on the disengagements of service chiefs and appointment of new ones, should the President have gone as far as appointing the boys, artillery commanders, brigade commanders, regiment commanders, is that in line with military culture? The commander in chief is an elected democratic president and his policy directions as commander in chief is that of a political democratic leader unlike when we had military constituted government. I congratulate the new officials being appointed and those who have just served. About the change in the top leadership of the military, my understanding is that we seem to be endorsing individuals more than the institutions they lead. I think we seem to have changed our leadership of the military heads, and it creates concern about the reliability and the institutions themselves. I think that the stability of our leadership should be made distinct and strong when they were under military intervention and when they are under democratic rule. My concern is that the security personnel are far different from the political individuals. The military personnel are subject as professionals, are distinct to their own than when they are put together in the political regime, and that will begin to create another concern because as much as possible the professional leaders of the security agencies, the military in particular should be allowed to fulfil their terms of engagement in accordance with the constitution and in accordance with the law of their profession. When they are lumped together with politicians they seem to be having the idea that the military are part and parcel of the political party regime that is ruling. I think as professionals we should be dealt with separately and when public announcements are made because it can disturb the chain of morale, confidence and loyalty to the state and the system. They should not be made to feel that their loyalty goes to individual regimes particularly in an environment where we are struggling to be building a nation that respect patriotism. In the appointment of Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, there are questions of him having a background in police force. In recent times it has been military officers, those who have military background, what is your take on that in terms of best fit for that position, his experience, his antecedents, his achievements as EFCC boss? He is an experienced police officer. He is an experienced intelligence officer. Be that as it may, he is a politician and the public announcement that was made goes as far as publishing the units of security officers down the line. In itself, I think it is a breach of security. He being a police officer in the past is now a politician. Those professionals on the military, the security service chiefs, they belong to different kettle of fish. I think Ribadu’s appointment is okay. I’m not particularly concerned about that. I’m concerned about the way and manner he was lumped together with professional military and security men in the public announcement. It has an element of breach of security. They hold public offices but they are from different stock. He is from the police, charged with internal security. The other military men are dealing with external security. I think that by their training, engagements, and eventual disengagement, putting them as if they are politicians. I think that their services are more exclusive than internal security, and internal intelligence for the security of the state. I think that the notion of being lumped together and as if they are all in the same stream of professional dispensation of their function, I don’t think that it should be so in a democratic dispensation. Someone made this point that a national Security Adviser (NSA) has no experience in national security which covers foreign policy strategy, he is saying that the tradition has been broken with appointment of Ribadu as NSA, what should we be looking at considering the fact that we have challenges as regards security, and what should be your advice to the President as regards this? We have challenges in the internal domestic front and we also have challenges with international relations with nations which want to interfere or dictate our economic and political terrains. The security operators particularly in the military are engaged both in peace and war when the developments on our external relations, and need for strategic deployment of our resources in order to gather the kind of influences that we need to impart on the gray scenario in the international scene. I think that the military advise both in the domestic and in the external, in the form of ground personnel. In the domestic plane as a police officer, I am not saying that it limits totally in his horizon of his capacity or efficiency but the concentration of his professional input with the scenario is much more domestic and internal in training and in performance. I think that they are more inclusive within the domestic plane of military and security architecture of the military organisation. They are more exclusive and more international because when there are emergencies they will be dealing with combating aggression of conflict with foreign forces and foreign nations. Although the military has operated so much in the domestic front that they seem to begin to join with the internal domestic forces like the police. It is something that we have to iron out. The armed forces, the military and may be air force and so on, in the way that we have structured our drive during our independence and post-independence, their functions have been separated. Their trainings are strictly different, we have to choose perhaps a clearer demarcation and a clearer relationship that doesn’t bring some doubts on the way or who does what. I think that we have come to a point where we should think about whether to unite or separate and how far do we unite the security arm. Of course, it is in the training and allocation of responsibilities and the coordinating parameters which we have to put. I think that the new communication revolution would make it easier than it was without using and employing modern technics, and modern communication equipment. These things can be used in coordination and operations could be made more cooperative and easier. But I think each institution should keep their focus in the details of its own challenges and efficiency, and capacity to do what it should do. If you look at the distribution of new service chiefs across the geo-political zones, the North-West has two, the South-West two, North-East one, South-East one and I think the South-South has one as well, but people from North-Central are complaining that they were shutout from positions in the National Assembly and for the service chiefs North-Central has not been covered, although the Secretary to the Government of the Federation is from that region. Do you think that North-Central is being shortchanged? POLL The reason it has become an issue in Nigeria is because we use academic instrument of analysis to balkanise and claim, while these indices are really not relevant. The bullet does not choose where you come from, whether you are from the North-East or North- West. So, from my experience, I think things have not changed even though when I look back, I remember 191 my military number, but now see officers who have gotten to 18,000 as their serial numbers. I think that what we need to do is that those analysis are relevant for power sharing within the political plane but we must not attribute them as very high values that should be applied to the makeup of the armed forces. Although the security outfit must be patriotic and committed but must not be made to think as if they are political representatives in their institutions. When I was commanding troops during the civil war, we knew that we were in conflict with our own brothers and we had to limit the extent to which we do damage. We were not treating them as North-East, North- West, North-Central, Christian, Muslim or whatever. Similarly, when the enemy bullets and bombardments are shared between the cities and towns, the victims are not selected. I think we should stop using political indices for power sharing on the desire and need to have a united security outfit and operators on that basis. Unfortunately, our experience since 1966 coup has emboldened the desire to go otherwise, which is towards the political shape, but now that we are in a state of nation building and nation creation, they are of no values. I think that those analysis should not be used to justify the appointments of personnel required to sustain the strength and unity of the Nigeria state. It should be differentiated. It goes back to the theme that I was pursuing earlier, that military establishment and personnel should be separated from political system and political operators. Let them be allowed to go on their own trajectory of building an armed forces of security forces that can be united in their objective of a nation that is united in diversity and not divided on the basis that they are political North-West, North-East, Yoruba, Fulani, Hausa, Christian and Muslim. It will take some effort and that effort is for the politicians. I think the politicians want tribal police, tribal army to follow. So, where do we go with our theme of unity in diversity?