A 33-year-old man identified as Danladi Ibrahim has been arrested for drugging and defiling a 10-year-old girl in Bauchi. The suspect was said to have deceitfully given the girl a lemon drink mixed with intoxicant, which led to the victims unconsciousness and her subsequent defilement. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, SP Ahmed Mohammed Wakil who confirmed the incident said the victim’s father reported the incident at the divisional police headquarters in Ningi, the headquarters of Ningi LGA. The police spokesman added that the victim sustained serious internal injuries in her private part, leading to her bleeding. According to the PPRO, “On the 25th May, 2023 at about 1233hrs one Abubakar Garba Yahua ‘m’ of Nasaru village Ningi LGA, Bauchi State, reported at Divisional Headquarters Ningi that on the same date at about 1141hrs, one Danladi Ibrahim ‘m’ aged 33yrs of Nasaru village, Ningi LGA deceitfully gave a lemon drink to his daughter one Nadiya ‘f’ (not real name) aged 10yrs old suspected to be mixed with a toxicant which led her to an unconscious condition and forcefully had carnal knowledge of her. “As a result, the victim sustained serious internal injuries in her private part and is bleeding.” Wakil stated that a police team led by the DPO took the victim to the Ningi General Hospital for treatment from where she was transferred to the National Obstetrics Fistula Centre (NOFIC) Ningi, Ningi LGA, Bauchi State, thereafter referred her to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Birnin Kudu, Jigawa State for further medical attention. While declaring that the police are determined to get to the root of the crime, Wakil informed that the suspect had been arrested and during interrogation confessed to committing the crime. POLL “The Command has since vowed to get to the root of the matter and ensure that the erring culprit is brought to book to serve as a deterrence of future occurrence,” he stated. The PPRO added that investigation is ongoing, after which the suspect will be charged to court for prosecution. He said, ‘The general public will be updated as the investigation unfolds. The command would like to use this medium to reiterate the need for parents and guardians to maintain strict vigilance of the activities of their wards. “It is pertinent now more than ever that the whereabouts of wards and the company they keep are constantly kept in check by all those responsible.”