ABUJA – A factional group of the Labour Party led by the suspended Deputy National Chairman, Lamidi Apapa has identified with the various reforms going on in the country. It particularly pointed at the declaration of June 12 as a National Holiday, among other reforms. The faction also dismissed the condemnation of the suspension of the Governor of the Central Bank, Godwin Emefiele, by the Julius Abure-led Labour Party. It explained that the president has the power to suspend any erring or corrupt appointees of the federal government without seeking the approval of the National Assembly. This is as it lambasted the criticisms as laced with “deliberate falsehood and ignorance”, especially when it allegedly “even accused the new Chief of Staff to the President, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila of complicity for not speaking up since he is now with the Government.” National Publicity Secretary of the Lamidi-led group, Abayomi Arabambi, in a statement on Monday said that “May we remind him that the president has the power to suspend any erring or corrupt appointees of the federal government without seeking the approval of the National Assembly. Also laughable are the insinuations and criminal calls on the President to investigate and arrest the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission Prof Mahmud over unconfirmed allegations of rigging that has not been decided by the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja and the jurisdiction of which this group of separatist has submitted themselves to,” Arabambi submitted. The statement went on to state; “We salute your excellency’s doggedness and commitment to ensuring that our democracy is sustained along the religious, economic and political lines. POLL “We must congratulate all that contributed to the actualisation of today as a National Work Free Day, the immediate past administration who gave Nigerians the impetus to recognise the sacrifices of the Heroes of Democracy, those who gave their Yesterday for Our today and tomorrow. “Labour Party identifies with various reforms going on in the country, the declaration of June 12 as a National Holiday and so many other reforms ongoing. “Chief MKO ABIOLA’s slogan was Hope 93, and Now we have ‘A renewed Hope 2023’ Even though both were on the platform of Muslims Muslims tickets but the variation precedent was the zeal and commitment of both MKO and PBAT to a new Nigeria which is not a symptom of religion “Hon Kayode Oladele a Former House of Reps member from Yewa North/Imeko-AFON from Ogun state who sponsors the bills that President Bola Tinubu today brought to realization needs to be commended while we specifically believe that the legacy of good governance will be entrenched. “Labour Party, therefore, appreciate Hon Kayode Oladele for taking this audacious feat that we are all enjoying today in Nigeria “We called on the people to continue to support the good intentions of the government, while also condemning rightly when necessary. “Gentlemen of the Press, Labour Party attention has been drawn to a statement credited to the Peter Obi /ABURE-led faction of the Labour Party Spokesperson, Obiorah Ifoh where he irresponsibly claimed that the suspension approved by the President and Commander in Chief of Armed Forces Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (GCFR) is unconstitutional, vindictive, not in good taste “Peter Obi’s faction out of deliberate falsehood and ignorance even accused the new Chief of Staff to the President Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila of complicity for not speaking up since he is now with the Government “Labour Party under Alhaji Lamidi Apapa led National Working Committee wishes to remind Peter Obi who is now the unofficial leader of the separatist movement recruited and perfectly hidden under the Illegally constituted and FCT High Court restrained Labour party that it’s an unpardonable sin for him to assumed the role of a President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria when in fact no such power has been conferred on him. “May we remind him that the president has the power to suspend any erring or corrupt appointees of the federal government without seeking the approval of the National Assembly. “Also laughable are the insinuations and criminal calls on the President to investigate and arrest the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission Prof Mahmud over unconfirmed allegations of rigging that has not been decided by the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja and the jurisdiction of which this group of separatist has submitted themselves to. “The Outburst of Obiorah Ifoh on behalf of Abure-led tribal bigots, therefore, is a call for the entrenchment of corruption and terrorism. “Or how will Abure/ Obi convince Nigerians that while Nigerians are in the quagmire of the scarcity of cash, Peter Obi and Julius Abure have enough money stolen from the LP campaign fund which they spend anyhow? “Labour Party logo is Papa, Mama and Pikin, that is, it is about humanity and the masses. Any move that tends to work against the welfare of the generality of Nigerians, as a Party we will not be in support of such a move. “We were all living witnesses to the travails of Nigerians to the different anti masses policies rolled out to Nigerians by the embattled CBN Governor, and as a responsible Party, we will not just sit down and condemn a lawful inquiry into the years of the inglorious and corrupt reign of Emefiele, but rather called on the relevant security agencies to properly look into the action and deeds of the Ex-Gov. “The Obiorah statements are laced with tribalism, egocentrism and nepotism, and what this tells us is that all the rumours that Emefiele was part of those that sponsored the Presidential bid of Peter Obi may be true after all. Or how do we explain that people with sane minds will be supporting somebody that kept millions of Nigerians on their knees for almost nine years with records of impunity, poorly-executed fiscal and monetary policies?”; it further stressed. “It is an understatement to say that Emefiele subjected Nigerians to a reign of economic terror and wanton financial servitude. “His tenure put Nigeria in the worst economic woes by plunging Our Naira into a low all-time low and encouraging forex arbitrage and round-tripping: Against advice by experts, including the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, that the naira should be allowed to find its true value, the suspended CBN governor spent trillions of naira trying to defend the currency but to no success. “For the first time in Nigeria’s history, a sitting Central Bank Governor was seen dabbling into politics, yet Obiorah never sees the reason why he must be investigated and prosecuted if found guilty. “The last straw that broke the camel’s back was the re-colouration of the Naira and the cashless policy. Nigerians were denied access to their money, leading to protests and chaos in several states across the country, and up to date, we are yet to come out from the policy. “Also during his tenure, we were informed how DSS accused Emefiele of terrorism financing. “He was accused of funding the activities of the proscribed pro-Biafra group, IPOB and others. “As a Party, we will not support any acts of witch hunting, nor support any move to suppress good moves at getting to the root of Nigeria’s economic crisis under Emefiele. We therefore called on DSS and other security agencies to distinctly carry out their investigation, work out any hindrance and inform the public of their findings as Nigerians are waiting patiently to know why they were so impoverished under the policy reel out by Emefiele.”