DAMATURU  – When Governor Mai Mala Buni was sworn into office for the first four-year term on Wednesday, May 29, 2019, as the fourth democratically elected chief executive of Yobe State in Damaturu, the state capital, he promised to continue the implementation of far reaching policies and programmes that would enable the north-eastern Nigerian state achieve its full potentials, while consolidating on the legacies of his immediate predecessor – Senator Ibrahim Gaidam. Specifically, one of his cardinal promises made in his inaugural address was the declaration of a state of emergency on the education sector as part of consolidating on the solid foundation he inherited. Buni, 56 years old on November 19 this year, also promised to provide a healthcare centre in each of the 178 political wards in the state, 138 of which had been completed and commissioned for the good of the residents. That was not all, he also assured the people that his government will provide tractors to farmers at the beginning of every rainy season across the 17 local government areas through the North East Commodities Association (NECAS). The first of this was done two months after he took office. Since then, he is said to have distributed 100 tractors to boost the productivity and income of among Yobe farmers. On infrastructure, the governor promised to complete roads inherited from the preceding administration, in addition to constructing new ones in Gujba/ Ngalda for which is ongoing, in addition to Tikau- Jajere; Dogo kuka Jajere; and Yusufari Machina, among others, which are also undergoing construction and repairs.This was in addition to constructing modern markets in major town such as Potiskum, Damaturu, Gashua, Nguru, Gaidam, Buni Yadi, and Ngalda, in addition to providing befitting trailer parks in Potiskum and some others. Our correspondent notes that the administration fulfilled its promise by completing and commissioning the modern markets in Gashua, Nguru, Buni Yadi, Damaturu, while those of Potiskum, Geidam and Ngalda are ongoing, just as the trailer truck transit park in Potiskum is nearing completion. He also successfully resuscitated state-own companies that had been moribund for years as part of boosting his government’s revenue drive, including the Potiskum Flour & Feed Mills, which reopened for operation alongside the Potiskum Aluminum Company which commenced production within the first four-year term, and in the process creating job opportunities, among others. Having fulfilled these promises, despite acting as National Chairman of the ruling party of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for 21 months until March 30, the popular expectations among residents is for even distribution of projects across the three senatorial zones, such that none is left behind. POLL Improved Security Many also praise him for the improved security situation in the state within his first four year term, when restoration of peace among the communities, for which Abdullahi Mai Shayi, a resident of Potiskum is grateful. In a chat with Daily Independent, he appreciates efforts by the governor to restore “peace and social services, (especially as) Boko Haram now is history in Yobe, as people now go about their normal businesses.” He also noted the improvement in girl-child education with “the establishment of Government Girls Day Secondary School to increase the (number of) girl-child continuing education facilities, especially for those who have completed the UBE (Universal Basic Education) Junior Secondary School,” to assuage the pain of traumatized parents not willing to send their daughters to boarding school following the attack on five government secondary schools in quick succession by Boko Haram insurgents. More Expected But there are those who insist much more can be done in that regard. Last year for example, the Malala Fund in partnership with Jami Al Hakeem Foundation held a workshop in Damaturu where they harped on the need for leaders and stakeholders to strengthen community based structures to advocate the attendance and retention of the girl child in public primary schools. Speaking at the event, founder of Jami Al Hakeem Foundation, Hasiya Nyako, lamented that in most communities “girls are not in schools. Even if they are included, usually they don’t get to complete their education, they are left out of the system completely.” New Targets After fulfilling promises made four years ago, the popular expectation was that after taking the oath of office for the second four-year term last week, Governor Buni would make new pledges in his inaugural address, in addition to those he announced while campaigning for re-election, such as completion of ongoing projects, while embarking on new ones. He did not disappoint, as he announced plans to retain his focus on education, healthcare deliver, agriculture, commerce and infrastructure, law and order, mass housing, water resources, and mineral resources. Before then, Governor Buni said his administration has developed a post insurgency recovery plan as a basis for future sustainable intervention, after successfully “re-integrating most of the internally displaced persons (IDPs) while also ensuring that other displaced communities such as the people of Mallum Dunari Ward in Gujba LGA are returned to their homes in a dignified manner,” in the aftermath of the Boko Haram menace that lasted over a decade. In the area of education, he said in the last four years, there was much focus on basic and secondary education riding, among others, on “the establishment of an executive oversight body, the Yobe Education Council under my chairmanship; the constitution of a supportive technical committee on education; the launch of an education fundraiser; and the establishment of the Yobe State Education Trust Fund (YEFTFund).” These, he added, led to tangible achievements such as the ranking of Yobe State 15th on the national examination performance index; establishment of eight new Government Girls Day Senior Secondary Schools to address the challenges of adolescent girls transition and dropping out of schools; construction of seven new model schools; and seven new mega schools, in addition to admitting over 12,000 students “thus, putting into use the mega schools, the model schools and the Government Girls Day Senior Secondary Schools; we rehabilitated all the schools that were devastated by insurgency. The inadequacy of furniture has been addressed by providing desks and tables to many schools; we recruited 2,600 teachers, and therefore lay the foundation for teacher training and development centre which will soon take-off.” He expressed happiness that most tertiary institutions in the state “have achieved over 90% accreditation. Most important, is that the MBBS programme of Yobe State University is accredited by both the National Universities Commission and the Nigerian Medical and Dental Council. Thirty-eight thousand of our students are on scholarship studying in Nigeria, while 371 are studying abroad.” The governor promised that his administration “will continue to sustain the tempo of the state of emergency on education. For the immediate future, we shall launch a mass enrolment drive with a view to eradicating the out of school children phenomenon. To accelerate, like we did in the health sector, we shall have functional and effective Primary School in each of the rural political wards of the state.” Buni also promised to improve the capacity of the teaching service delivery with commensurate rewarding system, while opening the Teacher Professional Training Centre in Damaturu; as well as the three Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) schools approved earlier for Damaturu, Potiskum and Nguru; in addition to “a digital education information system with a view to inculcate the state of the art education performance management from pre-school to tertiary level.” Healthcare Delivery In the last four years, he said his government has brought healthcare delivery to the doorsteps of the people by establishing a functional Primary Healthcare Centre in 138 of the 178 political wards in Yobe; upgrading of four primary healthcare centres to general hospitals and four general hospitals to specialist hospitals; constructing and equipping of one of the largest 375-bed capacity maternity, new-born and paediatric healthcare complex in Nigeria at the Yobe State University Teaching Hospital, Damaturu. This, he added, is besides providing free dialysis to deserving patients; establishing “the Yobe State Contributory Healthcare Management Agency; the Yobe State Drugs and Consumables Management Agency; the Yobe State Emergency Medical Ambulance Services; the Yobe State Health and Healthcare Related Facilities Inspections and Monitoring Agency; we equipped and strengthened our medical and paramedical schools, including the Shehu Sule College of Nursing and Midwifery, Damaturu and the College of Health Technology, Nguru.” Buni described these interventions as heartwarming resulting to significant improvements “in antenatal care, skilled birth attendance rate, immunization coverage, under five mortality rates, and child mortality rate,” and his second term will focus on equipping the primary health facilities, and providing drugs and human resources; while upgrading the remaining 40 PHC centres to achieve the goal of one functional PHC Centre in each ward; added to setting up mental health care facilities to manage the post insurgency traumatic mental challenges. Agriculture and Housing Given the importance of agriculture to the Yobe, and its land, water and people endowment for farming, animal husbandry, and fishing, Governor Buni recalled that in the first tenure, his administration supported farmers with 10,500 metric tons of fertiliser, improved seedlings and procured and distributed about 120 tractors and implements. He assured that topmost priority will still be given to the sector, while noting progress made in “the 2000-hectare Lava Irrigation Scheme to produce rice, wheat, and assorted vegetables; the establishment of a Livestock Development Centre in each senatorial district and the setting up of the National Animal Production Research Institute and the National Veterinary Research Institute field stations. He promised to continue mass housing after constructing 2,500 housing units in his first term which were sold on owner/occupier basis with a 50% percent discount, just as “water resources for irrigation, domestic, industrial and livestock consumption will continue to remain a priority of this administration.” In the next four years, Governor Buni noted that “an expression of concern and commitment for speedy industrial development, the state government will invite private investors to participate in industrial activities as greenfield projects, where it will concentrate on providing administrative incentives and enabling business environment. This is in line with our new policy direction in the state to promote Ease of Doing Business.” Doing Business Analysts say there is need for the governor to improve transparency and accountability in governance, especially in the area of award of contracts by the government, even as they lament the poor execution of direct labour jobs, where standards are compromised and contractors ignore contractual specifications. There is need, they say, for the governor to instill discipline, stiffness and punishment for those who fail to provide value for money spent in all government transactions.