Football followers are witnessing a heated battle between the two London giants, Chelsea and Arsenal, over the dazzling Ecuadorian midfielder, Moises Caicedo. The 21-year-old Brighton star is reportedly on the radar of both clubs, indicating an imminent clash in their quest to fortify their midfields. In a move that underlines their aggressive transfer strategy, Chelsea have indicated their readiness to go toe-to-toe with Arsenal in the race for Caicedo. According to sources close to the situation, the Blues have shown a willingness to match any bid that Arsenal place for the Ecuador international. In their tactical pursuit, Chelsea have reportedly been in talks with Brighton regarding a potential deal for the coveted starlet. An ambitious bid of £70m, in addition to £10m in potential add-ons, could be enough to sway the Seagulls into parting ways with one of their most prized assets. Arsenal’s Bidding BattleNot to be outdone, the Gunners are also hot on the trail of Caicedo. Earlier this year, their ambitious £70m offer was turned down, leaving the London club undeterred and still keen to add the Brighton sensation to their ranks. In the aftermath of their unsuccessful bid, Caicedo committed his future to Brighton with a contract extension that would see him at the AMEX until 2027, with an additional 12-month extension option included. Caicedo: A Hot Commodity in the Premier LeagueThough Arsenal and Chelsea are the key players in this transfer saga, they aren’t the only Premier League outfits eyeing Caicedo. Liverpool and Manchester United have kept close tabs on the player, however, it is the London rivals who seem to be in pole position. In a parallel transfer tussle, both clubs have also been vying for the signature of West Ham’s Declan Rice. It is believed that Arsenal are readying a blockbuster £100m-plus bid for the player. As reported by Football Insider, this summer transfer window promises to bring a spectacle filled with intrigue and high stakes, as Chelsea and Arsenal battle it out for the future of Moises Caicedo.