Barely two weeks after an Ibadan-born boxer, Ayanfe Adeoye, popularly known as BB Shinobi in his first fight of the year 2023 secured a victory over Ali Shaibu by Technical Knock Out (TKO) in Round Four of eight rounds National Challenge bout, he has done it again. BB Shinobi secured victory over his opponent, Abiodun Joseph by Technical Knockout in the second round of an eight-round bout at Brai Ayonote Hall, National Stadium Surulere, Lagos on Saturday. It could be recalled that on Sunday, 21st May 2023 at White House Youth Development Center, Oshodi, BB Shinobi took the stage on the second round of the eight rounds National challenge bout titled “Unbeatable champions of Oshodi under the Felachamp promotions. The bout ensued and lasted four rounds of intense battling of the fist which finally saw BB Shinobi stopping Ali Shaibu in the fourth round via a Technical KnockOut (TKO) after Ali Shaibu sustained a cut to the nose from a straight right-hand punch. Also, last Saturday, June 3rd, 2023, BB Shinobi did it again by stopping his high-rated opponent, Joseph in the second round through TKO. BB Shinobi won his first international professional fight against Ghanaian boxer, Emmanuel Allotey in far away Ghana on May 1st, 2021. He won by round 5 knockouts in a six rounds bout that came up at Lebanon House Accra, Ghana. In 2022, he also defeated the likes of Ibrahim Sodiq at Ijeja Abeokuta; Williams Eleshin at Yucateco Arena, Ikorodu; Idris Wasiu at Egbeda andRaji Jamiu at Adesba hotel Abeokuta. POLL Adeoye, a young talented boxer, who will be clocking 23 years in few weeks time, while speaking with journalists through his Manager, Temidayo Osasona, said he was very elated for the feat he has been attained in boxing. He maintained that in more than 15 fights he has fought both national and international, he only lost one in a questionable circumstances, which he had put behind him. He noted that hard work through training and dedication is the main factor that have been won him all the fights, which he vow to continue to maintain the feat in his carrier. According to him, “my concentration, training and prayer have been the strength behind my victory in all my fights, and I will continue to dedicate my victory to Almighty God and as usual to all my fans here in Nigeria and in diaspora. “My ambition is to make boxing a number one sport in Nigeria. I want to be a great example to the younger ones that you can still be a boxer and be a decent, reliable and responsible person. It’s a sport and not for ‘thugs’ as some people perceive. And most importantly, I want to make boxing great in Nigeria like other greatest Nigerian born boxer. “I am looking up to the likes of the greatest Muhammed Alli, Lennox Lewis and Sugar Ray Leonard and my brother and a role model, ‘The Champ’ Anthony Joshua”.