IBADAN – It was a confession moment at the Oyo State Police Command Headquarters, Eleyele, Ibadan the Capital City of the state, as some suspected armed robbers that were arrested for their alleged involvement in various crimes narrated their ordeals to journalists. No fewer than 21 suspected criminals were paraded by the state police command on Friday over various crimes committed at various locations in Ibadan. While parading the suspected criminals at the Command’s Headquarters on behalf of the State Police Commissioner, CP. Adebowale Williams, the state Police Public Relations Officer, SP. Adewale Osifeso stressed that the Command through Smart Inter-Agency Collaborations and dogged determination has never rescinded on its oars to ensure that the State does not become a playground to hoodlums and sinister-minded individuals. He said, “On 14th May, 2023 at about 0400hrs a group of armed robbers invaded Apaatuku/Onireke at Akobo area in Ibadan and robbed residents of their valuables.The assailants killed one Makanjuola Ogedengbe ‘m’ and raped his two daughters aged 14yrs and 10yrs respectively during the incident.” “The case was transferred to SCID Iyaganku for discreet investigation.During the investigation, it was revealed that one Ibrahim Rasaq ‘m’ 31yrs, one Abiodun Olalekan ‘m’ 32yrs, and one Abolade Morenikeji ‘m’ 34yrs, who were earlier arrested in connection with the armed robbery operation at Sawia Estate at Ogbere in Ibadan, which was reported on 16 April 2023, are the same gang who invaded Apaatuku/Onireke community.” “The two raped daughters of the deceased were allegedly raped by Abolade Morenikeji ‘m’ and one Sodiq ‘m’ respectively. The said Sodiq, who was the group’s alleged leader was killed in the operation by the community security guards.The assailants also shot at the community’s night guard who is currently receiving treatment.” “On 16/6/2023 at about 03300hrs, one Adebayo Salami ‘m’ who is a major receiver/informant of the group and landlord at Ajara Olohunda, Akobo in Ibadan was arrested in connection with the case. During interrogation, he confessed to having invited the group for the robbery operation at the Apatuku area where one Makanjuola Ogedengbe ‘m’ was killed and his two daughters ages 14 and 10 was defiled by the robbery gang during the operation.” POLL Names of the suspected armed robbers according to the state public relations officer are, Ibrahim Rasaq; (male), aged 31, Abiodun Olalekan(male), aged 32, Abolade Morenikeji (male), aged 34, Adedayo Salami(Male), aged 40, while the exhibits recovered from them are one cut to size locally made double barrel pistol. While speaking with journalists on behalf of the other group members, Abolade Morenikeji said, “I’m Abolade Keji, aged 33, I’m from Ibadan, we went to Olohunda/Akobo side in group to rob. “Though I’m not the one that shot the person but unfortunately the person died, it was our gang leader Sodiq that shot the person to death, and the security in that area also neutralized him too.” “That operation was my second operation, I’m one of the people that raped the girls of the deceased but it was the work of the devil, Sodiq was the guy that killed the man, I was outside by the time Sodiq shot the man. It was the work of the devil.” Morenikeji said. Similarly, another set of suspected armed robbers namely, Irale Emmanuel(Male), aged 38, Olayinka Olawoyin(male), aged 22, Ibrahim Sheriff(Male), aged 35, Ibrahim Azeez(Male), aged 32, Ayodele Joyce(Male), aged 24, Dauda Moshood(male), 40, and Olaoti Yekeen(Male), aged 54 were also paraded, while three locally made single barrel guns, three shells of expended cartridges, one cutlass, and one tricycle were recovered from them. While briefing journalists about their arrest, SP. Osifeso said, “On 6th June 2023, one ADEOLA (Surname undisclosed) was accosted around Apapa community, MONIYA area, Ibadan by some hoodlums who paraded themselves as members of a freelance security outfit operating under the name Community Security Awareness Initiative Corps (COMSAIC).” “The hoodlums who were armed with Guns, Jack Knives and some other dangerous weapons bundled the said OLWADAMILARE MUIDEEN inside the tricycle they rode to the community under the pretext of arresting him without committing any offence and whisked him away to a desolate location within the community where they dispossessed him of a cash sum of One Hundred and Thirty-Six Thousand Naira (N136, 000. 00) only and some other valuable items and fled from the community.” “This incident was reported at MONIYA Division and while the police authority at the Division were trying to fish out the hoodlums, on 8th June 2023, the victim sighted the hoodlums at another location where they wanted to use the same modus of misrepresenting themselves as local security guards to attack and rob another unsuspecting member of the public and quickly raised alerted the Policemen and in the process, six members of the criminal were arrested with two Locally-made single barrel guns, one cutlass, three expended cartridges and the tricycle which they rode to the scene of crime were recovered from the suspects.” “The exhibits and suspects were immediately transferred to the Command Monitoring Unit where they voluntarily confessed to the crime and equally gave useful information which led to the arrest of their kingpin and another locally-made single barrel gun was recovered from him,” Osifeso said.