ASABA – The immediate Past Governor of Delta state, Sen Dr Ifeanyi Okowa yesterday declared that he will no longer tolerate disparaging statements from the former Republican Minister of Information, Chief Edwin Clark after his eight years at the helm of affairs in the state. While expressing concern over the purported campaigns of calumnies against the former Governor, Okowa said that the elder statesman should engage past and current Governors in the South-South region in a ‘father-and-son relationship rather than attack successive administrations. He urged the foremost Ijaw leader to be bothered about what he would be remembered for, and not engage former Governors in incessant acts of deriding and bringing them to public opprobrium. The immediate past Governor who reacted to Clark’s allegation of being a traitor and fraudulent through his Spokesman, Mr Olise Ifeajika, in Asaba yesterday said the elder statesman goofed in all the issues he raised against Okowa. He warned that any form of misinformation in the public space against the character of Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa will no longer be tolerated for posterity’s sake. He said the former Governor will never be tired of setting the record straight over the alleged N150 billion loan, which was reduced to N91 billion and approved as bridging finance discount by the state’s House of Assembly. He said he used the allocation that accrued to the state under his eight years administration were judiciously used for the growth and development of the state. According to Ifeajika, “ For the elder statesman, whom we reverred and placed in high esteem, to have asked Okowa, diligently appropriate the finances of the state as governor, to come and account for the eight years allocation to the state, was not salutary to a man that has performed superlatively. POLL “This was a man that build a multi-billion naira floating market on a deep sea. Construct roads for vehicles to drive with ease on riverine terrains. Built three new universities that are now admitting and serving the children, taking them out of the streets and generating employment. “He couldn’t have developed the state with his spit or sand, if not with the allocation accruing to the state. In youth development, Okowa ranks among the best among the best in Nigeria.” He decried the allegation that the former Governor owns the controversial Premium Bank in Asaba. “We know Okowa to be a Medical Doctor turned politician. He is not a businessman. He didn’t study Banking and Finance. So, to tie the ownership of one particular bank in a desperate bid to run him down, is again unfortunate and uncharitable to his quality service delivery. He said instead of demeaning the former Governor, the elder statesman should commend him for his financial prudence, transparency and good governance. “Whether the naysayers believe it or not, Okowa has done creditably well during his eight years as Governor of Delta state”, he said.