OSOGBO  – Osun State Government has accused the immediate Sen­ate spokesperson, Senator Ajibola Bashir of allegedly planning to cause mayhem in the state. In a statement issued by the media aide to Governor Ademola Adeleke, Olawale Rasheed said the former sen­ator has constituted himself to be a direct threat to peace by inviting some policemen to the state through a petition written against some party and state officials in the state. The State Government in the statement alleged the former Senator of importing unauthorised policemen to the state to create confusion and mayhem to destabilise the peace of the state. But Former lawmaker, Aji­bola Bashiru has denied the allegation levelled against him by the state government describing the government as a comedian for pointing accusing fingers at disrupting the peace of the state to him. Rasheed in the statement said the ex-lawmaker had sub­mitted names of top leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and that of the state government to the police so as to cause instability and tension in Osun. The statement reads: “We urgently bring to the atten­tion of the Inspector Gener­al of Police, the State Com­missioner of Police and the general public that former Senator Ajibola Bashiru has imported some unauthorized policemen into Osun State to create confusion, mayhem and destabilise the peace and stability of the state. “The former Senator is re­ported to have submitted a list of top leaders of the People’s Democratic Party and Osun State government for arrest on trumped-up charges. We reliably gathered that the Osogbo-born politician is personally coordinating the team in gross violation of ex­tant laws and practice of law enforcement. “We call on the Inspector General of Police to order the immediate withdrawal of such policemen as their invitation under the control of a politician constitutes a grave threat to the peace and stability of Osun State. We urge the Commissioner of Police to urgently look into the matter before a breach of peace across the state.