ABUJA  – A Member representing Obokun/Oriade Feder­al Constituency of Osun State, in the House of Rep­resentatives, Rep Busayo Oluwole Okie has applaud­ed the appointment of New Service Chiefs, the Acting Inspector General of Police IGP and the Acting Comp­troller General of the Nige­rian Customs Service, NCS by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Recall that President Tinubu had on Monday ap­proved the appointments of the new Service Chiefs, the Acting Inspector General of Police IGP and the Act­ing Comptroller General of the Nigerian Customs Service NCS for the smooth take off of the new admin­istration. The appointees are: Mal­lam Nuhu Ribadu National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. C.G Musa Chief of Defence Staff, Maj. T. A Lagbaja Chief of Army Staff, Rear Admiral E. A Ogalla Chief of Naval Staff, AVM H.B Abubakar Chief of Air Staff, DIG Kayode Egbe­tokun Acting Inspector-Gen­eral of Police, and DCG Ad­eniyi Bashir Adewale as the Ag. Comptroller General of Customs. The Lawmaker who was the immediate past Chair­man of the House of Repre­sentatives Public Accounts Committee PAC while con­gratulating the new appoin­tees urged them to deliver on their mandate, and restore the country to its former glo­ry where lives “are sacred, and investment, economic opportunities and political stability flourishes”. According to him, “the appointments are laudable and commendable going by the track records of the ap­pointees, they should hit the ground running immediate­ly by addressing squarely all the security challenges fac­ing the country as a nation, there should be no further excuses for security lapses again, Nigeria needs abso­lute peace for meaningful development of the country “Nigerians need to feel the direct impacts of democ­racy in all the nooks and crannies off the country which they voted for and not insurgency as we have been witnessing over the years, our security Chiefs should put their arsenal together and give the nation a new lease of life, congratulations to them and same to the Mr President for his choice of the appointees”