A Group operating under the auspices of North Central Youths for Quality Legislation and Governance (NCYFQLAG) has charged opposition members at the Senate to throw their weight behind Senator Simon Mwadkwon to emerge the Minority Leader in the 10th National Assembly. A spokesman of the group Oche Okolobia described Senator Mwadkwon as a thorough-breed politician who deserves the position of the Minority Leader of the Senate. The North Central group in a statement made available to newsmen in Jos on Fridaysaid, “Considering the vast legislative experiences of Senator Mwadkwon, who has served as a House of Representatives Member in the 7th Assembly and 9th Assembly and is now a senator, we are of the firm belief that he deserves to serve as one of the principal officers of the Senate,”. The North Central group said the antecedents of Senator Mwadkwon who is currently representing Plateau North Senatorial District at the National Assembly put him ahead of all aspirants for the position. ” As a fantastic two-term House of Representatives member, he always stood with his people Hon. Mwadkwon has remained a loyal, committed and determined adherent of the PDP’s ideology, as he has always put his weight and resources to the success of the party at all levels.” The group tasked members of the Senate in opposition political parties to go for Hon Mwadkwon whom he noted, would effectively checkmate the executive arm of government. They further added that Mwadkwon is a real detribalised Nigerian, who sees everybody as his partner in the Nigerian project, hence the need for him to be considered of being one of the principal officers from the PDP/minority caucus. “We are urging the party and all Senators who are from the minority to consider endorsing him as the Minority leader ” he further added. POLL ” Senator Simon Mwadkwon has what it takes to become the Minority leader, given his past achievements.” The group described Mwadkwon as a tested and trusted leader, he is imbued with charisma, knowledge and experience and would not let the Minority members down if supported .”