LAGOS  – A 30-year-old communal crisis that once rocked the Amorka community in the Ihiala Coun­cil Area of Anambra State has been resolved by the state government under the leader­ship of Governor Chukwuma Charles Soludo. The dispute was resolved af­ter members of the community met with the Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, Hon. Tony-Collins Nwabunwanne. While the issue raged, the bone of contention was the no­menclature to operate, between Amorka Improvement Union (AIU) and Amorka United Union (AUU). Speaking after the meeting, Nwabunwanne directed that henceforth, the community, as ap­proved by the Ministry, would be known and addressed as Amorka United Union (AUU). According to him, that would start to reflect at the proposed town union election, even as he maintained that at the election, the desired change of the com­munity’s name by the majority of the community would be per­fected. The commissioner then charged Anambra community leaders to desist from acts capable of engendering crisis and disuni­ty in their communities, stress­ing that traditional institutions and town union government are two separate administrative en­tities in every community, even though they are expected to work together to entrench peace and unity. He stated that the government of Prof. Soludo would always al­low communities to elect their leaders, in tandem with the extant laws guiding Anambra communities. Nwabunwanne noted that the government doesn’t inter­fere in town union matters, but won’t fold its arms and watch unnecessary intimidation and harassment from any commu­nity leader, to truncate peaceful coexistence. POLL The commissioner however reminded members of the Amor­ka community that their extant constitutions are always subject to amendment since no constitu­tion is perfect. He urged them to concentrate on electing a new leadership and would decide to look into the issues surrounding the amend­ment of their constitution. The settlement of the dispute by Governor Soludo through the Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, has received commendations from commu­nity stakeholders and leaders of thought across the state.