ABUJA – A presidential aspirant in the 2023 general election, on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Tein Jack-Rich has expressed shock over a recent publication, credited to a former aide to Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. Jack-Rich while condemning the report, described it as provocative, malicious, preposterous, unwarranted, distasteful, and unsubstantiated, alleging that it was politically motivated to tarnish his image. The online media had reported that a certain Mr Jackson Ude had on his Twitter handle, accused Jack-Rich of allowing his wife, Elizabeth to have a sexual relationship with Seyi Tinubu, the son of President Bola Tinubu. Ude also alleged that the philanthropist had bribed the Chief of Staff to Tinubu, Femi Gbajabiamila, with N500 million so he could be made a minister. In a swift reaction, Jack-Rich expressed disbelief that there still existed humans who could stoop so low to smear a fellow human just to score cheap political gains. “Dear fellow Nigerians, the attention of the family of Mr. Tein T.S. Jack-Rich CON, has been drawn to the recent provocative, malicious, preposterous, unwarranted, distasteful, and unsubstantiated publications by politically sponsored agents within the past two days, making several spurious allegations against the person and family of Jack-Rich, all with the intention of maligning his name and reputation. “It is also sad that this is with the aim of gaining cheap political relevance within the emerging political space. “On behalf of the family, we wish to state unequivocally clear and with all sense of responsibility that the entirety of the allegations are not only unfounded and childish, but also depicts the nature and character of the persons and evil elements behind them; who are also well known by their political brigandage and desperation for political relevance. POLL “We are utterly shocked, that in their attempt to tarnish the image and reputation of Mr. Jack-Rich and his family, some of these political desperados will condescend so low to the extent of making statements that not only attack his personality, but also extending same to the hallowed and revered office of the Chief of Staff to the President, thereby trying so hard to smear his own reputation and by extension, that of the Presidency. “Let it be noted that this is not the first time the publisher of these falsehoods had tried to malign Mr. Jack-Rich with similar stories, which has become his trademark. “A similar publication was also made in 2021 by the same Jackson Ude, alleging that Jack-Rich was involved in money laundering activities for former President Muhammadu Buhari. “This is because Jackson Ude’s paymasters have seen that Jack-Rich is a political actor coming in to add value to the national good. Till today, all claims remain unsubstantiated, and Jackson Ude and his political cohorts remain faceless and untraceable. “Again, the jobless and faceless Jackson Ude has resurfaced with a similar story and narrative, as orchestrated by his sponsors.’’