LAGOS – The operatives of the Delta State Police Command said they have dismantled a child-trafficking cartel and arrested some mem­bers of the gang including a cripple. The Command disclosed that a trafficked three-year-old child was rescued from the gang. It further revealed that one operational cut-to-size short gun and tricycle were recovered from another criminal gang. Bright Edafe, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Delta State Command disclosed in a statement made available to Dai­ly Independent. Edafe, a Deputy Superinten­dent of Police (DSP), said on June 13, 2023, at about 8.30 am, one “Aisha Yusuf (female) of Abraka community Asaba, re­ported at the station that her son Abubakar Atiku (make), aged 3yrs was stolen by one Moham­med Isah (male) aged 35years. “Acting on the complaint, the Commissioner of Police Delta state, CP Wale Abass gave a marching order to the DPO ‘C’ Division Asaba CSP Apu Torukeregha to go all out to ar­rest the suspect and rescue the stolen child. “In compliance with this di­rective, the DPO led operatives of the division’s Anti-crime pa­trol team on a frantic search for the stolen child. “Acting on a tip-off, the team stormed Abraka market, Os­himili-South LGA, where the principal suspect, Mohammed Isah, was arrested. POLL “Upon interrogation, he con­fessed to the crime and led the operatives to arrest three other members of the child-stealing syndicate namely; Ibrahim Sani ‘m’ 23yrs, Kabiru Ibrahim ‘m’ 52yrs and Abubakar Moham­med ‘m’ a 32yrs old cripple. “Preliminary investigation revealed that they belong to a child-trafficking syndicate that steal children and sells for a huge amount of money.” The police image maker said that the suspects led policemen to a hotel in Onitsha Anambra state where the team arrested one Suleiman Mohammed, a 38-yr-old man in whose custody the missing child was found. “The suspect arrested in Anambra stated that he was waiting for the supposed buyer of the said child, and they have agreed to sell the child for the sum of N800,000.