SYLVESTER ENOGHASE The inauguration and swearing-in ceremony of Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu as the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Vice-President Senator Kashim Shettima has been receiving accolades from within and outside the country for a couple of days now. One of the oil sector relevant bodies’ leadership and members that have been at the centre stage of this eventful swearing-in praises is the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), that joined Nigeria and other world leaders to congratulate and felicitated the President and his Vice. There were some policies reeled out during the inauguration. However, one of the major concerns that caught the attention of the new government is how to save the country from unfettered oil theft ‘trade’ which has become an embarrassment to the country over the years. Comrade Williams Akporeha, NUPENG President and Comrade Afolabi Olawale, General Secretary of the union in a Blue Print message to President Tinubu, noted that the oil workers’ union has been very proud of the roles and sacrifices it made in the restoration of democratic rule in the country and continued efforts towards safeguarding it and for the delivery of good governance to the people of this country. Hence, the workers equally celebrate with Nigerians on these 24 unprecedented and unbroken years of democratic rule in the country. Parts of the belief of the union are: “We salute the belief, courage, and steadfastness of all our fellow patriotic Nigerians for the journey and struggles so far with our firm belief that we shall overcome and have a Country and citizens we all desire and crave for one day. “Without any iota of doubt, everyone is aware of the crucial and critical importance of the Nigeria Oil and Gas Industry in the overall GDP and the total foreign exchange earning of the Country, which explain the pivotal roles and place of the workers of the industry in the annals of our dear country. POLL “It is in furtherance of these roles that NUPENG reiterates the fact that Nigerians are aggrieved and deeply frustrated with present state of things in the country and urgently place before the in-coming administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu some critical issues for his immediate attention and consideration for the good of the industry and the nation at large. “As a matter of national urgency, the union strongly implores the administration of the President-elect to address the issue of insecurity that has pervaded the entire Country without any exception in any part of this country. “Nigerians in the past fifteen years are continuously losing faith in the ability and capacity of successive governments to protect their lives, properties and sources of livelihood. “No Nigerian feels safe anymore and these unfortunate situations have in so many ways accentuated the level of poverty, unemployment, rising food cost and brain drain syndrome amongst every age brackets. “The daily gory tales of kidnapping for ransoms, ritual killing, religious killings, communal clashes/killings, herders vs farmers killings are so scary and discouraging farmers from farms and indigenous and foreign investors/businesses from investing in the country to create jobs. “This is not the country we all crave for, and we strongly feel that the President-elect can help to turn this situation of hopelessness to a situation of hope and faith in our fatherland if he truly offers to serve.” Crude Oil Thefts “NUPENG is earnestly imploring the government of Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu to save Nigeria and Nigerians from the shame and global ridicule of open thefts and sales of the nation’s crude oil in the international markets while the country is reeling in helplessness, hardship and poverty. “The Tinubu administration should as a matter of urgency address this issue with all vigor and urgency”. Non- Interference With PIA Implementation “The President needs no further introduction to the tumultuous journey that led to eventual signing of the Petroleum Industry Bill into an Act of the Parliament by Out-going President Muhammadu Buhari with the objectives of having a Petroleum Industry that will be accountable, rewarding and transparent in financials, governance and responsiveness to the needs and yearnings of communities and stakeholders. “These desirable objectives can only be achieved with strict adherence in implementation to the spirit and letters of the Act. “Based on these challenges, the workers’ union therefore strongly pleads with the President-elect and his team to give a new narrative to wrong notions that Nigeria governments are no respecter of their laws. Let the Petroleum Industry Act, no matter any perceived shortcomings inherent be implemented until any further amendments are made. Working Conditions In Nigeria Oil And Gas Industry “It is very important to bring to the immediate attention of the President the parlous state of employment and working conditions of Nigerians in the Nigeria Oil and Gas Industry, most especially the blue-collar workers in the Oil and Gas Industry. There is increasing degeneration, indecency and precariousness of employment and working conditions in the Industry, which can also be attributed to be one of the causes of the increasing frustrations, crime, violence and restiveness among the youths who are continuously feeling alienated in their fatherland. “The implementation of Local Contents Law which the Unions in the Industry fought vigorously for in the interest of Nigerian young graduates/technicians/school leavers has been turned into cesspit of corruption with the Board’s only interest is to make more Millionaires of portfolio carrying Nigerian businessmen. “The Board seems uninterested in addressing the crude behavior and exploitative employment tactics of those unscrupulous indigenous employers and multinationals who are unfortunately exploiting and turning the Nigerian local contents law into ambits of slavery and precarious employment rather than a source of fulfilling employment and empowerment for teeming qualified young Nigerians in their fatherland. “The union is therefore, urgently calling on the new administration to declare a state of emergency in the Oil and Gas sector so as to properly situate the employment in the industry in such a way and manner that will engender technical expertise and skills enhancement for young Nigerians graduates/technicians/school leavers and further help to reduce the wave of brain drain, insecurity and penchant for fraudulent activities among the youth in the country. “It is the firm belief of every true Nigerian that the country has enough human capacity to develop and enhance its technological capabilities. Fuel Subsidy “Without any doubt, a major socio/economic policy on the front burner of national discourse and expectation is the recurrent discussion/debate for the removal of subsidy from the Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS). “As a responsible and responsive Trade Union in the Industry it is very desirous of policy-change on the issue of subsidy on PMS, but the union is deeply concerned of the failure of the successive administration to do the needful as severally advised and canvassed for by organized labour in order to avoid unintended consequences on the people and the body polity. “NUPENG hopes that its concerns about the dependence on importation are being addressed by the recently commissioned Dangote Refinery, but we are quick to add that the administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu should not rush into taking any decision on the Policy change until the products are actually in the market from the Dangote Refinery. “The Tinubu administration should make all three public refineries functional and should not because of the anticipatory products availability from Dangote refinery allow all the hard-earned funds injected into the rehabilitation of the three public refineries (Warri, Port Harcourt and Kaduna) wasted but concrete efforts should be geared towards making them functional and operate in full capacities to generate returns on the investments. “It has always been the firm belief of the union that deregulation that is based on local production will not only increase the revenue earnings of the country, but it will also generate employment and make life more meaningful to ordinary Nigerians. “It’s also very imperative for the new administration to have robust engagement and discussion with all key stakeholders, most especially the organized Labor on ways and means to mitigate these consequences on employment, inflation and living conditions of the working people. “Any major policy decision on the removal of the subsidy on this very important economic item should be taken with extra caution in view of the enormous implications and the impacts on the overall economic activities of the nation and other unintended consequences on the ordinary citizens considering the socio-economic importance of the product.”