Governor Francis Nwifuru of Ebonyi State has sworn in 35 Commissioners. This is even as he warned them against lapses on their respective mandate. Mr Nwifuru urged the Commissioners to take their duties seriously and threatened not to spare any erring Commissioner in his administration. He noted that he did not appoint the Commissioners for political patronage and urged them to see their appointments as call to service. “I want to sound this very clear, this is not for political patronage. If I come to your office, and there are lapses in your office, you are leaving the next moment and I will never call you back to service again. “I can never for one day spare anybody that errs. So, if you know you can err, there is nothing like to err is human, to forgive is divine, because nobody is going to forgive you. “So, I am begging you to take this appointments seriously. Our state is very much charged waiting for our own leadership style. We must show them what we have and be able to put it in place and if we do that effectively, definitely, they will applaud us”, he told the Commissioners. The Commissioners sworn in and their portfolios are: Engr. Stanley Lebechi Mbam, Works and Transport; Dr. Leonard Uguru, Finance; Dr. Matthew Nwobashi, Lands and Survey; Prof. Omari Omaka (SAN), Tertiary Education; Prof. Nwogo Obasi, Market Development & Parks; Elijah Okwu Oko Udu, Skill Development & Job Creation; Prince Etta Uka Ude, Internal Security; Hon. Victor Chukwu Uzoma, Environment; Jude Chikadibia Okpor, Information and State Orientation; Chidi Onyia,Solid Minerals;Oguzor Offia Nwali, Commerce and Industry; Mrs. Aligwe Ann, Human Capital Development and Prof. Paul Awo Nwobashi – Education (Primary & Secondary) POLL Others are: Uchenna Igwe, Local Government & Chieftaincy Matters; Dr. Ben Odo Uruchi, Justice and Attorney General; Stanley Ogbuewu,Culture and Tourism; Dr. Donatus C. Ilang – Boarder Peace & Conflict Resolution; Dr. Mrs. Obichukwu Ngozi – Aviation; Mrs. Chinwe Okah, Budget and Planning; Dr. Moses Ekuma Nnanna, Health; Hon. Richard Ugo Idike – Youths and Sports; Barr. Mrs. Felicia Nwankpuma, Women Affairs; Mr. Chinedu Nkah, Water Resources; Engr. Ogbonna Abara Obashi, Infrastructure; Engr. Francis Ori, Housing & Urban Development; Princess Nkechinyere lyioku , Agriculture and Natural Resources; Uzor Toochukwu Okorie, ICT; Ogbonna Felix Igboke, Project Monitoring & Evaluation; Ogbonna Okorie, Inter Party Affairs; Hon. Valentine Okike-Uzor, Special Duty; Hon. Inyima Sunday, Capital City; Hon. Peter Oge Ali, Power & Energy; Elechi Elechi, Investment; Solomon Azi, Grant & Donor Agencies and Barr. Ikeuwa Omebe, Rural Development.