A Nigerian businessman, Godswill Cole Chiori, has appealed to President Bola Tinubu to allow the establishment of Association of Hawkers and Petty Traders in Nigeria. In a letter addressed to the President, members of the National Assembly, Ministers of Labour and Employment, Commerce and Industry and all concerned government agencies, Chiori stated that hawking, as an age-old trade, has played a significant role in empowering individuals and families to escape poverty and create economic opportunities since time immemorial. Chiori added in the letter dated June 18, 2023 and made available to journalists on Sunday, that hawking has been a means of survival and self-reliance for many, allowing them to provide for their families and contribute to their communities. The businessman, however, said that use of child labour, security risks, extortion, and the absence of regulation are some of the pressing issues that have marred the reputation of hawking in Nigeria. “It is essential that we address these concerns to create a dignified and regulated trade environment for hawkers while preserving the cultural significance of this trade. “I propose the establishment of an Association of Hawkers and Petty Traders in Nigeria, which will serve as a pivotal platform to address the aforementioned challenges and transform the hawking trade into a dignified and sustainable livelihood option for all participants.” He added: “This association will provide a formal bureaucratic process, regulatory oversight, and social support for its members,” he said. Outlining the key objectives of the association, he said that there will be a formal registration, whereby every hawker engaged in the trade of hawking or petty trading will be required to register with the Association. POLL The registration process, Chiori said, will include necessary identification details, verification procedures, and obtaining a license to operate. He also identified licensing and identification, where hawkers will be provided with a uniform and identification card, ensuring that only authorized individuals are permitted to hawk their goods. “This measure will enhance the security of both the hawkers and the general public. “Also, producers of hawked goods will be required to register with the association and pay an annual fee before their products can be legally sold in traffic or through hawking channels. This process will help regulate the quality and safety of products sold by hawkers. “There will also be social support, where the association will utilize the collected fees, along with contributions from FMCGs and subscribing companies, to establish a support system for its members. “This system will include medical assistance, scholarships for education, and general maintenance of the association’s activities,” he said. On the implementation strategy, Chiori suggested that a comprehensive Bill should be drafted to encompass the legal framework necessary for establishing the Association for Hawkers and Petty Traders. This bill, he said, should outline the licensing process, regulatory guidelines, fee structure, and the responsibilities of all stakeholders involved. He stressed that there would also be public awareness and consultation such that extensive public awareness campaigns should be conducted to educate the hawkers, producers, and the general public about the benefits and implications of the proposed association. “Stakeholders’ opinions, concerns, and suggestions should be solicited through consultations and town hall meetings to ensure inclusivity. “There should be collaborations and partnerships so that they would collaborate with relevant government agencies, law enforcement bodies, and other organizations to implement the necessary infrastructure, such as registration centers, training programs, and monitoring mechanisms. Seek partnerships with FMCGs, companies, and NGOs to secure additional support for the Association’s initiatives. “There should be training and capacity building to provide comprehensive training programs to registered hawkers, focusing on essential skills, entrepreneurship, and customer service.” According to Chiori: “These programs will empower hawkers to improve their businesses, contribute to the economy, and raise their living standards. “Furthermore, it is crucial to establish close collaboration between the Association for Hawkers and Petty Traders and important government bodies such as the Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and relevant committees within the National Assembly. “This collaboration will ensure that the association’s initiatives align with existing policies and regulations, while creating a supportive environment for the sustainable growth of the hawking trade.” According to him, the establishment of an Association of Hawkers and Petty Traders holds the potential to transform the hawking trade in Nigeria. He said: “By introducing a formal bureaucratic process, licensing, and identification, along with social support systems, we can uplift the lives of hawkers, deter child abuse and criminal activities, and enhance overall societal well-being. “The implementation of this proposal will require the concerted efforts of the National Assembly, The President, Ministry of Labour, and other concerned government bodies.”