LAGOS  – The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), have called for the Quick Implementation of President Bola Tinubu’s industrial policy which will utilise the full range of fiscal measures to promote domestic manufacturing and lessen import dependency, adding that the policies will turn around the nation’s industrial sector. Recall that Tinubu, in his inauguration speech on, outlined that he would transform the country’s economic fortunes through budgetary reforms, promote domestic manufacturing, significantly reduce unemployment, continue to drive viable industrial and infrastructural development and fiscal measures, provide accessible electricity, ensure a single foreign exchange market and remove multiple taxations. Segun Ajayi-Kadir, the Director General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), in chats with Daily Independent, said the President’s economic agenda was encouraging and would benefit the productive sector. He added that the President expects manufacturers to hit the ground running, resolving the issues affecting the sector including multiplicity of taxes and levies, which have negatively affected manufacturing. Others include a united exchange rate, promotion of local manufacturing against importation, a fiscal policy that supports productivity and addressing the unwarranted escalation of excise duties on alcoholic beverages and tobacco, which run against the government’s three-year roadmap. According to Ajayi-Kadir, the latest hike as contained in the 2023 Fiscal Policy Measures was not only going to ruin the affected sectors, but would be counterproductive for government revenue in the near future. “The cost of energy is between 35 to 42 per cent for most manufacturers and the President promising to lift this burden on his first day is exciting to hear.” He also urged the government to direct all relevant agencies to ensure that the electronic call-up system at ports, aimed at redressing congestion works without fail and revisit the Finance Bill of 2022 to ensure it includes the critical inputs of the Organised Private Sector (OPS). POLL He specifically said: “ The OPS input on the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA), should also be taken on board before the amendment bill is signed into law. “We ask the government to announce a special policy initiative to address the revival of closed and distressed industries, particularly in the north-east where 60 per cent of our member companies have closed,” he said. Mr Wale Oyerinde, the Director General of NECA, in a chat with one of our correspondents, said that the quick implementation of the policies will boost the nation’s industrial sector. He said: We want the quick implementation of the Tinubu’s policies to transform the country’s economic fortunes, promote domestic manufacturing, significantly reduce unemployment as well as drive viable industrial and infrastructural development and fiscal measures for Nigeria”. Taiwo Oyedele, Fiscal Policy Partner and Africa Tax Leader, PwC, also rold our correspondent that the President policies could address most of the economic issues in the first 100 days in office. He, however, said raising revenue does not mean new taxes should be introduced, which the past administration often did, adding that Tinubu must quickly address his comment on fuel subsidy removal to curb panic buying across the country.