As NWC Unveils Project Drive APGA Initiative AWKA – The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) is set to unveil what it termed Project Drive APGA Initiative. The National Publicity Secretary of APGA Mazi Ejimofor Opara who disclosed this to DAILY INDEPENDENT correspondent during an exclusive interview, explained that Project Drive APGA Initiative is a concept designed by the NWC to place APGA in the forefront of the nation’s politics. Opara also told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the antics and antagonistic tendencies of one Edozie Njoku who has been running from one court to another in search of frivolous judgements to create confusion and rancour in APGA, is well understood even as he pointed out that the persona is on a wild goose chase. Opara who explained that the Project Drive APGA Initiative was crafted by the National Chairman of APGA Barr. Sylvester Ezeokenwa, maintained that should the National Working Committee of the party actualise the precepts of the initiative, APGA according to him, will be the party to reckon with not just in Nigeria but in the entire subregion. He therefore emphasized that the concept was crafted by the National Chairman to reposition APGA as well as instill the culture of discipline in the party; that indiscipline has really done more harm than good to APGA as clearly evident in the anti-party activities of one Edozie Njoku, whom he said was a member of the NWC of APGA. Opara noted that while efforts would be made to elevate constitution of the party, the overall objective of the Project Drive APGA Initiative is to expand frontiers of the party beyond the shores of Anambra State. When asked if the activities of Edozie Njoku will not be a cog in the wheel of progress of the party, he said very strongly that Edozie Njoku is a decided matter. That he is a political jobber trying to extend his merchandise to APGA. POLL The National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance who described the National Chairman Barr. Sylvester Ezeokenwa as a forward thinking gentleman, full of ideas and a very progressive party member, said Sylvester Ezeokenwa has what it takes to take APGA to the next level of greatness.