AKURE  – Stakeholders, includ­ing judges of Magistrate courts and High Court, on Wednesday brainstormed on how to check rise in rape cases in the state. Statistics posted by the Federal Ministry of Wom­en Affairs in June 2023, indicated that there are 17, 848 reported cases of Gen­der-Based Violence (GBV) among which were 779 fatal cases. Out of this, he said 1,146 cases have been closed and 5,716 were still open cases. The record showed that 248 perpetrators were con­victed, while Ondo State recorded 158 reported cas­es. Uncomfortable with the statistics, the State Gov­ernment through Ondo State Agency Against Gen­der-Based Violence (OSAA-GBV) collaborated with Westminster Foundation For Democracy (WFD), engaged stakeholders in the Bench and Bar as well as security agencies to fashion out modalities on how to stem the rise in the cases. Sharing their experi­ences with applicants and victims of rape cases, they alleged that pressure from family members, religious lead­ers and traditional chiefs undermined prosecution of suspects. They disclosed that appli­cants and victims were be­ing pressured to withdraw such cases midway, thereby frustrating the hearing of such cases. The Head of State De­partment of Public Prose­cution, Taiwo guided pros­ecutors on how to prepare charges against the sus­pects to avoid their matter being thrown out for lack of evidence. POLL He enjoined them to en­sure they use the words used in the sections of the laws to press charges against the suspects. Justice Bankole Akin­wumi in his presentation, urged the agency to inten­sify enlightenment of the public about the existence of the GBV law, noting that a lot of people were not aware of the existence of the law. He suggested that lo­gistics should be made available to gender desks in all security agencies in the state for easy opera­tions. Speaking on the budget­ing for the OSAA-GBV to achieve its goals, Olamide Falana, Special Adviser (Gender Matters), said that provision would be made for taking care of the vic­tims relocated from their homes. She emphasized that the State Government had concluded plans of the con­struction of a home for the adolescent and adults who are victims of domestic vi­olence. Adebowale Olorunmola, Country Director of WFD, assured that the interna­tional agency in collabo­ration with OSAA-GBV would continue to engage all necessary sectors, par­ticularly the media, to en­sure the propagation of the law.