..As VC Solicits Assistance University Medical Sciences, Ondo, Ondo State on Friday inducted first set of graduates with Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery. In his address, the Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Adesegun Fatusi noted that the setting of varsity made it possible to have its academic programme to run without any hitch. He stated that the feat achieved by the varsity inducting Medicine and Surgery graduates is a rare achievements in Nigeria as most institutions experience academic disruption. Prof. Fatusi also disclosed that two sets of nurses, physiotherapists, medical laboratory scientists and basic health scientists were among those inducted. According to him, “First, I give God all the glory for this auspicious occasion of the induction of the first set of products of our Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery programme of our University– the University of Medical Sciences (UNIMED), Ondo. “Today’s induction adds significantly to our achievements so far, including turning out two sets of nurses, two sets of physiotherapists, one set of medical laboratory scientists, and four sets of basic health scientists.” Charging the inductees to be upright in their practice, the vice chancellor urged them to treat their patients as human like themselves. POLL He said: “The induction programme is, by every means, far from a mere ceremony; it marks your official entry into the profession of Medicine. Thus, pay due attention to every word of the Physician’s Pledge, and it shall be well with you in your practice of the profession of Medicine. “It is a privileged calling from the Almighty God, the great and ultimate healer. “Thus, make it your priority to honour him through humane, ethically-sound, compassionate and competent service to your patients. “Your patients are not materials but living beings and creations of God like yourself and you are just privileged to be the physician while they are the patients. But for the grace of God, the physician can easily turn to a patient in a matter of minutes. Thus, always treat each patient as you would have loved to be treated if you had been the patient.” Soliciting assistance for the institution, Prof. Fatusi said the institution needed spacious hall to host events that would be comfortable for about 1,500 persons. “UNIMED needs your support for further development. As you can see, this auditorium is clearly too small for such an event like this. We desire to have a 1,500-capacity auditorium on our main site by February next year to host future graduation and professional inductions. Please, support us to make this dream a reality by donating generously to this initiative – nothing is too small and nothing is too big,” the vice chancellor said. Moreover, there was presentation and launching of a book written by the pioneer Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Friday Okonofua. The book entitled: “Squeezing Water Out Of Stone,” contains what the Vice Chancellor described as “huge and courageous efforts of the pioneer Vice Chancellor in putting the varsity on the right footing. Present at the event are state Commissioner for Health, Dr Banji Awolowo Ajaka, who represented Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, former Governor Olusegun Mimiko, who established the varsity, Vice Chancellor, Prof Olugbenga Ige, VC of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko and many government functionaries.