BENIN – Ruth Evon Benson-Lagos, the daughter of Benson Idahosa, the late Archbishop of Church of God Mission International, has bagged a Special Award for Anti-Human Trafficking Campaign in the United States of America (USA). Ruth Evon Benson-Idahosa’s organization, Pathfinders, focuses on empowering survivors of sex trafficking through transformative programmes that address the root causes of exploitation. Reports had it that Benson-Idahosa’s advocacy efforts have been instrumental in improving anti-trafficking policies and legislation in Nigeria. It was gathered that at the award presentation ceremony, the State Department, Secretary of State, United States of America, Antony Blinken, used the occasion to unveil the release of the 2023 Trafficking Persons Report. The comprehensive report, according to Blinken, assesses 188 countries and territories, including the United States, providing an objective evaluation of their efforts in preventing and addressing human trafficking. He said the primary goal of the report is to highlight successful anti-trafficking initiatives, identify areas for improvement, and ultimately eradicate trafficking worldwide. Blinken emphasized the United States’ unwavering commitment to combating human trafficking, considering it a violation of human rights and personal autonomy. “With over 27 million people still denied their basic rights, the United States stands united with others in the pursuit of ending this heinous crime. POLL “This event served as an occasion to honor the 2023 Tip Report Heroes, recognizing their exceptional contributions in the fight against human trafficking and among the distinguished recipients is Ruth Evon Benson-Idahosa from Nigeria. “Her organization, Pathfinders, focuses on empowering survivors of sex trafficking through transformative programmes that address the root causes of exploitation” the Secretary of State declared. Receiving the award, Benson-Idahosa expressed her gratitude for the recognition, just as she acknowledged the collective efforts of countless individuals who tirelessly work for justice and reconciliation. She, however, shared the tragic story of a victim with the name Faith, a Nigerian woman trafficked and subjected to the horrors of the European sex industry until her untimely death. She said Faith’s ordeal represents the harsh reality faced by thousands of victims and highlighted the urgent need for action. Benson-Idahosa urged world leaders to prioritize reconciliation and adopt a more integrated, intersectional, and interdependent approach in the fight against trafficking. She also called for a shift in consciousness that values the preservation of interests, rights, and dignity for all individuals, emphasizing the importance of amplifying the voices of survivors and local communities. The Nigerian activist also called on governments to address systemic failures and prioritize the well-being of people over profit. She stressed the necessity of inviting those who have been traditionally excluded from participating in decision-making processes to ensure that those most impacted by trafficking have their voices heard. Benson-Idahosa further emphasized the need for compassion, empathy, and long-term commitments to structural transformation, adding that individuals should be encouraged to take small daily actions that promote love, kindness and the collective good, as these efforts contribute to reconciling a world plagued by injustice.