LAGOS  – The new administration in Cross River State has with immediate effect, cancelled the tripartite co­ordination agreement between it and two other companies on its Cally Air aircraft. This is as the State Govern­ment has immediately approved the appointment of Melers Glob­al Resources Limited as the lease manager for the state on its Boe­ing 737-300 with the registration number 5N-BYQ. A document dated June 21, 2023, with the reference number: SSG/GAO/102/VOL.V1/221, signed by Prof. Owan Enoh, the Secretary to the State Govern­ment and obtained by Saturday Independent, revealed the other two contracting firms as Harrier Global Services Limited and Aero Contractors Company. Though the State Government was silent on the reason for the termination of the agreement, but there had been some disagree­ments between Prof. Ben Ayade, the immediate past governor and Sen. Bassey Out, the incumbent governor on the aircraft. The document read in part: “His Excellency, Senator Prince Bassey Edet Otu has approved the immediate cancellation of the tri­partite coordination agreement between Cross River State, Har­rier Global Services Limited and Aero Contractors Company. “Consequently, His Excellen­cy, the Governor has approved the appointment of Melers Global Resources Limited as the Lease Manager for Cross River. The ap­pointment takes effect from June 21. 2023.” Our correspondent learnt that the former governor had wanted to concession the airline to a private firm, a few days before exiting office on May 29, 2023, but the then governor-elect (now the State Governor) kicked against it. The aircraft was managed by Aero Contractors since incep­tion in 2021 when the State Gov­ernment brought in the airplane with a plan to add two more air­craft to it for the commencement of scheduled operations. POLL While the former governor wanted the aircraft to be brought to Calabar for commissioning and eventual “concessioning” exercise, it was learnt that the incumbent suspected foul play in the entire arrangement. The former governor had also earlier in the year listed some of the state’s assets to be conces­sioned to private firms and in­cluded Cally Air as one of such assets. Investigations revealed that the former governor had wanted to concession the aircraft to its consultant and asset manager, IRS Airlines Limited. Also, Aero Contractors, which has been operating and managing the airline since it signed a Memo­randum of Understanding (MoU) with the State Government on April 30, 2021 for operations and maintenance of the airline until recently, is reluctant to release the aircraft to the State Government over an alleged breach of agree­ment by the government. Our correspondent gathered that the government owed Aero Contractors over N900 million for services rendered to it on the operations and maintenance of Cally Air for over 24 months. The MoU was signed among Cross River State Government, IRS Airlines Limited and Aero Contractors for the operation, commercial profit and mainte­nance of two Boeing 737 aircraft. According to the MoU, which was sighted by our correspondent, the Cross River State Government, acquired two airplanes; 5N-BYQ and 5N-GRS, and selected IRS Airlines Limited as its consultant and asset manager, while Aero Contractors was designated as the operator and expected to provide licenses, permits and certificates necessary for the airline to operate a passenger transport aircraft.