LOKOJA  –  The Kogi State Police Command has said an alleged criminal, Kabir Bala alias (Okwo), has been killed in Ejule, Ofu Local Govern­ment Area of the state. The Police Commissioner, Akeem Yusuf, who disclosed this in a press conference held on Thursday in Lokoja, said the notorious criminal had remained unrepentant, with a charge by the State Security Council to go after Kabir Bala and arrest him immediately for prosecution, which led to his death when he opened fire on a joint patrol team of security agencies. The commissioner disclosed that the said Kabir Bala was in October 2018, granted pardon in the prerogative of mercy as part of rehabilitation, but pointed out that the State Security Council meeting held on 20th June 2023 revoked the pardon. The said Kabir Bala the Po­lice Commissioner disclosed, remained an unrepentant crim­inal with lots of atrocities traced to him, stressing that the late Bala and gang had been terrorising the people of the state. He said several cases have been traced to him such as the Burning alive ‘of Mrs. Salome Abu, a PDP woman Leader in Ofu LGA in her residence on 18 November 2019 at Ochadamu, the killing of two Igala youths; Umo­ru Areh and Unekwu Sule on 20” April 2022 at Ejule and killing of five Fulani herders namely Ibra­him, Haruna and Shuaibu along Alloma Road, Ofu LGA in April, 2022 and Muhammed and Dauda at Imoko in Ofu LGA on 3 March, 2023 Other crimes allegedly com­mitted by Kabir Bala and his gang, include “Attack on troops of Nigerian Navy and dispos­sessing them of four rifles at Alloma village on 4th March, 2022. However, the firearms were later returned to the Navy following the high-powered in­tervention. According to the CP, the same criminal allegedly attacked Eli­sha Aya, Pastor and founder of Kingdom Faith Assembly Ejule on 18th March 2022 who later paid N1 million to Bala as a levy for establishing a church. Others are an invasion of the Egane Fulani settlement, burn­ing of 213 huts, rustled 122 cows on December 2022; assault on the Lord’s Chosen Church, Ejule on 29″ January 2023 for disturbing his Hotel with their Service, during which Joy Abuh, a wor­shipper sustained gunshot injury on her left hand, POLL “He was also responsible for seven kidnappings along the Ito­be-Anyigba highway from 5th to 28 May 2023”. Meanwhile, the Commission­er of Police has assured the peo­ple of the state of safety of lives and property and vowed to appre­hend the remaining members of the gang. Items recovered from him include one AK 47 Rifle with three fully loaded magazines, six locally fabricated weapons, two phones and charms.