BENIN – In line with efforts by the Edo State Government to fast-track the development of the Benin Port, bidders for the project have visited and inspected the confluence of the Benin River and Osse River, to assess the site conditions and available facili­ties to support the port. During the visit, the Project Director, Benin Port, Dr. Joe Aigboduwa, who led represen­tatives of the host communities and the Edo State Government officials to the site, said the visit by the bidders is in response to the issued Request for Proposals (RFP) and in continuation of the certified Federal Government procurement process. He said, “In response to the issued Request for Proposals (RFP) and in continuation of the Federal Government approved procurement process under Public-Private Partnership, the internationally pre-qualified bid­ders for the Benin Port Project have conducted site visits to the project location.” According to him, “The 2-day exercise entailed a visit by boat to the foreshores of the site at the confluence of Benin and Osse Rivers on Tuesday 13th June 2023, and a visit by road to the proposed Benin Port dual car­riageway Access Road, through Ekehuan Road on Wednesday 14th June 2023. “The visit afforded bidders the opportunity of physical as­sessment of the site conditions and the available facilities. They expressed satisfaction with what we have on the ground.” He noted: “The team com­prises the Bidders, the Transac­tion Advisers (CPCS Transcom, Canada), representatives of the host communities, and Edo State Government officials. Aigboduwa said, “Bids are due for submission in Abuja by 30th June 2023, following which there would be an evaluation ex­ercise by the Ministerial Project Delivery Team (PDT) under the Chairmanship of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Other members of the PDT include the Federal Ministry of Trans­portation, Federal Ministry of Finance, Federal Ministry of Justice, Infrastructure Conces­sion Regulatory Commission (ICRC), Bureau of Public En­terprise (BPE), the Transaction Advisers, and the Edo State Gov­ernment. He said, “The Benin Port Project is designed to be a unique agro-based Port in Nigeria that encompasses a complete smart Port Community Complex for in­dustrial processing and export of agricultural produce and other goods, with independent clean and renewable energy installa­tions.