ABUJA – Femi Gbajabiamila, outgoing Speaker of the House of Rep­resentatives, on Wednesday lamented that too many young Nigerians have lost faith in the country and are choosing in droves to seek their fortunes and futures in other lands. Gbajabiamila said that fol­lowing this, the country was los­ing some of her best and bright­est, noting that if the leaderships do not act now, the consequences of this loss will shortly become painfully evident. At the valedictory session of the 9th House of Representatives, the outgoing speaker also said the prominent achievements of the House in the last four years were the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), the Electoral Act, 2022, and Police Reforms Act. Gbajabiamila said while the strategic importance of the oil and gas sector to Nigeria’s socioeconomic well-being has long been apparent, successive administrations failed to put in place a functional statutory re­gime to allow that sector to func­tion optimally. He said the 9th Assembly end­ed that legacy of lethargy with the passage of the Petroleum Indus­try Act, the Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts Act which further put the sector on the right footing. “These statutory reforms rightfully ought to have hap­pened a long time ago. Now, we must ensure that the reforms contained in these Acts are du­tifully implemented as part of a broader energy policy suited to the realities of technological advancements and the evolving demands of the global energy market,” the speaker said. Gbajabiamila noted that the House passed the Police Act to change the nature of relations between the police and citizens in the country and ensure that police officers who fall short of their responsibilities can be quickly held accountable. “The Act expressly prohibits police officers from arresting citizens for civil wrongs, impos­es an obligation on the police to inform citizens of their rights at the point of arrest, and mandates the police to ensure that persons arrested have access to their fam­ilies and legal representation. POLL “In addition, the Act estab­lished the Police Complaints Units as a statutory organ acces­sible to the public to report police misconduct and empowered to initiate action when such reports are received,” he said. The speaker also said the 9th Assembly appropriated the sum of N500 million through the National Human Rights Com­mission (NHRC) to compensate victims of police brutality na­tionwide. He said also that the House provided timely intervention to curb the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic through the passage of the Emergency Economic Stimulus Bill to grant companies rebate on Companies Income Tax, suspend import du­ties on medicines, and the Emer­gency Relief and Assistance Bill to provide a limited salary guar­antee for low-income permanent employees of companies regis­tered and operating in Nigeria. Gbajabiamila said while these legislations did not pass in the Senate and never became law, they provided the framework for the Federal Government’s policy response to the pandemic, as the policy ideas contained therein were adopted and variously im­plemented through executive or­ders and subsequent legislations. The speaker said the House also worked to establish, under emergency conditions, a fully functioning care facility in the Federal Capital Territory under the management of the Nation­al Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and intervened to pre­vent potentially devastating strike action by doctors. He said the legislative legacy of the 9th House includes the Compa­nies and Allied Matters Act and the Nigeria Start-Up Act, two crit­ical legislations aimed at changing the way business is done in Nige­ria by streamlining regulations, reducing red tape, and setting the conditions for the private sector to innovate, thrive and grow. “Our legacy also includes the comprehensive electoral reforms in the Electoral Act that have changed forever for good the way we conduct elections in Nigeria. While we recognise the need to continue to work to improve elec­tion management in Nigeria, we must acknowledge the vast im­provements that have happened since the return to democracy. And we take pride in our contri­bution to these improvements over the last four years. “Through the constitution­al review process, the House of Representatives sought to restructure our government to make it more effective, reorgan­ise our politics to make it more inclusive, enshrine efficient mechanisms for holding the in­stitutions of state to account and put an end to the debilitating con­flicts that even now continue to tear our nation apart. “We made an audacious at­tempt to create a constitution that addresses once and for all the fundamental issues that dis­tract from nation-building. The constitutional amendments we enacted devolved power and re­sponsibilities over critical areas of our national life in an effort to spur innovation and healthy com­petition at the subnational level. “By our joint effort, we achieved financial independence for state Houses of Assembly and state judiciary, granting greater au­tonomy to these arms of govern­ment in line with democratic best practice,” Gbajabiamila stated. He regretted that the 9th Assembly did not succeed in re­moving some of the constitution­al barriers that have long stood in the way of women’s full and unhindered participation in the politics, governance and econo­my of the nation and urged the 10th House to take up the mantle and do better. Gbajabiamila also said the 9th House, with unwavering courage and determination, de­fended the rights and dignity of the Nigerian people abroad from every attempt to dehumanise and victimise them. “Our interventions on behalf of Nigerians in China during the pandemic put an end to recur­rent incidents of abuse, just as our efforts on behalf of Nigeri­ans in South Africa and Ghana caused the governments of those nations to step up action to pro­tect the lives and property of our citizens in those countries. “From Ghana to South Af­rica, from China to the United States of America, we made it clear that this parliament will defend the rights of our citizens to conduct their legitimate busi­nesses without fear of molesta­tion and that the wellbeing of Nigerians remains our business whether home or abroad.” Gbajabiamila formally in­formed his colleagues of his appointment by President Bola Tinubu as Chief of Staff and pledged to work in collaboration with the legislature which he is a product of. Meanwhile, a total of 510 bills and 2000 motions/resolutions were passed and got concurrence from the Senate, making it to the president for consideration and assent in the life of the 9th House of Representatives. The Chairman, House Com­mittee on Rules and Business, Abubakar Fulata, disclosed this at the valedictory session. Fulata said the 9th House pro­cessed 2232 bills, out of which 52 are from the executive, 163 are from the Senate and 2017 are pri­vate members bills. “Out of these figures still, bills awaiting second reading are 1197. Bills referred to com­mittees, 581. Bills reported by the committees, 275. Bills pending in the committees, 308. Bills within the Committee of the Whole, 106. Bills laid on table awaiting consideration, 64. Bills far passed 510. Bills killed (negatived), 13 and bills withdrawn by their sponsors, five. “The House also passed 2000 motions in total. Mr. Speaker, all these could not have been achieved without your able lead­ership and that of your deputy, Ahmed Idris Wase, who is also Chairman, Committee of the Whole.”