The process known as arbitrage has been wreaking havoc on our economy by draining our treasury of hard earned foreign exchange that should have been applied in the productive sector of the economy such as provision of infrastructure, health care and education. But owing to a policy of multiple exchange rates of the naira, the rent seekers who are the powerful and privileged persons in the corridors of political power have been fleecing our economy by doing nothing but round trip. It is an unconscionable activity and an unsustainable policy that a former CBN governor, Alh. Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, has been decrying. Arising from that wrongheaded policy (now scrapped in the wake of Tinubunomics) instead of Nigeria being a productive economy, it has been a consumption one. But with the end of the parasitic multiple exchange rates and end of arbitrage, hopefully industries that fled from our country owing to lack of foreign exchange to procure needed materials to produce goods would return with the associated benefits of employment creation and payment of tax to government. Clearly, the policy reforms in the monetary and financial services system would definitely release the bureaucratic chokehold on the growth of the economy that has been inhibiting the flourishing of our country and instead earned it the unenviable reputation of being the poverty capital of the world. And it is being envisaged that the collective positive impact of the multiplicity of the aforementioned policy reforms in the economy would be similar, in particular to the revolution that happened in the telecommunications space after it was opened up to private investors under the watch of ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, 1999- 2007. It may be recalled that it is the liberalization/ privatization policy that triggered the founding of GLO— an indigenous telecommunications services provider owned by Chief Mike Adenuga, and international conglomerates— MTN, Airtel and 9mobile as well as other micro telecommunications services providers like Smile Telecom owned by another indigenous entrepreneur, Ernest Obijiesi (also owner of NestOil) that are major contributors to the GDP and GNP of our country through provision of employment and payment of taxes. POLL Generally, the impact of Tinubunomics which are legion are not only being driven by activation of laws as evidenced by the signing into law of significant Acts of parliament such as the Electricity Act 2023 and Access to Higher Education Act etc, it is also being done by sublime measures such as the spoken policy directions components of the new administration’s Tinubunomics doctrine. These are reflected by the current monetary policy directions of government since the ascendancy of Tinubunomics angels or for lack of a better nomenclature, ambassadors currently ten (10) in number excluding the Chief of Staff to the President, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Senator George Akume, not forgetting Vice President Kashim Shettima and Alh. Hadeija, Deputy Chief of Staff. All of the above catalogued policy initiatives (some of which are already being operationalized) and being driven by aforementioned personalities are bringing about sweeping changes which are sounding like swan songs to both local and international investors and partner countries. The totality of the above measures so far taken under President Tinubu’s watch is what I have branded Tinubunomics. As evidence of the reverberating impact of Tinubunomics across Nigeria and indeed the world, an international validation was recently given during a visit to Vice President Kashim Shettima in Aso Rock Villa, by British High Commissioner, Mr. Richard Montgomery, who acknowledged and commended President Tinubu’s administration for introducing positive policies such as petrol subsidy removal and unification of the multiple exchange rates of the naira. And one of the key factors for the enthusiasm in local and international investors’ community about the gale of reforms being unfurled by the new administration is that somehow, Tinubunomics equates the IMF type of reform conditionalities without the loan. To put the unfolding sociopolitical and economic situation in context, it is necessary that a comparison is made between the reforms that President Tinubu has introduced and the demands usually made by the International Monetary Funds, IMF, when countries seek bail out funds from the Breton woods institution. The recent experience of our neighboring country, Ghana, that just received three billion dollars ($3 billion) from the IMF based on agreement on some economic policies reforms in Ghana is instructive. We are reminded by it of how the imposition of policies as pre-conditions for financial bailout can be demoralizing and dehumanizing. The IMF loan to Ghana is supported by a new three-year arrangement under the Extended Credit Facility (ECF) of about US$3 billion with stiff conditionalities which are like bitter pills that Ghana must swallow in order to survive the financial headwinds that it is facing. Although the loan would induce hardship for Ghanaians, it is deemed as necessary by the government of President Nana Dankwa Akufo- Ado as it is envisioned as a saving grace to our neighbor in West Africa that recently fell into hard times and which has had a contagion effect on the balance sheets of Nigerian banks operating in that country that had to take some haircuts as the losses of their subsidiaries negatively affected their overall performance at home in Nigeria. As it may be recalled, Nigeria had also suffered the dilemma of financial insolvency in the mid- 1980s during the regime of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, IBB, (1985-1993) similar to the situation currently being faced by Ghana. That was what prompted the country to seek a bailout loan from the IMF and some reforms were demanded as preconditions for granting the loan. Some of the conditionalities were very stringent and they were such that the nation balked at taking the loan facility. New York Times reporter, Edward A. Gargan, in his article titled, ‘Nigerian Leader Wary On IMF Loan’, published on October 8, 1985, which is nearly 38 years ago so stated the following about Nigeria and the IMF loan: “As a condition for granting the loan, the IMF has called for Nigeria to devalue its currency, the naira, and end the practice of subsidizing petroleum products for consumers. At the official rate of exchange, the naira is equivalent to $1.08, but on the black market here in Lagos money changers are selling naira for as much as four to the dollar. “Smuggling is rampant. The tremendous disparity between the official and unofficial exchange rate has led to rampant smuggling and has sharply curtailed Nigeria’s ability to sell manufactured goods abroad”, he noted. “Moreover, gasoline in Nigeria remains the cheapest in Africa – less than $1 a gallon at the official rate and about 25 cents a gallon at black market rates. Today, General Babangida refused to say whether oil subsidies would be lifted, and virtually ruled out any sharp devaluation of the nation’s currency”, the reporter concluded. Is it not amazing that it is exactly the situation that was existing in Nigeria nearly four decades ago, and for which the IMF demanded that Nigeria should make some tough decisions to change as preconditions for granting her a bailout loan under the watch of military president, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida? Clearly, it is a crying shame that the absurd situation had persisted until President Tinubu ended petrol subsidy on 29 May. Prior to President Tinubu’s bold action, none of Nigeria’s leaders had been able to figuratively swallow the bitter pills of petrol subsidy removal in order for the nation to regain its compromised financial health. The roll call of Nigerian military heads of state and presidents that could not muster the courage to remove petrol subsidy go all the way from the regime of Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, IBB, to Gen. Sani Abacha. That seemingly insurmountable challenge is the task that President Tinubu carried out with his unscripted pronouncement on the removal of petrol subsidy on the day of his inauguration— petrol subsidy has ended. He has subsequently implemented the policy of unifying the multiple naira exchange rates into one, thus ending the hemorrhaging of our country’s foreign exchange treasury hitherto used in propping up the naira to the self-benefits of a few individuals on Aso Rock Villa corridors of power. By so doing he has literally killed the two werewolf-like monsters sucking the blood of Nigeria via payment of petrol subsidy and operation of multiple platforms and rates for exchanging the naira that had been gulping billions of dollars earned from the sale of crude oil and gas. As it may be recalled, instead of taking the IMF loan in 1985/86, the administration under the leadership of IBB, after a thorough public debate about the desirability or otherwise of the loan under the conditionalities and terms proposed by the IMF, opted out and settled for a home grown alternative–Structural Adjustment Program, SAP, which is self-imposed tough reform policies. Basically, SAP was about belt tightening by way of plugging all the fundamental leakages in the economy. Unfortunately, its implementation was not diligent as it was haphazard and inconsistent, hence it failed to achieve its lofty objectives. Today, most of the prevailing challenges that Tinubunomics has taken care of or addressed frontally and aggressively, echo the issues that SAP program of 1985/6 ought to have resolved, but owing to poor implementation since more or less four decades ago, our economy has remained in the doldrums and Nigerian masses shackled. With the actions so far taken by President Tinubu in less than four (4) weeks of holding the reins of presidential power, ranging from the appointments of Chief of Staff to the President, CoS, Femi Gbajabiamila; Deputy Chief of Staff, Ibrahim Hassan Hadeija, and Secretary to the Government of Federation, SGF, Senator George Akume, hope appear to have been renewed that Nigeria is on the cusp of a rebirth. Having put IMF conditionalities in perspective, let us commence the appraisal of Tinubunomics by taking a cursory look at the series of actions of President Tinubu in less than four (4) week of his presidency. Focusing on the team that would help him develop on his Renewed Hope promise, one of the critical actions that he has taken is the appointment of some critical aids designated as special advisers in strategic areas that would be engaging the attention of Nigeria’s new leader, President Tinubu. X-raying the caliber of people that he has appointed as core members of his team is critical because it would reflect the quality of the decisions that he has made so far that have created ripple effects. The policies that have had seismic effects range from the first which is the dramatic announcement of the end of petrol subsidy in the course of making his maiden speech as president on May 29 to the current pronouncements and more appointments of key officials that have combined to earn his policies the sobriquet, Tinubunomics. Let us recall that the penultimate Senate President of the 9th National Assembly, NASS, Ahmad Lawan, had on June 6 read out on the floor of the Senate a letter from President Buhari requesting for their approval of 20 special advisers for him. It was noted by the senators that the names and roles to be played by the potential appointees were not specified in the letter. But in the spirit of the new beginning, the list was approved as requested. And President Tinubu has not disappointed the Senate that gave him a carte blanche and indeed the electorate by appointing ten (10) thorough bred professionals into the role of special advisers which represents half of the 20 approved by the legislators in the upper chamber for him. The new special advisers who some pundits have aptly dubbed the members of the president’s ‘kitchen cabinet’ comprise of old timers and new comers. And I would like to describe them as new and old wines in a new bottle with Tinubu’s presidency being the new bottle. A typical old wine in the new bottle is Mr. Dele Alake, who is now Special Adviser, Special Duties, Communications and Strategy. He is characterized as old wine because he is one of the long standing Tinubu devotees, having served as Commissioner for Information and Strategy during President Tinubu’s tour of duty as governor of Lagos State, 1999-2007. Since then, he has remained steadfastly connected to President Tinubu through thick and thin to the extent that Mr. Alake has become a sort of right arm of the two (2) arms of Asiwaju Tinubu, and not just a right hand man. A manifestation of the metaphorical description above happened during then presidential candidate Tinubu’s Chatham House outing on December 5, last year, whereby Mr. Alake (amongst a couple of other close associates of Tinubu) was assigned the role of responding to some questions posed by Chatham House panelists. In light of the above, the new special adviser’s prime role in the unfolding federal cabinet is unsurprising as it had been long in coming. And having been assigned a role officially, his authenticity as the man that has the ears of the president is no longer in doubt. The situation whereby Mr. Alake was challenged by the organized labor, NLC led by Comrade Joe Ajaero by questioning his role as a negotiator on behalf of government in the aftermath of the removal of petrol subsidy would no longer happen. Mr. Joe Ajaero, NLC President, had during the first meeting after petrol subsidy removal was announced, stated publicly that he was not interested in negotiating with Mr. Alake because he could not fathom in what capacity he was acting. That snide remark would not be repeated going forward because it has become clear that Mr. Alake is the mouth piece and a key strategist for President Tinubu, therefore a powerful factor in Tinubunomics. Another special adviser whose pedigree has its roots running all the way to President Tinubu’s political origin as governor of Lagos State is Mr. Wale Edun. Like Mr. Alake, he too has remained with Mr. President till date, even after his reign as governor of Lagos State from 1999-2007. He is a consummate investment banker with a rich pedigree that runs deep as an alumni of foremost United States of America, USA, investment banks— Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs. Mr. Edun after introducing innovative measures that enabled Lagos State to ramp up internally generated revenue from a mere N600 million monthly about two (2) decades ago to the billions level, after which the current administration took it to the region of N50 billion, had stepped aside from the role of finance commissioner in the wee days of Asiwaju Tinubu’s tenure as governor of Lagos State to play more active role in the private sector where he founded and operated Denham Capital.