The president of the National Association of Blockmoulders of Nigeria (NABMON), Adesegun Banjoko, stated that the association has perfected plans to build block moulders in Lagos. Banjoko, while felicitating with the association’s Muslim faithfuls also charged them to demonstrate their faith with a sacrificial disposition for the development of their homes, the association and the country at large. He stated that they all have to develop a sacrificial attitude in their contributions towards the association both morally and financially for a greater tomorrow. To this end, Banjoko indicated that every state chapter, is hereby enjoined to embrace the spirit and habit of fulfilling all necessary obligations to NABMON as at when due, for their corporate growth and sustainability. He also used the occasion to disclose that in December 2022, the association with other artisans and technicians associations in Nigeria collaborated in the formation of the Association of Nigerian Artisans and Technicians (ASNAT). The event according to him, took place at Project 774 House, Ralph Shodeinde Street, opposite Edo House, Central Business District, Abuja. “ASNAT, having examined the manifesto of the Tinubu candidacy for national, technical and industrial revolution, supported and worked for his presidential ambition with our operation 30:30, (a strategic voting pattern), which yielded over 5million votes for our candidate to emerge as the winner of the election. “Therefore, our central association, ASNAT, is well connected with the present administration, and we are waiting for the inauguration of the Federal Executives Council to know how to key into the administration’s wheel of progress for the dividends of democracy for ASNAT.” POLL The NABMON president therefore, urged all state chapters of their association nationwide to key into the ASNAT state chapters to be well positioned for the blessings of the current administration. He assured them of information update. He hinted that the issue of a befitting ultramodern corporate headquarters for NABMON in Lagos was engaging the attention of the present administration. “Accordingly, a land in a suitably accessible location has been identified for the project in Ikorodu, Lagos State, to be followed by all the necessary acquisition steps.”