EFFURUN – Host Communities of Nigeria (Producing Oil & Gas) Delta State chapter, have said that the immediate past governor of Del­ta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa did not divert or misappropriate the 13% Derivation funds coming to Delta State. The group made up of Itseki­ri, Ijaw, Urhobo, Ndokwa, and Ika ethnic nationalities made this statement in Effurun, Uvwie lo­cal Government Area of the state during a press briefing, they gave Okowa the thumbs up for man­aging the 13% Derivation well in the state. It could be recalled that last week, members of Oil and Gas Producing Communities of Delta State stormed the headquarters of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)to demand for the probe and inves­tigation of the immediate past Governor of Delta State, Sen­ator Dr Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa for alleged illegal and unlawful diversion of host communities 13% oil derivation funds. But the State Chairman of the group, Comrade Sunday Enu­jeke, said, “the funds earmarked for the development of oil and gas bearing communities have been judiciously used to the best of our knowledge and we unequivocally say that Senator Dr Okowa has done very well.” He added that the allegations of alleged misappropriation of the 50% accruable to Delta State Oil Producing Areas Develop­ment Commission (DESOPA­DEC) from the 13% Derivation Fund by Okowa was a calculat­ed attempt to mislead, confuse, and incite the unsuspecting public against the person of Dr. Okowa. According to Enujeke, “we have observed with great con­cern and consternation, the or­chestrated campaign of calumny against the immediate past Gov­ernor of Delta State, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, concerning the alleged misappropriation of the 50% accruable to Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) from the 13% Derivation Fund. “There is a deliberate attempt to distort the facts, misinform, and hoodwink the populace into fighting their proxy war against the past Governor.” They added, “we are a regis­tered body in Nigeria with RC number:23281 and saddled with the responsibility of advocating for accelerated development across the Oil and Gas commu­nities of Delta State particularly, and Nigeria in general. As the name implies, we have the man­date to give the public first-hand information as it relates to the us­age of our common patrimony which is the 13% Derivation, as it relates to Delta State.” POLL The group spoke further, “we can state without any fear of contradiction that the funds ear­marked for the development of oil and gas bearing communities has been judiciously used to the best of our knowledge and we unequivocally say that Senator Dr Okowa has done very well.” Enujeke reeled out some of the ongoing and completed projects carried out by the Dr Ifeanyi Okowa led adminis­tration to include, the 20.29km Obotoho 1-Obotobo II-Sokebo­lou-Yokri-Road in Burunu Local Government Area, the multi billion naira Ogheye Floating Market in Warri North Local Government Area. Ogulagha township roads in Burutu Local Government Area, Okerenkoko Township Roads in Warri South West Local Government Area.