ASABA – UNESCO Laureate and Vice Chancellor, Crown University Int’l Chartered Inc., USA, Professor Bashiru Aremu, has been invited by United Nations Global Compact to join forces with the body in building a formidable movement of sustainable companies and stakeholders to accelerate action on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) or agenda 2030. Prof Aremu made this remark today on Saturday, June 3, 2023, in a press statement made available to a group of journalists in Asaba, Delta State capital by UNESCO Laureate’s Executive Assistant On Media, Publicity and Communication Matters, Comrade Sir Bieni Victor Emenike as Prof Aremu Commended gesture, enjoined stakeholders on meeting Agenda 2030. Aremu, while expressing optimism over the development, commended the initiative of the leadership of UN Global Compact toward the attainment of Agenda 2030. UN Global Compact in a letter of invitation signed by the group’s Assistant Secretary-General and CEO, Sanda Ojiambo, to UNESCO Laureate to attend the Global SDGs Leaders’ Summit reads in parts: “For more than 20 years, the United Nations Global Compact has built a global movement of sustainable companies and stakeholders. “Now, we need leaders like you to take this movement to the next level. Please join us at the Leaders Summit of the UN Global Compact at the Javits Center in New York on 19 September 2023 to recommit and accelerate action on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “As we approach the mid-point of implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, a clear message has emerged: Governments and businesses are making progress, but not nearly at the pace and scale needed. The converging crises of climate change, a deadly global pandemic, worsening social and economic inequality, unchecked corruption and the devastating consequences of the war in Ukraine have caused unprecedented disruption and global transformation. “The good news is that it is still possible to achieve the SDGs by 2030 but it will take urgent, scalable multi-stakeholder action to dramatically accelerate progress. It will require that we take a clear stand and demonstrate bold leadership to transform business models and economies so they become more just and inclusive — leaving no one behind. “The Leaders Summit is our opportunity to comprehensively review the private sector’s contribution to advancing the SDGs and explore business leadership during converging crises, the critical role of a principle-based approach, global trends, and tools and partnerships needed to achieve the 2030 Agenda fully. POLL “This inclusive day-long event aims to inspire and challenge organizations to set measurable, credible and ambitious targets aligned with five systemic areas — living wage, climate change, water stewardship, gender equality and SDG investments. “We hope you will join us on 19 September for inspiring plenary sessions, interactive breakout sessions, a bustling activation hub featuring UN partners, and a networking lunch and reception. Meet forward-thinking business leaders and help deliver the SDGs. The time to act is NOW.” UNESCO Laureate in a statement reacting to the above invitation by UN Global Compact stated: “As one of the stakeholders in Global SDGs or Agenda 2030 attainment by all countries of the world, I must commend your invitation and Initiative towards the attainment of Agenda 2030. “I hereby urge all stakeholders to work towards timely attainment of Agenda 2030 or global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).”