……Calls for Investigation and Prosecution of Perpetuator and ensure justice The Nigerian House of Representatives on Tuesday mandated the Commandant of Special Task Force to investigate the Killing of Kenneth Gyang and ensure justice is given with compensation to his family and proper medical care for the injured. The House also observed a one-minute silence in solemn respect to the victim who lost his life during the incident. The resolution of the House was passed sequel to a motion of Urgent Public Importance sponsored in the plenary by Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos, (PDP, Plateau). In moving the motion, Bagos noted that due to the rate of insecurity and killing of innocent souls in Nigeria, the government should put in place security checkpoints on several roads across the country to checkmate the insecurity. The lawmakers said that there have been in the past complaints by citizens of being harassed or molested by Security personnel at checkpoints. He also noted that yesterday the 5th of June, 2023 there was unrest at a security checkpoint in Maraban Jama’a vwei, Kuru between the Security and some of my constituents who were on their way for the funeral but were stopped by the Security personnel of the Special Task Force (Operation Safe Haven) stationed at the popular Vwei (Mararaban Jama’a) Kuru Jos South LGA of Plateau State. According to the Lawmaker: The people pleaded with the Security personnel to allow them go to the mortuary to pick up the corpse of their deceased for burial and were only allowed access after an intense plea. POLL In adopting the morning, the House was further aware that on their way coming back from the mortuary heading to church for the funeral service the same Security personnel stopped them at the checkpoint denying them the right of access, while some youths on bikes came down to plead with the Security personnel, which one amongst the Security personnel shot two of the youths thereby killing one 18 Year Old Mr. Kenneth Gyang and injuring one Emmanuel Pam, the victims were among the mourners conveying corpse from Zawan to Kuru for burial. “The House is concerned that thereafter the Security personnel started shooting sporadically scaring all persons in the community, thereby making people abandon their businesses and vehicles in search of safety. “Also concerned that funeral processions have never had such confrontation or prohibition either by order or convention from the security agents at this or any other checkpoint in Jos and its environs. The arbitrary killing of an innocent “The House, therefore, worried that Kenneth, a promising young man had his precious and sacred life untimely terminated by an officer that ought to have guaranteed his safety.