Chelsea are expected to push for a move to sign Moises Caicedo from Brighton in the upcoming summer transfer window, football.london understands. The Blues tried to sign the 21-year-old midfielder over the January transfer window but were rebuffed in their efforts by the Seagulls. A few months on, however, and Chelsea are set to once again try and sign the Ecuador international, who is thought to be keen on leaving the Amex Stadium despite extending his contract on the south coast in March. The centre of midfield at Chelsea is an area that is set to see multiple incomings and outgoings over the summer. Ruben Loftus-Cheek is close to signing for AC Milan, a source has told football.london, while Manchester City are trying to bring Mateo Kovacic to the Etihad Stadium, with Mason Mount also looking increasingly likely to leave the club. N’Golo Kante sees his contract at Stamford Bridge expire at the end of the month and while there was plenty of optimism a few weeks ago, as we approach the end of his deal, things have become pretty quiet on that front. It remains to be seen whether the France international, who is now 32 years old, will be playing his football in west London by the time the 2023/24 season is upon us. Meanwhile, Chelsea remain in talks with Sporting CP over a possible move for midfielder Manuel Ugarte. There is a growing confidence from the Blues’ side that a deal can be done for the 22-year-old but personal terms have not been agreed just yet, football.london understands. Chelsea are prepared to pay Ugarte’s £52million release clause in his Sporting contract, but with Paris Saint-Germain, who can offer the midfielder Champions League football, also interested, it makes things a little bit more complicated. As mentioned, however, there is confidence from Chelsea that they will be able to get a move done for the Uruguay international. Incoming head coach Mauricio Pochettino begins his new role officially at the start of next month. While his squad won’t be final by the time he takes the reigns, the Argentine will be hoping there is a clear plan in place in terms of who will be coming in and leaving Chelsea over the summer transfer window.