Amid the speculation that the Vice President, Kashim Shettima may be behind t Hon. Mukta Betara’s ambition for the 10th assembly Speaker,a lawmaker and confidant of Borno State-born Reps member has revealed that indeed the Vice President is the first opposition opposed his ambition Hon. Malik Salihu who spoke to some journalists in Abuja said the Vice President had done everything possible, including mobilizing Traditional leaders to compel Betara to step down his ambition. The speculation got traction considering what happened in the last dispensation where the South West produced both the VP and the Speaker of the House of Representatives against all odds. Many have therefore argued that Shettima is seeking a reversal of the political calculation and therefore maybe surreptitiously pushing Betara for the seat. Hon Salihu who is one of Betara staunch supporters for Speakership, said that the Vice President confided in some persons that he would never allow Betara to become Speaker because it would undermine his influence and leadership in Borno State and North East generally. The former Honourable member, quoting sources close to the VP,, claimed that the emergence of Betara would stoke some unnecessary rivalry in the political leadership of the zone . Informed of the speculated support which some claim Betara may be enjoying from the VP which which they people believe is one reason Betera’s campaign has endured despite obstacles,. the lawmaker said, “l am telling you that the day before yesterday – that is two days ago – the Chief of Biu and one Chief of Askiria Uba in Southern Borno and Betera’s elder brother were summoned by the Vice President to impress it upon him (Hon. Betara) to step down. “Let me tell you that the Vice President confided in someone that how can he today land in Borno with a Presidential jet and Betara as the Speaker also lands with another Presidential jet and motorcades and everything, that he will not allow that to happen because there cannot be two masters at the same time. POLL “Unfortunately, Hon. Betara is resolute on his ambition and cannot be dissuaded. He is not driven on personal interest but on the interest of his colleagues who believe in his ability to lead to 10th House of Representatives.” Aside Betera, Hon. Idris Wase, Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, Hon. Sani Jaji, Hon. Benjamin Kalu, Hon. Yusuf Gagdi and Hon. Miriam Onuoha are all vying to replace retiring Femi Gbajabiamila.