NNEWI  – Charles Soludo, the Anambra State Governor has urged the State House of Assembly to work as a team with the exec­utive arm of government for development of the state. Soludo stated this at the in­auguration of the 8th Assem­bly earlier in the week. Rt. Honorable Someto­chukwu Udeze who rep­resents Ogbaru 2 Constit­uency and the member representing Awka South 2 Constituency in the Anam­bra State House of Assembly, Honorable Chukwuma Okoye were elected Speaker and Dep­uty Speaker, respectively of the state assembly. Udeze and Okoye were unanimously elected through a voice vote. In his address, Soludo who expressed gratitude for the smooth manner the elec­tion was conducted, congrat­ulated the speaker, deputy speaker, and all the newly elected members, observing that the swearing-in ceremo­ny and administering of the oath of office and allegiance marked a turning point in his administration’s effort to cre­ate liveable and prosperous Anambra. The governor emphasised that with the reconstitution of the assembly, a new partner­ship had emerged that would form a team for a prosperous Anambra State. “We all share the same am­bition and goal. Four political parties are represented in this Assembly, but we are all employees of the people, to serve and carry out their will, together with the Executive and Judiciary for the goal of One Anambra, one people and one agenda. “It’s like a vehicle, whichev­er political party it was that brought you to this hallowed chamber, you leave the car in the parking lot before en­tering the assembly. Project Anambra is the only political party that unites us,” Soludo stated. POLL Soludo maintained that in order to serve the people of Anambra, the three arms of government must cooper­ate, hoping that the eighth assembly would be the most productive one ever held in Nigeria. “To provide a liveable and prosperous Anambra, we have a comprehensive list of legislative frameworks. “I can sense the energy in this chamber, and I’m asking you all to keep it up so that this Assembly can grow for the benefit of the state. “We are the light of the na­tion, and that light will never go out. Reread your oath of of­fice and allegiance and paste it on your walls at home”, Solu­do advised