The compulsory insurance received a boost last week as the management of Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) led by the Director, Development Control at the Federal Capital Territory Administration, Mukhtar Galadima mni, paid a courtesy visit to the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). The team which went on a mission to seek collaboration with the insurance regulator was received by the Commissioner for Insurance, Olorundare Sunday Thomas, and his management team. The purpose of the visit, according to a statement by Rasaaq Salami, Deputy Director, Corporate Communications unit of the commission, was to explore areas of collaborations in order to enforce compliance by building developers and occupiers of public buildings with sections 64 & 65 of the Insurance Act 2003. The meeting with the two agencies, it was gathered, received the blessing of the duo as a joint committee to work out the modalities for the enforcement of these compulsory insurances within the FCT was setup. The commission had earlier in the month played host to the management of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) led by its Director General/CEO, Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, who was on a courtesy visit to the NAICOM. The purpose of the visit, it was learned,was to activate the process of institutionalizing cyber insurance to help strengthen the digital ecosystem in Nigeria. The two agencies had discussed the enormous benefits to the nation and have agreed to partner to ensure it is realised. In a separate development, Olorundare Sunday Thomas, the Commissioner for Insurance and Chief Executive Officer of the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Nigeria received an award from the College of Insurance Supervisors of West African Monetary Zone (CISWAMZ) at its 5th meeting of the College in Abuja. The award was in recognition of Mr. Thomas’s pioneering role in the establishment and eventual take-off of the college as Chairman of the West Africa Insurance Supervisors Association (WAISA). Also honoured was Mr. Pius Agboola, the Director Inspectorate at NAICOM who served as the pioneer Chairman of the College.