AWKA – A group of Anambra citizens under the auspices of Anambra Demand Soludo (ADS) has commended Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo for his community development strides, saying that the governor is meeting the expectations of the people. The commendations which came in torrents during the group’s reunion meeting held in Awka, were evidence of eloquent testimonies of what the governor is doing in their respective communities. ADS which is now championing Consolidation and Continuity, jointly passed a vote of confidence on the governor, saying that with the current trajectory of massive infrastructural development across the state, there was need to support Governor Soludo in his mission to enthrone a liveable, lovable and prosperous state for the citizenry. Prince Ikechukwu Umeanuba who said he was the immediate past secretary of Nnewi-South Local Government Area, recalled that sometime ago hoodlums invaded the council secretariat at Ukpor and burnt all the buildings inside the secretariat complex. But he expressed happiness that Governor Soludo has rebuilt all the structures destroyed by hoodlums and also added new structures to give the council secretariat a befitting status, adding that in no distant time the new Nnewi-South Secretariat Complex will be operational. Umeanuba equally disclosed that there is a very deep gully erosion site at Ebenato in Nnewi-South. He was happy too that the governor is frontally tackling the erosion menace. Umeanuba who stated that Nnewi-South is suffering imported violence because it is a border local government between Imo state, maintained that Gov. Soludo has beefed up security in the area and Nnewi-South is beginning to enjoy a peaceful and tranquil atmosphere because hoodlums no longer disturbed the area. He said the governor is just a year and few months in office with tangible achievements already; that if the governor continues in that trajectory, Anambra State would become Alice in wonderland in the next 8 years, which is why ADS is already championing his continuity in office. POLL On the other hand, Amechi Joshua who is the ADS coordinator in Onitsha-South Local Government Area, also brought good tidings of Soludo’s impact in the area. Joshua said that Niger Road which has been neglected and forlorned for so long has been constructed and completed by the present administration. He equally mentioned that Nwangene Bridge has been completed too. He said the people of Onitsha-South are now very happy that Niger Road which is the only road that connects the entire Onitsha-South to Main Market is finally fit for public use courtesy of Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo after many long years of dilapidation and abandonment by previous administrations in the state. The immediate past education secretary Ekwusigo Local Government Education Authority and currently the National Woman Leader of Anambra Demand Soludo (ADS) Mrs. Eucharia Orazulike also poured encomiums on Gov. Soludo, saying that the governor has mapped out three roads to be constructed in the area. Mrs. Orazulike who mentioned that past administrations abandoned Ozubulu-Ukpor road; said Soludo has completed it with drainages on both sides of the road. She said Ozubulu-Ihembosi-Ukpor road has been abandoned for years by successive governments in Anambra coupled with its attendant erosion menace but according to her, Soludo came and flagged the road off for construction. She confirmed that work is ongoing on the road and people are happy because Soludo’s government remembered them. Mrs. Orazulike equally hailed Soludo for intervening on Ozubulu-Atani road, noting that the governor has caused a sigh of relief for the people as they can now travel on a smooth straight road from Ekwusigo to Ogbaru where they get food stuffs and other agricultural produce instead of the former merry-go-round they suffered before they can access Ogbaru from Ekwusigo. Meanwhile Akuabata who hails from Isuofia in Aguata Local Government Area of the State said Soludo’s policy thrust are not discriminatory as he has extended his transformational leadership style to every nook and cranny of Anambra State. Akuabata noted that the governor ventured into capital projects, human development programmes and that the governor has turned the entire State into a construction site supervising projects himself. She said what is happening in Isuofia community is the same thing happening in other communities because Soludo made it categorically clear upon inception that he is a governor for all. Furthermore, the Transition Committee Chairman of Dunukofia Local Government Area Hon. Onyemaobi Augustine Nonyelum, who is also a product of the ADS family, in his few remarks during the meeting described Soludo as a continuous demand. Onyemaobi said in Dunukofia where he is the Mayor, the Solution Agenda is about localising governance. He said the Soludo Agricultural Revolution is making waves in Dunukofia and that road constructions are in progress as the governor also plans to flagoff Ukpo-Nawgu-Isuaniocha-Nando-Ikem road in no distant time. Also the Secretary of ADS Orumba-North and South Dr. Raymond Ofor opined that the principal thing Soludo did was to link Orumba-North and South to Awka through Awa to Amansea such that all the communities in Orumba no longer embarked on merry go round to come to the capital city. Ofor said Gov. Soludo is doing another road from Ajali to Orumba-south and another road from Ezira to Umuomaku. The road from Ndiukwuenu through Okpeze and Awgbu will also be constructed as the governor has assured, adding that the entire Orumba is grateful to the governor even as he mentioned too that the Chief of Staff to the governor is from Orumba-North. He equally disclosed that ADS championed election of the governor; that having elected the governor, there was need to help consolidate his administration. If they help to consolidate his administration and the governor does very well, the people of Anambra State will ask him to continue. Hon. Prince Okwudili Ezeaku, the coordinator ADS Onitsha in Anambra-North senatorial zone, said Akpaka road in the area has been impassable for years and that hoodlums capitalised on the deplorable condition of the road to unleash terror and mayhem on people in the area but he expressed relief that the timely intervention of Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo has changed the situation. He said the road in question has been fixed and people in the area are happy with the development. That the governor has done a lot in 33 and the entire Onitsha-North. According to the Managing Director of the Anambra Broadcasting Service (ABS) Mr. Chido Obidiegwu, the ADS is a composition of people from different walks of life coming together to cross pollinate ideas as well as pull resources together for a common goal as he said that the era of individualism is gone. He said ADS championing Consolidation and Continuity for Soludo is in the right direction because Anambra people demanded for Soludo and he is currently on the wheels. He said there was need to support him to consolidate and continue to enable him achieve his dream for Anambra State. Again, Pastor Dr. Ogochukwu Soludo who harped on a number of issues, announced that the ADS Multi-Purpose Cooperative would celebrate its one year anniversary on 30th June, 2023. He also added that the cooperative has been very beneficial to ADS members. Meanwhile, the Chairman Anambra Demand Soludo (ADS) Sir Jude Okechukwu Emecheta noted that the purpose of the meeting was to have a reunion for ADS members who worked for the enthronement of Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo as governor of Anambra State. Emecheta also noted that one year down the line, Soludo has done more than what they all envisaged. So the reunion meeting of the ADS he said became necessary so as to extol the governor’s efforts so far and to tell themselves that they didn’t make any mistakes electing him into office. Emecheta observed that for the very first time in Anambra State contractors are working in the rains in order to deliver projects in record time unlike in the past when the rainy season was an excuse to delay or abandon road projects. He also testified that security in Anambra State is good when compared with what happens in other climbs, noting that with time the evil called insecurity will be curtailed. He said Soludo needs to consolidate and continue with what he is doing as the Constitution allows him for 8 years; that irrespective of the odds, they envisage that Soludo would run 8 years in office uninterrupted. Emecheta who opted to handover to a younger person since the Soludo administration is youth inclined, got stiff opposition from the members who instantly moved a motion of vote of confidence and insisted he continues for atleast to the reelection of Mr Governor. The decision was spontaneous and overwhelmingly agreed upon.