…As UNESCO Laureate, Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu Sends Special Greetings To Nigerians, Africans, Felicitates With The World At Large. …… VC CUICI, USA Urges Fathers On Good Children Upbringing, Parental Responsibility, Lead The Way For A Greater Tomorrow, Conferred H.R.H Duke of Kingdom of Atlantis in Singapore, UNESCO Laureate and Vice-Chancellor, Crown University Int’l Chartered Inc. In, USA which is teaching and research hospital campuses is located in Santa Cruz Province in Argentina, Brazil, South America, Spain and other official partner constituents campuses at government regulated Universities world-wide and online operation, Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu, has enjoined Fathers to ensure that they help in total eradication of social vices, promote good children upbringing, ward imbibe good parental care as part of their responsibility to lead the way for a greater tomorrow for the upcoming generation as he sends special greetings to Nigerians, Africans, felicitates with the world at large. The media learnt this from UNESCO Laureate and CUICI VC on International Fathers’ Day 2023 as the world celebrates today being June 18, 2023, which was made available to some group of Journalists in Asaba Delta State capital by UNESCO Laureate’s Executive Assistant On Media Publicity and Communication Matters, Comrade Sir Bieni Victor Emenike as Prof Aremu tasks fathers on good child upbringing to curtail social vices. UNESCO Laureate while congratulating fathers today being international father’s day celebration stated that the duty of fathers in the home is quite multi-tasking, challenging, energy- sapping and involving as he urged them to strive to give sense of direction, make sacrifices provide the needed leadership and protection- Spiritually, physically, emotionally and financially to their families. Prof Aremu who calls for a sober reflection on the roles of fathers in the world used medium to wish fathers the very best in all their lives endeavors as they celebrate today. He also, sends special greetings to Nigerians, African,students of his various higher Institutions all over the world on the auspicious day of International Fathers’ Day celebration and then felicitate with his Fellows green academia in the world at large. The statement by UNESCO Laureate and VC CUICI, USA reads in parts: “The duty of fathers in the home is quite enormous, multi- tasking, energy sapping and involving, hence calls for, the reason for every support and encouragement available. To all fathers, as you strive to protect, provide and give your families the needed Leadership spiritually, physically, emotionally and financially, May your sense of direction and sacrifice never fail”. “This Generation looks Upto us as Fathers to Honestly and Earnestly lead the way towards a greater tomorrow for the upcoming generations. In the real economic sense, this opportunity calls for sober reflection on the expected roles of fathers in the world at large and Nigeria in general, towards eliminating drug abuse, Kidnapping, Robbery, brigandage,cultism,Occultism and violence, among other vices”. POLL ” I pray to God, Almighty Allah to grant good health to all responsible fathers, who will not show their children the short cuts to success. As we celebrate this year’s fathers’ Day, May we all live longer to experience love, joy and the beauty of family which all Prophets of God show us as examples”. On behalf of the following organizations:Crown University Int’l Chartered Inc,West Coast Int’l University of Science, Technology, Management and Arts formerly known as West Coast University United States of America,, Chartered Int’l Da Vinci University, University of Nations for Quality Education, International Chartered World Learned Society, Chartered World Order of Knights of Justice of Peace and others world wide and All my fans, supporters in world at large I Congratulate you all and wish you all Happy Fathers’ Day Celebration! UNESCO Laureate Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu.