AKURE – The notable improvement in the provision of infrastructural facilities by Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has been ascribed to the decrease in the rate of road accidents in the state. Sector Commander of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ondo State Command, Ezekiel SonAllah, disclosed this on Monday when he played host to the executive of the state council of Nigeria Union of Journalists(NUJ) in his office in Akure. He noted that Governor Akeredolu fput in place infrastructure facilities, especially quality roads that could stand the test of time for the use of motorists and people of the state. SonAllah emphasised that other governors in other states should emulate Governor Akeredolu so that there would drastic decrease in the rate of road crashes in their states. According to him, “I want to thank the Governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for his giant strides in the areas of infrastructure development. “It is one of the reasons why we record low crashes. Our roads here in Ondo State are very good which has led to the reduction of crashes in the state. “Since road traffic accidents are the leading cause of death by injury and the tenth-leading cause of all deaths globally, we need to shift our mindset to upgrading our infrastructure quickly.” The Sector Commander, therefore, called for urgent attention to deplorable roads across the country, asking all appropriate authorities to give attention to road maintenance as part of measures to make Nigerians roads safer and prevent carnage. POLL He said: “Our public enlightenment programme too is yielding a positive results and we will continue to partner with you media because there is no how people will get to us without listening to your own side of the story. “Let me specifically commend journalists in the state for giving us the maximum cooperation as regards their reportage. So we need you to help us enlighten the people and we will strengthen the relationship with NUJ in order to save lives on the highway. “Also, we always do talk to our men on the need to be always very serious while on the roads because not all the people they meet on the roads are not criminals. Everybody should be treated with respect.” In his statement, the Chairman, Ondo State Council of NUJ, Comrade Adeleke Adegbite, assured the Sector Commander of unflinching support of the union to FRSC to ensure safer roads in the state. He noted that the services of the FRSC are humanitarian, adding that the union would continue to help promote values that would make the roads safer. Adegbite, therefore, said the union ready to work with the FRSC in all its programmes, particularly sensitization programmes for the road users.