The President of the Committee for Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Dr. Obayuwana Osagie, speaks with JOY ANIGBOGU in this interview. According to him, poverty is a threat to Nigeria’s democracy. The lawyer noted that there must be an intentional effort on the part of the government to address the issue of poverty. Excerpts: What are your thoughts about the state of the nation? Nigeria is presently the poverty capital of the world in the sense that the number of those living under the poverty line measured by the size of our population is huge. It has been established that over 75 percent of the populace are living under multidimensional poverty, lack of housing, poor quality of meals, extreme unemployment, extreme low literacy level, poor access to healthcare on the part of the majority of our citizens, declining life expectancy, denial of opportunities to make decisive imputes into the process of management of public affairs. Dating as far back as colonial time till date what we have witnessed is rule of cabals. The rich are getting richer while the poor are getting poorer. That was how it was during the military dictatorship. It was also the experience during colonial domination. Since the so-called return to democracy. Before June 12, the struggle for equality of life and opportunities in Nigeria has been on, even before our generation. We can talk of the struggle of Herbert Macaulay, the great Zik, Obafemi Awolowo, Tony Enahoro, Aminu Kano Michael Imodu, Gani Fawehnmi, TunjiBraithwaite, Wahab Goodluck, Chima Ubani and a host of others. They have been advocates for a just Nigeria where our children will be entitled to the right to education, roof over their heads, and access to medical care on the basis of need and not ability to pay. We have had advocates for a just Nigeria and unfortunately one cannot beat his or her chest that the dreams and aspirations of these patriots have been realised. Desperation is setting in and people are resorting to all kinds of desperate avenues to put body and soul together. As far as we are concerned these are threats to our democracy. Some people have suggested that Nigeria should go back to the parliamentary system of government thatthepresidentialsystem istooexpensive, maybethatcanaddresssomeofthethingsthatyou justmentioned. Whatareyourthoughts? It is not the form of government, parliamentary or presidential, it is the substance that matters. We know that in the process against struggle for military dictatorship in this country which normally ends with the adoption of a new constitution, there was a major struggle that was waged by some of our leaders, Segun Osoba and Prof. Bala Usman, whohadwhatyoumaycallapeople constitution that would have guaranteed all these rights but because of the conservatism of military dictatorship and their supporters. Theyconfinedthosefundamental rights to chapter 2 instead of chapter 4. They drew a dichotomy between civil and political rights and economic rights. They went as far as saying that the economic rights are not justifiable, in other words you cannot go to court to enforce the right to a job. I think that is more fundamental as opposed to arguing whether it should be presidential or parliamentary. Right now we recognise that as fundamental objective and principle of state policies. Why do we mandatorily as a matter of law adopt chapter 2 as the anchor of governance in this country. Whether we adopt parliamentary or presidential system is not important. It is that anchor, the ethos, why government exist. Anybody who knows that he cannot guarantee the right to clean water, the right to housing, the right to healthcare, the right to education, the right job, then you don’t have any business in governance. In other words, if in one way or the other you find yourself in political office, and you cannot guarantee the people these rights as a matter of constitutional rights, then anybody can take you to court to compel you to use the resources of the people to provide these rights. It is not the way it is right now. The argument should not be the form of government. The main focus should be the wealth Nigeria produce, why should a minority continue to benefit from more of it, while the vast majority will continue to do without. We have one of the lowest life expectancy even in Africa. It is a fundamental issue. Some Nigerians have adjudged 2023 general electionsasoneofthemostcontroversialinthehistory of Nigeria. Some have gone ahead to suggest that having an independent body to be saddled with the responsibility of the appointments of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) chairman and members of the Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) will address issues relating to the credibility of elections, do you agree with that? To an extent, governmental agencies should be subjected to popular control. The way it is right now, who appoints the INEC chairman? It is the sitting president. Who are those who confirm such appointments? They are party loyalists who find themselves in legislative positions. So, the process of allowing for popular input, popular scrutiny is very limited. We are all Nigerians, we know one another. We know our antecedents. Opportunities should be provided for the people to influence and raise objections to those who are being proposed for these offices. There are parts of the world where even judges are elected. The electorate need to have some level of political consciousness and education heightened. Weneedagovernmentthatwill actively encourage, inspire, and enlighten the masses to play roles in bringing about good governance in our country. Why do you think that the question of if you have any issue go to court, arises. This same process of appointing judges doesn’t allow any room for the populace. People appoint the executive arm and the legislative arm, they appoint their likes in judicial arm. They appoint their daughters in-law, their sisters in-law. They appoint their brothers and sons, and so that is on the basis of which they will do whatever they like in spite of the law. They dictate to the so-called leadership of INEC and tell the Nigerian people, “You can go to court” knowing that they have already appointed those who will do their bidding in the judiciary. Right now INEC has discredited itself. It is not a favourable comment on those who appointed them. Judiciary is on trial right now. Whether the judiciary will rise up to the occasion or also play along the way that the leadership of INEC has played along with the dictates of those who appointed them. We are talking about a broad name of proper participation in all these processes. That is when you can talk of deepening our democracy. Some people are hopeful that Tinubu as a prodemocracy activist, a one time member of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), things will be betternowthatheisthePresident, doyouagree? POLL The movement for a just Nigeria is an ideal. Of course we know that movement is made up of persons, but quite honestly this is not about discussion of individuals or personalities. The question is the ideals of those who were participants in the prodemocracy movement, have those ideals been recognised? We know when Bola Tinubu joined the prodemocracy movement. We know the role that he played. He met people on the field and jumped out of the field at some point. That was how he became a Senator that was how he became a governor. Now he is the President, We cannot say that because he participated in prodemocracy movement at one point, then we will close our eyes to his record. There were those who refused to participate in Abdulsalami Abubakar transition programme. We know that Tinubu participated in Ibrahim Babangida transition programme. The records actually show that they drove a wedge between those who were spotted in the struggle for genuine democracy. They drove a wedge between the populace and those people who held to the ideals consistently. The experience of monetizing the electoral system, bribing the electorate, can we excuse Alhaji Bola Tinubu from that process? Is it true that for every kobo that is earned by Lagos State today, Tinubu gets a percentage? If we say that he exhibited some progressives tendencies at the level of the national question, perhaps his was an example of “pan-Nigerianism” as far as the executive council that he had in Lagos State was concerned. We had people from different parts of the country in his executive council. How consistently has that been? How do we relate that with this last election? Especially the presidential election. You know how ethnicity was brought into the election, particularly in Lagos State. Even right now the State House of Assembly is talking about enacting law that will limit the right of individuals to own properties in Lagos State, depending on what part of the country, they hail from or their parents hail from. Arewemoving forwardorbackward? What is Tinubu’s attitude to this? What we are calling is consistency to ideals. We are notgoingtosaythatbecausesomebodywho at one point or the other played a limited role at that for a limited period of time in the prodemocracy movement, and let that becloud our critical assessment of development in the country at this particular time. The issue that Nigeria is divided along religious and ethnic lines, what do you think can be done to reconcile Nigerians? The example that I just want to draw your attention to is that rather than make progress we are degenerating. You know that the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) was to go on strike over the astronomical crease in the pump price of fuel, almost 300 percent increase from the first day of inauguration. An officer of Tinubu administration is reported to have said that the NLC in the Northern part of the country and the South-West are inclined not to participate in that strike. It stems from the fact that the present President of the NLC, Comrade Ajaero comes from the South-East. How can within a week of the inauguration of a new regime, a spokesperson is already introducing into the labour movement, ethnicity when we are dealing with unprecedented higher level of poverty. We have the poor in all parts of the country. This first step that we are being told that workers in the North will not participate in the strike, workers in the South-West will not participate in the strike. They said that the NLC president was only championing Labour Party interest, which means that they are equating Labour Party interest with people from the South-East because of the presidential candidate. Some of these people participated in the prodemocracy movement. The way forward is to take on poverty head on. In fact the illiteracy level in the Northern part of the country is the highest. We find people leaving the Northern part of the country in droves because they think that there are opportunities to do menial jobs in the Southern part of the country. Whereas the youths in the Southern part of the country are leaving the country looking for greener pastures. The common denominator is poverty. There is also ill health, illiteracy. Many of those who come to the Southern part of the country looking for succor sleep on the streets. We need as a matter of urgency as I said earlier that chapter 2 of the constitution must be enacted into enforceable laws that guarantees our people across board irrespective of religious inclination or ethnicity. Everybody has a right to delicious and nutritious meal. Our children have a right the opportunity to be skilled. What is the use of having over 200 million of people whose level of productivity is compromised because they don’t have the right skills? People are dying from malaria and preventable diseases, cholera, dysenteries because the source of water supply is contaminated. Many of our people have ailments and diseases that require daily medication. Those with diabetes for example must take their medications on a daily basis. Since the 300 percent increase on the price of petrol, go and find out what the costs of diabetes medication and all other medicationsare. Somearesuggestingthat the work days should be reduced to three days. If you write a letter to the Ministry now, you will wait indefinitely to get a reply. What do you think will happen when you reduce the work days to three? Is that not going to affect the judiciary also? What about those in prison? When the fundamental challenge is to refine what Nigeria produces. If we produce cocoa let us set up factories that will produce chocolates and all of that. We are not to keep importing all these things. If we produce cottons we must process that cotton into clothing for the Nigerian people. Right now the whole private sector in Nigeria depends on Dangote. How can we be one of the largest oil producing countries in the world and we have five refineries, none of them is working. Where the President who was the Minister of Petroleum. There was a time when Dangote had the monopoly of sugar, monopoly on the importation of cement, flour and all of that. Now it is oil. It is what we are celebrating. How do we expect to solve our unemployment problem without addressing the fundamental issues? Nigeria economy is continued to be dictated from without. Those who have held political offices in Nigeria are those doing the bidding of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. Ibrahim Babangida was an agent of the IMF who boasted that there was no alternative to Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP). We know how SAP sapped the poor in Nigeria. Whether we have had military dictatorship or civilian dictatorship, none of them have addressed the issue of freeing the Nigerian economy from foreign dictatorship. What are your thoughts about the state of the nation? Nigeria is presently the poverty capital of the world in the sense that the number of those living under the poverty line measured by the size of our population is huge. It has been established that over 75 percent of the populace are living under multidimensional poverty, lack of housing, poor quality of meals, extreme unemployment, extreme low literacy level, poor access to healthcare on the part of the majority of our citizens, declining life expectancy, denial of opportunities to make decisive imputes into the process of management of public affairs. Dating as far back as colonial time till date what we have witnessed is rule of cabals. The rich are getting richer while the poor are getting poorer. That was how it was during the military dictatorship. It was also the experience during colonial domination. Since the so-called return to democracy. Before June 12, the struggle for equality of life and opportunities in Nigeria has been on, even before our generation. We can talk of the struggle of Herbert Macaulay, the great Zik, Obafemi Awolowo, Tony Enahoro, Aminu Kano Michael Imodu, Gani Fawehnmi, Tunji Braithwaite, Wahab Goodluck, Chima Ubani and a host of others. They have been advocates for a just Nigeria where our children will be entitled to the right to education, roof over their heads, and access to medical care on the basis of need and not ability to pay. We have had advocates for a just Nigeria and unfortunately one cannot beat his or her chest that the dreams and aspirations of these patriots have been realised. Desperation is setting in and people are resorting to all kinds of desperate avenues to put body and soul together. As far as we are concerned these are threats to our democracy. Some people have suggested that Nigeria should go back to the parliamentary system of government that the presidential system is too expensive, maybethatcanaddresssomeofthe things that you just mentioned. What are your thoughts? It is not the form of government, parliamentary or presidential, it is the substance that matters. We know that in the process against struggle for military dictatorship in this country which normally ends with the adoption of a new constitution, there was a major struggle that was waged by some of our leaders, Segun Osoba and Prof. Bala Usman, who had what you may call a people constitution that would have guaranteed all these rights but because of the conservatism of military dictatorship and their supporters. They confined those fundamental rights to chapter 2 instead of chapter 4. They drew a dichotomy between civil and political rights and economic rights. They went as far as saying that the economic rights are not justifiable, in other words you cannot go to court to enforce the right to a job. I think that is more fundamental as opposed to arguing whether it should be presidential or parliamentary. Right now we recognise that as fundamental objective and principle of state policies. Why do we mandatorily as a matter of law adopt chapter 2 as the anchor of governance in this country. Whether we adopt parliamentary or presidential system is not important. It is that anchor, the ethos, why government exist. Anybody who knows that he cannot guarantee the right to clean water, the right to housing, the right to healthcare, the right to education, the right job, then you don’t have any business in governance. In other words, if in one way or the other you find yourself in political office, and you cannot guarantee the people these rights as a matter of constitutional rights, then anybody can take you to court to compel you to use the resources of the people to provide these rights. It is not the way it is right now. The argument should not be the form of government. The main focus should be the wealth Nigeria produce, why should a minority continue to benefit from more of it, while the vast majority will continue to do without. We have one of the lowest life expectancy even in Africa. It is a fundamental issue. Some Nigerians have adjudged 2023 general elections as one of the most controversial in the history of Nigeria. Some have gone ahead to suggest that having an independent body to be saddled with the responsibility of the appointments of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) chairman and members of the Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) will address issues relating to the credibility of elections, doyouagreewiththat? To an extent, governmental agencies should be subjected to popular control. The way it is right now, who appoints the INECchairman? Itisthesittingpresident. Who are those who confirm such appointments? They are party loyalists who find themselves in legislative positions. So, the process of allowing for popular input, popular scrutiny is very limited. We are all Nigerians, we know one another. We know our antecedents. Opportunities should be provided for the people to influence and raise objections to those who are being proposed for these offices. There are parts of the world where even judges are elected. The electorate need to have some level of political consciousness and education heightened. We need a government that will actively encourage, inspire, and enlighten the masses to play roles in bringing about good governance in our country. Why do you think that the question of if you have any issue go to court, arises. This same process of appointing judges doesn’t allow any room for the populace. People appoint the executive arm and the legislative arm, they appoint their likes in judicial arm. They appoint their daughters in-law, their sisters in-law. They appoint their brothers and sons, and so that is on the basis of which they will do whatever they like in spite of the law. They dictate to the so-called leadership of INEC and tell the Nigerian people, “You can go to court” knowing that they have already appointed those who will do their bidding in the judiciary. Right now INEC has discredited itself. It is not a favourable comment on those who appointed them. Judiciary is on trial right now. Whether the judiciary will rise up to the occasion or also play along the way that the leadership of INEC has played along with the dictates of those who appointed them. We are talking about a broad name of proper participation in all these processes. That is when you can talk of deepening our democracy. Some people are hopeful that Tinubu as a prodemocracy activist, a one time member of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), things will be better now that he is the President, do you agree? The movement for a just Nigeria is an ideal. Of course we know that movement is made up of persons, but quite honestly this is not about discussion of individuals or personalities. The question is the ideals of those who were participants in the prodemocracy movement, have those ideals been recognised? We know when Bola Tinubu joined the prodemocracy movement. We know the role that he played. He met people on the field and jumped out of the field at some point. That was how he became a Senator that was how he became a governor. Now he is the President, We cannot say that because he participated in prodemocracy movement at one point, then we will close our eyes to his record. There were those who refused to participate in Abdulsalami Abubakar transition programme. We know that Tinubu participated in Ibrahim Babangida transition programme. The records actually show that they drove a wedge betweenthosewhowerespottedinthestruggle for genuine democracy. They drove a wedge between the populace and those people who held to the ideals consistently. The experience of monetizing the electoral system, bribing the electorate, can we excuse Alhaji Bola Tinubu from that process? Is it true that for every kobo that is earned by Lagos State today, Tinubu gets a percentage? If we say that he exhibited some progressives tendencies at the level of the national question, perhaps his was an example of “pan-Nigerianism” as far as the executive council that he had in Lagos State was concerned. We had people from different parts of the country in his executive council. How consistently has that been? How do we relate that with this last election? Especially the presidential election. You know how ethnicity was brought into the election, particularly in Lagos State. Even right now the State House of Assembly is talking about enacting law that will limit the right of individuals to own properties in Lagos State, depending on what part of the country, they hail from or their parents hail from. Are we moving forward or backward? What is Tinubu’s attitude to this? What we are calling is consistency to ideals. We are not going to say that because somebody who at one point or the other played a limited role at that for a limited period of timeintheprodemocracymovement, and let that becloud our critical assessment of development in the country at this particular time. The issue that Nigeria is divided along religious and ethnic lines, what do you think can be done to reconcile Nigerians? The example that I just want to draw your attention to is that rather than make progress we are degenerating. You know that the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) was to go on strike over the astronomical crease in the pump price of fuel, almost 300 percent increase from the first day of inauguration. An officer of Tinubu administration is reported to have said that the NLC in the Northern part of the country and the South-West are inclined not to participate in that strike. It stems from the fact that the present President of the NLC, Comrade Ajaero comes from the South-East. How can within a week of the inauguration of a new regime, a spokesperson is already introducing into the labour movement, ethnicity when we are dealing with unprecedented higher level of poverty. We have the poor in all parts of the country. This first step that we are being told that workers in the North will not participate in the strike, workers in the South-West will not participate in the strike. They said that the NLC president was only championing Labour Party interest, which means that they are equating Labour Party interest with people from the South-East because of the presidential candidate. Some of these people participated in the prodemocracy movement. The way forward is to take on poverty head on. In fact the illiteracy level in the Northern part of the country is the highest. We find people leaving the Northern part of the country in droves because they think that there are opportunities to do menial jobs in the Southern part of the country. Whereas the youths in the Southern part of the country are leaving the country looking for greener pastures. The common denominator is poverty. There is also ill health, illiteracy. Many of those who come to the Southern part of the country looking for succor sleep on the streets. We need as a matter of urgency as I said earlier that chapter 2 of the constitution must be enacted into enforceable laws that guarantees our people across board irrespective of religious inclination or ethnicity. Everybody has a right to delicious and nutritious meal. Our children have a right the opportunity to be skilled. What is the use of having over 200 million of people whose level of productivity is compromised because they don’t have the right skills? People are dying from malaria and preventable diseases, cholera, dysenteries because the source of water supply is contaminated. Many of our people have ailments and diseases that require daily medication. Those with diabetes for example must take their medications on a daily basis. Since the 300 percent increase on the price of petrol, go and find out what the costs of diabetes medication and all other medicationsare. Somearesuggestingthat the work days should be reduced to three days. If you write a letter to the Ministry now, you will wait indefinitely to get a reply. What do you think will happen when you reduce the work days to three? Is that not going to affect the judiciary also? What about those in prison? When the fundamental challenge is to refine what Nigeria produces.