LAGOS  – Nigeria’s manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), a gauge for manufacturing sentiments, has sustained an upward trajectory as it hits 54.0 In May 2023, Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) conducted by Stanbic IBTC Bank report has stated. According to the report, at 54.0, up from 53.8 in April, the index signalled a solid improvement in business conditions that was the most marked in 2023 so far. The headline figure derived from the survey conducted by Stanbic IBTC Bank, has readings above 50.0 signal an improvement in business conditions on the previous month, while readings below 50.0 show deterioration. The headline PMI posted above the 50.0 no-change mark for the second month running in May, following the two-month sequence of decline seen around the worst of the cash crisis in the first quarter of the year. The latest PMI data indicated that the Nigerian private sector continued to recover from the cash crisis in May as access to money improved and business conditions returned to normality The report indicated that; “output and new orders expanded for the second month running, with the latter increasing at the fastest pace in just over a year. Confidence remained historically subdued, however, meaning that firms continued to operate a cautious approach with regards to hiring.” The report stated that “with access to cash improving, customer numbers increased, enabling firms to secure greater volumes of new orders in May. New business was up sharply, with the rate of expansion the fastest since April 2022. “Similarly, business activity rose for the second month running, and at a marked pace. Here, the expansion was slightly softer than in April, however. Activity was up across each of the four broad sectors covered, with growth led by wholesale & retail. POLL “Although higher new orders encouraged firms to increase their staffing levels for the first time in four months during May, the rate of job creation was only marginal amid signs that spare capacity remained in the private sector.”