Ardova Plc is set to delist from the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) if the planned acquisition of shares held by other shareholders by Ignite Investments & Commodities Limited sails through. Ardova had notified NGX that Ignite Investments & Commodities Limited has approached the Board of Directors of the company to acquire the shares held by other shareholders of the company at an offer price of N17.38 per share, and subsequently delist the company from NGX. Subsequently, Ardova notified NGX and the investing public that the Court Ordered Meeting of the Company was held on 31 May 2023 as scheduled. Each Scheme shareholder of the company, subject to the sanction of the Court and delivery of the sanction for registration at the Corporate Affairs Commission shall receive N17.88k per Scheme share held by such Scheme shareholder. Upon the Effective Date of the Scheme, Scheme shareholders of the company will be able to realize their holdings in the company at a 28 per cent premium to the company’s share price of N13.90 on 30 November 2022, being the last traded price before the offer. According to the proposed scheme presented to shareholders, the transaction provides an avenue for the core shareholder to support the Company in raising the required capital to expand its business operations to improve profitability. The Chairman for the Meeting, Mrs. Aniola Durosinmi-Etti, stated, “In recent years, the macro-economic environment in Nigeria had been particularly difficult on the general operations of businesses in the country”. She added that “over the past five years, the Company has recorded declining margins despite growth in its top-line”. She noted that operating costs had impacted the Company’s ability to pay decent returns as evidenced by its dividend payout history in the last five years. POLL She expressed that the management is committed to the long-term survival of the oldest and leading indigenous energy group in Nigeria. WED 2023: Union Bank Reaffirms Commitment To Sustainability As part of its continuous efforts to champion environmental responsibility and promote sustainable practices, the leading financial institution Union Bank of Nigeria partnered with the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) to celebrate World Environment Day 2023. World Environment Day, observed annually on June 5th, is a global platform to raise awareness, and mobilize action towards pressing environmental issues. The 2023 campaign, #BeatPlasticPollution; Solutions to Plastic Pollution, calls for global solutions to combat plastic pollution. Plastic pollution has become a global crisis, threatening our ecosystems, wildlife, and human well-being. This year’s World Environment Day aims to raise awareness and mobilize individuals, communities, and organizations to take action and make a positive impact on the environment by reducing their plastic consumption, embracing sustainable alternatives, and advocating for responsible plastic waste management. To create awareness of environmental responsibility and encourage collective action, Union Bank employees, together with the Nigerian Conservation Foundation volunteered to educate students at Aguda Junior Grammar School, Surulere, Greg Girls Junior High School, Surulere, and Okun Ajah Community Senior Secondary School, Okun Ajah. The students were educated on the detrimental effects of plastic pollution on the environment, highlighting the importance of reducing plastic consumption, reusing plastic, and practical tips for sustainable recycling. The Bank also donated waste bins to each school to encourage recycling and make it easier for students to do their part in reducing plastic waste.