LAGOS  – Still basking in the euphoria of the success of this year’s Food and Beverage West Africa (FABWA) Exhibitions, Managing Director of BtoB Events Limited, organisers of the event, Jamie Mill, has said that the event will continue to grow stronger and stronger every year. Food and Beverage (FAB) West Africa 2023 exceeded all expectations and set new records. This groundbreaking event marked Nigeria’s first-ever four-hall exhibition, and it was an extraordinary triumph. With over 250 exhibitors and 5000 attendees, FAB 2023 took the atmosphere on the show floor to unprecedented heights. Witnessing numerous deals being made and partnerships being formed was truly inspiring. The BtoB Events team extends a heartfelt thank you to their esteemed sponsors (Just Food, Nasco, and Daffy), exhibitors, VIPs, partners, visitors, and suppliers. The success of the event is a testament to the collective effort put forth by everyone involved. Held at its traditional venue, the Landmark Events Center, Victoria Island, Lagos this year’s event lived up to expectations. Interestingly, it was for the 6th time. According to Omonigho Itoya, on behalf of the organizers, the BtoB Events team this year’s exhibition was Nigeria’s first-ever 4- hall trade exhibition. The Food and Beverage (FAB) West Africa happens to be the premier food and beverage exhibition for the West African Sub-region. This year, it is therefore understandable why the host remains grateful to sponsors and partners such as Just Food, NASCO and Daffy. That is in addition to exhibitors, VIP’s, partners, visitors and suppliers. The Russian exporters that participated at the Made in Russia stand held 114 B2B negotiations with international business representatives stole the show. The total potential of the meetings is estimated at $22 million. Among all national expositions at Food & Beverage West Africa 2023, Russia’s Made in Russia national exposition was the largest one covering an area of over 380 square meters. POLL All in all, 11 Russian companies took part in the Made in Russia exposition, presenting meat, dairy, fat-and-oil products, ready-made foods, grain and leguminous products, food ingredients, alcoholic and soft drinks, food industry equipment, and packaging. This large number of Russian agro-industrial companies was represented in Nigeria at one time and in one place for the first time. It would be recalled that Food and Beverage West Africa 2023 is a major food exhibition in Sub-Saharan Africa. It showcases different types of food from around the world, as well as equipment for the food, processing industry and Horeca Recall that in 2019 Jamie Mill, Managing Director of BtoB Events Ltd, host of the inaugural Food and Beverage, West Africa Fair, stated the vision behind the annual FAB event. He said that the concept is to provide “a once-a-year opportunity for the food and beverage sector of West Africa to come together, network and forge new partnerships. It is also used to discuss best practice and of course, do business.” That year it turned out that it hosted over 120 exhibitors drawn from five continents. The event which was promoted online for weeks for interested participants to indicate their interest became a veritable platform for both the newcomers and established food and beverage companies to showcase their products to the world. It was also an avenue for Small and Medium scale Enterprises, SMEs to avail the customers what they have to offer them. Of significance are the lasting lessons individuals and corporate organizations stand to gain from the event. One outstanding feature of the Fair was and remains the solid support it enjoyed from both the sponsors and partners.