· 31 Bag Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Awards LAGOS – The need of prioritising healthcare providers’ interests in improving Nigeria’s healthcare system was the high point at the 9th Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA) where over 30 people and organisations were honoured for their contributions to the sector development. Stressing this at the NHEA 2023 held weekend in Lagos, the State First Lady, Mrs. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu has said that the interest of healthcare providers must be made paramount if Nigeria’s healthcare system must be strengthened. This was the position of Lagos State First Lady, Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu at the NHEA 2023 held weekend in Lagos, attributed the rising brain drain in the country to poor infrastructure in the health sector and remuneration packages for healthcare workers. The Lagos First Lady lamented that the frequent mass exodus of Nigerian healthcare professionals to foreign countries was due to a lack of adequate infrastructure and remuneration packages. However, Mrs. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented at the event by Cecilia Mabogunje, Medical Director, Massey Children Hospital Lagos as the special guest of honour, believes that with the right investment in the Nigerian healthcare system, the narrative will change positively. “For me, we cannot successfully discuss strengthening investment in the health systems without considering the welfare and interest of the healthcare providers – the doctors, nurses, pharmacists, lab scientists and all other stakeholders in the healthcare ecosystem. “We must invest in the training and retraining and make the atmosphere conducive for our healthcare professionals to display their skills and talents,” the Lagos First Lady said. POLL While acknowledging the awardees, Mrs. Sanwo-Olu also commended the board of trustees of the NHEA for honouring and celebrating individuals and organisations for outstanding and remarkable performances in the health sector. “It’s commendable that this awards ceremony is not only focused on celebrating excellence in various areas of medical practices but also designed as a platform to engender intellectual conversation on topical issues in healthcare delivery. “I congratulate all the awardees and urge you to continue the trajectory of exceptional and outstanding contributions to the healthcare sector. “I commend the Board of Trustees of Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award and all partners behind this project, even as I encourage you to sustain this brilliant, imitative of giving honours to whom honour is due,” she added. Speaking earlier in his welcome remarks, Dr. Anthony Omolola, Chairman, Advisory Board Member for NHEA 2023, explained that over 20,000 nominations were received across the country with almost over 70, 000 participating in the voting online via the NHEA portal. “Nominations for the awards opened on February 2023 and closed at midnight on June 20, 2023, with over 20,000 nominations received in several categories of the awards. The entire process has always been keenly contested with healthy rivalry among several nominees leading to optimal service delivery and improved service performance year in and year out. “Over 50,000 online voters were received from all nominations this year and selection processes were carefully evaluated; that was at the time I was writing this, but it was confirmed that we have over 70, 000 online votes this year,” Dr Omolola said. Some of the awardees were, Dr. Mathew Ame Idoko, Dr. Adekunle Hassan, Dr. Pharma Michael Oyebanjo, Dr. Farouk Umar Abubakar, Prof. Dimie Ogoina, Procold, Evercare Hospital Clinic Healthcare, Leadway Health Ltd and General Hospital Ikorodu. Others are Eye Foundation Hospital, Saint Nicolas Hospital, The Bridge Clinic, NSIA, LUTH Cancer Centre, Amazing Physiotherapy, Alpha Pharmacy, Smile, 360, Smile Train Inc and Lagos State Health Management Agency (LASHMA).