The Yale Drama Series has called for the submission of entries for its 2024 playwriting competition. It said the winning play will be selected by the series’ current judge, Jeremy O. Harris. The winner of the annual competition will be awarded the David Charles Horn Prize of $10,000, publication of their manuscript by Yale University Press, and a celebratory event. According to the institution, the prize and publication are contingent on the playwright’s agreeing to the terms of the publishing agreement. The contest is restricted to plays written in the English language. “Worldwide submissions are accepted. Submissions must be original, unpublished full-length plays, with a minimum of 65 pages. Plays with less than 65 pages will not be considered. Translations, musicals, and children’s plays are not accepted,” the group stated. The Yale Drama Series said it is intended to support emerging playwrights and that playwrights may win the competition only once. “Playwrights may submit only one manuscript per year. Only manuscripts authored by one playwright are eligible. Plays that have been professionally produced or published are not eligible. Plays that have had a workshop, reading, or non-professional production or that have been published as an actor’s edition will be considered. “Plays may not be under option, commissioned, or scheduled for professional production or publication at the time of submission. POLL “Plays must be typed/ word-processed and page-numbered.” The Yale Drama Series reserves the right to reject any manuscript for any reason. It also reserves the right of the judge to not choose a winner for any given year of the competition and reserves the right to determine the ineligibility of a winner, in keeping with the spirit of the competition, and based upon the accomplishments of the author. The Yale Drama Series Competition strongly urges electronic submission and assures that by this, the potential winner will receive immediate confirmation of his/her successful submission and the ability to check the status of entry. However, electronic submissions for the 2024 competition must be submitted not earlier than June 1, 2023, and no later than August 15, 2023. The submission window closes at midnight EST.