AKURE – The All Progressives Congress (APC), Ondo State chapter, has assured the people of the state to remain calm over the rumour concerning the health of Gov­ernor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, saying there’s no cause for alarm. In a statement signed by the party’s Director, Media & Pub­licity, Steve Otaloro, and made available to newsmen in Akure, the state capital, on Sunday, the party urged the public to ignore the claims of the Social Demo­cratic Party (SDP) in the state, calling for the medical report of the governor. Describing SDP’s care for the governor as pretentious, APC said it’s hypocritical of SDP which could not resolve its internal cri­sis to show concern on the governor’s health status. The statement read: “We wish to express our disap­pointment and utter dismay at the recent actions of the Social Democratic Party in Ondo State. It has come to our attention that the par­ty, which has been nothing more than a one-man op­position party, suddenly woke up from its slumber and wrote press releases criticising the Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Olu­warotimi Akeredolu (SAN), on his state of health in a pretentious manner as if they care and are con­cerned about him. “We find it extremely hypocritical that the Social Democratic Party, which has been silent on issues affecting their party in the state, suddenly found its voice to suggest an im­pending storm in the state to buttress the figment of their imagination as unnec­essary. “This kind of preten­tious act is nothing but a cheap attempt to score po­litical points at the expense of the well-being of the healing governor and the people of Ondo State. “We wish to assure the people of Ondo State that there is no cause for alarm… As mortals, everyone can be sick. He still delegates du­ties to his deputy governor and gives directives to other cabinet members. “We urge all well-mean­ing citizens of the state to ignore the baseless and unfounded claims of the oppositions and continue to support the governor in his efforts to move the state forward.”