ABUJA – The National Working Committee (NWC) of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) wants its executives in Imo State to maintain the status quo following the leadership crises bedeviling NNPP in the state. The NWC through the National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, on Saturday in Abuja, told journalists that the Imo Chapter of the party is still being led by Charles Duruimo as Chairman. Reading a statement to newsmen, Agbo said, “All actions taken by the two sides in the leadership disagreement are null and void, and of no effect in running the affairs of the party in Imo State. “The affected officers of the party in Imo State did not explore the appropriate channel of communication and procedure in handling the dispute in line with the clear provisions of NNPP’s constitution. In the next few days, the Imo State Executive will be invited to Abuja to firmly resolve the matter and move the party forward. The need for peace, unity, teamwork and synergy in running the affairs of the party in Imo State cannot be overemphasized as we prepare for the November 2023 governorship election in the State. NNPP is poised to win the Imo State gubernatorial poll and will not allow an intra party squabble to distract it from winning the State, thus expand its frontiers in the nation’s democratic space.” The statement reads thus; “Recently, there is a leadership disagreement in the Imo State Chapter of our great party in which the State Chairman, Charles Duruimo was purportedly suspended by aggrieved officers in the State over alleged anti-party activities. “Chief Duruimo dismissed his removal, stating that his leadership had earlier suspended the officers and members involved in the plot to sack him. “The national leadership of the party led by Abba Kawu-Ali has stepped into the matter with a view to amicably resolving it in the interest of the party and the good people of Imo State who desire a new and better Nigeria on the platform of NNPP. POLL “Accordingly, the National Working Committee (NWC) directs that status quo should be maintained in the Imo State Chapter Executive led by Charles Duruimo. “All actions taken by the two sides in the leadership disagreement are null and void, and of no effect in running the affairs of the party in Imo State. “The affected officers of the party in Imo State did not explore the appropriate channel of communication and procedure in handling the dispute in line with the clear provisions of NNPP’s constitution. In the next few days, the Imo State Executive will be invited to Abuja to firmly resolve the matter and move the party forward. “The need for peace, unity, teamwork and synergy in running the affairs of the party in Imo State cannot be overemphasized as we prepare for the November 2023 governorship election in the State. NNPP is poised to win Imo State gubernatorial poll and will not allow an intra-party squabble to distract it from winning the State, thus expand its frontiers in the nation’s democratic space. “Having fielded credible, competent and resourceful candidates in Kogi and Bayelsa States, NNPP is equally resolute in winning the two States. “NNPP demands free, fair, credible, transparent, inclusive and peaceful governorship elections in Imo, Kogi and Bayelsa States. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should provide a free playing field to all political parties and their candidates participating in the polls and ensure the people’s mandates are respected. “The electoral umpire should adequately test-run its Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) to avoid the awkward story of glitches, hitches and manipulations that characterized the 2023 general election leading to numerous petitions at various Election Petition Tribunals across the country challenging the outcome of the polls. “Every vote matters and should be counted and count in the overall results. This is the only way to consolidate the nation’s frail democracy and reaffirms Nigerians’ confidence in the electoral process. “With an action Governor, two distinguished Senators, 20 Honourable House of Representatives and several States House of Assembly members, NNPP is set to bolster the nation’s constitutional rule as the fastest growing political party in Nigeria. “The party is strongly determined to make Nigeria a land of justice, freedom and equal opportunities where all citizens are at liberty to aspire to achieve their lifetime goals and ambitions; a land to live in peace, prosperity and happiness. The party’s elected members will uphold this fundamental mission as we jointly build a new Nigeria citizens will be proud of. NNPP will effectively play its role of constructive opposition, provide compassionate leadership and point the way forward as we collectively restore the dignity, honour, prestige and prosperity of our fatherland.”