A member of the House of Representatives, Hon (Prince )  Olaide Lateef Muhammed (POLAM) has urged  Nigerians to reject any form of protest or civil unrest targeted at the Tinubu/Shettima Presidency. The chieftain of the All Progressives Congress(APC) also called on Nigerians to rally around the new administration to deliver on her campaign promises of getting the system working again for the betterment of all and sundry. Hon. Mohammed who represents Irepo-Oorelope-Olorunsogo Federal Constituency in the Green Chamber, in a statement made available to journalists in Abuja said the warning became imperative due to the alarm raised by the Department of State Services(DSS) that certain unpatriotic elements and economic saboteurs were plotting Civil unrest in Abuja and Lagos. The Federal Lawmaker disclosed that those behind the evil plots were not comfortable with the body language of Tinubu’s Presidency to block all leakages by institutionalising the culture of transparency and accountability. In governance. Since the heads of some government agencies were suspended over corrupt allegations, Muhammed said their accomplices have been looking for ingenious ways to create chaos through phantom protests. ” Nigerians have gone through harrowing experiences due to betrayal of trust by public officials and we must allow these to continue, hence the need to support the effort Mr President to defeat evil machinations of cabals and their collaborators in government. Hon Muhammed noted ” a battered economy like ours required bold decisions to revamp and this cannot be achieved without the support of Nigerians who were the direct victims. It is on this premise that I want to urge us to reject any form of campaign of calumny against this government. Together we shall rescue and unite Nigeria”. The statement reads in part. ” The suspension of the former Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele and the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) Abdulrasheed Bawa over corrupt allegations had been a big relief to Nigerians who had been subjected to needless and irresponsible hardships. We are not unaware of the plots by these elements to derail and distract this government but such evil intents must be tamed. . POLL ” A few days ago, Nigeria’s intelligence department alerted the nation about the grand plots by some economic saboteurs to cause civil unrest across the country, particularly, in Lagos and Abuja,the nation’s Federal Capital  Territory (FCT). “These unpatriotic individuals were not pleased with the bold actions taken by Tinubu’s administration on subsidy removal and suspension of the former Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele and the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) Abdulrasheed Bawa over corruption allegations and they want to fight back.” It stated.