JOS – As hostility between Mangu LGA natives and herders continues unabated,15 persons have been confirmed killed in fresh separate attacks in the Bwai and Chisu communities of Mangu Local Government Area (LGA) of Central Plateau Senatorial district. Daily Independent on Wednesday gathered that the incident occurred Tuesday night when residents had gone to bed. Attackers were said to have stormed the two communities simultaneously killing and setting ablaze any house in sight. An eye witness Bamshak Ishaya alleged that “Some people were killed by Fulani militias at a Community leader’s house when they ran to him to seek refuge in his house in an attack at Chisu village on Tuesday night at about 11:00 pm. It was learnt that the COCIN RCC Church in Bwai which is along the Mangu-Bokkos road was also burnt down along several houses, vehicles and Tricycles in the Chisu attacks The people of the community were taken unaware when they heard sporadic gunshots and ran to the residence of their community Leader, unfortunately, the house was set on fire by the militiamen, and 11 burnt bodies were picked from the house in the morning while the search is still ongoing for the missing persons. At Bwai, apart from the Church, houses around the market were also burnt and a woman who slept in her shop was burnt to ashes. Meanwhile, the member representing Mangu South Constituency in the State Assembly, Mr. Bala Fwangje also confirmed the incident saying, “Around 11 pm, we had a call that herdsmen came into Chisu and Bwai, this morning we heard that about 15 people were killed, houses destroyed, several property burnt. I am yet to get the full details.” POLL In the same vein, the Interim Management Committee Chairman of Mangu LGA, Mr. Markus Artu, told newsmen on the phone that the incident happened but he has no details yet. His words, “I am gathering the pieces, I am going on an on-the-spot assessment of the situation, we have conflicting reports coming, the security agencies said there was an attempt to attack but it was repelled but again, some other people are telling stories. I heard that they attempted to burn the Church but they were repelledI don’t have the facts, whatever I heard is speculative as soon as I have them, I will let you know.” However, Plateau Governor on Wednesday decried the ongoing attacks Against the people of his state saying not less than 150 persons were killed in the affected communities in his state. Mutfwang stated this while swearing in new permanent Secretaries at Government House Jos.