Many people engage in stock trading. It’s a great way to build your savings and investment portfolio and maximise the income from your investments. Although entering the stock market as a beginner may be intimidating, you can prepare for it by doing proper research regarding how the market operates and what stocks you should invest in. For example, you shouldn’t put money in stocks that don’t perform well, as you may experience financial regrets. If you’re unsure where to start your research or which stocks to consider trading, here are some of the best ones to invest in this year: Naspers Naspers is one of the top companies in Africa. Originally a publishing company, it became a multinational technological giant that has operations in the internet, video entertainment, and media sectors. Its revenue is $22.1 billion (₦462 billion), making it a good choice for investment. Moreover, Naspers owns half of the global internet group Prosus, Media24—Africa’s largest publishing company, and Takealot: South Africa’s biggest online retailer. Given these, Naspers is a major player in the local and global economies, so beginner traders should heavily consider investing in its stocks. This is especially important as Naspers experiences yearly growth that makes them more valuable over time. Sasol Limited Sasol is an energy and chemical company focusing on generating low-carbon electricity. It had an annual revenue of $18.1 billion (₦8.36 trillion) in 2022, making it one of the richest companies in Africa. It also provides thousands of jobs in the US and worldwide and is amongst the largest corporate taxpayers. Due to its undeniable success, Sasol is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE Top 40)—the largest stock exchange in Africa. This proves how it’s an excellent option for stock traders who want to potentially profit from their market activities. POLL Standard Bank Group Limited Standard Bank is one of the oldest companies in Africa. They offer financial services, such as money lending, mortgages, and savings accounts. It’s worth $142.9 billion (₦66 trillion) and employs 55,000 people. The company recently partnered with logistics company DP World to expand trade, aiming to help African businesses grow using finance solutions. Consequently, traders can expect Standard Bank’s revenue to increase further due to this, making it a good stock option. Still unsure about stock trading? Consider indices trading first Despite researching and knowing the best stocks to trade, you may still hesitate to trade stocks due to market volatility and unpredictable events that can affect the stock market, like political issues. In these cases, consider indices trading first. This is when you take a position on a stock index—a measure of the performance of several different companies. One index was already mentioned above, which is the JSE Top 40. This is a great way to expose yourself to the stock market without opening positions. It also has lower risks than individual stocks, so you can potentially avoid greater losses. When choosing an indices trading platform, select one offering swap-free indices so you can switch out indices free of charge. This is beneficial if you change your mind regarding which indices to invest in, especially if you’re a beginner navigating the market. Stock trading can be intimidating. However, with proper research, market exposure, and experience, you’ll have a deeper understanding of how the market works and which stocks are great investments in the long run. For similar articles, read our other works here at Independent Newspaper Nigeria.