Kwara State’s Under 15 and Under 12 handball teams may miss an international tourney in Sweden after it appears that no sponsorship is coming from the state government whose teams beat other states in Sokoto to qualify for the tournament in July. The handball competition, Patel Cup in Sweden is an annual championship which the teams’ chief coach believes would give needed exposures to the young players. “I can tell you that these teams I have good players that could get better deals abroad if properly exposed,” explained Emeka Joseph Nnamani, Chief Coach, National Under 18 handball team. Nnamnai is a Staff Sergeant of the Nigerian Army. Speaking on the drive to get sponsors, Mrs Monisola Yemisi Makunjola, board member, Kwara State Sports Commission, KSC, and member Handball Association Kwara State explained to news men at the Kwara State Stadium Ilorin that much of what has been accomplished so far has been through private sponsorship. She especially thanked the Cherubim and Seraphim, C&S, for supporting the team. “We also have moral support from Handball Association Nigeria, HAN,” explained. ” I spoke with the president yesterday and the Technical director he agreed they will come and visit us before we travel but they know we are here and they are supporting us with prayers. POLL “We also wrote a letter to the Governor through the Sports commission chairman but are still hoping that they’re going to respond,” Makanjuola also stated. Speaking more on the teams, she said: “This are the players that would be representing Nigeria at the U15 boys and Girls, U12 Boys and Girls Handball championship in Sweden from the 1st of July to the 11th of July and by the grace God. “We wish to leave Nigeria by 29th of this month and the athletes have resumed camp since on Sunday. ” We are camped at C&S college we do our training here in the morning and evening we have our national coach here coach Emeka and the athletes have been trying their best in training as you can see. “They are many but we are going with about the 33 players and officials,” She added. Right now we have 48 in camp our first screening will come up by the end of this week after some weeks we will do the second screening before the final selections so everyone of them are trying to see that they make the list they’ve all gotten their passport.