•Says Offenders Risk 15-Year Jail Term LAGOS – The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Idowu Owohunwa has warned secondary school students in the state to avoid the use of hard drugs, as it attracts a 15 year jail term upon conviction in the court.15-year While warning the pupils on the dangerous effects of drug abuse, the police boss listed and analyzed the repercussions of the illicit acts to the pupils. Owohunwa gave this charge on Monday at a one-day sensitisation campaign on Drug Abuse for Secondary School Students in the state, as part of activities marking the 2023 International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. With a themed ” People First: Stop Stigma and Discrimination, Strength Prevention”, organized by the Crime Reporters Association of Nigeria (CRAN). Owohunwa was represented at the event by a Chief superintendent of police, CSP Yinka Egbeyemi, Commander Rapid Response Squad who also warned the students never to join cultists and any form of unlawful groups that could lead to their untimely death. He urged the students to choose the friends they keep and they should also know who they keep as friends too, so as to become what God destined them to be in the future. He said: “The legal consequences of drug abuse in Nigeria according to National Drug Law and Enforcement Agency Act provides punishment or a sentence of 15 years but not exceeding 25 years while trafficking drugs is punishable by life imprisonment. POLL “When a minor or teenager commits a grievous offences , he or she will be considered a juvenile offender which are those who commit or are apprehended to have committed any act that would be a crime if they were not underage and they can be jailed in the juvenile prison.” He added that It is a pervasive problem that has far-reaching consequences, extending beyond the individual to impact families, communities, and the security of the nation as a whole. “Studies and statistics have revealed a disturbing trend, with a significant number of the youth falling victim to the allure of illicit substances such as phenol, cannabis, codeine, tramadol, popularly known by their street name Ice, colos, downer, molly, special K, Acid, coke, school boy, angel dust, upper speed. Speaking further, he asserted that drug abuse knows no boundaries, as it affects urban centres, rural areas, and even the most remote regions of the country. “The syndicates perpetrating the crime, he said operate across borders, exploiting the vulnerabilities in the systems and facilitating the inflow of illicit substances into the country. Police cannot afford to turn a blind eye to the growing menace, he asserted that the Nigeria Police is committed to ensuring the safety and security of our great nation.” He added that Drug-related offenses and criminal activities such as robbery, theft, and violence are often fuelled by the need to sustain drug habits or by the influencers of such substances, impairing judgment and rational thinking thereby jeopardizing the safety of our communities.” The Lagos State Commandant of the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons and Other Related Matters, (NAPTIP) Mrs. Comfort Agboko also admonished the students not to be lured to foreign under the guise of helping to live a better life. She urged the students to be careful on who they are relating with on social media to avoid their organs being harvested or being used as a prostitute. The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, a superintendent of Narcotics, Mrs Fatimo Dauda said hard drugs don’t do any youths both male and female any good after such a person started taking it. He warned the students not to be lured into drugs because it is easy to do but difficult to pull out. ” It is always good you relate with your parents if you are introduced to such an act. Earlier in his welcome address, the President of the Crime Reporters Association of Nigeria, Mr. Lekan Olabulo said the United Nations, General Assembly in 1987 decided to observe 26th of June every year as the global day against drug abuse and illicit trafficking. He said in the last few years CRAN had taken it upon ourselves to commemorate the annual World Drug Day as a tactical way of fighting drug abuse and illicit trafficking in our dear nation. The United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime ,which has been responsible for choosing and deciding the theme every year has chosen ” People First :Stop stigma and discrimination , strengthen prevention ” as the theme for this year . The theme for this year commemoration not only emphasizes the need to fight the menace of drug abuse in our society but also recognizes the need to help those ,who had already missed their way by indulging in drug abuse ,by not stigmatizing them. “It is worrisome that despite the war ,declared by the government and its agencies on drug abuse ,the rate of indulging in these illicit substances has continued to grow higher and higher everyday. “It is even surprising that students in secondary schools and even primary schools have become the targets of unscrupulous drug peddlers ,who take these drugs to their schools, such as :colorado ,codeine ,indian hemp ,skunk ,tramadol rophynol ,strong ,loud and other dangerous drugs have found their way into our schools and portend great danger to the future of our nation.” Mr. Olabulo further said another noticeable abuse of drugs among our youths now is the excessive use of overdose of cough syrup, especially those that contain codeine “The consequences of drug abuse in our country have been : increase in banditry ,kidnapping ,armed robbery ,murder , and others forms of crime as well as unprecedented rise in broken homes and mental disorderliness. There is a strong need for he government and the relevant agencies to dedicate more time , energy and resources to the advocacy and enlightenment on drug abuse and illicit trafficking. “Religious institutions should also join in the fight against drug abuse. They should not just celebrate : Valentine Day ,Fathers’ Day , Mother’s Day and other days of less importance. Deep teachings on drug abuse in our religious places will go a long way in the fight against the scourge. Schools and other institutions of learning also have a role to play in the fight against drug abuse and illicit trafficking . It is the responsibility of all of us to put our hands and energies together to fight drug abuse in our country.” DAILY INDEPENDENT reports that other agencies including National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), National Agency For The Prohibition Of Trafficking In Persons (NAPTIP) among others were represented at the event.