ABUJA – Owing to regular occurrenc­es of floods in some parts of the country, the Federal Gov­ernment has directed states yet to submit reports on their vulnerability status to do so within one week. The directive was handed down to the affected states on Thursday, at the National Economic Council NEC meet­ing chaired by Vice President Kashim Shettima. Briefing State House Cor­respondents on some of their deliberations at NEC, the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello said only 15 states had complied with an initial direc­tive to submit their report to a five man ad hoc committee on flooding constituted by the im­mediate past administration. He hinted that some of the victims were yet to get com­pensation as a result of the stalled report detailing the extent and impact of flooding in their domain. “One of the issues that came up for discussion were flooding or flood disasters across the country. At the 128th NEC meeting held on 28th October 2022, the then chairman of Nigeria Gover­nors Forum and the former governor of Sokoto state, His Excellency Aminu Wa­ziri Tambuwal, drew the at­tention of the council to the devastating effects of the 2022 floor which affected almost all the states of the Federation. “Which resulted in loss of lives and livelihoods. The council resolved, as at that time, to set up a five man ad hoc committee on flooding, comprising governance of Jigawa, Kogi, Anambra, Bayelsa, Lagos and Yobe States and co-opted some oth­er ministries and agencies. The terms of reference was to review the current flooding situation in the country and design a template for compen­sation of victims. “In carrying out that par­ticular assignment, there were limitations. One of the limitations is the delay in the non submission of field tem­plates by some states, only 16 states out of the total number of states affected forwarded their submissions to NEC Secretariat, up to date, and about 15 others were yet to do so. The submission from defaulting states are awaited as we speak. “Recommendations and the plight of victims of the un­fortunate flood disaster across affected states of the federa­tion could be alleviated if the much needed intervention from the federal government materialized without further delay. POLL “There is therefore the need to expedite release of funds to affected states as recommended by designated committees constituted by the federal government to that effect. “This will go a long way in addressing the needs of the victims as well as offset debts incurred by some states to as­sist the victim. You are aware that various agencies that are responsible for giving us early warnings and signs have been warning that this year might be worse than last year. So flooding now can be predicted to be an annual occurrence.