LAGOS  – Lafarge Africa Plc, one of the leading innovative and sustainable building solutions company, held the 6th edition of its Concrete Ideas stakeholder conference series. The conference which was recently held at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos brought together industry experts, business leaders and key decision-makers in the energy and waste management sector to examine Nigeria’s strategy to transition to clean or renewable energy and the opportunities the transition presents for Nigerian businesses and for boosting energy supply to reduce Nigeria’s huge energy deficit. The conversation was organised in two-panel sessions; the first was themed “The Business of Clean Energy: Opportunities for Industries and SMEs” while the second looked at “Promoting Circular Economy through Sustainable Waste Management Practices.” The workshop was formally opened by Prince Adebode Adefioye, Chairman, Lafarge Africa Plc., who expressed delight at the choice of the topic and the calibre of the experts assembled for the discussions. “Today’s subject is not just about chemistry, not just about Geocycle or decarbonisation, it is about stimulating every part of our economy, creating incentives for investors in clean energy and for people and businesses to embrace the use of clean energy products and technologies. “ It allows Nigeria not only to boost its energy supply and create new high-value jobs but also to be at the forefront of reducing carbon emissions and saving our planet. “Therefore, the whole idea is to bring people together to be able to stimulate ideas, even the banks and broader financial sector, to involve them in creating innovative tech and financial products that allow us to generate and use energy more effectively and productively”. Khaled El Dokani, Country Chief Executive Officer, of Lafarge Africa Plc, in his remarks, said: “Fighting climate change and making the transition towards a greener economy requires a concerted effort by industries, individuals and the government.” POLL “As a leader in innovation, Lafarge will continue to collaborate with stakeholders and we expect that the discussions by a range of industry experts and public officials here present today, will provide a clear view of the business of clean energy and reveal the opportunities, insights and strategic agendas for leaders in the private and public sectors to accelerate our society’s access to clean energy,” he added. In the session dedicated to the business of clean energy, the experts and Thought Leaders which include Engr Joseph Olayande, Acting Director General, Energy Commission of Nigeria, represented by Mr Ibrahim Sulu, Director of Energy Management, Energy Commission of Nigeria; Mr Olapade Durotoye, Managing Director Savannah Energy; and Mr. Ayo Ademilua, CEO, Renewable Energy Association of Nigeria; highlighted the need for adequate access to energy by hundreds of millions of Nigerians and the challenges affecting the adoption of clean energy. They also shared insights on the strategic choices operators, investors, regulators, and the government has to make to achieve the desired goals. The experts concluded that to fully harness the many advantages that clean energy offers, the government and all the stakeholders in the energy sector must take bolder steps to combat the many problems militating against the mass adoption and use of renewable energy in Nigeria. This they believe will make Nigeria a more attractive destination for global energy investment that will allow it to fund the transition towards lower carbon sources of energy such as wind, water, sun and biomass. The second session discussed the challenges facing the waste sector, the potential of waste as a clean energy source, and the steps that can be taken towards promoting a circular economy to reduce waste generation.