LAGOS  – Poised to drive insurance growth and deepen pen­etration in Nigeria, the management of Pru­dential Zenith Life Insurance Limited said it will partner with the Nigerian Association of Insurance and Pension Editors (NAIPE) to actualise the mission. Accordingly, Prudential Ze­nith Life Insurance said it will partner with NAIPE through publicity and awareness cre­ation in growing the insurance sector. Speaking during a courtesy visit of the Executive members of NAIPE to Prudential Zenith Life Insurance Limited, NAIPE Chairperson, Mrs. Nkechi Naeche-Esezobor, emphasised the need for a deliberate and sustained partnership between insurance companies and the media to enhance insurance awareness in the country. She said one of the ways to boost insurance adoption among the public, is for the Insurance Company CEOs to be more vis­ible in the media as well as in the programmes organised by Association to tell their stories, adding that this will help in changing the negative public perceptions about insurance. NAIPE Chairperson, also called on Prudential Zenith Life Insurance to take advantage of some of the products on offer by the Association to better the lot of the company and deepen insurance growth. She listed the products on offer by the Association includ­ing Products Profiling, Manage­ment Profiling, Claims Profiling, Quarterly CEO Forum and Spon­sorship of the NAIPE Annual General Meeting (AGM). On product profiling, she ex­plained “This awareness cam­paign will review the product of­ferings of the interested insurer to increase the public knowledge of these products. In the end, it will increase patronage of your firm’s products and services.” Management Profiling, ac­cording to her, is to ensure that the general public is aware of the capability and competence of personnel managing an un­derwriting firm. They need to know the level of integrity of the people managing an insurance company. POLL On Claims Profiling, she said, “Our Association will examine the claims paid by any interested insurer to its policyholders over some time, usually five years. With the strength of our mem­bership base, the reportage will enhance your brand, and woo new customers to your company as Nigerians want to insure with companies that can pay claims as and when due. Quarterly CEO Forum, she explained, “is an avenue for Managing Directors/top Man­agement staff of insurance com­panies to brief our members on the activities of the company and the projections aimed at improv­ing both the top and bottom line of the business. Different stories from the CEO On Sponsorship of the NAIPE AGM, Esezobor who is also the publisher and Editor-in-Chief, BusinessToday Communication, said Companies that sponsor the AGM which holds in July every year, have the opportunity to market their products and ser­vices to members in the course of the event. Responding, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Of­ficer of Prudential Zenith Life Insurance Limited, Mr. Chuks Igumbor, thanked NAIPE Exec­utives for the visit and commend­ed members of the Association for their contributions to the industry.