The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) and the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma have vowed to resist any attempt by the Special Intervention Team (SIT) to blackmail and tarnish the image of the staff of the University. The University JAC made the vow in a statement jointly signed by Comrade B.J. Omoikhoje, Comrade J.N. Nweke, NAAT’s Chairman and Secretary, Comrade C. Odiamehi, Comrade S. Akhimien, Chairman and Secretary of NASU and Comrade T.O. Onofua and Comrade E.O. Omokhafe, Chairman and Secretary of SSANU respectively while responding to SIT interim report to the state government. According to the statement, “JAC is in receipt of a video showing an interim report of the Special Intervention Team (SIT) of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, presented to the Executive Governor of Edo State and Visitor to the University,  His Excellency, Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki. “The said video clip which has gone viral can best be described as a further attempt to blackmail and tarnish the good image of the ever-dedicated staff of Ambrose Alli University and to further hoodwink the Governor and entire people of Edo State. “We also see this as a means the SIT had adopted since taking over the administration of AAUE, to cover up their antics of putting up the behavior of termites – that is, eating from the system and destroying same. “The JAC of NAAT, NASU and SSANU hereby unequivocally state that the SIT has done more harm than good to the University as it has created hitches and unnecessary hiccups in the administration of the University”. “On the puerile allegations made by the SIT against the generality of staff of Ambrose Alli University, we wish to place on record that the confederating Unions of JAC have never supported sharp practices and impunity, but that due process should be followed in handling issues in the University. “However, we hereby respond to the said report, with these pertinent questions begging for answers, is it all staff of AAUE that are involved in fraudulent acts, because the interim report portrays all AAUE staff as fraudulent and JAC will not accept this” The JAC also wants to know if it was all staff of AAU that gave approvals that led to fraud in the University, calling on SIT to tell the public those who approved what led to fraud, and also to tell the public the time frame when the said fraud was committed. “The report sounds as if fraudulent activities have continually been on in the University, who are the suspects or culprits behind these fraudulent activities? “SIT should publish the names of those involved and prosecute them rather than generalizing it, besides,what has SIT done on the recently detected fraud in the activities on the AAUE portal that led to the shutdown of the portal? POLL “This happened in the face of SIT and to date, nothing was heard of the case but the same SIT is accusing all staff of corruption andwhat solutions have the SIT proffered to the problems they met in the University and the ones they created in their supposed repositioning of the University? “There are myriads of problems/challenges in the University today, which the SIT have compounded the more rather than finding solutions to them”. JAC further asked the SIT why they did not inform His Excellency and the good people of Edo State whythey were yet to carry out promotion exercises and implement the same for 2020, 2021, and 2022 and were yet to declare appraisal exercises for 2023. “Why did the SIT reconstitute the Staff Disciplinary Committee, excluding Union Representatives? This is carved to alienate Unions from disciplinary measures melted on erring staff, to the sole satisfaction of SIT. “Why did the SIT not inform the Governor and the people of Edo State of what has accrued to them in allowances and this ought to be included in the report to make it complete?”; JAC asked. Other questions asked by JAC include, “Why did SIT stop the deduction of dues and levies belonging to Unions, Co-operatives and Associations? etc. It should be noted that this had been an agreement between management and concerned bodies. Stopping the deductions is a breach of contract. “Why has SIT refused to pay the backlog of check-off dues belonging to Unions, Associations and Co-operatives which it met on the ground, as accumulated by the immediate past administration? “Why did SIT refuse to implement the payment of yearly incremental credit on salaries of staff and promotion arrears from 2019 to date?“Why did the SIT stop allowances such as excess workload accruing to staff these allowances are universal and not peculiar to AAUE alone neither were they designed by SIT but by recognized agencies of government. “Why did SIT stop the payment of monthly pension stipends to some retirees with the claim that they retired prematurely? Is it now a crime to retire voluntarily? “Why did SIT not pay gratuities to retirees from 2013 to date, or do the retirees not merit the payment of their gratuities? Many have died without enjoying their money. “Why has SIT not implemented the consequential adjustment of the New National Minimum Wage in the University? It should be noted that the New National Minimum Wage was approved in 2018 and till date, is yet to be implemented in Ambrose Alli University. “Did SIT discuss the recent increase in tax that took effect from January, 2023 with any Union or body? Yet SIT told the Governor that Unions usually kick against the implementation of the tax in the University. “Did SIT discuss the deductions for access cards from staff salaries with any Union or body before effecting it? This was taken from the salaries of all staff whether one has a car or not. “The same SIT that told staff that were yet to take part in Biometrics Exercise that they are no more staff of the University, have in conjunction with the University management employed over 250 new staff and took them to ICT at Government House for the said Biometrics exercise. Where lays the faith of the existing staff who were yet to be screened? “We therefore wish to summit that the SIT as led by its defacto Chairman, Mr. Austin Osakue is bent on annihilating staff of the University because staff are asking for due process to be followed. “We also wish to inform all that since the SIT came on board; they allocated bogus allowances to themselves on the lean financial resources of the University. This is a major reason why the University finds it difficult today in terms of finances. “We call on the State Government to disband the SIT and constitute a Governing Council for the University, as SIT has demoralized and dehumanized staff of Ambrose Alli University, with its inhumane attitude towards staff” JAC further declared.