An educationist, Mrs. Olajumoke Akere, has urged Nigerian students to take advantage of global opportunities to be relevant and contribute to the development of Nigeria. Akere, also the Director of JSAY Prevarsity, gave advice on Friday, in Ibadan, at the 2022/2023 valedictory programme for the graduating students of the institution. She described the world as a global Village where whatever the students were doing must have global relevance. Akere urged the students to discover themselves, display their skills, play their games well and ensure that they make an impact globally. “You must move from your local environment to the global community because technology has made the world a global Village. “There is so much competition because of the globalisation. So, it is important for our young people to start to understand the fact that the global space is moving as everything is technologically driven. “The earlier we start and ensure our young people understand and don’t keep themselves in the local environment and engage in global competition the better for them and Nigeria in general,” she said. Akere said the JSAY Prevarsity programme would ensure that the students have leadership and entrepreneurial skills, urging them to take on such skills to be unique and stand out in the global community. POLL The educationist said that students of the institution were able to compete locally and internationally because most of the examinations they do were international examinations. She said that the institution took the first position in the 2023 British Council Recognition and Cambridge Standing Learner Award in Physics, Chemistry, Biology and Information Technology. The director said that education for global relevance was very important, adding Nigeria as a country must continue to preach to young ones to ensure they acquire 24-century skills. She urged the young ones to ensure they display whatever skills they have and compete favourably with anyone around the world. Akere said that Nigeria must leverage technology and develop young people for they to have fair play and operate globally as citizens of the global community. In her lecture, a Human Resource Consultant, Mrs Bunmi Akingbade, urged the students to be exceptional, build themselves and be transformational leaders and live a life of integrity and good character. Contributing, a Developmental Psychologist, Mr David Akinyemi, also urged the students to think critically, identify a particular global challenge and make themselves unique in their different fields of endeavour.