The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has rebuffed the report from a national newspaper that former governor of Zamfara, Bello Matawalle, was declared wanted. A few days to the end of his tenure, Matawalle had accused the now suspended EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, of demand­ing a $2 million bribe from him. Matawalle, in an interview with BBC, also knocked the EFCC for going after governors while ig­noring federal officials with big budgetary allocations. In denying the allegations, the EFCC said it was investigating Matawalle for allegedly siphoning state funds running to N70 billion through unexecuted contracts awarded to his cronies and for which money was received. The Zamfara State governor, Dauda Lawal, also accused Ma­tawalle of stealing official vehi­cles from the Government House before handing over the state’s leadership to him. The governor said his prede­cessor sold all the official vehicles, refrigerators, television sets and other items in the Government House. However, EFCC via a statement on Sunday noted that despite all the allegations, the former gover­nor was not declared wanted. The anti-graft agency de­scribed the report from the nation­al newspaper as incorrect. POLL The statement reads: “The attention of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has been drawn to a report, entitled, ‘Alleged N70bn Fraud: EFCC Declares Ex-Zam­fara Gov Matawalle Wanted’, which appeared in the Sunday Tribune of June 18, 2023 and pur­ports that the commission had declared a former Zamafara State governor, Bello Matawalle, wanted and requested the Department of State Service (DSS) to arrest him ‘anywhere he is seen’. “Without prejudice to the case involving the former governor, the report is incorrect as the commis­sion has yet to declare Matawalle wanted or solicit the assistance of any agency, including the DSS, to effect his arrest. “The commission has standard procedure for declaring persons wanted and communicating same to the public, not through faceless ‘security sources’”.