Level of money returned is inadequate to pay for cost of generating energy and the associated costs of transmission and gas and other market participants; therefore, defaults occur and service delivery falls, Siaka MOMOH reports. If there is any issue that is so troubling, that is a pain in the heart for manufacturers and other businesses in Nigeria, it is power supply problem. Government after government has tried unsuccessfully to find a solution to this nuisance. The best of Nigeria’s minds have been in the power saddle to proffer a solution. Accomplished lawyer and politician, late Bola Ige was there. Professor Barth Nnaji, an academic of note with private sector experience in the energy sector was there too. And currently, Babatunde Fashola, who scored high, as governor of Lagos State, is currently in charge. In spite of their worthy managerial muscles, the solution we are looking for is not yet in sight. The power sector is entangled in a web of challenges – challenges spanning all the units it is made of – generation, transmission and distribution. Years back, during the Goodluck Jonathan regime, manufacturers and other business people who gathered at a Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry event, got the shock of their life when they were told by the boss of the Presidential Task Force on Power Engr Beks Dagogo-Jack, that power delivery in the country “may collapse if the market enters default”. According to him, “the level of energy produced is inadequate for market to generate adequate funds from customers to pay market overheads and maintenance”. He explained, “Market participants fail to follow the rules of the market and to meet the various obligations expected from them in market codes. There is drop in confidence of market and reforms. Level of money returned is inadequate to pay for cost of generating energy and the associated costs of transmission and gas and other market participants. Therefore, defaults occur and service delivery falls.” Why? This is because a large number of consumers are not ‘metered’? In fact, the CEO of EgbinPower Plc, Engr M.I. Uzoigwe said, “There is no way to do commercial distribution of electricity without metering…” Again, at the Ikeja branch of MAN – 5th Edition Consultative Forum, the Chairman, Infrastructure Committee/Electrical/Electronic Sectoral Group of MAN, Reginald Odiah, in a paper he presented at the event, said “poor electricity power supply is the greatest constraint Nigerian manufacturers are bedevilled with”. He said generally speaking, over 75 per cent of the electricity power needs of manufacturers “are generated in-house”. And at an Apapa branch of MAN’s forum tagged ‘Improving Power Distribution and Generation: Experience and Expectation’ the same year, Babatunde Odunayo, Chairman MAN, Apapa branch lamented “Nigeria has the lowest per capita energy consumption in comparison to some of its peers. According to him, Nigeria has 40kw/000, Indonesia 120kw/000, South Africa 270kw/000 inhabitants. POLL Transmission capacity The National Grid – the Nations network of transmission lines – together with the related infrastructure, suffers from inadequate, aged and poorly maintained equipment. According to Odunayo, “When electricity passing through the systems goes beyond its installed capacity, the overloading leads to excessive power outages since the equipment becomes damaged or compromised. Egbin Power Plc‘s MD/ CEO Engr M.I.Uzoigwe, a core power professional, underscored Odunayo’s argument. Said he: “The most worrisome issue of currently is our capacity to transmit generated power.” He listed the bottlenecks that inhibit efficient evacuation of power as including the following, among others: overloaded distribution feeders, inadequate power transformer capabilities, undersized conductors, single circuit transmission lines. Low power generation/ poor gas supply Engr M.I.Uzoigwe told it all. He explained there is a basic problem of low aggregate power installed capacity in the country. He said even when the plants are available to generate power, there have always been issues of non-availability of gas to drive the thermal plants. He cited the issue of sabotage by Niger Delta militants. Obsolete power equipment Life spans of power stations range between 30 to 40 years but they must be maintained regularly. But according to Uzoigwe, culture of maintenance in Nigeria has nothing to write home about. He said budget for running infrastructure is cut down or never got approved in efforts to provide for other facets of the economy and national responsibility.