LAGOS – Football fans in Lagos and its environs are set for a never-before-loaded UEFA Champions League (UCL) final viewing experience as the ‘Heineken Cheers to All Fans’ campaign peaks in style in Lagos; the Centre of Excellence this Saturday. Aside from the all-star line-up of performers already confirmed to light up the Landmark Events Centre, the heart of the city in Ikeja will also be bubbling with activities at the Cubana Hut & Grill on Isaac John Street. The electrifying trio of Young John, DJ Consequence, and Chuey Chu will be holding the fans and loyal consumers of Heineken spell-bound with top-notch performances, hot mixes of music as well as bants and jokes on a night of explosive football action between history-chasing Manchester City and Inter Milan. Apart from the unmatchable entertainers, fans will also be sharing the UCL final night with accomplished football icons who have excelled and made names for themselves in the round leather game. Four Nigerian football icons, Onome Ebi, Finidi George, Augustine Eguavoen and Julius Aghahowa will all grace the grand finale of the Heineken ‘Cheers to All Fans’ campaign. Onome Ebi, the captain of the Nigerian women’s national team, the Super Falcons going to the FIFA World Cup finals next month in Australia and New Zealand. Ebi’s leadership skills and resilience on the pitch have made her a role model for aspiring female footballers in Nigeria and beyond. Her presence at the grand finale resonates with the inclusivity of women preached by Heineken and it will also undoubtedly inspire and empower young girls who dream of playing football at the highest level. POLL George, a former Nigerian international was a key member of the legendary Ajax team that won the UCL in 1995. His electrifying performances and memorable goals during that campaign etched his name in football history. The presence of the Enyimba coach will undoubtedly be inspiring for the fans. For Eguavoen, a former captain of the Nigerian national team, the Super Eagles, he represented the country in numerous international tournaments, including the FIFA World Cup. Eguavoen’s experience and footballing insights will undoubtedly captivate the audience at the grand finale. Completing the quartet is Aghahowa; another Nigerian football icon who enjoyed a successful career at both the national and international levels will also be joining the fans on Saturday for the unique viewing experience courtesy of Heineken. The Heineken ‘Cheers to All Fans’ campaign is celebrating the unwavering passion and dedication of football supporters around the world and the pinnacle of this campaign is bringing together football legends and fans to celebrate the beautiful game. The grand finale of the Heineken ‘Cheers to All Fans’ campaign will be a football-filled extravaganza for attendees as they will have the opportunity to watch the highly anticipated UCL final match while being surrounded by the iconic figures who have contributed to Nigerian football’s rich history.