This article which was first published in my column on October 11, last year, and subsequently on several traditional and online platforms merits being repeated because President Bola Ahmed Tinubu through his signing into law of Student Loan (Access to Higher Education) Bill has once again acted like a knight in a shining armor galloping into town on a horse back to rescue the weak, which in this instance are the indigent students that abound in our country and have been crying out for help. It is clearly a Democracy Day gift to the na­tion as the incredibly useful bill was signed into law on June 12. As the title reveals, the piece being referenced was written in the heat of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, strike literally crippled education in Nigeria for some eight (8) months— February to October, last year. And it is quite gratifying that then presi­dential candidate and currently incumbent president of Nigeria, Asiwaju Tinubu, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, now Chief of Staff, CoS, to the President, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, had a similar conviction to the case that I made in the piece about provision of loans to students to enable them pay market rates as fees to higher institutions as the pana­cea to the constant industrial actions often being embarked upon by academics which often stem from poor remuneration and non-conducive working environment. But I had no way of knowing that both of them were privately praying and working assid­uously for Asiwaju Tinubu to become the next president of Nigeria in order to actualize the bold recommendations which have the capacity to solve the perennial issue of lecturers embark­ing on industrial actions to the detriment of our youths and future of the education sector of our country in general. In writing the piece, one was convinced that the solution to the incessant ASUU strikes would be a paradigm shift in the ways and means of funding the education sector in Nige­ria and student loan approach held out itself as the most attractive. That is why the case was forcefully made in the essay which one is craving the indulgence of readers to reproduce nearly nine months after the October 11, 2022 date that it was first published in the mass media, simply because it would help breakdown, explain, or throw some light on the reasoning behind the decision of the CoS (in his capacity as a legislator) to promote the very consequential bill and why Mr. Presi­dent signed it into law, less than two (2) weeks in the saddle of leadership of our beloved country. It is the second of the two very consequen­tial bills rapidly signed into law in the first ten (10) days of being on the driver’s seat in Aso Rock Villa seat of presidential power in what promises to be a rollercoaster ride in political leadership, and the sort of which has never been witnessed in our clime. POLL Before getting to the nitty gritty of the article, perhaps it would help if I point out that it was Mr. Gbajabiamila in his capacity as the speaker of the 9th House of Representatives that negoti­ated with ASUU the end of the obnoxious and highly embarrassing strike action that lasted for eight months during which both education and labor ministers adopted dog-in-a-manger attitude while our youths were pinning away outside the classrooms and being exposed to criminality owing to idleness. And it is also instructive to note that perhaps because President Tinubu is a beneficiary of student loan during his sojourn in the United States of America where student loan scheme is entrenched, he literally could not wait for the ink used in signing his signature on the docu­ment conferring on him the presidency of Nige­ria to dry, before using it to append his signature on the Student Loan Bill. Having been a benefactor of student loan as captured in his profile which indicates that he attended Richard J. Daley College which is a public institution in the state of Chicago, Illi­nois, USA, it was easy for President Tinubu to empathize and connect with indigent universi­ty students in Nigeria and align with them by opening up the opportunity for higher education for them so that our country can become a net exporter of high quality human capital around the world as India currently does, hence its na­tionals are the Chief Executive Officers, CEOs, and Chief Technical Officers, CTOs, of top 10 Fortune 500 firms in the world. As the stage has been set for the discourse with the forgoing background narrative, with­out further ado, I hereby present below a com­plete reproduction of the piece detailing the issues and constraints in the education sector which President Tinubu addressed by accenting to the bill which is now law: The judiciary which is vested with the au­thority to interpret the laws of our country has spoken on the industrial action embarked upon by tertiary institutions lecturers in Nigeria since February 14, this year. In its ruling on Wednesday, September 21, it was held that the striking lecturers must return to the class rooms. But that verdict had only helped to galvanize the resolve of the discontented lecturers to fur­ther dig in their heels. So, the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) in Abuja which ordered ASUU members back to work in discontinuation of its industri­al action might have done its job, but it is a no brainer for most people to realize that it is a case of barking without being able to bite. It is therefore such a welcome relief that on Wednesday, October 5, 2022, the Appeal Court acted wisely by directing the parties to settle the feud out of court. I have a hunch that the Appeal Court judges might have hinged their decision to recommend out of court settlement as the best suited option for resolving the conflict based on the dictum that we are all familiar with: you can force the horse to the river, but you cannot force it to drink. Which implies that getting teachers back to work should be by persuasion not coercion. It makes one wonder why the Federal Gov­ernment of Nigeria, FGN, took the option of going to court in the first instance. And somehow, in light of the wisdom not to try the case by the Appeal Court judges, who rather urged the litigants to resolve their dis­pute amicably outside the court system, the ju­dicial arm of government can be said to be more sensitive to the plight of our youths who have been out of school for over seven (7) months than the executive arm of government that has failed to settle their differences with the striking teach­ers hence our youths, the leaders of tomorrow, have literally been left in the cold and at the mercy of nefarious ambassadors— criminal elements such as bandits and terrorists. Having failed to succeed in trying to use the court system, the trick of divide and rule in conflict resolution appears to be a tactic which the FGN seems to have decided to apply via the registration of labor associations formed by break away ASUU members who have decided to form their own unions. Despite the treachery, the spirit of ASUU members appears to have remained upbeat as reflected by their decision not to back down de­spite the odds being stacked against them. It is a development which all well-meaning Nigerians should be concerned about because both sides of the feuding parties seem to be set for a fight to finish without giving serious con­siderations to the long term implications of the industrial action by the lecturers which may extend beyond the more or less six (6) months remaining life span of the incumbent admin­istration. And in a situation whereby the no-work-no-pay rule aimed at igniting the fear of hunger and starvation as a tool for getting the aggrieved lecturers back to the classrooms have failed to resolve the conflict and the gambit of going to court to compel the lecturers to return to the classroom which is not an amicable solution by any stretch of imagination is also proving to be ineffective, how would the latest antic of sponsoring factions within ASUU to rebel and weaken it be the panacea to the dispute? The underlying reason for the poser above is that having gone this far in the strike action (7 months and counting), the aggrieved lecturers must have adopted the strategy of no retreat, no surrender in this strike action that is turn­ing out to be an epic battle of their professional lives. So, I would argue that seeking an end to the crisis in the education sector via court judge­ment or sponsoring rebellion via fractionaliza­tion of ASUU (straight out of the playbook of typical politicians who are wont to divide and rule) is detestable. In fact, the court judgement is turning out to be Pyrrhic victory for the FGN simply because the Appeal Court had demurred from deliberat­ing on the matter perhaps because it considers the court forum as inauspicious for the resolu­tion of such a delicate dispute which has more moral content than legal ground. Even if the judgement were to have been sus­tained at the Appeal Court level, we are all famil­iar with what would potentially be the output of an unmotivated workforce which the lecturers would be, if FGN had succeeded in using the courts to hound them back to the classrooms. Personally, I am appalled that after it had seemed to me that government might have con­cluded that it is unwise to continue with the dog fight with lecturers, hence it rescinded its earlier decision to coerce the striking lecturers back to the classrooms via the memo from the Na­tional Universities Commission, NUC, directing vice chancellors to re-open the institutions, the standoff has persisted. And given the recent registration of rival associations in the academia, and the rhetoric from Labor Minister, Chris Ngige, my initial thoughts seem to be too presumptuous. Before the most recent development, it did not surprise me that ASUU President, Professor Emmanuel Osodeke, in a television interview after the court verdict ordering the lecturers back to the classrooms expressed the sentiment below: “It’s a catastrophe. No country thinking about the future of its children, thinking about the health of its educational system, who believe in education and whose children are in those universities will try that.” The ASUU president’s assessment of gov­ernment’s action and the court verdict is quite scathing and damning to say the least. Assuming our leaders prefer to easily forget the brain drain that happened in the healthcare sector which saw our best doctors and nurses migrating abroad where the pay is better and standard of living is higher, we the citizens that are bearing the brunt are frightened and cannot afford to erase the memory of the exodus of our medical experts abroad, and fear that we may not survive a similar drain in the education sec­tor, therefore we urge the authorities to thread with caution, so that our education sector which was top notch in not too distant past, but now in shambles, does not tip over. To be clear, I am not absolving ASUU of blame, but only imploring FGN to place the issues squarely on the table for ASUU to ap­preciate the futility of hoping that the old ways of funding education are sustainable and then propose a new pathway out of the quagmire in a manner that ASUU members would have con­fidence and even find ways to reason together with the FGN on the way forward. After all, it was out of the ashes of ASUU strike that Education Trust Fund, TETFund, a critical source of funding support for higher education arose via creative thinking by the eggheads.