All is set for the inauguration of the League of African Am­bassadors and High Commis­sioners as a non-governmental platform with membership open to ambassadors or high commissioners of African de­scent who are at post, out of post, retired or active in service. The group, which pointed out that skilled and experi­enced human resources are being wasted in Africa as a result of retirement, tenure expiration or organisational re-structuring, expressed wor­ry that the continent is being denied the expertise or energy of people who can still contrib­ute to the reshaping of Africa. More specifically, the body flays a situation where well-trained and energetic diplo­mats with vast experiences in diplomacy who ought to con­tinue contributing to Africa’s robust engagement with the world are underutilised either due to factors such as retire­ment, end of tour of duty or changes in the home govern­ments. It is in view of this that the League of African Ambassa­dors has been birthed to create a sustainable platform for Af­rican diplomats, after complet­ing their tenure, to continue deploying their wealth of expe­rience in the service of Africa and the whole of humanity. Nigeria’s High Commis­sioner to the Republic of Zambia, Amb. Nwannebuike Eze Ominyi, is the convener of the league. The co-conve­ners include Amb. Khadija Iddrisu, Ghana’s High Com­missioner to the Republic of Zambia; Amb. Ahmed El Sa­mawi, Egyptian Ambassador to the Republic of Togo; Amb. Teferi Fikre, Ethiopia Am­bassador to Guinea-Bissau; Amb. Steven Katuka, Zam­bia’s High Commissioner to the Republic of Namibia; and Amb. Joao Baptista Domin­gos, Angola’s Ambassador to Ghana. The much-awaited platform will afford Africa a credible and louder voice on the global scene while ensuring that the collec­tive position on major and sundry issues that affect the continent is more respected. The League will also provide a strong backbone to African leaders on the world stage. In his remarks, the conve­ner, who is also the Dean of Ni­geria Ambassadors and High Commissioners, Amb. Eze, said, “The proposed League of African Ambassadors is a clar­ion call to Your Excellencies to see that Africa still needs our services to help our countries and Africa at large even when our tour of duty comes to an end.” Speaking further on the rationale behind the League, Amb. Eze noted: “The aim is to create a sustainable plat­form for us at the end of our tenures to continue deploying our wealth of experience in the service of Africa and the whole of humanity. It is our candid opinion that if Africa would realise its potential to the maximum, the experi­ences and understanding of the world which we have all acquired at post should not be allowed to waste for any rea­son. Hence, we are duty-bound to answer this clarion call and launch the League of African Ambassadors and High Com­missioners as a non-govern­mental platform. The mem­bership shall be open to any African Ambassador or High Commissioner at post or out of post, retired or active in service.” POLL The platform is planning the first virtual convergence of Africa Ambassadors and High Commissioners as an avenue to formally inaugurate the body while also discussing issues on promoting diplomacy on the African continent. Commenting on this aus­picious development on the African diplomatic scene, the Secretary of Nigerian Ambassadors and High Com­missioners, who doubles as Ni­geria High Commissioner to the Republic of Kenya, Amb. Yusuf Yunusa, said, “We be­lieve this platform will serve as an avenue to further engage more effectively with the glob­al community on matters of collective interest to engender greater respect for our leaders and citizens. We also plan to support the Africa Union and all our sub-regional organi­sations in Africa to achieve their goals and objectives. We are open to serving as mentors to newly appointed African Ambassadors and High Com­missioners as we build a re­pository of knowledge which they can tap into. We will cre­ate avenues for regular capac­ity building for diplomats and raise continental awareness on diverse issues of benefit to Africa and the world.” Ambassador of Nigeria to the Republic of Togo and one of the promoters, Amb. Debo Adesina, said, “Africa and Africans can only rise on the strength of our ideas as a peo­ple. On the mother continent, in the Americas and across the world, the Black Race is one. And we must scale the artifi­cial guardrails called borders to unite in hearts and minds as Africans, speak in unison with purpose, proclaim our unique­ness as a people and act like the chosen ones we truly are!”