Comrade Ayoyinka Oni, a core activist, is the incumbent chairman of the African Action Congress (AAC) in Lagos State. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s inauguration, the removal of petroleum subsidy, the 10th National Assembly and former President Muhammadu Buhari’s legacies. Excerpt: As a leftist activist, how do you see the May 29, 2023 inauguration of President Bola Tinubu? It is Nigeria in another circle of abnormal normality. We get it right or we don’t get it right, governance must continue. Re­gardless if we all All Progres­sives Congress (AaPC) rigged, bullied, bought and forced their way to power, we must accept them by force. It was an old dawn on that day and Nigerians were sad. Whatever was done at the Eagles Square on May 29, was a waste of tax payers’ mon­ey. A man that won an election by cheating the people would continue to cheat them, while in power. What aspects of President Bola Tinubu’s inaugural speech im­pressed you the most? I don’t think Nigerians should be impressed by speech­es after 23 years of failed de­mocracy, especially not from an All Progressives Congress (APC) government that gave Ni­gerians pain for eight years. If there is anything at all, it is the fact that Tinubu’s speech was a regular weak speech made by past rulers that sweet talk Nige­rians on the first day while they give them pain, afterwards. He also boasted that the 2023 elec­tions were free and fair, which is very wrong. But, in another tone, he appreciated the securi­ty agencies for making the day happen, knowing they were supposed to get resistance on that day, knowing full well that the 2023 elections were disaster made for the highest bidder to win. What is your view on President Bola Tinubu’s announcement of the removal of petroleum subsidy? Subsidy removal is too wrong. A responsible leader would stop the corruption in the process first. Repair all our refineries in six months to one year so as to reduce de­pendence on marketers and finally diversify the econo­my. Do you see President Bola Tinubu having the political will to turn the nation around going by his Renew Hope mantra and his pronounce­ments at inauguration? POLL Tinubu is an accountant and also one that knows how to play the media to his advantage. That he is going to do in his ten­ure. He is just another section of the ruling elites in power. The only way Nigerians can en­joy dividends of democracy is if a leader is ready to go against the status quo. Is Tinubu ready to do this since he himself has enjoyed it for years? He cam­paigned heavily for Buhari that gave us hopelessness and pain. If APC failed for eight years, why would they start doing well because Tinubu is in pow­er? If Nigerians are going to get anything meaningful, they must fight for it. Of all the good things he read in his speech, he has not worked on any, but already the subsidy has been removed, putting Nigerians in untold hardship. All the three policies he has put forward are inflicting pains on Nigeri­ans. Tinubu is a capitalist that calls himself Progressive. All his style of government centres on the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and foreign policies that have never favoured Nige­rians, but the rich business rul­ing elites. What key areas do you think the President Bola Tinubu administra­tion should focus on urgently? If he can, he should focus on security, both social and safe­ty. He should also focus on the oil sector, all round economy and electricity. But, Buhari fo­cused on all these things and still failed. It is more than fo­cusing on it, it is how it should be done. The right question is: Which method and ideology is Tinubu applying to turn the economy around? If it is the same capitalist IMF policy, he would enrich his friends, but like Buhari, Goodluck Jona­than and others, he will fail the woefully. What enduring legacies would you say former President Muhammadu Buhari left behind? Buhari left a legacy of in­competence. He employed in­competent ministers that fur­ther destroyed the economy. He left a legacy of constantly disobeying the rule of law and so many human rights abuses. We should not forget the Lek­ki Massacre and others we got in his eight years regime. The former Vice President Osinbajo failed the economy, while Bu­hari failed in security. Are you saying that for eight years, former President Muham­madu Buhari did not perform? Buhari is a failure. I don’t think anyone can defend that anymore. Even Bola Tinubu said it during his campaign and inauguration speech. He failed in all sectors, from security to education to the health sector and others. He was Minister of Petroleum for eight years and yet, our oil was stolen on a daily basis and subsidy funds were getting to the wrong hands. What is your take on the emer­gence of the Leadership of the 10th National Assembly? It is my view that nothing good will come out of the 10th Senate. It is a combination of past and present corrupt poli­ticians. They do not even know what the people need, what they would do like the 9th Senate is to say ‘Yea’ to all the instruc­tions of the Executive. Akpabio who is the Senate President has numerous cases in the Econom­ic and Financial Crimes Com­mission (EFCC), from his days as governor and also the Min­ister of Niger Delta. There is no way a corrupt fellow would ever lead Nigeria to productive and prosperity. Already the suf­fering has started. Tinubu that said he would not dictate, but consult Nigerians before he makes decisions, has already starting dictating. He does not care if Nigerians are suffering or not. They are asking Nige­rians to make sacrifices. How many more sacrifices do they want Nigerians to make when they have never made any? Stu­dents are already preparing to pay higher tuition fee, due to the loan they want to start dis­bursing by September. Every­one is lamenting concerning the high price of fuel, food and goods in the market. Rent has also gone up and so many other services. Akpabio was laughing like a baby due to his excite­ment as the Senator President. All l saw was a man laughing at Nigerians. The joke is on us, if we don’t rise up and fight for our right.