Randal Kolo Muani has become one of the most wanted prospects in the transfer market this summer. The Eintracht Frankfurt striker is coming on the back of an excellent spell in his debut season in the Bundesliga, racking up 15 goals and 14 assists in just 32 league matches. Kolo Muani has played a key role in helping Frankfurt reach the final of the DFB Pokal as well, scoring six goals. He was also a part of the 2022 FIFA World Cup French team that reached the final. The former Nantes striker’s performances have not gone unnoticed either, with Bayern Munich most notably keen on acquiring his services ahead of the new season. The German champions are looking to beef up their goalscoring options ahead of the new season. Kolo Muani fits the bill perfectly due to his high productivity in the final third. However, according to SportBILD (h/t Madrid Xtra), the Bavarians are set to face stiff competition in the race to sign the Frenchman, as Real Madrid have freshly added the player to the transfer shortlist. The Spanish giants are looking for a new striker in the market following the untimely departure of Karim Benzema. The veteran forward has joined Al-Ittihad on a lucrative contract, leaving the club devoid of a reliable goalscoring option upfront. Real Madrid have been mainly linked with a move for Harry Kane as the desired replacement for Benzema. But knowing making a move for the Englishman could disrupt the club’s plan to sign Kylian Mbappe or Erling Haaland in 2024, the club are open to other alternatives. That is where Kolo Muani comes into the fray. The French international’s ability to sniff goalscoring opportunities, coupled with his creative prowess and tactical versatility should make him an ideal attacking partner for Vinicius and Rodrygo next season. He is priced at around €100 million, with little room to negotiate. However, competing with Bayern could prove to be tricky, while Eintracht Frankfurt themselves will not be keen on offloading their star man on a cut-price deal this summer. POLL Hence, it will be interesting to see how this transfer saga takes shape in the coming month or so.