The planter of the Christ Apostolic Church (Adamimogo Grace of Mercy Prayer Mountain) worldwide, Prophet Sam Olu-Alo, has called on the government to develop and showcase the nation’s abundant tourism potential to the world. Speaking with newsmen in Jerusalem, Israel, where he led some pilgrims from Nigeria on pilgrimage to the Holy Land., Prophet Olu-Alo called on the governments to invest heavily in and develop our culture, historical sites, prayer mountains, and other tourist delights to create employment and generate more revenues. “We have things that can make our country great and successful in this nation. Ikogosi warm springs, prayer mountains, historical spots, are better than those in foreign countries we are travelling to but we don’t attach any importance to them and this is bringing challenges and discomfort. “My advice to our leaders, the President, state governors, National Assembly Members and House of Assembly Members is if can use the privileges they have to develop our tourist sites by investing heavily in them, tourists will be visiting all these places. “Take Israel for example, tourists from across the world always come in their numbers to visit the country, it is because their government developed their tourist sites to make it attractive to the visitors. And through that,  they generate employment for their people. this is also what is happening in Mecca. Some of the things they developed as tourist attractions represent their culture, tradition and history. “If we can emulate them and work on those things God has blessed us with in Nigeria, I believe they will glorify God in our land, increase government sources, revenues and help in generating employment for our teeming youths”. The man of God charged his co-pilgrims to be good ambassadors of Jesus wherever with good works and character. You have received another name: JP as a person who had visited the holy land, the city of God, use this and the lessons learned here to win souls for Jesus. POLL “The most important aspect of it is for us to love one another. It is still missing in our country Nigeria and is causing problems and pains in the country, if we search for the love and find it, our families, homes and country will be better for it”.