Salutes Zach Adelabu on His Appointment as Tinubu’s Special Adviser on Revenue A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Honourable Yekeen Popoola, has congratulated eminent Nigerians who made the list of the first set of appointments made by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Popoola, former Chairman of the Association of Local Government Administration on Nigeria (ALGON) in Oyo State, said President Tinubu has gone for the best brains to steer the ship of the nation in the right direction. In a statement personally signed by him and made available to newsmen, Popoola said Nigeria had gotten another opportunity of enjoying real dividends of democracy. The APC stalwart maintained that the individuals appointed so far were men sound track records and  proven integrity. He said the appointments further raised the hope of ordinary Nigerians on the ongoing task of revamping the ailing economy. According to him, one of many things this country stands to benefit from Asiwaju’s Presidency is his ability to identify the best hands for the growth and development of the nation. “This country will witness a significant improvement and transformation, giving the kind of personalities who have been appointed so far, the people who have excelled in the their previous engagements, who have track records of outstanding performances and having added unimaginable values each time they were called up for the service to the national development. POLL “With Asiwaju in helm of affairs of the nation, Nigeria has begun a journey into the real competition with world’s most developed countries and very soon public will understand why the core progressive Nigerians insisted that Asiwaju is the only person who can turn things around for the betterment of all.” Meanwhile, he also congratulated the President’s new Special Adviser on Revenue, Honourable Zach Adelabu Adedeji with whom he served together during the reign of Late Governor Abiola Ajimobi as Commissioner for Finance. “We actually worked as a team. in fact, the Oyo State Internally Generated Revenue, IGR, was astronomically geared up due to the sagacity of Honourable Zach as the Commissioner for Finance in the state and I can confidently say that the efforts we put together was one of the reasons Governor Ajimobi broke the jinx of second term for the first time in the history of Oyo State.” He continued: “With him (Hon Adedeji) as Special Adviser on Revenue, I want to assure Nigerians that paucity of funds which characterized the previous regimes would become a forgotten issue and government would have enormous resources to provide infrastructural development to Nigerians. “So, I congratulate a friend, brother and colleague who I have so much confidence in, that he would deliver,” Popoola said.