ABUJA – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has welcomed an investment of $520 million in specialiSed agro-processing zones by the Af­rican Development Bank (AfDB), praising the leader of the multi­lateral institution, Dr Adewun­mi Adesina, for further opening up the economy for investments that provide job opportunities and reduction in poverty. Receiving Dr Adesina after the two-day summit on A New Global Financing Pact in Par­is, President Tinubu said the agro-industrial project strength­ens an area of the country’s com­petitive advantage as he listed other areas of priority that re­quire Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). The President urged the Bank to inject funds into projects that target women and youth empow­erment, while appreciating the AfDB President for his vision of setting up a Youth Entrepreneur­ship Bank in Nigeria that will provide credit, skills and other support for young Nigerians. In his remarks, the AfDB President thanked President Tinubu for the bold initiatives that had repositioned Nigerian economy in three weeks and stimulated appetite of inves­tors from different parts of the world; removal of fuel subsidy and harmonisation of exchange rates. “I commend the President’s foresight, boldness and determi­nation for macroeconomic policy direction by removing the fuel subsidy,’’ he said, “No bird can fly with its wings tied behind. All those steps are signals investors like.’’ Adesina said the bank would support the economic policies of the new administration in Nige­ria, that had placed the people first in development targets. In another meeting, President Tinubu received executives of Airbus/ATR, and assured them that the aviation sector would be “streamlined for efficiency’’, especially in maintenance of aircrafts and training. Senior Vice President of Air­bus/ATR, Public Affairs, Lau­rent Rahul Domergue, assured the President that the company was prepared to invest in the aviation sector, particularly in supplying planes to Nigeria. POLL Meanwhile, the president, on Friday, concluded his official trip to Paris, France, during which he had an outstanding partici­pation in the summit for ‘A New Global Financing Pact’ hosted by French President Emmanu­el Macron. A statement by Dele Alake, Special Adviser, Special Duties, Communications & Strategy to the President noted on Saturday. The statement noted that aside his participation at the event where he represented Ni­geria well, President Tinubu also held high-profile sideline meet­ings with fellow heads of state and government, global business leaders and chief executives of leading multilateral and develop­ment finance institutions from around the world. The summit afforded the President the opportunity of projecting, on a global stage, his advocacy for widening the fiscal space, economic justice for Afri­ca as the world accelerates the pace of energy transition, and the urgency of addressing the pressing issues of poverty and climate change. Tinubu, who was initially scheduled to be back in Abuja on Saturday, will now proceed to London, United Kingdom, for a short private visit. The President will be back in the country in time for the upcoming Eid-el-Kabir festival