Professional Football Association, PFAN, Kwara State chapter, may not be part of 13, June Kwara Football Association, FA, to be held in Kaiama, Kwara North, despite being key stakeholders in soccer administration in the country, Daily Independent gathered over the weekend. PFAN currently has a court order restraining the FA from conducting the election while intense talks are still being held by all stakeholders to resolve the disagreements leading to the suit between the player body and FA. But rather than the allegations made by PFAN against Idris ‘Thuraya’ Abdullahi, current chairman, FA, running for a second term in office where he was accused of being the architect of their being schemed out of the election process, the players body may well be suffering the fall outs of infighting and factional wars that has rendered its all important association ineffective. Inside sources within the state FA say that PFAN, both at the national and state level, are in factions putting the Kwara FA’s election committee in a dilemma as to which faction to accredit to vote in Kaiama. ‘Aside PFAN, there is All Nigeria Football Players Union and the Professional Footballers Association, ANFPU. “There have been efforts at reconciling them without any success so far,” explained a highly placed source in the state FA. As currently learnt, a committee under Phillip Shuaibu, deputy governor, Edo State has been constituted to reconcile the different factions of the players body. In the midst of the confusion, another body, ‘Concerned Group of Active Nigerian Professional Footballers, CGANPF, rose, insisting that it is the authentic players’ association. POLL In April, this year, when it made its statement for the first time, signed by its secretary and captain of Sunshine Stars FC, Sunday Abe, the group said there was need to take full responsibility in the governance structure of the players union according to best global practices. They accused existing unions of failure to accommodate the current players. “As serving football players, our decision to form the union is equally not out of place to mention the ongoing lingering crisis amongst the existing players unions dominated by former footballers, more enmeshed in the politics of the game than its professionalism, with its suffocating effect on the general wellbeing and welfare of players and especially that of the active professional footballers,” the statement read in part. In Kwara, it is PFAN versus ANFPU. While Coach Ashifat Sulyman leads PFAN in Kwara, the factional counterpart is being led by Coach Lukman Ijaya. There were also allegations against PFAN Kwara, too, that it hardly pays its dues as statutorily required. Speaking on these allegations, Ashafa admits that there are factions in Kwara. “But we are more grounded and we are more in number,” he alleges. On the dues not paid, PFAN stated that the FA has not been forthcoming on what they are meant to pay. “Moreover, if other states in their FA elections had PFAN vote in the FA elections, why should Kwara be different,” he asked.