The Oyo State Governor. Engr Seyi Makinde has declared that henceforth government would not tolerate street trading and indiscriminate dumping of refuse on the roads. He enjoined residents of the state, to desist from dumping of refuse on the roads and avoid street trading, so as to ensure a safer environment for investors to invest in the state. Makinde, who made the declaration on Sunday at the thanksgiving church service at Saint Peter’s Cathedral, Aremo, Ibadan, in commemoration of his second term victory, also noted that his government will not tolerate any act of indiscipline, thuggery hooliganism, and any act of violence that can disrupt the prevailing peace in the state. Bishop of Ibadan North Anglican Diocese, Rt. Reverend Williams Aladekugbe, presided over the thanksgiving. The thanksgiving was attended by the Deputy Governor, Barrister Adebayo Lawal, his wife, Mrs Ajibola Lawal, wife of former Governor of Oyo State, Chief Mrs Mutiat Ladoja, Speaker Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin, Chief Judge of Oyo State, Justice Iyabo Yerima, Senator Gbenga Babalola, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun. Former Deputy Governor, and the National Deputy Chairman, PDP, Taofeek Arapaja, Ambassador Ronke Adefope, Wole Oyelese, Head of Service, Mrs Olubunmi Oni, Chief Bode Amoo and his wife and Chief Mrs Elizabeth Mojoyinola Akinyele, Dr. Saka Balogun, Chief Sunday Ogunlade, Chief J G Adetoro, Dr. Deji Omole and Mogaji Joseph Tegbe were also at the event. Makinde maintained that in order to ensure a safer environment, the people of the state must adjust their lifestyle, stressing that the people of the state must adjust their lifestyle by desisting from indiscriminate dumping of refuses and street trading across the state. He noted that his administration will provide a favourable atmosphere for people to comply with the directive, pointing out that his administration will no longer tolerate any act of thuggery or violence from any group or individuals in the state. POLL According to him, “We need to upgrade our lifestyle especially dumping of refuses on the median of roads, dumping of refuses at every junction and street trading and we want investors to come. “If we want Oyo state to rival Lagos state, then we have to chance our lifestyle. Do not say that Makinde is wicked in this second term. We will provide an atmosphere to ensure that people comply. “On the issue of security, there cannot be development when there is no peace. During the election, no one can day that he was beaten or molested. I went to the parks and garages and told that I will find way to merge them together, but someone said that he cannot work with them. “We cannot have two governors in Oyo state. All the bad ones, we will deal with them. We are on top of the situation. You have given me the opportunity of second term. I thank you and God for given me the opportunity to serve another term. “I stand before you today to say that the second term will be better than the first term. I will serve the people to the best of my ability. I want the church to pray that I will finish it strong”.