The Group Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer (GMD/CEO),Gracias Global Homes & Property Ltd, Dr. Ololade Valentina Abuta, has challenged young Nigerians in the real estate sector to create and grow more start-ups by providing solutions to problems in the sector via innovative ideas. Abuta noted that she has also demonstrated her commitment to youth entrepreneurship by hosting a capacity building Masterclass for young people in the real estate industry to equip them with the requisite knowledge and skills for business growth in the industry. “The Masterclass tagged ‘Peak Global Network’, is a value-based sales enrichment program designed to help youths learn the trade secrets and skill sets of successful and top selling realtors. “Despite a real estate boom in Nigeria, the country faces a series of real estate challenges which include lack of infrastructure, poor documentation process, high cost of land acquisition and building materials, lack of access to mortgage. “All these have led to the high cost of acquiring and renting houses in Lagos, Abuja and other major cities in the country”, she said. Dr. Abuta believes Nigeria’s vibrant and enterprising youth can help solve these problems through innovation, technology and entrepreneurship. Through her masterclass, she shares her grass to grace story and tips on how start ups can grow their businesses quickly. “The Peak Global Network initiative is in furtherance of our commitment to our corporate social responsibility focus of building leaders of tomorrow, even as we seek to support Nigerian youths on their journey to entrepreneurship and financial independence,” said Abuta, who was featured as one of the 50 Most Impactful and Award-Winning CEOs That Contributed to Nigeria’s GDP Growth in 2021 by a popular Nigerian newspaper. According to the real estate expert, the Masterclass is targeted at delivering top-of-mind value propositions to enable entrepreneurs position their brands for profitability by learning and implementing current digital trends in real estate marketing and sales. POLL “Through this initiative, we have empowered many young men and women with sought after business and entrepreneurial skills to grow their businesses quickly in 2023,” she added.       