Gabriel Magalhaes has been an important first-team player for Arsenal this season and the Gunners are unlikely to sanction his departure. However, Ligue 1 champions PSG are ready to try their luck this summer as per GOAL. Gabriel Magalhaes has been a regular starter for Mikel Arteta and the player is unlikely to force a move either. It seems highly unlikely that PSG will be able to convince the Brazilian international or Arsenal regarding a summer transfer. The French champions have seemed quite vulnerable defensively, and they need to bring in quality defenders this summer. The Brazilian could prove to be a superb acquisition. Although he has had his fair share of dodgy performances at Arsenal, he remains a quality defender with a bright future ahead of him. He is still only 25 and is likely to improve further with coaching and experience. Having played in Ligue 1 before, he should be able to settle in quickly and make an immediate impact at the capital club. PSG are one of the richest in the world and they could try to tempt Arsenal and the player with lucrative offers. And after losing Sergio Ramos, Les Parisiens need a top-class replacement. However, the Gunners are lacking in depth in the defensive department and the injury to William Saliba derailed the title race. Selling a defender this summer could prove to be a catastrophic mistake for them. Unless Arsenal sign at least two central defenders this summer, an exit for Gabroel Magalhaes seems improbable. The Brazilian is well-settled at the North London club, and he will look to continue at Arsenal. Meanwhile, he has a market value of €50 million, which PSG should have no qualms matching. The Gunners managed to challenge for the Premier League title this season and will be hoping to go all the way next year. Furthermore, Arsenal have secured qualification for the UEFA Champions League. So they will now be hoping to compete at a higher level in Europe next year. Arsenal need a bigger and better squad to do well across multiple fronts, and they cannot afford to lose key players this summer. The North Londoners have a talented squad, and if they can add more depth to the side with a couple of intelligent additions this summer, there is no reason why they cannot challenge for major trophies next year.