ABUJA – President Bola Tinubu will officially meet the lawmak­ers-elect across party lines today. The meeting, which will be held at the State House Con­ference Centre, Abuja, was disclosed by the Deputy Senate who presided over the plenary on Wednesday. President, Ovie Omo-Agege, The invitation of the presi­dent was conveyed in an official letter from the State House to the Senate. Meanwhile, Senator Ab­dulaziz Yari, one of the con­tenders for the position of Senate President, has disclosed what the Senate will look like when elected on June 13. In an interactive session with the Senate Press Corps, Yari said, “It is good for you to know that in the 10th Senate, which I aspire to lead, my col­leagues will be my bosses. “In all our activities, the Senate, under my leadership, by the leave of my bosses and the grace of the Almighty Al­lah, shall be completely demo­cratic, open and serve only the interest of Nigerians. “We assure Nigerians that the Senate, under my leader­ship, will be firm, transpar­ent, purposeful and ensure a cordial working relationship with the President Bola Ahmed Tinubu-led executive to deliver his vision for a secure, united and prosperous Nigeria.” He further stated that he possessed the requisite experi­ence, competence, capacity and the national acceptance to lead the Senate at this point in time. POLL He said: “I have over the years built strong connections among the various peoples of Nigeria across the 36 states and the FCT and I understand the nuances of our nation. “We will build on such ties, connections and experience to heal our nation, foster strong synergies and unity in our country. “I want to assure you that the National Assembly which we seek to lead will be stable, proactive, listen to and pursue the genuine aspiration and yearnings of Nigerians. “It is for these reasons that I put myself forward with the support of majority of my col­leagues and bosses to lead the 10th Senate.” A pro-democracy group, Coalition for Parliamentary Democracy (CPD), has sent a strong message to Godswill Ak­pabio, who is also a contender for the Senate President posi­tion, to show why he should be elected. The group urged him to quit the Senate Presidency if he has no legislative capacity that can earn him the support of his colleagues. The group, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Dr. Menike Johnson, cautioned the ruling All Progressives Con­gress (APC) against the impo­sition of a Senate President. The group further warned why zoning and external influ­ence of the Senate Presidency is not the way to go, adding that such is “undemocratic and only promotes mediocri­ty, incompetence and breeds a corrupt and rubber stamp parliamentary leadership that cannot serve the interest of the Nigerians.” The group commended sen­ators-elect for their support for Senator Yari, who it said has “exhibited the required capac­ity, passion and political will to run a legitimately elected Senate Presidency that will unite the nation, provide con­structive partnership with the executive in the overall interest of Nigerians. “The Coalition for Parlia­mentary Democracy has been watching the contest for the Senate Presidency with keen interest. We have also noted the trajectory, demonstrated capac­ity and acceptability of the two major contestants in the race: Senator Abdul’aziz Yari and Senator Godswill Akpabio. “CPD in tandem with other pro-democracy organisations insists that those interested in the office of the Senate Presi­dent should rather marshal their agenda to Nigerians and senators-elect and not rely on retrogressive and sectional arguments of zoning and ex­ternal endorsements which is undemocratic, promotes mediocrity, incompetence and breeds a corrupt and rubber stamp parliamentary leader­ship that cannot serve the in­terest of the people.”