Joshua Apebo, Secretary General of Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN), in this exclusive interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on how the new labour standard at recent 2023 ILC aims to support opportunities for people of all ages to skill, reskill and upskill continuously in rapidly changing labour markets. Excerpts: Sir, what do you think should be the education blueprint of the Federal Government? Education liberates the intellect, unlocks the imagination and is fundamental for self-respect. It is the key to prosperity and opens a world of opportunities, making it possible for each of us in the country to contribute to a progressive, healthy society. Learning benefits every human being and should be available to all. It is on record that no nation can grow beyond the level of awareness that the citizens have of education. It is unfortunate that in the last 30 years, the budget for education has been nothing to write home about. The country needs an educational summit of all stakeholders in the sector. Let us rethink our educational sector. POLL One of the key issues is our curriculum review. It is the same curriculum we have all through from primary to tertiary level, what are they meant to achieve? A student who has reached the secondary level is already a potential employee or employer. If the student is a potential employee, what he/she was taught through the stages of education, has it prepared him/her for the workplace? Now that the workplace is rapidly changing, is the curriculum preparing him/her for the workplace, if it is not, we are wasting the time of that student, because after spending all the years on a course of study, and going through the workplace and you realise things have changed. It is worrisome that the government is still unable to fund education maximally and we have the National Assembly approving universities almost on daily basis. Let us deal with the issue of educational standards in this country. That way, as much as we can reduce the propensity of Nigerian students going abroad to study, that way we will deal with leakages in the context of forex and build the capacity of our graduates so they can also meet the needs of the industry. What is your take on how Nigeria can enhance productivity to boost job creation? I am of the view that skills development is the new gold and we feel beyond people going to school, we should focus more on skills development. I think the government should give more attention to technical and vocational training, even as we continue to struggle with our educational system. That is the path that can help us to maximally deal with the issue of unemployment. Nigeria has a large population of youths out there unemployed. With the high rate of unemployment, the nation is sitting on a keg of gunpowder. I suggest that the Federal Government should focus on Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) and give more support to the ITF/NECA skills development project. That is the pathway to take the youths out of the labour market. Those that would be trained will either become employers of labour themselves because the skills they would be trained in are what the industry needs to get jobs. Sir, you were at the recent 111th International Labour Conference (ILC), in Geneva, Switzerland. Please, tell us some the highlights that were your take home from the conference? Thank you. This year’s International Labour Conference (ILC), in Geneva, Switzerland was quite exciting as delegates at ILC have adopted a new Recommendation on Quality Apprenticeships. The new labour standard aims to support “opportunities for people of all ages to skill, reskill and upskill continuously” in rapidly changing labour markets. It provides a clear definition of apprenticeships, specifies aspirational standards for quality apprenticeships, including rights and protection for apprentices. The conclusions of the General Discussion Committee on a Just Transition were adopted. They stressed the imperative need to advance a just transition to achieve social justice, eradicate poverty and support decent work. Delegates also endorsed the ILO Guidelines for a just transition towards environmentally sustainable economies and societies as a basis for action and the central reference for policymaking. Delegates adopted the conclusions of the Recurrent Discussion Committee on Labour Protection . The adopted resolution charts a way forward towards more inclusive, adequate and effective labour protection for all workers, and creates a basis for developing a plan of action. The Conference adopted a resolution on Belarus, under Article 33 of the ILO Constitution. The resolution aims to secure compliance by the Government of Belarus with the recommendations of an ILO Commission of Inquiry, which examined the observance by the Government of Belarus of the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98). The plenary sitting approved the report of the Committee on the Application of Standards (CAN) , which is a core supervisory body of the ILO’s standards system. The CAS examined 24 individual country cases related to the observance of ILO Conventions. It considered the Committee of Experts’ General Survey on Achieving gender equality at work . In their Outcome of the discussion, the tripartite members of the Committee highlighted the urgent need to eliminate all forms of discrimination in employment and occupation, guarantee full and effective maternity protection and ensure the right of workers with family responsibilities to engage in employment. During the Conference, 13 ratifications of International Labour Conventions were registered, mainly in respect of the recently adopted convention against violence and harassment in the world of work (C190) and conventions concerning occupational and safety and health. The Conference adopted the ILO Programme and Budget for 2024/25 . The document and resolution reaffirmed the commitment expressed by all the ILO’s tripartite constituents to “combat all forms of discrimination and exclusion on any ground for the benefit of all”, while recognising the “different positions expressed on some issues”. Sixteen Heads of State and Government, as well as representatives of other UN and multilateral bodies and workers and employers organizations, attended a high-level World of Work Summit , held between 14 and 15 June under the theme of “Social Justice for All”. Participants discussed a range of social justice issues including the proposal for a Global Coalition for Social Justice. High level panels looked at inequalities and informality, creating equal opportunities, lifelong learning and skills development, social protection, and the ways to advance trade, sustainable development, and human and labour rights. On 12 June the conference marked World Day Against Child Labour . At a time when child labour rates are increasing, ILO Director-General, Gilbert F. Houngbo, called on the international community to support greater social justice and step up the fight against child labour. Are you saying that part of your take home was that social justice should be a priority issue on the global agenda? Yes .the Director-General of the International Labour Organization (ILO), Gilbert Houngbo, stressed the need to “systematically integrate the social agenda into all major international, regional and national policies and actions to fight growing economic disparities. He was specific that no one should bury their head in the sand” when it comes to facing the challenges shaking up the world of work He made it clear that the fourth industrial revolution which promises a radical transformation of production methods, the demographic upheavals, and the imperative need to decarbonize the economy are opportunities for a better future for us all To position social justice as the keystone of the global recovery and ensure that the future is human-centred, the Director-General stressed the need to launch a Global Coalition that will bring together a broad range of international bodies and stakeholders. The Global Coalition for Social Justice would aim to, balance environmental, economic and social considerations in the global conversation, including in the reform of the international financial architecture” and advocate policy coherence and investment in social protection and decent work