ABUJA – The Rivers State Government has called on youth across the country and beyond to embrace hard work and discipline to succeed in life. Prof. Chinedu Mmom, Rivers State Commissioner for Education, who made the call on Saturday at the Impact Academy Programme with the theme, “Arise and Shine,” also urged them to emulate and imbibe the teachings of the General Superintendent of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry Pastor William Kumuyi, in their quest to achieve success in their various endeavours. Kumuyi, who is the Convener of Global Crusade with Kumuyi(GCK), is currently in Port Harcourt for a six-day crusade. Mmom, who was represented by the Director of Admin, Rivers State Ministry of Education, Dr Austin Ezekiel Hart, pointed out that success is only for youths who are determined and disciplined. He also commended the GCK team for organising the Impact Academy Programme and the massive mobilisation of youths all over the State and beyond to attend the programme. He thanked Pastor Kumuyi for the impact he is making in the lives of young people over many decades. The Impact Academy Programme was held at the Dr Obi Wali International Conference Centre Port Harcourt, Rivers State, which had thousands of youths including teenagers, campus students, corps members and young adults across the State and was streamed live in over 160 countries via satellite, zoom and social media handles. The Impact Academy Programme is on the sidelines of the ongoing six-day global crusade, which started on Thursday, June 22 and will end on Tuesday, June 27 at the Campground of Deeper Life Bible Church in Rumuodara, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. POLL It featured among others, prayer sessions, praise and worship, excellent, workshops spoken words, painting, networking and choir ministration, where youths displayed their talents and expressions. The Commissioner said: “For the youths who this programme was designed for, you all know the story of Pastor Kumuyi, I have heard it several times. He made a first class. If Pastor Kumuyi could make a first class in Mathematics at the University of Ibadan in the late 60s and early 70s when our parents were learning in pain, why won’t the youths of today make better first class? “Why would the youth of today rely on cheating to pass their examinations? “So let me use this opportunity to call on youths to emulate Pastor Kumuyi and imbibe all he has said here today. “Nothing more than that, and as I said earlier, if you work hard God would crown your hard work with success because those who misuse their opportunities are regretting today.” In his message entitled,”Shining with All-round Excellence through Christ,” Kumuyi tasked the youth to dream big for their success and ensure they work to achieve it under the fear and help of God. He said for youths to excel in life, they must have a yearning spirit, an observant and objective spirit, be upward looking, possess a teachable spirit and have a hopeful demeanour. “Arise and sit at the appropriate place, and the appropriate place is in the promises of God. “You have to change your language and confession of failure and inferiority. You will not think small about yourself anymore. “The Lord is in a hurry to make you soar, achieve and that progress will soon come”, he declared.