The family of Sapele popular hotelier, Joseph Emekeme, popularly known as Semekolo. who was allegedly beaten to death has denied the story calling it untrue. Last week stories of how two of his sons had beaten the late Semekolo to death had flooded the airspace with each report pointing to two of them as those responsible for his death after they were said to have caught him with another woman, however the family today represented by one Onoriode Isu (née Emekeme) has refuted the claim calling it fake. They also warn all paid and unpaid reporters, bloggers, individuals and the entire public to cease from false information about their father whom they are grieving over his death caused by illness. The press statement which was titled “Popular Sapele Hotelier, Semekolo, Allegedly Beaten To Death By His Two Sons: The true story’ read: ‘Our attention has been drawn to the negative publications on the death of our Late Daddy, Joseph Emekeme, popularly known as Semekolo. These false allegations and commentaries in the social media portraying his one and only wife of over 40 years and sons as responsible for his death are untrue. This is not a way to portray our family. We just lost our beloved father and our mother lost her husband. “We, his children stand in solid unity and are here to dismiss and put an end to the lies circulating on the internet, by individuals and all media outlets. We urge and firmly warn all paid and unpaid reporters, bloggers, individuals and the entire public to cease from spreading false information about our father the patriarch of our family whom we are grieving over his death, our mother, the matriarch of our family, and our brothers. “Our father had a struggle with diabetes, high sugar level and hypertension for the last 20 years. Lately, he suffered from Kidney disease. His earliest treatment of these illnesses started at Divine Care hospital – Sapele, Delta State and subsequently Kings County hospital – Brooklyn, New York, Lana hospital – Sapele, Delta State, Sandy Springs Family Medicine – Roswell, Georgia, Vascular Medical Associates – Alpharetta, Georgia, Village Podiatry – Acworth, Georgia, USA at different stages of his illnesses and was placed on medications by multiple doctors. “We believe every Family is not perfect and has experienced highs and lows and unfortunately our family is experiencing the lowest moments of our lives. While our father had a disagreement with his sons in early March 2023, he was never beaten as portrayed in the media. “On the 11th of April, our father was on his way back from his proposed University site around noon when he experienced partial paralysis while driving alone near Eku road by Amukpe roundabout, he quickly parked by the roadside and beckoned on a passerby who helped him put a call through and was only able to get his hotel manager on the phone. The hotel manager arrived promptly and rushed him to Lana clinic in Sapele. Our mother was at her place of business when she received a call from our family friend that our father has been rushed to the hospital. POLL “On our mother getting there, his elder brother who is now the present head of the Emekeme family, a pastor and some others were already there at the hospital. Our father was not improving at Lana Hospital and we decided to transfer him immediately to the University of Benin teaching Hospital (UBTH), Benin City, Edo State as that was the closest to Sapele where he continued to fight for his life. For 41 days our Daddy was fighting multiple seizures, kidney dialysis, high blood pressure and high sugar level and was on oxygen with our mother by his side day after day until the end. “Our beloved Daddy joined his Maker on the 25th of May, 2023 at UBTH and is resting with God. We demand that you stop forthwith the negative allegations, defamation of character of our mother and brothers that is being put up on the blogs and the public because they are untrue and our Daddy deserves to be remembered for the loving Husband, Father and Grandfather that he was”, the statement concluded.