…Say It’s Double Whammy After Fuel Subsidy Removal …Signed Electricity Law To Attract Foreign Investors, Create Jobs — Olubiyo Consumers, including manufacturers, are burdened by an unstable power supply that costs them around N10.1 trillion annually. These consumers have expressed concern about the recently signed Electricity Law and the potential consequences of the planned hike in electricity tariffs on July 1. Many argue that any increase will position Nigeria among the worst countries to do business, ranking 171 out of 190. However, is there any relief provided by the new law signed by President Bola Tinubu? MOHAMMED SHOSANYA explores the issue. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) complained during the week that an unre­liable power supply leads to annual losses of around N10.1 trillion ($24.7 billion) for manufacturers, equiv­alent to 2% of the country’s Gross Do­mestic Product (GDP). This puts Nigeria in a poor position for business, ranking 171 out of 190 countries. However, MAN believes that the newly signed Electric­ity Bill by President Bola Tinubu could help address these issues. MAN also emphasises that the existing power supply is insufficient to meet the energy needs of both the manufacturing industry and the entire population of over 200 million people. The Electricity Act 2023, if well imple­mented, promises to be a major game changer for the manufacturing sector, MAN enthused in a statement. How true is this under the new law? The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has long advocated for cost-reflective electricity tariffs to pre­vent the extortion of their members. However, despite new ownership of the Power Holding Companies (PHCN), Nigeria’s power sector is still struggling. Inadequate power supply continues to plague electricity consumers, particu­larly since service providers have per­formed poorly and electricity prices have remained high. Service providers argue that the challenging economic en­vironment in Nigeria has not provided a sufficient return on investment. There have been renewed calls for the federal government to consider revoking the licenses of power inves­tors due to their poor performance. Advocates for revocation assert that the country needs operators with the necessary expertise and resources to manage Nigeria’s power sector. The New Electricity Act, signed into law by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is expected to transform the power sector, launching it into a new and improved phase for the nation’s economy. This act repeals the 2005 Electricity Act, which contained inherent flaws. Reports indi­cate that the governments of Lagos and Oyo State have recently strengthened their laws to take a more active role in the power sector. POLL However, Nigerians are wary of the 50% electricity bill increase scheduled for July 1 due to the Multi-Year Tariff Order. The increased cost of power without significant value addition has already negatively impacted Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product and the real sector of the economy. President Bola Tinubu stated that the new law would facilitate the de-monop­olisation of Nigeria’s electricity gener­ation, transmission, and distribution sectors. Kunle Olubiyo, President of the Nigeria Consumer Protection Network, agreed, saying the Electricity Act of 2023 would create a better deal for the nation’s power sector. Olubiyo also said that states now have the opportunity to generate, trans­mit, and distribute electricity in the country. This deregulation and breaking of the monopoly in Nigeria’s electricity market would promote a competitive market and offer end-users alternatives. Olubiyo believes that breaking this mo­nopoly will create employment oppor­tunities and lead to sustainable growth and development in Nigeria. Despite the new law’s potential to revolutionise Nigeria’s power sector, its implementation may face challenges due to uneven development and infra­structure across states. Nonetheless, stakeholders believe the law’s obstacles can be overcome in the long run. Some experts in the power sector have urged the Federal Government to expedite the installation of the pending five million meters to households un­der the National Mass Metering Pro­gramme (NMMP) to relieve Nigerians’ suffering. Adetayo Adegbemle, Execu­tive Director and Convener of PowerUp Nigeria claims that the NMMP, under the previous administration, was sup­posed to offset the effects of removing electricity tariff subsidies but failed to meet its target. Adegbemle said it would be a significant opportunity for the current administration to install the over five million meters promised to consumers to alleviate the suffering of Nigerians. Many stakeholders and experts warn that the law’s impact on the power sector will ultimately depend on its implementation by the relevant authorities. However, their cautious op­timism is tempered by concerns over the planned 40% tariff increase and its potential effects on Nigerians. The challenge facing the government now is to find ways to mitigate the impact of these changes and ensure a smooth transition to a more efficient and com­petitive power sector. Speaking to Saturday INDEPEN­DENT, Olubiyo praised Tinubu’s deci­sion for promoting true federalism and inclusiveness in the country. “The new act allows states to generate, transmit, and distribute electricity, enabling a competitive market and offering alter­natives for end-users. It also breaks the monopoly of the nation’s electricity market. “Now, all 36 state governments can partner with local and foreign investors to invest in the electricity value chain within their jurisdictions, bypassing unnecessary bureaucratic bottlenecks from the federal government. This move will create employment opportunities, improve social security, support re-in­dustrialisation, and foster sustainable growth and development across Nige­ria.” Dr. Muda Yussuf, CEO of the Centre for Promotion of Private Enterprise, ar­gued that the new law would strength­en the nation’s power sector and bring about economic benefits. Energy ex­pert Samson Ibitoye also praised the decentralisation of power as a positive development for Nigeria’s struggling economy. However, some stakeholders believe that though the law has the potential to revolutionise Nigeria’s power sector, its success depends mainly on its imple­mentation. In periods lacking consis­tent development and infrastructure in different states, implementing the law might prove challenging. While Bayo Joseph, a power expert, emphasises the importance of state governors’ ambition in attracting in­vestment and building an energy supply framework, experts in the power sector urge the federal government to begin in­stalling the pending five million meters to households as part of the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP) to alleviate Nigerians’ suffering. “When this act was being discussed at the tail end of the last administration, I pointed out that the ambition of the state governors will be the key driver. If you want to attract investment to your state, you must engage stakeholders and build a framework that will enable ener­gy supply. At that point all of the how’s will be defined”, a power expert, Bayo Joseph told Saturday INDEPENDENT. Adetayo Adegbemle, Executive Director and Convener of PowerUp Nigeria claimed that the NMMP was supposed to cushion the effect of subsi­dy removal from electricity tariffs but failed to fulfill its goals. He called on the current administration to immediate­ly begin installing the over five million promised meters. Critics, however, argue that the planned 40% increase in tariffs, com­bined with rising fuel prices, would have a severe negative impact on Nigeria’s socioeconomic activities. To mitigate these adverse effects, the government must consider implementing palliative measures and improving overall elec­tricity supply and energy efficiency awareness. Kunle Olubiyo, President of the Ni­geria Consumer Protection Network, urged the federal government to with­draw its 40% stake in the nation’s power sector and break the monopoly of the 11 electricity distribution companies into smaller units to promote a competitive electricity market. Mr. Adetayo Adegbemle, Executive Director and Convener, PowerUp Nige­ria, maintained that the NMMP, under the last administration, was supposed to cushion the effect of subsidy removal from the electricity tariff, but failed to meet its target. He said that it would be a great op­portunity if the current administration could immediately set about installing the pending over five million meters promised to consumers to ease the suffering of Nigerians. The upcoming increase in July is already encoded in the MYTO that NERC follows. He added “So for some of us, it is expected. The only challenge that I have is that NERC which should be communicating with Nigerians is not. “Next step would be to redesign our tariff-setting approach. The MYTO over the years has been heavily dependent on inflation and foreign exchange bench­mark against dollars. We should not base our tariff against factors that we do not have any control over,” he added. Mr. Sina Odugbemi, National Coordi­nator, Where is The Light, said, “It is not difficult to conclude as long as the steps taken right from the beginning of pri­vatisation have purely profit-oriented. “It does not appear that the DisCos are in any way interested in improving on services. By now 90 percent if not all subscribers ought to have been me­tered. Rather the DisCos have continued to exploit subscribers with exploitative estimated billings amid poor services. Sadly, there has not been a remarkable improvement in power supply in many areas,” he said. Odugbemi said the planned 40 per cent increase in tariff, coming on the heels of an astronomical hike in the price of fuel, would be in double jeop­ardy. He said that it is an ill wind that can only deplete social and economic activities. He added that government must move to avoid the harsh effect on the people. “Government must realise that this not a good time to slam this tariff hike on already decimating mass of the people.” Mr. Ayodele Oni, Partner, Bloom­field Law Practice, said in pursuant to NERC’s MYTO, there is supposed to be a minor review which could be upward or downward. He said that the review of electricity tariffs every six months, taking into consideration a number of macro-economic and other indices in­cluding the consumer price index, forex, gas price, etc., “It is, thus, expected that there would be a price review in July 2023. It is not strange, considering the changes in the relevant macroeconomic situation that the percentage increase could be up to 40 per cent. However, the government does need to take steps to ameliorate the ad­verse impacts on the populace,” he said. Oni said that a reality with the re­cent changes in macro-economic pa­rameters, including the new directive to float the Naira against the US dollar and other international currencies, is that many sectors including power. He said that the electricity tariff would be affected by the new average exchange rate in the market. “In determining the tariff, inflation rate and exchange rate are part of the indices for setting the tariff. Hence, it is not surprising that there would be a noticeable increase in the tariff. “Whilst, this is one of the realities of the situation in the country, the gov­ernment would still have to find ways to cushion the effect of the changes on Nigerians,” he added. Oni said that an increase of up to 40 per cent at this time is quite high, adding that government needs to consider palliatives for Nigeri­ans to cushion the general effect of the economic situation in the country. “Also, on this point, we need to apply a graduated increase rate to each band/ class of electricity customers. With the lower bands having a lesser increase rate. It would be unfair for the lower bands to also have up to 40 per cent as well. In fact, better access to meters can be an option to cushion the effect of the increase. There is also the need to im­prove overall supply and educate the populace on energy efficiency/savings,” he explained. President, Nigeria Consumer Pro­tection Network, Kunle Olubiyo, has implored the federal government to pull out its 40% stake in the nation’s power sector. Olubiyo, who gave the suggestion on the heels of the planned 40-50% increase in electricity tariff in Nigeria, also advised the government to break the monopoly of the 11 electricity distribution company’s franchise into smaller units in ways that would break the present market monopoly and pro­mote the ideals of the competitive elec­tricity market. He told Saturday INDEPENDENT that there was also a need for the gov­ernment to address matters relating to domestic gas obligation, and appropri­ate gas pricing, adding that gas to the domestic market should be sold in local currency for use by gas to power gener­ation power plants.