ABUJA – Alleged moves by the immediate past Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar to impose former Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal as Senate Minority Leader has suffered some setback. Senators elected on the platforms of opposition political parties have moved against the bid to foist Tambuwal as Minority Leader on them. A PDP senator from Rivers State and another senator from the North and a ranking senator from the South West spoke under the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. They vowed to resist attempts to impose Tambuwual on them, expressing their readiness to vote for any person other than him. The group is insisting that Tambuwal has a record of throwing his political allies under the bus at critical moments to promote his selfish interest and lacks the capacity to provide the needed leadership to them as minority leader. Some of the minority Senators, who spoke after a meeting on Wednesday said that the indications are clear that with what Tambuwal did against the PDP, he would use the minority leader position to negotiate and apologize to President Ahmed Bola Tinubu, who he betrayed after making him Speaker of the House of Representatives. The Senators stated that they know that Tambuwal whose regime has come under scrutiny in Sokoto State is on a mission to use the minority leader position to negotiate for self preservation and use the platform to run for Presidential election in 2027. One of the sources said: “You can trace the major political activities of Tambuwal for the past one decade? Do you really think such a politician can be trusted. He seems to have a record of treachery and betrayal of close friends and allies as he did to Jonathan, Wike, Tinubu himself and several others. POLL “In 2019, He went against his party, the PDP, and a sitting President to rubbish the PDP zoning arrangements just because it favored him; he is always plays to ethnic and religious card when it favors him. “When he became speaker with the support of opposition elements (that is Tinubu, Buhari and other leaders), he used the platform of speakership to effectively rubbish the Presidency of Johnathan and the PDP and decamped/abandoned the party that made it possible and moved to APC and negotiated to be governor. “Buhari, Tinubu, Wamako (confirm name) and others rewarded him for his treachery against the PDP but his ambition could not be accommodated so he betrayed Wamako, Tinubu, Buhari and aligned with Atiku and came back to PDP with the APC mandate that was given to him with the hope of running for presidency. “Wike against all odds backed him and promised to deliver the presidential nomination to him but thank God that he did not succeed. “In 2021 he again went for a presidential visit but this time he did not get Wike’s support, he then betrayed Wike finally instead of supporting him to reward him for his loyalty in the primaries. This is the record of the politician Atiku wants to foist as minority leader on the party. “Also, his senatorial election in Sokoto, is now being contested; he was desperate to come to the Senate with the ambition that he would be rewarded with the position of the Senate President. “When it emerged that the PDP did not get majority and with the defeat of Atiku and Okowa, Atiku and the PDP then changed their plan to make him minority leader to compensate him. “This explains why the PDP and other opposition senators are rejecting him saying that he has an antecedent of treachery and betrayal and placing ambition over party, friendship and anything else and that kind of person is not going to have their support,” another Senator said