LAGOS – According to Richelle Goodrich, everyone needs a reliable support system, whether at home or at the workplace. We cannot live alone and expect to keep mentally and emotionally healthy. Everyone needs some sort of support system on which to rely. One person who has positioned herself as a trusted and excellent support system to business organizations where she has deployed her expertise over the years is Olatorera Balogun. She is a product of International Business Innovation from Barcelona Executive Business School Spain. Balogun has in the last 10 years emerged as a vital figure, revolutionizing the industry and helping organizations navigate the complexities of supply chain while diligently building an exceptional career as a supply chain professional with outstanding results to show for it. One of Balogun’s notable achievements is her role in streamlining supply chain operations for multinational corporations, as well as Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). She understands the unique challenges faced by businesses in Nigeria, such as inadequate infrastructure, regulatory complexities, and a diverse market landscape. Balogun’s ability to devise tailored supply chain strategies, taking into account these specific challenges, has earned her a stellar reputation as a trusted advisor. POLL According to the expert, the need for continuous quality delivery has ensured she is properly licensed and certified to practise such as ISO, Six Sigma, Association of Supply Chain Management (U.S.A.) AIPMM Association of International Product Marketing and Management (U.S.A.) and other reputable bodies. Past research shows that 79% of companies with high-performing supply chain management processes achieve revenue growth that is significantly above the industry average. Businesses can only achieve this high performance with the right professionals in their team. Interestingly, Balogun’s antecedents as an expert in supply chain show she is one of those who have contributed to the growing statistics of high-performance supply chain management process. Currently, the expert works as Head of Operation for a multinational medical brand. Explaining further she said. “In the last seven years, I have participated as a key player in the Nigerian healthcare sector deploying solutions that help business operations. “I was part of a team that transformed a renal hospital into a world standard service provider today. I have the capacity to translate any strategic goal into a well detailed operating plan infusing quality, compliance and standards. “Also, as Head of Operation, I oversee commercial operations, covering product growth, innovation and diversification. I am well vast in international trade and coordination of internal operations,” she stated. Giving insight to core solutions she has brought to clients in her industry, the intrapreneur noted. “Against all odds, I have forged ahead as a female executive, today; I am the only female management member of my current employer with over 120 staff. I have over the years been able to provide digital solutions to everyday processes. The digitalization of our operating system to create an enterprise that is integrated in information flow, product flow and material flow. “My ability to streamline business processes into lean, efficient and customer driven solutions not only provide high level utilization of both capital and manpower resources but ensure that net profit is growing day by day. Today, I serve over 500 customers through this approach,” she added. As Nigeria’s business landscape continues to evolve, Olatorera Balogun remains at the forefront of driving supply chain excellence. Her passion for improving operational efficiency combined with her extensive knowledge and experience has positioned her as a trusted partner for organizations seeking to achieve seamless business operations. Looking ahead, it is clear that Balogun’s expertise will continue to shape the future of supply chain management in Nigeria. As businesses navigate the complexities of a globalized marketplace, her visionary approach and unwavering commitment to excellence will undoubtedly play a pivotal role in ensuring the success of Nigeria’s supply chain ecosystem. However, she gave advice to youths and those prospecting to come into the supply chain industry, saying they must be ready to do the work and learn from those who are ahead. “The untapped innovative potential that resides in our youth can be harnessed through learning the applicable standards required, and then commit to continuous improvement,” she said.