LAGOS – The Federal Government has been cautioned against the in­troduction of multiple channels for granting permanent resident status and citizenship to foreign­ers, as it may further weaken the country’s already compromised security. The advice given by a civil society group, under the guise of Save Nigeria Movement, was in reaction to reports that the Federal Government of Nigeria had introduced a Brown Card as a document that confers perma­nent residency status and citizen­ship on foreigners. Part of the reasons adduced by the immediate-past Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbe­sola, for introducing the Brown Card is to shorten the 15-year waiting period for foreigners as eligibility criterion for being granted citizenship to five years as is the case in countries like the United States of America. Reacting to this, Convener of the Save Nigeria Movement Rev­erend Solomon Semaka, said, “The Minister of Interior acknowledged that only a constitution amend­ment could change the eligibility criteria for gaining Nigerian citi­zenship in speech delivered during the conferment of citizenship on foreigners on May 27. “So, any pronouncement to this effect that does not accom­modate constitution amendment is only a wish,” adding also that deploying a parallel programme that competes with existing ones would worsen the already fragile security situation and the safe­ty of the nation against foreign nationals who come into the country with ulterior motives that undermine the country’s security system. “Introducing the Brown Card is tantamount to introducing a parallel platform for escapee de­faulters in the payment for exist­ing programmes. “Our investigations have shown that unscrupulous agents have already started calling ex­patriates in their database to pay as much USD 5,000 with the promise that they could grant them residency and citizenship application waivers in the guise of Brown Card, even when the process to its introduction is still a long way to go. “This is the sign of things to come if you open multiple chan­nels of granting permanent residency status to foreigners in Nigeria,” Semaka stated. POLL According to him, the focus should rather be to sustain and strengthen existing structures to tighten the security of the country, especially in this time of heightened global terrorism. “Earlier this year, over 500 foreign nationals were arrested with permanent voter cards. Also, a British national paper re­ported that Chinese nationals in the mining sector are financing terrorist groups in some parts of Nigeria to gain access to the country’s mineral resources. “All these are pointers to the fact that some unscrupulous foreign nationals could take ad­vantage of multiple channels of naturalisation which could ren­der Nigeria’s already threatened security more porous,” Semaka said, adding also that the focus should be to strengthen available programmes and not introduce other products. “Just a couple of months ago, the immediate-past Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbes­ola, commended all the service providers engaged by the Minis­try of Interior and its services/ Board for their dedications to using the public-private part­nership (PPP) arrangements for improving service delivery, and revenue generation for the Federal Government of Nigeria, while also calling for sustenance and strengthening of existing services being provided through these partnerships. That is the way to go,” he added. The group has also expressed concerns and curiosity at the re­ported approval granted for the Brown Card at the twilight of former President Muhammadu Buhari administration.