LAGOS  – Unions in the Nigerian avia­tion industry have condemned the continued compulsory con­tribution of aviation agencies’ 40 percent revenue generation to the federation account. The industry unions also called on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to look into the staff Conditions of Service (CoS) of aviation agencies who they claimed have been operat­ing without valid conditions for many years. The unions, National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Air Transport Ser­vices Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), Associ­ation of Nigeria Aviation Pro­fessionals (ANAP), National Association of Aircraft Pilot and Engineers (NAAPE), and Amalgamated Union of Pub­lic Corporation Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPC­TRE), said that the forceful contribution was having a dire strait effect on the performance of the agencies. The unions insisted that the Finance Act 2022, which was promulgated by the former administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, contra­vened the new Acts of several of the aviation agencies, which stipulated that all revenue gen­erated by the parastatals must be ploughed back into the sector for the purpose of infra­structure and human growth. These were contained in a letter dated June 19, 2023 ad­dressed to President Tinubu and obtained by the media. The unions also copied the Secretary to the Government of the Federation; Head of Ser­vice of the Federation; Minis­try of Aviation; Ministry of Labour and Employment; Chairman, Salaries and Wag­es Commission and the Direc­tor-General, Budget Office. The letter was jointly signed by Comrade Frances Akinjole, Principal Deputy General Sec­retary, ATSSSAN; Comrade Ocheme Aba, General Secre­tary, NUATE; Comrade Abdul Rasaq Saidu; General Secre­tary, ANAP; Comrade Umoh Ofonime, Deputy General Sec­retary, NAAPE, and Comrade Sikiru Wahab, General Secre­tary, AUPCTRE. The unions emphasised that the plea for the reversal of the 40 percent compulsory contribution of the agencies to the federation account was predicated on the need to avert imminent danger that may befall the aviation sector in the event that the aviation agen­cies become incapacitated and unable to render their safety related functions. POLL They argued that the full fi­nancial accruals of the agencies are grossly inadequate in meet­ing their financial obligations, stressing that they are usually supplemented by the Federal Government on annual basis. The unions added that the aviation agencies are “mere cost recovery organisations” and non-profit, maintaining that deduction of 40 percent from their financial accruals was akin to removal of life support from the parastatals. The unions said: “On the basis of the forgoing, we hum­bly request Your Excellency to exempt aviation agencies from the deduction in order to pre­serve the vital safety functions of the same agencies without which the industry will col­lapse with its catastrophic im­pact on national economy.” On the CoS, the unions stated that despite having con­cluded management-unions re­view on the issue many years back, the National Salaries, In­comes & Wages Commission (NSIWC), Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Feder­ation (OHCSF), the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, and the Budget Office have continued to hold their members hostage. They accused the NSIWC, OHCSF and the Office of the Accountant General of the Fed­eration of treating workers in the industry as second-class workers. The unions decried that all efforts to address the unpleas­ant situation over the years had proved abortive despite the in­tervention of former Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika and officials from the Ministry of Labour and Productivity. The letter read in part: “Your Excellency Sir, it is because of the above that our unions pas­sionately and humbly seek your golden intervention to call to order all the agencies involved that are using the in­strumentality of government to wreak havoc and cause un­told hardship on our members in the aviation industry.” The unions regretted that the Ministry of Aviation and the Ministry of Labour and Employment seemed over­whelmed by the task of get­ting the CoS released for their members.