ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Friday reclaimed over 500 land plots in Gishiri in the Katampe District from people claiming to be owners. This was said by Hassan Ogbole, the Deputy Director, Monitoring and Inspection, FCT Department of Development Control, during the ongoing cleanup operation in Gishiri. He claimed that in order to restore normalcy, the unlawful buildings and other activities in the region had to be demolished since they were affecting the Abuja master plan. According to him, “This is our third time coming to Gishiri in continuation of the city clean up exercise to restore the Abuja master plan. Gishiri is a traditional name but the area is Katampe District, we have recovered over 500 plots of land for individuals to take possession. “We are concerned with recovering plots taken over illegally by some persons for different purposes, to restore the Abuja master plan” “The genuine owners of the plots are to commence work immediately to stop the return of illegal structures. Individuals that are allottees of the plots should take them over immediately to avoid new illegal developments, let the owners come in and start developing”, he added. Meanwhile, the Deputy Director, Monitoring and Enforcement (AEPB) Mr. Kaka Bello said the board was supporting the demolition to sustain mopping of unauthorized activities, “Anything that is contrary to the standard would not be allowed. We will keep the fight against environmental nuisances till the right thing is done”. However, the Secretary Command And Control, FCTA Department of Security, Mr. Peter Olumuji, said the administration is concerned with having a secure environment for the residents, and would not allow illegal structures to thrive. POLL “Allowing illegal structures to remain, will continue to provide ground for criminals to exist, we can’t leave such structures that will become safe haven for bad eggs. We had such an experience in Gishiri in the past. “Removing the illegal structures will make criminals not have a place to hide and carry out their evil activities, especially at night,” Olumiji said. Abuja Chamber of Commerce holds a trade show to deepen economic integration