I was actually tempted to write just six words as the only reply Francis Ewherido’s article, “Pius Ewheri­do Did not ‘Railroad’ Ibori to Jail” in the Saturday Vanguard of 17 June, 2023, merited: “Oh, poor fellow! Please, be serious”. No, the thought came not because I wanted to deride him; really what is the use of doing that? There is a time and a season for everything under the sun, and that includes a time for fighting and a time for letting go. On reading his mighty exertion to an­noy me, I elected to smile instead of frowning my face. You don’t return insults with insults every single time. What profit would anyone garner from that? They say, when there is a fight in you, you don’t waste it on a paper tiger but you save it for the dragon. Until the dragon appears I will parry his insult and sordid insinuations. Actually, on reading that article, I pitied Francis Ewherido. I still do. Finish. And I will tell you why, dear reader, point by point. Number one, Ewherido began by saying: “Overtime since my brother, Senator Akpor Pius Ewherido, died, I have read and seen vain attempts and insinuations by some people to pin the travails of Chief James Ibori, the former governor of Delta State, during the President Goodluck Jon­athan government, on my brother. I have always seen them as beer parlour gossips and ignored them. My dear brother is gone, why dissipate energy on an exercise that will not bring him back? Last Saturday, I saw a two-page article in Saturday Vanguard “Tinubu, Atiku, Okowa, Ribadu, Ibori: The con­troversies, the truth – Vanguard News (vanguardngr.com). It was written by Tony Eluemunor, one of Chief Ibori’s media men”. And instead of ignoring it as he said he used to do to “beer parlour gossips”, he wrote an almost 2000-word reply. So, I didn’t write a beer parlour gossip, eeh? I wish I could say thanks for the complements inferred and leave it at that…but…! Two, Ewherido attacked logic when he wrote: “Senator Ewherido was mentioned and my family and my brother were portrayed in a very bad light. My first worry is why is my brother’s name coming up in an article dealing with current PDP matters? My brother left the PDP in 2010 and died in 2013”. Pray, is Francis Ewherido telling the world that it is illogical for the living to comment on the words and actions of the dead? Where would that leave history? His brother, Senator Pius Ewherido was a member of the National Assembly, and as he told us in the article, his brother had been a Dep­uty Speaker of the Delta state House of Assembly. If we can’t discuss the actions of such a highly placed public official, whether living or dead, then who should be discussed? Is late Gen. Sani Abacha still not be­ing discussed in Nigeria? What about Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe or Julius Caesar or Alexander the Great or Shaka the Zulu. Here, I have to remind Francis Ewherido of the words of Chinua Achebe in the preface of his first book of essays titled Morning Yet On Cre­ation Day: “I prefer to be accused of nastiness than to join in the national pastime of consigning events of less than 10 years ago into prehistory.” So, I’m in very good company, dear broth­er Francis Ewherido, the brother of government “pikin.”  POLL James Ibori When Francis Ewherido was gloating that his brother was treated as government “pikin”, as the House of Senate and the Delta state Govern­ment did all they could to save his brother’s life, plus all the insinuations of monetary no holds-barred govern­mental spending, did he forget that the Nigerians whose resources were spent on a public official also have the right to peer into the life of such a public official, whether living or dead? Or does he not know that power without responsibility is the prerogative of the prostitute? Phew! And about portraying his brother and family in a poor light, the most charitable way I will put this is that Ewherido did not comprehend that he could be accusing himself of top-notch hypocrisy because in the same edition of Vanguard where he accused me of portraying his brother and fam­ily in a poor light, he laughed to scorn the person, wives and family of the Speaker, House of Representatives starting from the opening sentence of his Marriage and Family column: “Many Nigerians watched in shock and or amusement as the two wives of the new Speaker Hon. Tajudeen Abass were shoving each other in a battle of supremacy during the swear­ing in of their husband…. It was not a pretty and comfortable sight…what happened was a blight”. I know that Francis Ewherido would argue that there was actually a squabble or pushing and shoving by the man’s two wives. And I ask, did his brother write a petition against Ibori or not? I’m not asking whether he was right or wrong (because I never commented on the rightness or wrongness of that petition writing in my article which Francis Ewherido made a terrible at­tempt to replied to). Also, he asked why I didn’t mention late Senator Pius Ewhierido’s co-peti­tioner. Hey, is a writer not free to pick the examples to illustrate his argu­ments with as he wishes? He chose Hon. Tajudeen Abass to illustrate his points against polygamy just as I chose late Senator Ewherido to illustrate His Excellency, Chief James Onanefe Ibori’s magnanimity. I didn’t go beyond that. Sincerely, what point was Francis Ewherido trying to make? I mentioned about ten people in that single essay he had pretended to reply to; from former President Olusegun Obasanjo to E.K. Clarke, Nuhu Ribadu, former Gover­nor Okowa, Audu Ogbe, Dr. Uduaghan, David Edvbie and three journalists. Francis Ewherido made a song and dance of my saying that I do not know whether it was Ibori or the Delta state government that paid for the Air-Am­bulance that arrived Abuja Airport to whisk his “government pikin” brother to Germany, “No Ambulance arrived Abuja from GERMANY that day”, he stressed. Here, I will say call a credible witness. The Nation newspaper of July 1, 2013 reported this: “Senator Pius Akpo Ewherido, died yesterday at the National Hospital in Abuja. He was 50. Delta State Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan, told our reporter that he had arranged to have the late Ewher­ido flown to South Africa before his death yesterday. So? I may or may not have made a mistake about where the Air-Ambulance came from. Please, note what the newspaper added: “It was gathered that the decision to take him to South Africa followed the refus­al of one reputable German hospital to have him. It was gathered that the air­craft that was to take the late senator to South Africa arrived about the same time as his death yesterday afternoon. Sources at his bedside said former Del­ta State Governor James Ibori called on Saturday when he learnt of the late Senator’s state”. That was before the Senator died, and Ibori was in London at that time! Francis Ewherido may ask His Ex­cellency, Dr. Uduaghan about Ibori’s input concerning the Air-Ambulance and the decision to take your brother to a foreign hospital. And did I and Mr. Solo Udele, the ADC to Ibori when he was Delta state Governor, deliver Ibori’s condolence letter to the late Senator Pius Ewherido’s family? My answer: Pius Ewherido died at age 50. He had a wife and children. And they formed his immediate family, in my understanding. So, that you did not bother to ask his widow before writ­ing that Ibori sent no condolence letter through Mr. Solo Udele and I, is worri­some because it hints of a “quake” somewhere. I hope your sister-in-law is “safe”, if you know what I mean. Mr. Udele and I were not only there, he exchanged pleas­antries with a former Delta state Commissioner we met there, and I can name him if need be. That a newspa­per columnist could just scratch his buttocks and begin to make baseless claims as facts, based on no founda­tion whatsoever but his angst against certain persons, is actually despicable as well as unwholesome and ignoble. Why Francis Ewherido would have chosen to paint his brother in a bad light beats my understanding. He insinuated that his brother picked a governorship “nomination form” to contest the PDP primaries for the 2007 election. Really? He, an Urhobo, also wanted to succeed Ibori, an Urhobo? What legacy of inordinate ethnic dom­ination did you hang on your brother, Pius Ewherido? Do you think that would make his memory fragrant in an all-things-considered way? I don’t think so. Thanks for giving journal­ists adequate notice of this aspect of your brother’s profile. He was totally opposed to the idea of “rotation” for the office of governor which has made peace to endure in Delta state. So, to Senator Pius Ewherido, the other eth­nic groups in that state, that mini-Ni­geria, does not matter “at all at all” as the Warri street lingo goes. Also, dear, dear Francis Ewherido, if you were close to your sister-in-law and the children your brother left be­hind, you would have known those who have remained close to them since the Senator died. If you show enough care, they may even tell you who they visited or who visited them as recent­ly as Thursday 15th of June this year. So much for Senator Pius Ewherido’s family being in danger.