…As South-South Community Endorses His Ambition ABUJA – Barely seven days to the Inauguration of the 10th Senate, one of the top contenders for the President of the Senate, Abdulaziz Yari on Tuesday warned that nobody should contest the will of God on the issue. Speaking when the South-South Community in Abuja paid him a courtesy visit, Senator Yari said that in this contest, only the will of God will prevail. Yari said: “People should not contest with God, only God, Allah that we worship installs a king, no other person. “It is only God who enthrones or makes the king. This is to call the attention of anyone who thinks that he enthrones and dethrones. Those that are on the throne should remember that they were given the throne by God and that God never shifts from where he is. This is a clarion call for everyone. It is only God, it is only God’s decision that will prevail.” Speaking further, the former governor of Zamfara State and the Senator representing Zamfara West in the Senate, urged political stakeholders to do the right thing by following the rule of law. “President Bola Ahmed Tinubu while taking his oath of office said he would rule Nigeria with the rule of law and the constitution. We are waiting. I am proud to be a founding father of where we are today and I have no regret. But let us see where the rule of law will go,” he said. He called on all Nigeria leaders to address the issue of the South-South collectively, adding, “The issue of the South-South is very clear to all Nigeria leaders, they are many, they need to be addressed collectively. POLL “The livelihood of South-South is farming, fishing and others but today because of the land degradation, that is no longer there. Also because of the way the structure of government is set up by colonial masters, we are just looking for what to do.” Yari, who noted that relying on oil alone is no longer realistic, added that the issues bedeviling the South-South can be resolved. He said: “With the present President, who is economically sound and his adviser with the National Assembly, the issues in the South-South will be solved. “The Ogoni cleanup is doable. I believe with the present President, it would be a reality. If Yari becomes the Senate President, we will do our best for the betterment of the South-South. With your prayers, God who enthrones will put the royal cap on our head. We want to lead the National Assembly for a better Nigeria.” Also speaking at the event, the former Inspector General of Police and the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of South-South Community in Abuja, Mike Okiro told Yari that they are with him and are supporting his ambition of becoming the President of the Senate, adding, “we are here to tell you that we are with you, we support you. We are with you in prayers. “We are going to spread the news of our visit. We hope that God will hear our prayers and bless your ambition.” In his speech, the Coordinator of the group, Chief Premier Bello, pointed out that over the years, the South-South has always been in partnership with the North, adding that this partnership has been mutually beneficial. He said: “Your Excellency, you will recall when the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken spoke with His Excellency, President Bola Tinubu when he was President-elect a few weeks ago, he advised that for Mr. President to succeed in office, the principle of mutual inclusiveness should be respected. We are concerned that the North has come up with the idea of balancing, it’s advisable that the three heads of government namely; the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary shouldn’t come from one part of the country, the South. “It has come to our notice that the North is of the opinion that towards the run-up of the 2023 general elections, the South insisted that the President must come from the South, the North West especially, agreed and cooperated. “We are also informed that the North feels that one good turn deserves another, that since the heads of the Executive and Judicial arms of government are from the South, it’s only fair that the head of the Legislature should come from the North. “We the people of South South believe that what is good for the goose is also good for the gander. We therefore identify with the position of the North and plead that the principle of balancing and inclusiveness be respected. That is the reason why we are here. “Furthermore, a look at the Curriculum Vitae (CV) of his Excellency, the Senator-elect, Abdulaziz Yari, shows that he was two-time governor, Chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum, held executive position in the party amongst other positions. “It is an open secret that the Senator-elect, Abdulaziz Yari is in complete harmony with all the people, who helped him into positions and for this reason, the South South is assured that if His Excellency, President Bola Tinubu and the APC support Abdulaziz Yari or at least allow a free and fair contest, Mr. Yari will cooperate with President Tinubu to make Nigeria great “We are here to show support for your Senate President ambition. We believe in the oneness and development of this country. We believe that religion shouldn’t be the yardstick in measuring the nation’s barometer.”