…Gives Reasons Why He Suddenly Ended Fuel Subsidy Regime …Asks Citizens To Guard, Protect Democracy Like Precious Jewel ABUJA – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has said that following the re­moval of fuel subsidy that he feels the pain of Nigerians, urg­ing them to sacrifice a little more for the survival of the country. President Tinubu also gave further reasons why he an­nounced that the era of fuel subsidy was gone for good on the day of his inauguration as Nigeria’s president. According to Tinubu, he was aware that the country’s resources were being pocketed by a few rich individuals but had to take the tough decision to exit subsidy regime because he needed to free up resources to boost infrastructure and other development indices. The president gave these indications on Monday morn­ing in his 2023 democracy day address to Nigerians. He also admitted that he was aware the policy would inflict pains on Nigerians but must be viewed as a sacrifice to take our resources away from the stranglehold of a few unpatri­otic elements. “It is for this reason that, in my inauguration address on May 29, I gave effect to the decision taken by my predeces­sor-in-office to remove the fuel subsidy albatross and free up for collective use the much-needed resources, which had hitherto been pocketed by a few rich. I ad­mit that the decision will impose extra burden on the masses of our people. POLL “I feel your pain. This is one decision we must bear to save our country from going under and take our resources away from the stranglehold of a few unpatriotic elements. “Painfully, I have asked you, my compatriots, to sacrifice a little more for the survival of our country. For your trust and belief in us, I assure you that your sacrifice shall not be in vain. The government I lead will repay you through massive investment in transportation in­frastructure, education, regular power supply, healthcare and other public utilities that will improve the quality of lives”. Tinubu also spoke on the elections that brought him to power as Nigeria’s 16th presi­dent, admitting that the polls were intensely contested, saying it is in itself positive evidence that democracy is well and alive in the country. As if taking a swipe on the opposition camps, he said it is only natural that even as those who won and experienced vic­tory in the various elections are elated and fulfilled, those who lost are disenchanted and dis­appointed. “This year, we held the sev­enth in the cycle of elections that have become sacred rituals of our democratic practice in this dispensation since 1999. “The beauty of democracy is that those who win today can lose tomorrow and those who lose today will have an opportu­nity to compete and win in the next round of elections. “Those who cannot endure and accept the pain of defeat in elections do not deserve the joy of victory when it is their turn to triumph. Above all, those who disagree with the outcome of the elections are taking full advantage of the constitution­al provisions to seek redress in court and that is one of the reasons why democracy is still the best form of government invented by man”. The president, however, spoke on the antecedents that culminated in the democracy day celebration in Nigeria, in­sisting that it is exactly three decades today that Nigerians went to the polls to exercise their inalienable right to elect a president of their choice to lead the transition from military dictatorship to a representative government of the people. He said the abortion, by mil­itary fiat, of the decisive victory of Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the June 12, 1993, presiden­tial election, up to that time, the fairest and freest election in the country’s political evolution, turned out, ironically, to be the seed that germinated into the prolonged struggle that gave birth to the democracy we cur­rently enjoy since 1999. Tinubu said in rising to strongly oppose the arbitrary annulment of the will of the ma­jority of Nigerians as expressed in that historic election, the sub­stantial number of our people who participated in the struggle to de-annul the election signified their fierce commitment to en­throning democracy as a form of government that best enno­bles the liberty, the dignity of the individual and the integrity as well as the stability of the polity. He said the fierce opposition to the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election and the unrelenting pro-democracy onslaught it unleashed was the equivalent of the battle against colonial rule by our founding fathers that resulted in the gain­ing of Nigeria’s independence in 1960. “Just like the anti-colonial movement, the pro-June 12 vanguard demonstrated, once again, the enduring validity of the 19th century historian, Arnold Toynbee’s eternal pos­tulation that civilisation and societies experience progress as they are forced to respond to challenges posed by the environ­ment. “The unjust annulment of a widely acknowledged free and fair election was a challenge that elicited resistance by a resurgent civil society, leading ultimately to the attainment of our ‘second independence’ as exemplified by the return of democratic governance in 1999. “Fellow compatriots, we cel­ebrate a day that has remained a watershed in our nation’s history, not just today, but for every June 12, for the endless future that our beloved country shall exist and wax stronger and stronger, generations of Nigerians will always remind themselves that the democra­cy that is steadily growing to become the defining essence of our polity was not gifted to us on a silver platter. “We can easily recall the sac­rifice and martyrdom of Chief MKO Abiola, the custodian of the sacred mandate that was so cruelly annulled. He sacrificed his life in unyielding, patriotic defence of the ideals of democ­racy as symbolised in his choice, by his fellow countrymen and women, as their duly-elected president. There was an easier choice for him. It was to forgo the justice of his cause and opt for the path of ease and capitula­tion in the face of the tyranny of power. To his eternal credit and immortal glory, Abiola said no. He demonstrated the time-test­ed eternal truth that there are certain ideals and principles that are far more valuable than life itself. “Every day, on this day, down the ages we will recall the sev­eral other heroes of democracy such as Kudirat Abiola, wife of Chief Abiola, who was brutally murdered while in the trenches fighting on the side of the peo­ple. We remember Pa Alfred Rewane, one of the heroes of our independence struggle and Major General Shehu Musa Yar’Adua (rtd.) who were si­lenced by the military junta while in pursuit of democracy. They gave their yesterday for the liberty that is ours today. “The point is that we must never take this democracy for granted. We must forever jeal­ously guard and protect it like a precious jewel. For, a people can never truly appreciate the freedoms and rights democra­cy guarantees them until they lose it”. According to Tinubu, “Ni­geria has traversed the dark, thorny path of dictatorship before and those who experi­enced it can readily testify to the unbridgeable gap between the dignity of freedom and the humiliation and degradation of tyranny. True, rancorous de­bates, interminable wrangling, ceaseless quarrels, bitter elec­toral contestations may be per­ceived by some as unattractive features of democracy. But they also testify to its merit and value. “For Chief MKO Abiola, the symbol of this day, in whose memory June 12 became a national holiday, democracy is eternal. “It is about rule of law and vibrant judiciary that can be trusted to deliver justice and strengthen institutions. It has become imperative to state here that the unnecessary illegal or­ders used to truncate or abridge democracy will no longer be tol­erated,” he stated. On his recent policy actions, Tinubu said the recent harmon­isation of the retirement age for judicial officers was meant to strengthen the rule of law, which is a critical pillar of de­mocracy, saying the reform has just started. “To the winner of June 12, democracy offers the best chance to fight and eliminate poverty. Thirty years ago, he christened his campaign man­ifesto, ‘Farewell to Poverty’ because he was convinced that there is nothing divine about poverty. It is a man-made prob­lem that can be eliminated with clearly thought out social and economic policies. “The democracy MKO Abio­la died for is one that promotes the welfare of the people over personal interests of the rul­ing class and one where the governed can find personal fulfillment and happiness. That is the hope MKO Abiola ignit­ed throughout our country in 1993.”