Senator Abdulaziz Yari’s chances of getting the Senate presidency on Tuesday, the 13th of June, have received a major boost following President Bola Tinubu’s refusal to impose a leadership selection process on the two chambers of the National Assembly. President Tinubu had on Thursday met with lawmakers-elect. After the meeting, the senators-elect including those of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who were hitherto in support of Senator Godswill Akpabio, are said to have now gravitated to Senator Yari. Already, the senators of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other opposition parties are said to have sealed their decision to support Senator Yari, putting the former Zamfara State governor on a clean lead, having secured the support of the majority of the senators-elect ahead of the June 13, 2023 inauguration date. Further facts emerged at the weekend that President Tinubu did not at the meeting with senators-elect and House of Representatives members-elect in Abuja, endorse zoning but charged the incoming legislators to vote for candidates of their choice as Senate President and House Speaker in line with provisions of the 1999 Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly. An APC senator-elect who is close to the Party’s leadership said that President Tinubu action has further showcased him as a true democrat and believer in the Rule of Law, adding that his position was well-received by lawmakers elect across party lines. He said: “President Tinubu has shown that he is a true democrat and firm believer in the Rule of Law. He is a Senator of the Federal Republic and a very experienced politician. “He understands the workings of democracy in respecting the independence of the legislature and we assured him that no matter who emerged as Senate President and House Speaker, he can always count on our full corporation. POLL “The majority of the senators-elect are supporting Senator Yari. That does not mean that we are in confrontation with President Tinubu or the Party. No! Far from that. We are rather deepening our democracy to even help the executive to function well under a stable democratic atmosphere. We are not in confrontation with anybody and I can assure you that we are all on the same page now.” The lawmaker, who is from the south south, however confirmed that leaders of the APC have started backtracking on Senator Akpabio in the face of new realities which have been worsened by Akpabio’s alleged cold relationship with lawmakers. According to him, many of the senators-elect are not at home with Akpabio for accusing National Assembly members of hugely benefiting from large contracts in the NDDC without a proof. A senator-elect was recently reported to have queried how an individual, who denigrated the National Assembly can preside over its activities. “I have withdrawn support for Senator Akpabio. It’s not only me. Many of us have withdrawn our support and it will show on the floor. I used to have very high regard for Senator Akpabio as a person but I can’t support him to be the Senate President. “How can he (Akpabio) come and preside over an institution which he once described as a cesspit of corruption after benefitting from the same institution” the Senator-elect was reported to have queried.