The leadership of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in the South West geo-political zone has warned the self-acclaimed founder of the Party, Dr Boniface Aniebonam, to stop dabbling into the party affairs in Ogun state, saying there is nothing like founder in political party after registration. The warning followed Aniebonam involvement in the crisis rocking the NNPP in Ogun state, which led to the expulsion of former Chairman of the party, Olaposi Sunday Oginni by the national leadership of the party. After Oginni’s expulsion and dissolution of the entire Executives, the national body appointed Caretaker Committee led by Prince Adekunle Ibrahim. Other Caretaker committee members are Comrade Afuye Oluwatoyin as acting Secretary; Comrade Olowu Omokehinde Olayemi as acting Publicity Secretary; Comrade Oyegbemi Omokehinde as acting Youth Leader; Shefiu Musa as acting Treasurer. Others are Hon. Foluke Precious Bagbansoro as acting Women Leader; Mrs Riskat Oloyede as acting Financial Secretary; Taofeek Adegboyega as acting Organizing Secretary and Akindele Micheal as acting Welfare Secretary. But on Tuesday, following the petition by the national leadership of the party to Inspector-General of Police over several allegations bothering on financial misappropriation, fraud, money laundering and financing terrorism in some parts of the country against expelled former Chairman, Oginni men of the Nigeria Police Force arrested him in Abeokuta by team of crack detectives from Force Headquarters Abuja, and whisked him away Abuja on Wednesday. But in a twist of the issue on Friday, Aniebonam wrote a rejoinder to Inspector-General of Police taking sides with Oginni. Reacting to Aniebonam’s letter on Friday, on behalf of the party leaders in the south west geo-political zone, Prince Ademola Ayoade warned Aniebonam not to dabble into issue he has no idea of. POLL Ayodele said Aniebonam should stop his plan of running parallel party affairs in Ogun state NNPP, noting that he should also stop fooling the public on the issue of being the founder of the party when it is not a private business. According to him, “Not every view or posting should be responding to, because some people talk before reasoning or writing before thinking. How can someone wake up and start insulting us, is time we tell him the truth. “Political party is not a company or personal property once a political party is registered, it becomes public property,” Aniebonam be warned.”