ABUJA – The speakership and deputy speakership candidates en­dorsed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the incom­ing House of Representatives, Tajudeen Abbas, and Benjamin Kalu, may have consolidated their leading status as the can­didates to beat in the speaker­ship race. This is as the duo have gar­nered more endorsements in the last 48 hours, following the resolution by 106 out of the 143 combined members-elect from the North-West and North-Cen­tral geopolitical zones who have thrown their weights behind their candidature on Tuesday. With the latest development, the Abbas/Kalu ticket appears to be getting closer to a land­slide victory on Tuesday, June 13, 2023. This newspaper gathered that during the separate en­dorsement meetings in Abuja on Tuesday, 72 out of 92 mem­bers-elect from the North-West zone and 32 out of 51 from North-Central lawmakers declared their support for the ticket as part of the ongoing operation ‘Meet-The-Caucus­es’ embarked upon by Abass and Kalu. The meeting which held in the Ladi Kwali Hall of the old Sheraton Hotel, Abuja, had in attendance members-elect from the North-West while those of the North-Central held at the Transcorp Hilton. Other zones of South-South and North-East were expected to follow suit on Wednesday, while South-East and South- West will be held today. Briefing newsmen on the progress so far, the Commu­nication Adviser to the Taju­deen-Ben Kalu group (TBK) and lawmaker-elect for Ideato North and South Federal Con­stituency, Ikenga Ugochinyere, described the success record­ed so far as a victory for the growing quest to build a stable, strong, united, harmonious and all-inclusive House that will deliver on life-changing people’s legislations that will help to deliver on the renewed hope agenda of the present ad­ministration. According to him, the mas­sive support from all zones, ethnic and religious divides is clear evidence of members’ commitment to seeing Nigeria move forward, and an indica­tion of a significant buy-in into the Abass and Kalu message of unity and competence rooted in inclusiveness and teamwork. POLL Ikenga described Abass and Kalu’s legislative compe­tence and capacity, plus their unrelenting reaching out and door-to-door engagement with members-elect as “one of the reasons for the across-board acceptance.” Ikenga said, “The commit­ment of the Abass/Kalu to a peoples’ 10th NASS leadership is not in doubt, as shown by the readiness of Abass/Kalu to car­ry every member along in the quest to deliver on the agenda for a people’s parliament that will help in realising the re­newed hope agenda of Presi­dent Bola Ahmed Tinubu.” “Abass and Kalu’s team spirit and unity are the first of their kind in the leadership race, with a speaker and deputy running together with a clear agenda for the members and the country”, he said. Ugochinyere, therefore, urged other aspirants to let go their ambitions, and support the duo towards delivering a people’s oriented 10th National Assembly. He expressed optimism that “Abbas and Kalu’s commitment with help will deliver the re­newed hope agenda of Presi­dent Tinubu and also ensure a working and independent legis­lature endeared them to the law­makers-elect who agree that the 10th NASS needs a competent leadership with team spirit, unity, and inclusiveness which Abass and Kalu represent. “After Abass and Kalu pre­sented their road map to the lawmakers-elect from the two regions, they rose in their dif­ferent zonal engagement with them and resolved to vote for the duo in a landslide. They praised the legislative compe­tence of Abass and Kalu, which saw them moving over 100 bills that have over 23 already signed into law, and said the 10th NASS couldn’t miss such men with an iroko style legislative capacity rooted in teamwork, inclusive­ness, and humility. “They appreciated Abass and Kalu’s unrelenting en­gagement with lawmakers with opposing views that they reached out, and extending hands of fellowship is some­thing worthy of commenda­tion. Odds are in their favour in winning the election come June 13th with the gale of endorsements flying in from all corners. Currently, 106 out of 141 lawmakers-elect from North-West and North-Central (72 out of 92 lawmakers-elect from the North-West zone and 32 out of 51 North-Central law­makers) have declared their support at the ongoing zonal caucuses meeting by Abass and Kalu. In the coming days, we are optimistic that more members-elect will declare their support for the duo.”