Some population experts have said there is need for in­creased investment in health, education and well-being of women and girls as well as critical population groups for global development. They made the call at the launch of the State of the World Population (SWOP) in Abuja on Thursday. The theme of the 2023 SWOP was, ‘8 Billion Lives, Infinite Possibilities: The Case for Rights and Choices’. The Executive Chairman of the National Population Com­mission (NPC), Alhaji Nasir Kwarra, stressed the imper­atives of safeguarding these individuals that make up the eight billion world population as well as improving the com­munities where they reside. “Given the current and an­ticipated population growth, Nigeria stands to gain if sig­nificant and targeted invest­ments are made. “In providing quality ed­ucation that respond to the dynamics of global labour market which favour girls, we need to keep our girls in school and protect them from early marriage,” he said. The NPC chairman said the right investments would accelerate economic growth and create opportunities for harnessing the demographic dividend. Ms. Ulla Mueller, Country Representative, UN Popula­tion Fund (UNFPA), reiter­ated the commitment of the agency to making the world a better place for all. POLL Mueller said that giving women and girls access to bodily autonomy would en­hance progress and economic stability. She explained that wom­en’s access to Sexual and Reproductive Health Rights (SRHR) would galvanise end to maternal mortality. “About 44 percent of wom­en and girls are unable to ex­ercise their bodily autonomy. “Every single woman has the right to decide when to have children, and how many,” she said. Mr. Adebiyi Olufunsho, Permanent Secretary, Min­istry of Heath, called for im­plementation of Sustainable Development Goal 5 (SDG 5) on achieving gender equality and empowering all women and girls. Olufunsho, represented by John Ovuoraye, Director Gender/Adolescent Division, said that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goal had the elimination of violence against women as a key target. The permanent secretary explained that the ultimate focus of every programme should be on empowering women and girls to make informed choices regarding their sexual reproductive health. He said the case for ‘Rights and Choices’ was a reminder that complete health was not the absence of illness, rather, the state of complete mental, physical, financial and psy­chological well-being of every man and woman of a nation. Olufunsho reiterated the imperatives of gender equal­ity which he identified as key to achieving bodily autonomy and global development. He affirmed the determi­nation of the ministry to work closely with the population commission and other stake­holders to implement recom­mendations of the SWOP. The SWOP Report is an an­nual flagship achievement of the UNFPA. It usually comes with a theme that spotlights prevail­ing or emerging population and development concerns with focus on unique popula­tion groups – women, young people, adolescents and girls.