LAGOS – The popular Boiling Point Arena, a monthly online discourse on governance and national development, will feature renowned American-Nigerian Media Scholar and Columnist, Prof. Farooq Kperogi and two notable oil and gas industry players, Mr Chikezie Nwosu and Imam Nojeem Jimoh as they dissect what has been tagged “TINUBUNOMICS”. The trio are to walk the audience through Nigeria’s glorious past as a potential economic giant from nationhood and the myriads of pitfalls that saw the nation plunged into ahydra-headed oil Subsidy palaver and its debilitating effects with a view to proffering lasting solutions capable of bringing the country out of the doldrums. It is also geared at assisting the new Nigeria’s helmsman, President Bola Tinubu on strategies to develop coping mechanisms for revamping the nation, bogged down by extreme foreign debts, multidimensional poverty, insecurity and infrastructural decay. The programme which will hold online on Sunday, June 11, 2023, via Google Meet is expected to be transmitted live by an Abeokuta-based radio station, Oodua 99.9FM, for a two-hour duration from 8 pm to 10 pm. Kperogi who is based in Greater Atlanta, USA joins Mr Chikezie Nwosu, Founder of HSI Energy Resources based in the Netherlands and Imam Nojeem Jimoh, erstwhile Chief Operating Officer, Taurus Oil and Gas Ltd,as Guest Speakers/Discussants at the interactive interview session which parades a large global audience. The topic of discourse is:“Tinubunomics” And The Removal Of Fuel Subsidy: Which Way Nigeria? Boiling Point Arena, a monthly current affairs programme with an incredibly large online followership, is the brainchild of the Initiator and Convener, Mr. Ayo Arowojolu, a Media Professional with 33 years of multi-varied work career spanning the media, banking and education sectors. In a press statement, the Chairman of the Organizing Committee for Boiling Point Arena, one of Nigeria’s foremost Public Relations Icon, Mr Eddy Ademosu, enjoined members of the public to join the conversation so as to cross-ventilate ideas and proffer solutions to move Nigeria forward. POLL Ademosu commended the Management of Oodua FM, chaired by the CEO, Dr Victor Mark Eniola, for identifying with worthy causes by partnering with the Boiling Point Arena to widen the audience reach through its terrestrial and online channels BOILING POINT is a news and general interest platform for informed discussions, viewpoints and commentaries on governance and national development issues. The platform comprises an array of eminent personalities including over 200 Professors, technocrats, industry leaders, High Court Justices, traditional rulers, security top shots, media professionals and several others.