Global energy demand rose 1% last year and record renewables growth did nothing to shift the dominance of fossil fuels, which still accounted for 82% of supply, the industry’s Statistical Review of World Energy report has said. According to the report, last year was marked by turmoil in the energy markets after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which helped to boost gas and coal prices to record levels in Europe and Asia. “The stubborn lead of oil, gas and coal products in covering most energy demand cemented itself in 2022 despite the largest ever increase in renewables capacity at a combined 266 gigawatts, with solar leading wind power growth “Despite further strong growth in wind and solar in the power sector, overall global energy-related greenhouse gas emissions increased again,” said the president of the UK-based global industry body Energy Institute, Juliet Davenport. We are still heading in the opposite direction to that required by the Paris Agreement.” The annual report, a benchmark for the industry, was published for the first time by the Energy Institute together with consultancies KPMG and Kearny after they took it over from BP, which had authored the report since the 1950s. Scientists say the world needs to cut greenhouse gas emissions by around 43% by 2030 from 2019 levels to have any hope of meeting the international Paris Agreement goal of keeping warming well below 2C above pre-industrial levels. The report said: “global primary energy demand grew around 1%, slowing from the previous year’s 5.5%, but demand was still around 3% above pre-coronavirus levels in 2019. Energy consumption grew everywhere apart from Europe, including Eastern Europe. “Renewables, excluding hydropower, accounted for 7.5% of global energy consumption, around 1% higher than the previous year. The share of fossil fuels in global energy consumption remained at 82%. Electricity generation was up 2.3%, slowing down from the previous year. Wind and solar power grew to a record share of 12% of power generation, again surpassing nuclear, which fell 4.4%, and meeting 84% of net electricity demand growth. Coal’s share in power generation remained dominant at around 35.4%”. POLL “Oil consumption increased by 2.9 million barrels per day (bpd) to 97.3 million bpd, with growth slowing compared with the previous year. Compared with pre- Covid levels in 2019, oil consumption was 0.7% lower. “Most oil demand growth came from revived appetite for jet fuel and diesel-related products. Oil production grew by 3.8 million bpd, with the lion’s share coming from OPEC members and the United States. “Nigeria saw the largest decline. Oil refining capacity grew by 534,000 bpd, mainly in non- OECD countries. Amid record prices in Europe and Asia, global gas demand fell 3% but still made up 24% of primary energy consumption, slightly below the previous year. “Gas production was stable year-on-year. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) production was up 5% at 542 billion cubic metres (bcm), a similar pace to the previous year, with most growth coming from North America and the Asia-Pacific region.”