“The President Who Never Ruled” is a novel. But it is neither a fiction nor fac­tion. Indeed, it seems novel to present a biography in the form of a novel as Jamiu Abiola has done. I am impressed. Of course, I was expecting to read an interesting book by virtue of the sub­ject and title, when my good friend and elder sister of the author, Hafsat Abio­la-Costello, gave me a copy. But once I went through the blurb and sighted an error (how it lead to great wealth), I was momentarily disappointed, not in the au­thor but the publishers who permitted such in the blurb of a book for that matter. As I progressed into Jamiu’s style of narration, I was excitedly impressed by his creative imagination in presenting the book as a novel. Yea! “A novel based on a true life story” – some infinitesimal fiction immaterial to the facts to make it a novel clearly unmistakable. “The President Who Never Ruled” is a riveting account, in free-flowing prose, of the trials and triumphs of Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola both as a child and adult and reversals that dogged his path politically. We were led into Abiola’s precocious­ness, his desire to assist his parents out of poverty by engaging in business even as a schoolboy. The parents were, however, adamant that nothing must stop his edu­cation or success in class. He assisted his father in his cocoa business, traded suc­cessfully in firewood until the business no longer yielded enough profit for him and then changed to singing, forming an orchestra to play at social functions – Kashy Mambo Orchestra. He left the band after secondary school, having secured a job at Barclays Bank, Ibadan. He secured a scholarship two years after to study “accountancy, commercial law, and political economy at Glasgow University and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.” A chance glance at a newspaper re­vealed an advert requesting the services of “The best African accountant…” in an undisclosed company. A series of com­petitive interview tests followed in Lagos, UK and New York. It was in the US that a staff of the mystery telecommunications industry finally submitted to Moshood: “Our human resources consultants have selected you. They say that you are the man we should work with in Nigeria… Anoth­er evaluation team, an external one, has agreed with their appraisal.” The brainy Moshood became the Controller of ITT in Nigeria – the ITT group, the largest tele­phone industry in the world and a major player in the field of military communi­cations systems! He resumed to what looked like a moribund office on April 1st, 1969. ITT had supplied equipment worth £3.5m to the Nigerian Army but Col Murtala Muhammed, the then army signals inspector, refused to sign the payment voucher, alleging over-profit by ITT. Frus­trated by being snubbed daily, Moshood exhibited what in my view, was an act of derring-do, a pre-cursor to his post-1993 presidential election confrontation with the military. POLL He stood in front of Murtala’s office and blocked him from entering! I recall that was an era Prof Wole Soyinka de­scribed as the conquest of civilian pride by the military, in his memoir, You Must Set Forth At Dawn. Nothing ventured, nothing gained. Brigadier Usman Kat­sina overheard the altercation and ulti­mately resolved the issues. MKO left the Ministry of Defence with the cheque for a contract ITT had borrowed money to execute! Moshood was shrewd. Cashing in on the nationalist/ indigenisation policies of the military government, he demanded to be made the MD of ITT in Nigeria for the good of the company. “Within the next seven years,” wrote Jamiu, “Moshood be­came one of Africa’s richest businessmen… Hard work had undoubtedly contributed to his success but it would be foolhardy to ignore the fact that luck was a major factor as well. He was at the right company at the right time and anything that happened to him during that period seemed to be the right thing.” (Pg. 69) His later friendship with Murtala paid off. His company got “a massive contract to supply telephone lines to the whole of Ni­geria” under the Murtala administration. He demanded more from ITT and wrung out 49 per cent of its shares. “That was how Moshood, in his thirties, became one of Africa’s richest men…” What actually led Abiola into politics? Jamiu provides a synopsis: “It was clear back then that Moshood had become a phi­losopher merchant or an ideological entre­preneur with a keen interest in philanthro­py rather than just a regular businessman concerned only about profit. This was the genesis of the bridge that always linked him to politics till it eventually transported him into it.” (Pg.71) We read an account of how distraught Abiola became when the NPN refused to honour the agreement that power must return to the South after a single term of the Alhaji Shehu Shagari presiden­cy. “Wealth no longer meant anything to him. All he wanted now was power, which would give him a chance to fix Nigeria, he hoped, and write his name in gold.” According to the writer, the military president, Ibrahim Babangida, “had no plans to hand over to anybody” despite assurances to Abiola. On June 12, 1993, religion counted for nothing for the first time in Nigeria. The presidential election was a watershed, the freest and fairest in Nigeria. The 197-page book gives a précis of how politicians traded with MKO’s mandate, how the US and UK refused to help in restoring the mandate given to Abiola and how Abacha deceived him with a promise to help him reclaim his mandate, among others. According to the author, MKO ap­peared to have taken the turn of events in his stride and began thinking of re­turning to his business until May 10, 1994, when he was treated as president during the inauguration of Mandela as South African president. Mandela, the author narrates, encouraged MKO not to give up just like he did not in the struggle against apartheid. Buoyed by the support of NADECO and labour unions, MKO, then 56, beat the security cordon around his house (was virtually under house arrest), declared himself president on June 11, 1994 at Epetedo in Lagos, went underground for some days, later arrest­ed after an open procession to his house and remained in prison till his sudden death in July, 1998. Some years ago, my review of Man­dela’s Long Walk To Freedom was pub­lished in the papers. On page 158 of his autobiography, the anti-apartheid hero submitted: “For me, nonviolence was not a moral principle but a strategy; there is no moral goodness in using an ineffective weapon.” I believe the debate will rage for a long time on whether MKO should have embraced both sides of the ANC struggle against white minority rule. Should MKO have backed his declaration up with ac­tive resistance, especially when he had the resources to do so? Is it not as much ridiculous to accuse Abiola of attempt­ing to overthrown a military government sitting illegally on the expressed wish of the electorate as accusing him of treason based on self-declaration as president by a patently illegal military government? Could he have succeeded by cashing in on the schism within the army at the time? Was MKO unwisely idealistic? The de­bate will linger for a long time to come. Jamiu’s mother, Kudirat Abiola, threw her whole being into the struggle to regain her husband’s mandate, reject­ing money or oil blocks from the military. She was gunned down by the state’s killer squad on June 4, 1996. “The city of New York…decided to name the corner of 44th street on Second Avenue, where the Nige­rian consulate is located, after Kudirat Abiola in recognition of her heroic stance against tyranny.” And one must mention in passing the Kudirat Initiative for De­mocracy (KIND), an NGO established by the daughter of the heroine and democra­cy martyr, Hafsat, to promote democracy by “strengthening organisations and cre­ating initiatives that advance the global societal position of women.” Worthy of note in the book was the futile trip to Abuja by Jamiu and his brother after no family member had been allowed to see MKO in more than a year, within which they also lost their mother to assassin’s bullets. They had been encouraged and led in the trip by an unnamed old man who had argued that Abacha would shudder to imagine a headline like, “Government prevents the sons of Kudirat Abiola from seeing their father after death.” How mistaken they were! They were dealing with a stone! Of course, international campaign for reparations from the West on five centuries of African slave trade seemed to begin and end with Abiola. There are a few gaps in the book, which is divided into 44 chapters. I’m not sure I encountered any mention of the Nigerians murdered on the streets of Lagos for protesting the annulment of June 12 Presidential Election by the military. The travails of the NADECO members and international aspect of the struggle could get more attention. I think these and a few more could be taken up by Hafsat whenever she decides to provide her own perspectives on the subject mat­ter. The publishers could also have done a better job with editing. The multi-lingua Jamiu ends his en­grossing account by noting that since the death of MKO, “the military has stayed away from governance and democracy has flourished in Nigeria… That was how President Moshood Abiola, my father and the president who never ruled, and Kudirat Abiola, my mother and his most loyal sup­porter, won in death the battle that claimed both their lives.”