President Bola Tinubu will officially meet the lawmakers-elect across party lines on Thursday. The meeting, which will be held at the State House Conference Centre, Abuja was disclosed by the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, who presided over the plenary on Wednesday. The invitation of the president was conveyed in an official letter from the State House to the Senate. Meanwhile, Senator Abdulaziz Yari, one of the contenders for the position of Senate President, has disclosed what the Senate will look like when elected on the 13th of this month. In an interactive session with the Senate Press Corps, Yari said, “it is good for you to know that in the 10th Senate, which I aspire to lead, my colleagues will be my bosses. “In all our activities, the Senate, under my leadership, by the leave of my bosses and the Grace of the Almighty Allah, shall be completely democratic, open and serve only the interest of Nigerians. “We assure Nigerians that the Senate, under my leadership, will be firm, transparent, purposeful and ensure a cordial working relationship with the President Bola Ahmed Tinubu-led Executive to deliver his vision for a secure, united and prosperous Nigeria.” He further stated that he possessed the requisite experience, competence, capacity and the national acceptance to lead the Senate at this point in time. POLL He said: “I have over the years build strong connections among the various peoples of Nigeria across the 36 states and the FCT and I understand the nuances of our nation. “We will build on such ties, connections and experience to heal our nation, foster strong synergies and unity in our country. “I want to assure you that the National Assembly which we seek to lead will be stable, proactive, listen to and pursue the genuine aspiration and yearnings of Nigerians. “It is for these reasons that I put myself forward with the support of majority of my colleagues and bosses to lead the 10th Senate.” A pro-democracy group, Coalition for Parliamentary Democracy (CPD) has sent a strong message to Godswill Akpabio, who is also a contender for the Senate President position to show why he should be elected. The group urged him to quit the Senate Presidency if he has no legislative capacity that can earn him the support of his colleagues. The group, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Dr. Menike Johnson, cautioned the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) against the imposition of a Senate President. The group further warned why zoning and external influence of the Senate presidency is not the way to go, adding that such is “undemocratic and only promotes mediocrity, incompetence and breeds a corrupt and rubber stamp parliamentary leadership that cannot serve the interest of the Nigerians.” The group commended senators-elect for their support for Senator Yari, who it said has “exhibited the required capacity, passion and political will to run a legitimately elected Senate Presidency that will unite the nation, provide constructive partnership with the Executive in the overall interest of Nigerians. “The Coalition for Parliamentary Democracy has been watching the contest for the Senate Presidency with keen interest. We have also noted the trajectory, demonstrated capacity and acceptability of the two major contestants in the race; Senator Abdul’aziz Yari and Senator Godswill Akpabio. “CPD in tandem with other pro-democracy organizations insists that those interested in the office of the Senate President should rather marshal their agenda to Nigerians and senators-elect and not rely on retrogressive and sectional arguments of zoning and external endorsements which is undemocratic, promotes mediocrity, incompetence and breeds a corrupt and rubber stamp parliamentary leadership that cannot serve the interest of the people.” The group further warned the APC that imposition of Senate President “could make it lose the position to the opposition parties which have a good number of senators-elect that could be boosted by dissatisfied element in the APC to clinch the Senate leadership. “Such could lead to more division in the APC and create a frosty legislature/executive relationship which is not in the interest of the nation at this critical time of our national history. “The Senate does not belong to a particular political Party but to Nigerians. In the same vein Senate leadership positions are serious positions that require capacity and willpower and not retail commodities that will be allocated to mediocrity and incompetence on the platter of zoning. “The CPD therefore urges the Senators-elect to assert the independence of the legislature and the Principle of the Separation of Power in serving the interest of Nigerians by upholding competence and not zoning in the election of a new Senate President.”