BENIN – The Union of Tipper and Quarry Employers of Ni­geria, has embarked on self-help to fix some failed portions of the Benin-Olog­bo community axis of the Benin/Warri Express Way to reduce the current suf­fering being experienced by commuters from Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers and other states to Edo, Lagos, west­ern and northern states of the country. This is coming just as the union also called on Presi­dent Bola Asiwaju Tinubu to hear the cries of road us­ers in the country, especially those of the East-West road with special attention on the Warri/Benin, Benin-Auchi, Agbor-Uromi of the federal roads so as to fix them once and for all. At the various sites of the repairs being carried out by the union, tens of trucks of granite boulders were dis­charged on the failed cra­ters, while members of the union were seen helping the bulldozers, cranes and other earth moving machines to fill the bad portions. There were slight grid­locks on the road, with mo­torists and the inhabitants of the nearby communities praising the public-spirited efforts of the union. Comrade Wilson Ogbachi, the Secretary of the Union, who was on hand to super­vise the palliative work, told newsmen that they decided to embark on the repairs in order to ameliorate the suf­ferings being encountered by the road users on that road, especially between Be­nin city and Ologbo before the heavy rainfall, when it would be more difficult to ply the road. According to Comrade Ogbachi, we are trailer own­ers and employees, whose jobs are mainly outside of Edo State, where we get our materials from quarries and transport it to Delta, Bayelsa and some other states. “It got to a stage that our vehicles and those of others could no longer ply the road easily. Whereas it originally takes about one hour to ply the road between Warri and Benin, it now takes over five hours, with the Ologbo and Benin stretches adding to the worst sections of the federal expressway. “We have uploaded over fourteen trailers of hard core loads since last week and over five trailer loads this week while we are still expecting more trailer loads to complete the job”. POLL Ogbachi said that since the Federal Government is not forthcoming to repair the road, they felt their union could contribute its corporate social responsibil­ity by the palliative repairs, which could encourage some other public entities to do the same. On whether the Federal Govern­ment was aware of the work they are presently doing, Ogbachi said they have since reached out to the Control­ler of the Ministry of Works in Benin City and had fruit­ful discussions with them on their plans for the road repairs. “We also got in touch with the Per­manent Secretary, Ministry of Roads and Bridges, Edo State, for them to be aware of this road repairs. Also speaking to news­men at the repair site, a Unit Chairman of the union, Comrade Michael Eghaghe, said the union was calling on President Bola Asiwaju Tinubu to hear the cries of road users across the coun­try, particularly those of the East-West road and other neighbouring states so as to fix them once and for all. A community youth, Mr. Alfred Titon, who also said that his community has been suffering for many years as a result of the bad road, how­ever appreciated the repairs that was being done by the union, adding that the com­munity was grateful to the union.