Anna Maria just said exactly how she felt about herself and her love life. She wrote: “I am not that lucky like other girls that have beautiful things to say about their guys; how their boyfriends bought them bags, shoes and the rest. I will just work hard and get those things myself. What I got instead were a girl-beater and cheater .”Disappointed by love, she has given up on her love life and has chosen not to be in any relationship, at least for now. She seemed to be at peace with herself and her state of self-denial. “Due to my past bad relationships, I made up my mind to stay away from guys. When my first relationship ended I almost ran mad. I cried uncontrollably and no one could console me. I never saw it coming, I never took notes of the red flags, and I was so innocent. He was my first and I loved him carelessly. “After that experience, I promised myself that I would not love deeply again nor compromise my standards to be with any guy. And not long after, I fell in love again and I repeated the same mistakes in the second, third, and even the last relationships. “I just assumed dating is not for me. I am not as lucky as other girls that have beautiful things to say about their guys; how their boyfriends bought them bags, shoes, and the rest. I will just work hard and get those things myself. “Some girls are luckier, guys don’t break their hearts, all the lives they only attracted gentlemen, men that treated them nicely. Me, on the other hand, all I got was either a cheating guy or a girl-beater. “Do you know that my second boyfriend was always giving me hot slaps whenever we quarreled and at every slight provocation? He was hot-tempered, he would slap me first then he would walk away from the scene without listening to my reasoning and later he would apologize. I endured this thinking he would change, this was someone that neither called nor texted me. I was the one doing all the calling and texting. The only time he called was when he needed my help, or he wanted me to come over to his house. All I have done was endure in my relationship. “Right now, I have just casual friends like guys in my office, past schoolmates, but nothing intimate. I would like to describe myself as a kind, soft-hearted and blunt lady. I don’t fall in love easily but when I do, I give my all: my heart, my soul, my all. I don’t withhold anything from the person. And I love blindly, too. “I think I have more peace of mind now that I am alone, I have fewer worries. At least for now, I just want to love myself.” POLL Dear Anna Maria, I respect your decision and it’s not totally bad as long as that makes you happy. I just hope you would give love a chance again someday but before you do, look out for people whose values align with yours at least 70%, stop looking for butterflies. Values keep individuals true to who they really are (people can’t fake values for three months). Love is an emotional feeling, it can be for a little while, especially the moment you get to know each other better, it can wither away if not nourished with the right values – uprightness, Honesty, Selflessness, Kindness, and many others. Secondly, lower your expectations – It doesn’t mean lower standards. Never expect things to go or favour you 100%.. life wasn’t built that way. Emotional toughness and intelligence are key. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions, and share your own experiences, too.