LAGOS – The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged Senate President Godswill Akpabio and 13 former governors in the 10th Senate to disclose the total amount of life pensions, if any, they received from their states as former governors. SERAP is also urging them to promptly clarify if they have collected or currently collecting life pensions as former gover­nors from their respective states, to stop collecting any such pensions and return the pensions collected to the trea­sury. The organisation noted that there are fourteen former gov­ernors in the 10th Senate. In a letter dated June 3, 2023, and signed by SERAP’s deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare, the organisation said: “Your constitutional oath of office, under the Seventh Schedule to the constitution of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) requires you to publicly reject and return any pensions.” SERAP said, “Public func­tion means activities in the public interest, not against it. The alleged collection by for­mer governors of life pensions from their respective states amount to private self-interest. It is also detrimental to the pub­lic interest. “Nigerians expect you to act in the public interest including by ending the collection of any life pensions from your respec­tive states and returning any such pensions that may have been collected to the treasury. “Collecting life pensions as former governors while in the Senate would clearly violate constitutional provisions and amount to taking advantage of entrusted public positions. “Ending the practice of for­mer governors in the Senate collecting life pensions from their states would improve pub­lic confidence in the integrity and honesty of the National Assembly. It would show that the Senate can focus on serving the public interest rather than looking after themselves. POLL “We urge you to emulate former Senate President Bu­kola Saraki who stopped col­lecting life pension as a former governor of Kwara State and described life pensions by for­mer governors as ‘immoral’, following a request by SERAP. “We would be grateful if the recommended measures are taken within seven days of the receipt and/or publication of this letter. If we have not heard from you by then, SERAP shall take all appropriate legal actions to compel you and oth­er members of the Senate to comply with our request in the public interest. “The country’s internation­al legal obligations especially under the UN Convention against Corruption also impose a legal commitment on public officials including former governors in the Senate to dis­charge a public duty truthfully and faithfully. “Life pensions for former governors serving as senators are entirely inconsistent and incompatible with the consti­tutional oath of office and the object and purpose of the UN Convention against Corrup­tion, which implicitly prohib­its large severance benefits for public officials such as former governors. “The convention specifically in paragraph 1 of article 8 re­quires you to promote integrity, honesty and responsibility in the management of public re­sources. “Justice Oluremi Oguntoy­inbo in a judgment dated No­vember 26, 2019 also indicated that double emoluments for former governors are unac­ceptable, unconstitutional and illegal. “SERAP is concerned that despite receiving in recent years trillions of naira from the federation account, several states have failed to provide ac­cess to quality education to mil­lions of poor Nigerian children. “The public funds spent by these states on life pensions for former governors can be well spent to address the problem of growing rate of out-of-school children in the states governed by these former governors. “Constitutional oath of office requires public officials including former governors in the Senate to abstain from all improper acts, including collecting life pensions that are inconsistent with the public trust and the overall objectives of the constitution. “A false oath lacks truth and justice. The oath statements re­quire the oath takers to commit to uphold and defend the con­stitution. “SERAP also urges you to re­direct any life pensions collect­ed to fund and facilitate access of poor Nigerian children in your state to quality education, to reduce the number of out-of-school children. “According to our infor­mation, there are fourteen former governors in the 10th Senate who may be collecting life pensions running into billions of naira from their respective states. The former governors are: Godswill Akpa­bio (Akwa-Ibom State); Adams Oshiomhole (Edo State); Ada­mu Aliero (Kebbi State); Dave Umahi (Ebonyi State); Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto State); and Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger State). “Others are: Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe State); Danjuma Goje (Gombe State); Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara State); Gbenga Daniel (Ogun State); Aliyu Wammako (Sokoto State); Orji Kalu (Abia State); Ibrahim Gaidam (Yobe State); and Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa State). “The states currently im­plementing life pensions for former governors reportedly include Akwa Ibom, Abia, Edo, Jigawa, Niger, Kebbi, Kano, Sokoto, Jigawa, Cross River, Ebonyi, Enugu, Benue, Gombe, Yobe, Taraba, Kaduna, Plateau, Katsina, Rivers, and Delta. Many of these states owe workers’ salaries and remain the poorest in the country. “SERAP notes that under Akwa Ibom Life Pension Law (as amended), a former gover­nor is entitled to an annual pay of N200 million, two official ve­hicles with chauffeurs, furni­ture allowance of 300 percent of basic salary replaceable ev­ery four years, an aide, a cook, and lifetime security guards worth N5 million monthly for ex-governors and N2.5 million for their deputies. “There is also state-spon­sored annual medical service of about N100 million for ex-governors and their spouses and N50 million for the ex-dep­uty governors, five-bedroom mansions in Abuja and Akwa Ibom. Other benefits include: 300% annual basic salary as ‘severance gratuity’, 300% of annual basic salary for ‘car maintenance’; 100% of annual basic salary for ‘entertainment’; and 100% of annual basic sala­ry for ‘utility. “In the Seventh Schedule to the Nigerian constitution, you commit to strive to ‘preserve the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy contained in the Consti­tution’, [and to] perform your ‘functions honestly, faithfully’, to act ‘always in the interest of the well-being and prosperity of Nigeria’. “You also commit to ‘pre­serve, protect and defend the constitution of Nigeria; and abide by the Code of Conduct contained in the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution. “By Section 1 (1) of the Free­dom of Information (FoI) Act 2011, and Article 9 of the Afri­can Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights, SERAP is enti­tled as of right to request for or gain access to information, in­cluding information on details of life pensions so far received by you. “By Sections 2(3)(d)(V) and (4) of the FoI Act, there is a bind­ing legal duty to ensure that documents containing infor­mation including information on details of life pensions so far received by you are widely disseminated and made readi­ly available to members of the public through various means.” The separate letter sent to Godswill Akpabio, also read in part: “SERAP notes that in your acceptance speech on your elec­tion as the president of the 10th Senate, you expressed the com­mitment to ensure that ‘our ac­tions protect and guarantee the best and most efficient use of our national commonwealth.’”