Tens of Okere-Urhobo indigenes in Warri, Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State, in the early hours of Thursday, June 8, protested against the alleged grabbing of their land by Delta State government, saying the state government should, “stop using our hungry brothers to sell our future and that of our children”, As gathered, the Okere-Urhobo indigenes, who carried leaves and placards, with inscriptions such as: “Land Grabbing is a Crime”, “Okere- Urhobo people are peace-loving, but not Stupid”, marched through parts of Airport Road, Warri, insisting, “If the purpose of acquiring the land from our community has changed, the state government should return it to us.” According to them, the areas allegedly grabbed by the Delta State government and purportedly sold to cronies of the state government, stretch “along Airport Road from Board of Internal Revenue to State (Delta) School of Nursing, to Shell (SPDC) Edjeba.” Addressing newsmen, Former Youth President of Okere Urhobo Kingdom, from 1999-2008, Comrade Festus Otesiri Igherebuo, accused the Delta State government of selling the land to some individuals, saying the law stipulates that if the land is no longer utilised for the purpose it was acquired, it should be given back to the community. He stated: “This land was acquired by Bendel State government, for the purpose of building a Warri Specialist Hospital and a Stadium, but it was not utilised and was transferred to Delta State government when the state was created. The former Governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, later built the Board of Internal Revenue, State School of Nursing and incomplete Ultra-Modern Park. “We want the government to continue to site developmental projects on the land, for the purpose it was meant, not to share the land among themselves. “We have written several letters to the state government on this issue, but there has been no response, we are aware that some of our brothers, are aiding the government to grab the land for themselves, but it won’t be tolerated. “Okere Urhobo is known for peace and hospitality to its neighbours, legal action will be taken, if the land is not given back to our community.” POLL The Ughuvwie of Okere Urhobo, Chief Frank Okolobe, and a community leader, Mr. Igho Okumagba, in separate interviews, told newsmen that they were not against utilization of the land for development projects, but against selling it to individuals, without the consent of the people of the Okere- Urhobo Kingdom. The Chief Priestess of Okere- Urhobo, Hope Okiti, appealed to the state government to give the land back to the Okere-Urhobo community, saying: “Some of the lands are for the deities of the kingdom.”