Fast-rising producer, Ikechukwu Clinton Nnaemeka, popularly known as Ragee has narrated an account on his emotional stance when he received his first payment as a music producer. According Ragee, his first production was not planned for. However, he delivered and got paid awesomely as a first time producer. The Anambra State indigene said he didn’t really learn beat-making, he earned the talent from the little time he spend in the studio as a rapper and songwriter with his own producer. “When I used to be a rapper, I was always in the studio, and back then, Magicsticks was my producer. So I usually see what they are accomplishing in the studio, making beats and subconsciously, I was learning,” he revealed. The power of social media played its role in his first production, he said. According to him, his first production was for someone he met online and even though “I wasn’t that good, I was still in my learning process. But I had my confidence and just sent a message to him that I can do beat.” “ I was just going the staircase and they transferred 100k to me. I was like wow, I went straight to buy headphones and I was doing the beats on my headphones,” Ragee added. Ragee is responsible for one of the most resonating taglines in Afrobeats culture today –“initiating rage process”, and he has developed a clinical approach to crafting hit records.The producer/songwriter is known for his uncanny ability to craft chart toppers across multiple genres. Since this big break, he has worked on several top records like Oshey Boys which he co-produced with Magicsticks for Mayorkun. The song recorded moderate success on the Apple Music charts and led up to even more acclaim for Ragee. POLL Ragee continues to work with top artistes like Zinoleesky, Boy Spyce, Ayra Starr, Young John and several more. His discography includes records like amapiano heavy track-Jogodo with latest DMW signee Logos Olori Chocolate with Mavin Records artiste-Magixx, club banger Shedibalabala with Jerry Shaffer, Run This Town with Toby Shang, Denge Pose with Dan Dizzy and Bad Boy Timz, Updated by Naira Marley and Toby Shang, alongside several more.