Dr Joseph Ikpea, a major player in the Nigerian oil and gas industry and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State has called on Nigerians to support Mr President, Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s move to end the controversial intervention initiative, just as he also called for caution on the part of Nigeria’s organized labour towards the removal of fuel subsidy by the newly inaugurated federal government. Dr. Ikpea, 2024 Edo governorship hopeful made the call in a statement made available to journalists in Benin City, saying that there may not have been a better time for Mr President to take that decision than now. Dr. Ikpea, a former Edo state Commissioner also said, “I will want to also call on our dear president, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to, as a matter of urgency, constitute a powerful economic team that would study the possible effects of the subsidy removal, design a possible and implementable policy aimed at cushioning the effects of the withdrawal as well as to also be in the know of the movement and usage of the accrued subsidy”. According to him, with time, what was experienced in the telecom industry when it was deregulated to allow for private sector participation has already commenced with the investment of Aliko Dangote in his recently commissioned refinery. “It is going to be the same in the oil sector in no distant time. “I can conveniently take a bet with anyone that this is going to be the same direction when the oil and gas sector is liberalized and completely opened up to allow for more private sector players to come and invest, like the recent commissioning of Dangote multi-billion dollar refinery in Lagos. “It is important for us to remember that the former administration had promised to make our refineries work within six months, but it was not achieved, because of the cabals’ interest in ensuring that the oil subsidy remains. But let it be known that our present president is an advanced national wealth creator and economic growth strategist whose style will profit the nation “It is my candid view to appeal to the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress(NLC) and other stakeholders to take a critical look, not at the immediate hardship or displeasure the policy will cause but the long term positive effects on the economy and the people.