YENAGOA  – Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have reportedly intercepted two imported consignments of Loud, a strong strain of cannabis, with a combined weight of 5,344.1 kilograms along the Epe-Lekki corridor and at the Alfa Beach, Lekki area of Lagos State. Femi Babafemi, the agency’s Director, Media and Advocacy, who revealed this in a release, said based on credible intelli­gence its operatives laid ambush for a white truck conveying 50 jumbo bags of the illicit sub­stance weighing 2, 434.1kg along the Epe-Lekki Expressway in the early hours of Monday, June 19. He, however, added the truck driver jumped out of the vehicle and escaped in a security hilux van escorting the truck, after the anti-narcotics officers successful­ly demobilised the truck convey­ing the drugs. In the same vein, he said, offi­cers of the Marine Command of the agency the following day, also acting on intelligence intercept­ed a boat loaded with the same imported substance weighing 2,910kg around Alfa Beach upon arrival from Ghana. “Two Gha­naians, Monday Saba, 30, and Hakeem Kwana, 27, found with the consignments were promptly arrested,” he said. Babafemi also revealed that in Niger State, two suspects, Abubakar Mohammed, 32, and Nuhu Sale, 43, were arrested on Sunday, June 18, along Abuja ex­pressway, Suleja with 31 jumbo bags of skunk weighing 517kg, while a 30-year-old Amina Alilu was arrested with 171kg of the substance on Wednesday, June 21 at Ogbogodo Village, Dekina LGA, Kogi State. “A suspected fake female se­curity agent, Ogedegbe Dorcas, 34, was also nabbed at Ajegunle Asa Dam Area of Ilorin, Kwara State with 30kg of cannabis on Thursday, June 22, while in Oyo State, NDLEA operatives inter­cepted 42-year-old Segun Olajide with 49.2kg of same substance on Saturday, June 24 in Oyo town. Operatives in Edo State stormed Ekudo Forest, Uhun­mwode LGA where they de­stroyed a cannabis farm measur­ing 2.494863 hectares, recovered processed weeds weighing 67kg and arrested six suspects name­ly, Onyeka Onyedinma; Mon­day Onyedi; Alex Eboh; Edosa Imariagbe; Godbless Tunde and Godstime Osarobo in the early hours of Monday, June 19. In a related development, the Bayelsa State Command, an­nounced the arrest of no fewer than 193 suspected drug abusers in the state. POLL The state Commander, ND­LEA, Matthew Ewah, who disclosed this at a press brief­ing as part of activities by the command to celebrate the 2023 International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking in Yenagoa, at the weekend, said the arrests were made between July 2022 and June this year and they comprised 168 males and 25 females. Ewah noted that the theme of this year’s commemoration on June 26, the day set aside ev­ery year by the United Nations, is “People First: Stop Stigma and Discrimination, Strengthen Pre­vention”, and it emphasises treat­ing people who use drugs with respect and empathy, offering alternatives to punishment and prioritising prevention, among others. He said the command seized a total of 88.019 kilogrammes of illicit substances which were made up of Cannabis sativa (54.298kgs), cocaine (0.014kgs), Heroin (0.027kgs), Metham­phetamine (0.128kgs), Tramadol (1.872kgs), Diazepam (6.952kgs), Swino/Raphinol 0.023kgs, Exol- 5 (0.6kg), Pentazocine (1.65kgs), Mixtures of C/S and alcohol (22.455kgs) and ampules of in­jection13, 460ml. Ewah, who briefed alongside the Deputy State Commander in charge of Operations, Bertha Afiesimama, and the chairman of the Bayelsa State Drug Abuse Prevention and Rehabilitation Committee, Faith Izibenua, also said that the command filed 32 cases and secured nine con­victions, while 28 matters were pending before the courts. He said, “Four (suspects) were arrested with three locally-made pistols, one battle axe and 11 car­tridges, and transferred to the po­lice. One (case of) kidnap was also transferred to the police.” According to him, the com­mand under its Anti-Drug Ac­tivities carried out 150 drug-pre­vention education programmes in schools, marketplaces, com­munities, worship centres and media houses. Ewah also stated that the command, in conjunction with a Yenagoa-based non-govern­mental organisation, Brighter Future, also took its War Against Drug Abuse campaign to the Bayelsa State Pilgrims Welfare Board. “The command also offered three months’ Counselling In­tervention Services to eight drug-dependent persons select­ed and sponsored by the NGO from Amarata and Amassoma communities in a bid to sharpen awareness on drug abuse in the communities and the need to stay drug-free in the society”, he said. The NDLEA chief, who re­vealed that a number of activi­ties had been lined up to mark this year’s event in the state, in­cluding a Road Walk on Monday, also noted that the command ad­mitted 16 drug-dependents and rehabilitated 15 of them while one underwent referral in the past one year. While disclosing that six clients were undergoing reha­bilitation and care, he said the command also counselled 163 suspects comprising 151 males and 21 females, and called for more partnership in the fight against drug abuse and traffick­ing of illicit substances in the society. Also speaking, the chairman of the Bayelsa State Drug Abuse Prevention and Rehabilitation Committee, Faith Izibenua, said the body had been given the man­date to curb the menace of drug abuse through sensitisation and rehabilitation of youths strug­gling with addiction.