ABUJA  – Mr. Kemi Pihnero SAN, counsel representing the Independent Na­tional Electoral Commission (INEC), on Friday, disclosed the rationale behind its objec­tion to the tendering of some documents it made available to the Labour Party and its presidential candidate in the February 25 presidential elec­tion, Peter Obi. The petitioners, who are challenging the outcome of the presidential election held on February 25, which Bola Tinubu of the All Progres­sives Congress, was declared winner, had sought to tender in evidence, some documents it got from INEC. INEC had on Thursday raised an objection to admis­sion of several documents brought to the Presidential Election Petition Court by the petitioners for the pur­pose of tendering them as exhibits. But at Friday’s proceed­ings, Mr Pinhero told the PEPC that the electoral body kicked against the tendering of certified true copies of the documents mainly election result sheets because Obi and the Labour Party did not challenge the conduct of election in the areas relating to the documents. Pinhero explained that issues were not joined in the Local Government Ar­eas where the result sheets were sought to be tendered adding that it was wrong of the petitioners to go beyond the areas where the election is disputed. He accused the petition­er of trying to mix issues by bringing result sheets where he did not complain about the election and the re­turns adding that Obi ought to have guided himself with the pleadings in his petition. The INEC lawyer said the local government areas un­lawfully smuggled into pro­ceedings of the Court are to­tally strange to the petition and cannot stand in the face of the law. However, Chairman of the PEPC, Justice Haruna Tsam­mani held that it was wrong of INEC’S lawyer to have smuggled the explanation into the proceedings because all parties in the petition have agreed to offer such explana­tions at the address stage of proceedings. POLL Pinhero, in return, apol­ogised to the Court but said that he was compelled to raise the objections because of the criticisms INEC suf­fered in the media. Meanwhile, the Court admitted as exhibits forms EC8A from 21 Local Govern­ment Areas of Adamawa and 8 Local Government Areas of Bayelsa States and parts of Rivers and Niger State as ten­dered by Obi and the Labour Party. Earlier, hearing in the pe­tition of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) was fur­ther adjourned to June 9.