ENUGU – The newly appointed Secretary to the Government of Enugu State (SSG), Professor Chidiebere Onyia, Thursday, took the Oath of Office, promising not to disappoint the governor and people of the state for the trust reposed on him. Prof. Onyia who was administered with the oath by the Solicitor-General of the State and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Barr. Victor Emeribe, in the presence of Governor Peter Mbah, promised the governor and the state that he would be deliberate in discharging his duties to assist the Mbah administration actualise its promises to the people. He said “To appoint me the Secretary to the State Government is an honour you have bestowed on me in trust. It is an honour I do not take for granted. I assure you that I will give it the best of my ability to make sure I work at an optimum level to help you in realising the vision and dreams you have for Ndi Enugu”’ stated. Speaking, Governor Mbah, emphasised the need for quality team members for any government to deliver on promises and thanked Prof. Onyia for electing to serve his people. “We also realise that sometimes, even crafting the strategy may be difficult, but not anywhere close as selecting the team that would take us to that destination. Getting your people conveyed from where they are currently to where you projected they should be could only happen with the right team; which is why we are indeed very excited to have you as a member of our team. “You come with a very strong private/development sector background and pedigree. You are someone, who has discharged his previous assignments creditably. You have worked with development agencies and partners. “So, we have no doubt that Enugu State is going to benefit immensely from your wealth of experience and knowledge. We look forward to this journey that you have agreed to accompany us on. “This journey is a journey of greatness. It is a journey of development. It is a journey of growth; and we are happy to have you as a member of the team that would take us through that journey. Thank you so much and welcome on board”, Mbah said.