ENUGU  – Governor Peter Mbah of Enugu State has reiterated the determination of the administration to migrate the state’s civil service from manual means of opera­tions to e-governance. Mbah said this would be made possible through training of the workforce on digital transformation and other innovative tech­nologies. The governor stated this on Wednesday when the duo of the newly appointed Head of Service, Mr. Kenneth Ugwu, and the Principal Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Ken Chukwuegbo, took their oaths of office at the Lion Building, Government House, Enugu. While felicitating them on their appointments, Mbah said they were con­sidered for the offices based on their track records and wealth of experience in the civil service, even as he ex­pressed the confidence that they would help to drive the digitisation policy of his ad­ministration. “Your track records in the civil service precede you. We have no doubt that your profile and experience in the civil service will benefit the government and people of Enugu State,” the governor stated. He also charged them to assist the state in charting the pathway for a new civil service that would be driven by technology, automation and render the best service to the people of the state. Speaking on behalf of the appointees immediate­ly after the swearing-in cer­emony, Mr. Chukwuegbo, appreciated the governor for finding them worthy to serve the state in their new offices, assuring that they would not disappoint the people. Chukwuegbo promised that they would deploy their experiences in driving the lofty ideas and policies the Mbah’s administration has espoused. POLL “We are indeed humbled and honoured by these ap­pointments. We want to as­sure you that we’ll work with all seriousness required of us. We’ll show commitment and work conscientiously to ensure that all the lofty ideas and beautiful promises that you have made to the people of Enugu state are achieved within the time frame,” he said. The Principal Secretary added that they would en­sure that civil servants in the state keyed into the mission and vision of the government and ensure speedy development of the state.