LAGOS  – Barely few hours after Sen. Hadi Sirika, the former Min­ister of Aviation, alleged that Air Peace suspended direct flight services to Dubai due to lack of capacity, the airline has debunked the claim. The airline also denied the claim by Sirika that it leased two Boeing 777 aircraft with­out operating them for several months, saying that its entire B777 aircraft are three and acquired out rightly without incurring any loss. Sirika in an Arise TV inter­view on Sunday evening mon­itored by Daily Independent on the botched Nigeria Air project, had laid several allegations against numerous stakehold­ers, including Air Peace and Mr. Nnolim Nnaji, the Chair­man, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation. A statement by Mrs. Toyin Olajide, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Air Peace, said that Sirika, in his bid to denigrate the airline while praising Ethiopian Airline, alleged that Air Peace leased two Boeing 777 aircraft on a monthly lease fee of $250,000, parked the aircraft for several months and incurred losses of $19 million, stressing that the aircraft engines and land­ing gears became due for re­placement when it was ready to fly. Olajide described the claim as a “blatant lie”, saying that the airline has three B777 air­craft as against two alleged by Sirika. The airline also insisted that it never leased or rented the air­craft, but purchased them out rightly. She also denied that it in­curred the losses as claimed by Sirika, challenging him to make enquiries from the Ni­geria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on the purchase and ownership of the aircraft. The statement added: “Sec­ondly, Sirika said the airline stopped flying to Dubai because ‘we lack capacity’. This is an­other stark lie. POLL “Air Peace never stopped the Dubai operations because of lack of capacity. Air Peace commenced operations into the UAE in July, 2019, but in October 2022, the UAE govern­ment announced a total visa ban on Nigerians. “Neither Emirates nor Air Peace is operating the Nigeri­an/UAE route since the ban. The persisting non-issuance of visas and the accompanying inconveniences necessitated the suspension of our Dubai operations from November 22, 2022 till date.” The airline declared that for the former minister to ascribe the suspension to lack of ca­pacity was not only shocking, but also showed how keen he was to disparage an airline, which had defied all the com­mercial odds and hostile envi­ronment placed on its path to continue to serve the nation proudly. The airline reiterated that it placed a firm order for 13 brand new E2-195 aircraft, a firm order of 15 Boeing 737 Max 8 and Max 10, while over 30 aircraft are already in its existing fleet. It maintained that it was not lacking in capacity. “How can an airline that stood up for the entire nation during the COVID-19 outbreak, and embarked on rescue oper­ations worldwide, evacuating Nigerians from far away Chi­na, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thai­land, India, UK and South Africa during the COVID-19 lockdowns be accused of lack­ing capacity?” It queried. Olajide implored the pub­lic to disregard Sirika and his claims about the airline.