Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Governor, has called on Nigerians to be courageous, have the ability to process information and put their thoughts, views and experience in literature for the good and development of the society. He made the call at the weekend during the 10th Anniversary of Morayo Afolabi-Brown on TV and the launching of her book titled ‘Becoming the Queen of Talk TV’ at the Harbour Point Event Centre, Victoria Island Lagos. Hamzat stated that one of the things that is actually missing in recent times is the ability for people to share their thoughts and experiences in life. He said a lot of people have done great things in life and such good things should be documented for posterity and others to learn from and emulate. “We amplify the worst things of our lives in Nigeria, but we should also amplify good things when they are done and should be documented,” The Deputy Governor applauded the author on how she has sustained her show for 10 years and not necessarily streamlining it on a particular category but spreading it to gather different angles and views to make it enjoyable to all. While commending and congratulating the celebrant for her accomplishment and ability for putting her thoughts together, Hamzat advised the Nigerian youths to emulate her by being humble despite their successes, and understand that success does not mean a lack of humility, as both virtues co-habitats. “I just hope that others can follow in her footsteps and understand that success does not mean lack of humility because you must combine humility with success,” he said. POLL The Deputy Governor went further to extol some of her personal traits that have endeared her to a great number of people in the decade, adding that the celebrant is very cultural, respectful and well-behaved which propelled her into the limelight. Folasade Adefisayo, the former Lagos State Commissioner for Education earlier in her remarks described the author as a strong, beautiful, kind and compassionate woman who through her show has given women in the country a voice. Adefisayo said Morayo Afolabi-Brown from her childhood has exhibited great leadership skills, intelligence and compassion which have made her what she is today.