Ahead of the completion of the tenure of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in office, a member, of the Board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) representing Ondo State, Barrister Gbenga Edema has offered to serve the people of the state as the next governor. He made the declaration on Tuesday while playing host to some journalists in Akure, the state capital. The former member of the state House of Assembly disclosed that he offered to serve the people because of the need to do more to improve the living standard of the people of the state. He explained that what he has in the offing to offer the people would make a valuable difference in their lives as he had mapped out socio-economic plans to turn around the state’s economy. Edema, who was a former Chairman of the Ondo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (OSOPADEC), pointed out that putting the right infrastructure in place would engender development in the state. He emphasized on providing an enabling environment and strategies for investors to key into the state’s socio-economic plans would go a long way in ameliorating the suffering of the people. According to him, “If the state government established a full administrative subsidiary that would be independent of the governor to prepare grounds for exploration of natural resources in the state in collaboration with private investors. “Such industries would be controlled by private investors even though the state government will have some percentage of the equity. POLL “The private investors will have the highest percentage of equity, while the state can about 20 to 30 percent, and the 18 local governments may have 10 percent. With the remaining 60 percent belonging to private investors, he will control the management of the investment. “With this development, there will be job creation and other positive ripple effects of the strategy. “We shall through this same strategy explore our blue economy. Thank goodness, President Muhammadu Buhari-led government approved a license for the construction and operation of the Deep Sea Port. “I began to reason I want to go for some years back. We are endowed and want someone who can turn it around. Deep Seaport should be able to 30,000 job opportunities. “When I was at the Assembly, I got some people trained at Don Bosco for skill acquisition. “Our education curriculum should be redesigned to meet our current demands. We need to focus more on vocational and technical skills acquisition. “When the deep sea port comes on stream directly, it should be able to attract about 10,000 directly. Indirectly, by the time you start to talk about the multiplier effect, it can hire about 30,000 people. “If, for instance, we are able to open up Ondo State through the Lekki Peninsula to Dangote Refinery, that road will also expand opportunities for us. “When I was at the Assembly, I got some people trained at Don Bosco for skill acquisition. Likewise, when I was at OSOPADEC, I encouraged many to go to school and trained in technical skills. “We will tinker with our curriculum to align with our current needs and demands and to the advantage of our state. “So, our children should be trained in entrepreneurship right from an early stage for them to know to make and use money.”