Olabisi Demola-Alade, the Immediate Past Chairman of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), Lagos State Branch, in this interview with DADA JACKSON, bares her mind on a number of topical issues ranging from her stewardship, quackery, building collapse to her drive to improve membership of the institution. Excerpts: How would you describe your tenure, challenges, successes, amongst others? It may interest you to know, that I have been in the Exco for 12 years. As a matter of fact, I joined the Exco in 2011 during the tenure of Esv.Olushola Fatoki, who was the Chairman. I started as Treasurer. I was the Financial Secretary in the administration of Esv.Samuel Ukpong. I later became the Education Sub Committee Chairman. I was elected the Vice Chairman during the administration of Esv.Dotun Bamigbola. I was elected Chairman of the Lagos State branch on May 25,2021 until I exited office on May 31,2023. As for the challenges, I would say that they were not many because I worked with members in the Exco who were extremely loyal, understanding, hardworking and above all very cooperative. POLL So, with such an Exco,it was a smooth sail but that is not to say, that there were no instances of disagreement but such were resolved as quickly as possible. In a nutshell,it was a rancour free tenure. Would you say you are fulfilled as Chairman of the institution? I will say unequivocally, Yes. When I assumed office as Chairman, I had a 10-point agenda which included amongst others, Welfare of members, Firm Visitation, Improve Relationship with the Public Sector, Advocacy and Awareness, Improved Relationship with other state branches and Research and Development. On welfare, we took the interest of our members with utmost respect. We equally ensured that some of our deceased members’ siblings were not allowed to suffer by providing succour for them in terms of finance and other palliatives. As for Firm Visitation, we visited about 100 firms. We also made it a rule that each Tuesdays and Thursdays were set aside for firm visitation. We especially visited Sura on the Island. We never discriminated in the firms we visited; whether you’re a big or a small firm. We made sure that we visited almost all our members during my tenure. We bridged the gap between the Exco and the members. We ensured that building a relationship was key to the sustenance of our tenure, so we made it a matter of priority to build bridges. During your Media parley to mark this year’s Estate Week, you said your major legacy was the improvement on the membership. What’s your position on this development, would you say it was achieved. Yes of course. When we came on board, we were about 1,700 members but now, we have about 400 new Associate members and 39 new Fellows which has never happened before. It used to be five or six Fellows within a tenure.But all this changed during my tenure. I would say I was able to achieve this because of my personal relationship with most of the members. I have known most of them before I became Chairman, so, it was easy for me to reach out to them. Why the number of Fellows soared during my tenure, was also because I let most of them who have spent 10 years as Associate members to aspire to become Fellows. For instance, if there is an event or programme, Fellows and Associate members who have spent 10 years are asked to pay the same fees or levies so, the Associate member that has spent 10 years is short changing himself or herself. So, why not aspire to become a Fellow and enjoy the benefits accruable to Fellows. What are the criteria for becoming a Fellow? For you to become a Fellow, you must have been an Associate member for at least, 10 years, the person must have supervised three or four probationers into Associate members, the person must have attended a minimum of four or five conferences, Do paper presentation to any of the higher institutions and donated books and the person must attend MPCDs. How has your Chairmanship impacted on other female members? Thank you very much for this question. Since I became Chairman,more women have continued to show tremendous interest in the affairs of the institution. It may interest you to know that when I was the Treasurer of the institution in 2011-2013,I was the only female in an Exco of 12 members. By 2015,we were three. The in coming Exco will also have three women. The women have been encouraged by my emergence as Chairman. It may also interest you to know, that I am the first female Chairman of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), Lagos State Branch. When we were in school, they used to tell us that there were no women in Real Estate because when you go to site, you dress smartly. You’re not expected to wear miniskirts to site.I remember when I was at the Enugu State University of Technology (ESUT),there was this erroneous impression that women don’t make Second Class Upper, but I told them that what a man can do,a woman can do even better. And by the Grace of God,I graduated with a Second Class Upper. How were you able to deal with the issue of quackery? The issues of quackery in any profession are a Hydra Headed monster. But during my tenure, we confronted it head on and I can say without mincing words, that we were able to address the issue to the best of our ability. Some quacks who come to Land Bureau in Alausa to do land titlements were convinced of the need to become Associate members by going through the proper channel of registration. I am glad to say that some of them are now Associate members of the institution. So, which is your favourite food? I used to like rice but all has changed because of my husband. His favourite food is Amala with ewedu mixed with gbegiri. So, now my favourite food is Amala with ewedu.But their is no day I don’t eat vegetable. Do you like watching football and which club do you support? I watch football a lot and my favourite club is Chelsea(general laughter)…..why are you laughing.I guess because people say supporters of Chelsea are ‘troublesome’.We are not troublemakers only that wevsre passionate about our club. Are you a Fashionista? No,but i am fashionable.I dress moderately but at all times I must wear my scarf because I am a Muslim.