.. Firm Ignores Court Injunction Cocoa farmers in different communities in Oluwa Forest reserve in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State have raised the alarm as soldiers, men of Amotekun Corps, and thugs were allegedly hired by a firm to attack farmers while destroying their cocoa plantations. Addressing newsmen in Akure on Tuesday, the farmer Mr. Rotimi Isinleye disclosed that some farmers’ had died as a result of the destruction of the cocoa plantations. Ondo State government, through the Senior Special Assistant (Agric & Agribusiness) to the governor, Akin Olotu, has disclosed that the Oluwa Forest had been handed over to SAO Agro-Allied Services Limited to grade and plant oil palm in line with the CBN project. The farmer had through their attorney, Tope Temokun, dragged the state government, Attorney General of the state, Ministry of Agric, and SAO Agro-Allied Services Limited to court when the firm began to clear the cocoa plantations with earth moving equipment. Successfully, on May 2, 2023, the farmers were granted an order of interim injunction restraining the respondents, including SAO Agro-Allied Services Limited, their privies, servants, agents or anyone acting through them or for them from further grading of the applicants’ cocoa plantations. But in flagrant disobedience to the court order, SAO Agro-Allied Services Limited had allegedly continued grading the cocoa plantations using soldiers, officials of Amotekun Corps and miscreants to intimidate and attack the farmers. According to Isinleye, “Surprisingly, after the giving of this order, with the backing of the Ondo State government and in flagrant disobedience to the said order of the court, workmen if SAO Agro-Allied Services Limited, under heavy armament of a combined team of over hundred of Amotekun officers, soldiers, and local vigilante and gunmen were mobilized to the farms and the claimed they have the directive of the governor’s son, who’s the behind-the-scene veiled chief promoter of these private companies buying up the Ondo State forest reserve lands, to shoot and kill anyone who dared to protest around the farms or dates to stop their work and they have continued on daily basis to grade our cocoa farmlands in the Oluwa Forest reserve.” POLL The farmers disclosed that they have approached some notable personalities in the South-West, including the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi to intervene in the matter to stop the firm from further destroying the cocoa plantations and respect the court order. The chairman of the Forest Reserve Farmers Associates said: “We have cried out to the world and notable well-meaning Nigerians have intervened. Among others, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, CFR, has made representations and delegations to the governor of Ondo State to intervene in this matter to see that due process is followed. “But the destruction of our farmlands has been continued by SAO Agro-Allied Services Limited with the backing of government force and state apparatus in disobedience of an order of the court.” The farmers stated that they have been paying their dues on the land to the state government as it charges N10,000 per hectare. They said they have N3.5 million this year leaving N1.5 million outstanding to be paid later in the year as they had been doing for the past 25 years they have been cultivating farms in the forest.