Bishop Leonard Umunna is the General overseer of Bible Life Church Cathedral, Olodi-Apapa, Lagos. He is known for speaking to those in the corridors of power, in this interview with NGOZI UMA, he asked President Bola Tinubu to set aside emotions and sentiments and do what will set the country on the path of peace. Excerpt: Many analysts have attributed bad leadership to Nigeria’s problem. Do you agree with them? The problem of Nigeria as Chinua Achebe rightly pointed out is leadership. Nigeria never lacked good leaders. God has people, but like I have said before, we have never elected any president. They selected them and compelled us, tricked us to vote for the person. Anybody who says it has changed let him come out and prove it before the court of competent jurisdiction. I know it has been so since 1963. It has extended to governors and senators. You can hardly find a senator who did not bribe his way. Nigerians do not care what you have, but they care what you give them. Give them good health care, security, and electricity. If there is constant electricity now the whole world will know that Nigeria has made it. Foreigners will come to invest. Now that the 10th National Assembly has been inaugurated, do you think that the new government is settled and should be up and running? In which areas do you think the new administration should start from? During the former administration, God told me for eight years not to say anything to the president and I kept my mouth shut. Since 1963, it has never happened to this nation. There was no president that I didn’t speak to, except the immediate-past one. I wish that this new administration will learn a lesson from the last administration. It’s a grave mistake that was done immediately after he assumed office; the people were expecting the man to hit the ground running, but they ended up calling him ‘Baba go slow’. He should do what Buba Marwa did in Lagos State when he was governor. After Buba Marwa was announced as governor, he went straight to solve the problem that was affecting the people and we saw that within weeks Lagos State started to change. I would advise this present government, if they are not conscious of it, that peace is eluding our nation, and trust has been lost in major aspects of governance in Nigeria. If those at the helm of affairs do not do something to restore the peace and to entrench trust partially if not totally every other plan or intention will go nought or by the wayside. The insecurity and high cost of living is so entrenched in us that anything that is placed before it might have Holocaustic results. I wish he would do the right thing. Do you think the ongoing presidential tribunal will limit the new government’s performance? The scriptures had a statement about hope, going by the new administration mantra, ‘renewed hope’ If hope is defiled, and I may use the word defiled again, the heart will be very sick and the bones would be rotten. My advice to the president is, he should hit the ground running, whether the court says yes or no. The way he would do the right things may make even when the court says something that is not palatable to the people, the people will understand. The bills he has signed so far show that he might replicate what he did in Lagos in Nigeria. But if he does not put things in place now, while the court proceedings are going on, if the court rules in favour of him, the people would not be happy. You spoke about peace and trust, do you have any realistic steps that the president can employ to bring peace and trust back? POLL The Bible said when the righteous rule and start implementing good policies the people rejoice. Some of the ways to gain the trust of Nigerians is by making the right inquiries or consultations, you will get the best ideas. You will feel the pulse of the people and know what they want you to do. Consulting only those close to you, or those that believe in you, you will get half measures and the result will be what you expect to hear. Considering the case of the nation now, good consultations, good plans floated immediately, and good execution will bring the desired change. He has to bring in the best policies that will help the people to come out of their doldrums, or this dungeon. the president has to diagnose properly and forget about emotionalism, and sentiments. You know what the people want. The elections are over, yet the wounds during the elections are yet to heal. Take for instance El Rufai’s comment about Muslims ruling Nigeria for 20 years and Obasa’s comments on reversing all the reversible, and want to ensure that things that belong to Lagos will be for Lagosians. As a pastor how do you feel about it? Lagos State has triumphed because of its policies of being nice to non-indigenes. El-Rufai and others should not be making such statements because Christians have holy patience. They came up with a Muslim-Muslim ticket again following Abiola’s footsteps. Nobody should dare call them fools by making it look as if they don’t know what to do. Christians are obeying the law, but that doesn’t mean they are fools. Let everybody think very well before he says anything because a good leader unites his people. It’s only a bad leader that talks emotionally, having self-interest. A good leader has the interest of the people at heart. And do things for the good of the people. This kind of statement may not end now, someone might pick it in the future and use it against you when you want to be president of Nigeria or when you want to go for a position in the United Nations. You do good, you do for yourself and you do bad you do for yourself. What you sow is what you reap. The last election divided the church so much, after the election, the winner was announced, and it began to look like prophesies failed because many of the prophecies about the election didn’t come to pass, do prophesies fail? The church is united. Find out who is on the Lord’s side, the church is united. I have made many national prophesies and international, and none has failed. God does not confirm other people’s prophesies because of their lies and unfaithfulness. God will never let a man stand for him. Since I have been prophesying none of God’s word has fallen to the ground. The question is: Has any word from Bishop Umunna failed? On October 6, 1963, I was converted. I have been on the altar since age seven. So, when somebody is saying the church is divided I say no, the church is not divided, it is under Jesus, and he prayed for it. If you are looking at them and feel the church has failed then the church has failed. I have no reason to judge another man’s servant, if he falls to his master he falls. I read some of those prophecies before the election took place, and people kept asking me what I said about them. I said nothing because God said to the person who is forward, he will show himself froward. But as for the church of Jesus he said I will build my church and gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Let those who like to talk like Sanballat and Tobiah talk. And those who want to pretend like Ananias and Caiaphas pretend. Do you see this 10th Assembly performing very well with the new president? It depends on who is overhead leader there. Nigeria’s greatest challenge is leadership. If the head of a fish is rotten what will be the state of the body? If they can get it right at the headship and will allow him to do what is right then we should get it better but if not they will achieve the purpose for which they elected him. If the purpose is good then it will be good but if the purpose is bad it will be bad. If you were younger considering what is happening in Nigeria would you adopt this ‘Japa’ method? By creation and destiny, there are some people who will only do well outside their place of birth. If they are among those that ‘japa’, or Leave the country they will succeed but if not they will not. God once said those that have gone they will return and they will try to go again. Is it not happening now? Air planes have brought many of them back but recently they are going back. The best way is to make this nation good for everybody. Not only me, you, or anybody. Nobody who doesn’t want to be in a safe and good place where the system, and economy work. They said some people are earning a salary and some wages. You see, there is a difference. I do tell them whenever I travelled abroad that some of you here are worst off here. Certain things you endure here, you won’t endure in Nigeria. When I see them picking things at the railway, some washing plates they never have thought of washing. Who will put you in this kind of state, a university graduate? But when they see that their lives are not safe, there is no future that can guarantee that they would come out of it, they would prefer to go there, perhaps one day something would shine on them. You will be 69 years old in a few days, how have you been able to maintain your youthful look? God told me when I would be 50 years old I would be getting younger and younger. I have been to many nations with my wife, I forgive in advance, and I eat what is good for my health not necessarily what I want. I meditate day and night, above all things I live the life of a man of God. When I was born, just days after my birth nobody expected me to celebrate my next birthday. And since then, this is June and no hospital has received me. At 69 I don’t have anybody pains, and I am healthy to the glory of God. I don’t have any stigma or scandal. Nobody will say I mislead him or her. I have never smoked nor taken any alcohol. I pay my tax. You know I am a missionary, when I came to Lagos and God asked me to stay in Olodi-Apapa, I said Lord this place, Ajagunle? And he said even if he puts me in a hole nobles will come there to look for me with what he has given me and till tomorrow people still come to look for me here.