Producing vegetables such as tomatoes, ugu, watermelon, cucumber, pepper, okro, ewedu, can guarantee you a bumper harvest and an amazing return on investment [every 60 – 80 days] that could reach100 % in profit using Home Universal Gardening Solution Concept. This is a concept that encourages farming within the home using sack bags. It could organic or inorganic. Vegetable is very important source of vitamins and minerals that forms an essential source of the human diet. There is no much difference between vegetable farming and other types of farming. The only little difference is the duration of cultivation and maturity. Depending on the variety planted, vegetables take very short time to mature, compared to other crops. For instance, Spinach takes less than 70days to mature. Others like cucumber, pepper among others, may take up to 90days to mature. How Lucrative Is Vegetable Farming? It is a lucrative business in the sense that it takes shorter period to mature and the demands for vegetables in the market is high. POLL Cucumber, as an example, provides a unique combination of nutrients, as a result the demand is high, whatever amount you invest in cucumber, it can be turned around in 90 days with 100 percent profit. You can make over 100 percent turnovers on this investment in watemelon alone every three months. Pepper, the general one and the green one used in making salad and all sorts of things. Pepper is planted and harvested within three months, attracting considerable profit in the market. Pepper is always selling in the market – because almost everybody eats pepper. Okro sells fast and we have two times for planting it – March and September and it runs through three months for rain fed farming. The September period, which is the late season, is the best planting season, as it can raise farmers up, if done in a very large space. Ugu is another fast selling vegetable and I think this is because it is used by all the tribes in Nigeria people compared to other kinds of vegetables. With the Home universal gardening solution concept you can farm all year around Cultivation during the Dry Season: Irrigation is the way out for vegetable farmers during the dry season. It is actually in the dry season that you sell more. In the dry season, a bed of vegetable costs double of what it will cost in the raining season. This implies that vegetables are scarce in the dry season. With the Home universal gardening solution concept you can farm all year around without irrigation. I mean farming using sack. ‘ Minimum Start-Up Capital To grow vegetables using the Home universal gardening solution concept, you can use just 50 sacks, need between N70,000 to N90,000. This amount is due to the cost of sack, dark loamy soil, organic liquid fertilizer with insecticides”. Well, it depends on an individual’s target. For instance, if you want to cultivate vegetables on commercial basis in sack, I will advise that the minimum sack you need is 50 and above. Appropriate Farming Conditions: Contrary to popular belief, vegetables can be grown anywhere: it is the system that is used that would be different. A normal land that is not swampy; that you can grow vegetables during dry season. You make use of sandy-loamy soil. Sandy loamy soil is dark in colour. And this type of land requires less fertilizer because they are rich in organic matter. You can also grow vegetables on sandy soil. Most sandy soil is best used for vegetables during the rainy season because it doesn’t hold water. It drains water easily. While you can’t use it during the dry season because you would need to be applying water every day because of the fact that it drains water easily. Another soil is the clay soil. You should avoid clay soil during the dry season because you would have to need a lot of water. Hence, during rainy season, you can grow on virtually any type of soil. Challenges: There could be vegetable glut – a time when the harvest of farmers mature and are brought to the market at the same time. It is not peculiar to vegetable farmers alone. It could also affect other farmers. You can contact us for the Home universal gardening solution concept. You can farm vegetable all year around.