The Bayelsa State Government has taken its warning against absentee teachers and health workers a notch higher, stressing that community leaders who fail to report such workers will equally be sanctioned. Deputy Governor Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo stated this at a meeting with stakeholders of Sagbama Constituencies 1, 2 and 3 in Government House, Yenagoa. He reiterated government’s earlier warning that teachers and health workers especially in rural communities who have formed the habit of not going to work would face disciplinary measures, including forfeiture of their salaries. Ewhrudjakpo insisted that absentee workers and community leaders who treat this warning with levity will only have themselves to blame, as the present administration is poised to change the narrative in the education and health sectors. “Gone are the days when teachers and health workers will stay in the comfort of their homes all days of the month to be drawing salaries”, the deputy governor said in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Doubara Atasi. He said investigations by the government had revealed there was hardly any public health facility or school across the state where no staff had been posted to. While acknowledging the need to inject more manpower into the two sectors, Ewhrudjakpo insisted that those government employees must work to justify their monthly pay. He, therefore, directed that community leaders, particularly Community Development Community (CDC) chairmen should henceforth mark daily attendance for teachers and health workers in their domains and submit their reports to government for necessary action. POLL Ewhrudjakpo said, “Henceforth, in every community, the Amananaowei (traditional ruler), the CDC chairman, youth and women leaders will mark a register for all teachers posted to your community. “At the end of the month, if a teacher does not come to work up to 15 days, he or she will not have salary for that month. The same applies to the health workers because if we don’t do that the available ones will be useless. “We really want to encourage you to give us that list. If you don’t give us that list at the end of the month, we know that you have also been bribed by the teachers that are posted to your community. “So, if you come and tell us that there are no teachers in your community, we will first of all hold you responsible and make you to pay the salaries of those ghost workers because you collected the salaries on their behalf.”