A member of the National Assembly representing Ado/ Okpokwu/ Ogbadibo Federal Constituency, Chief Philip Agbese, has applauded the Department of State Services for arresting the suspended Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Godwin Emefiele. Chief Agbese said the DSS led by Alhaji Yusuf Bichi, again demonstrated professionalism, patriotism, and dedication to the duty in the face of intimidation. The Benue lawmaker’s comments followed an alarm by the DSS over alleged plot by some persons and groups to launch campaign of calumny against the agency and the Federal Government over the suspension and investigation of Emefiele. Commending the DSS for this intelligence gathering, Agbese in a. statement on Sunday, added that yet again it was a step ahead of the enemies of Nigeria. He said Emefiele’s arrest in the first place showed that the DSS has attained global standards under the supervision of Bichi. The arrest and probe of the embattled CBN boss, Agbese said, has saved the country from impending chaos. He further said this will bring about healing and cleansing of the nation, especially with a new administration now on board. Describing the agency as the eyes, ears, and nose of the nation, Agbese added that under Bichi, it has now become the pillar upon which the security of the country is solidified. POLL While warning detractors to stay away from internal security, Agbese said Emefiele should be allowed to face the full wrath of the law and any attempt to thwart justice will be resisted. “I wasn’t surprised that some elements were again trying to resort to cheap propaganda to distract and demoralize the DSS from professionally executing its duties. However, the secret police were several steps ahead one more time as it has always been under Alhaji Yusuf Bichi. “Bichi has ensured that the DSS remains focused on its statutory duty of detecting and preventing crimes as well as evolving counter-measures against threats to Nigeria’s internal security and indivisibility. His strategies and policies have led to huge success in not only tackling insecurity but also saving the nation from avoidable disintegration. “You can imagine how long the DSS carried out an undercover operation on Emefiele, before ultimately arresting him as he was reportedly on his way out of the country. Nigeria was on the brink of anarchy over Emefiele’s vicious policies. “Bichi demonstrated his total loyalty to the state and not any individuals like many did towards the tail end of the Buhari administration. The DSS refused to side with the oppressors of the masses. “Therefore, I wish to commend the DSS boss for his patriotism, professionalism, and dedication to the nation. He has imbibed all these virtues in his operatives which has led to efficiency and excellence in their service. “On this note, I wish to warn the enemies of Nigeria to allow the DSS to focus on its mandate. Emefiele must face the face full wrath of the law and any attempt to thwart justice will be resisted”. Recall that Dr Peter Afunanya, Public Relations Officer of DSS, in a statement, said the agenda is to paint the service in a bad light as well as call for the immediate release of Emefiele.