Festus Okoye, National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in this interview speaks about the European Union (EU) final report of the 2023 general elections. He also talks about the action the Commission would take concerning some of the issues raised in the report, among others. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What are your thoughts on the EU post-election report? We invited them and they have observed, and presented their report to us, and we are looking at that report. Looking at the report there is conditionality clause there, some are actionable, would you want to expatiate on that? If you look at the recommendations that they made, six were specifically directed at INEC. Seven were directed at the Commission and other agencies involved in the election and the rest were directed to the security agencies, the political parties and so on. Within the limits of the Commission there are some of the recommendations that have administrative level which we can implement with recourse to the National Assembly, executive or other agencies. So, those ones we’re going to look at. There are some of the recommendations that have both legal and constitutional implications. We’re going to work with the National Assembly and also work with other agencies of government, and see whether they are implementable and if they are implementable, and if they fall within the limit of the Commission, within the socio-economic dynamics of the country, definitely we will push forward. Can you enumerate some of those six that are directed at INEC? Some of those recommendations have to do with Persons Living With Disabilities (PLWD) and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). During the voters registration exercise the Commission worked with the various organisations of PLWD. We harvested data where these persons were, and the type of disability that they have. Based on that the Commission made sure that we procured magnifying glasses for those who have sight impairment. We also designed a braille ballot guide for the blind. It is not enough because we still need to gather additional data, especially data relating to those who registered before we carried out the continuous voter registration exercise. So, that is one of the issues that they raised. The second issue that they raised relates to IDPs. If you look at the report, they talked about the pre-election environment being volatile and challenging. Because of the security situation in different parts of the country, those who were internally displaced were coming into IDPs camps and going out. So, that made it slightly difficult to capture all of them during the voting process. But for those who we could capture, those who were in the IDPs camps, we made arrangements for them. We recreated their polling units and their registration areas and we got them to vote. But those who are staying with relatives or those moving from one local government or one state to the other, there was no way we could factor them into the matrix for the voting process. That is part of the issues that we’re going to look at going forward. Those that are virtually impaired, how did you get them to identify in the ballot paper their choice political parties? POLL It is called the braille ballot guide. You slot in the ballot paper into a braille jacket and they use that to identify the political party that they want to vote for. The braille ballot guide was designed in conjunction with different organisations and PLWD. You just talked about the IDPs and PLWDs, what about the other four? There was also the issue of the training of adhoc staff. They talked about the training of the adhoc staff and the fact that the training was not adequate, that some of the classes were overcrowded. The truth of the matter is that for the 2023 general elections the Commission deployed over 1.5 million adhoc staff because we created additional polling units and for the 2023 general elections we deployed to 176, 606 polling units and each polling unit, we deployed both presiding officer and the assistant presiding officer around two and three. We also deployed a supervisory presiding officer. We had to train all these people. The challenge is that in trying to train some of them there were also security challenges in some local governments and also in some registration areas and so in some of the places where you have security challenges we had to cluster the two venues and some of them were overcrowded. We’re going to look into that and see in what ways we can decentralise the training of the poll workers and also design mechanisms of online training so that we don’t need to cluster everybody around the classroom in order to train them. They also talked about some of the adhoc staff not having seen the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) before the election. They also talked about some other peripheral issues that we’re going to look into. You said that the final report of the overall performance is unfair, why? I was the one that spoke. The question that I was asked was not specifically on the EU report. I was asked to assess the conduct of the election and I made a point that in assessing the conduct of an election, you have to look at the pre-election environment and the pre-election issues. You have to look at the election day issues and also post-election day issues. I said that in terms of pre-election matters you can see that we registered new voters and we increased the dockets of Nigerians who have registered. We introduced electronic accreditation of journalists, electronic accreditation of domestic observers, and also we opened an online nomination portal for political parties. I said that all these things must be factored in. In terms of the election itself, people didn’t complain about the BVAS as an accreditation device. In fact in all the reports I got, they said that in terms of accreditation, the BVAS performed optimally. In terms of upload of Senatorial, House of Representatives, governorship election results, and State Assembly results, there were substantial and remarkable improvements by the Commission. The point that I was making is that the issue that has been dominant revolves around the challenges that the Commission had with the upload of the presidential election result. I said that it’s unfair and that it’s not right to assess and evaluate the conduct of the entire 2023 general elections only on the basis of the glitch that we suffered in terms of the upload of the presidential election result. In the other elections, these are regional players, regional voters but in the presidential election every player in the country is so involved, so it makes it a big deal…. I agree that it is an issue and we explained to Nigerians what the issues were. I’m not in the position to comment extensively on the issue because it is a subject of a judicial process. Maybe by the time the entire judicial process comes to a finality we’ll be in a position to explain that. But at the level of the Commission, starting from the 4th of July we’re going to begin our internal and external review of the conduct of the election and we are going to begin with interaction and interface with our Resident Electoral Commissioners. Some people thought that before now yours would have been out even before that of EU…… If the report from the Commission comes out before the report of domestic and international observers, there won’t be any need to engage the external actors in the process. We also had to wait a little to make sure that the judicial process is roundup so that nobody will accuse the Commission of interfering in the judicial process. The judicial process has gone far so I think this is the right time for us to begin our own internal and external evaluation of the election. Moreover, we have three governorship elections in November, so we need to understand the things that we did right with the 2023 general elections, things that we didn’t do right and where we failed completely. Then we’ll begin to look for mechanisms on how to consolidate on the successes and progress we recorded. How we can ameliorate some of the challenges and then if there are obvious failures how to position the failures and bring in a template on how to conduct and manage good elections. You’re in charge of information and voter education, I want to say that you have done well, going round and speaking to everyone, how much of that have you done with the adhoc staff since that was one of the issues raised by the EU and some observer groups? The entire work force with INEC revolves between 14,000 and 15,000 but for the conduct of any election, like in the 2023 general elections we deployed 1.5 million adhoc staff. At the level of the polling unit the presiding officers are mostly young men and women doing their National Youth Service programme, while the assistant presiding officers 1, 2 and 3 are mostly students of tertiary institutions. What we’ll continue to do is to train some of these adhoc staff in the tertiary institutions where they are. We’re developing a new template and new mechanisms of online training for some of the adhoc staff. Moreover you’ll agree with me that electoral act 2022 came into force and there are fundamental and new provisions in that act that necessitated redesign of our regulations, guidelines and manuals for the training of our adhoc staff. Some of them who were trained before using the old manual didn’t pay attention. They thought that it was the same thing, only for them to find out later that there were fundamental changes. We’re going to recalibrate our template, training processes and procedures. We are going to get things right.