Globacom has rolled out an opportunity for its active subscribers to daily win amazing cash prizes and air­time with a prize draw game tagged Lucky Number. The company in its state­ment said Lucky Number is an entertainment platform packaged to add excitement to the day-to-day activities of millions of Nigerians on the Glo platform and also pro­vide them with some level of empowerment. The Lucky Number draw game automatically enters subscribers’ numbers to se­quentially match a randomly selected mobile number from the pool of active subscriber base. The winning number must be matched in the right sequence, from right to left, adding that the size of the prizes is dependent on the number of digits from the released Glo number. According to Globacom, “Subscribers whose Mo­bile Numbers sequentially match (from right to left) a randomly selected Glo num­ber (Winning Number)) from the pool of millions of active subscribers are declared winners for that day”. “Subscribers will be charged N50 for daily, N200 for weekly and 500 for month­ly subscriptions and they will receive an SMS con­firming subscription to the service and entry to the draw after a successful billing for the price point selected,” Glo­bacom explained. Globacom said, “The 50 price point attracts be­tween N700 (Airtime) and N100,000,000 daily prize, while N200 price point sub­scribers can win from N200 (airtime) to N50,000,000 weekly. Also, prizes rang­ing between N300 (Airtime) and 10,000,000 will be won monthly under the N500 price point. Winners will be rewarded with either cash or airtime. It added that the prizes vary based on price points and the total number matched from the winning Glo number. Glo stated that all active customers can subscribe to Lucky Number by dialing the USSD *4445# and follow­ing the instructions or by texting WIN or WINOT (for daily subscription), LW or LWOT (for weekly subscrip­tion) and LM or LMOT (for monthly subscription) to the short code 4445. It advised those already subscribed to the plan to view draw re­sults by dialling *4445# and choosing option 5 or to vis­it https://gloluckynumber. com.