ABUJA – On Saturday, a Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) officer and a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) engaged in fisticuffs over food at a Department of Parks and Recreation event. The event is the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), to mark 2023 World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought and flagg off of annual tree planting campaign. The brawl would have escalated if it hadn’t been for the rapid intervention of some of the visitors, including Journalists who were still at the venue, as the other cops were ready to help their colleagues in wadding off the aggressors. The ceremony was hosted at the Department’s office, which is located within the military protected area of Asokoro, was packed full with guests, many of which went home angrily because staff of the department hoarded the food and drinks meant to entertain guests. The fight ensued when an NSCDC officer, on uniform  attempted to forcefully collect a bag containing packs of rice and drinks, from a male youth copper. The Copper who pleaded anonymity, said he tried to explain to the officer that the food packs were meant for his colleagues who were officially invited for the event, but he refused to listen. The angry copper said, ” One of the staff called me to go and carry food, so I saw the bag and carried it, three Civil Defence Officers just came and hijacked the bag from me . I asked them why are you dragging the bag from, because I was made to know that its is for NYSC members. ” Before I know what was happening, one of the NSCDC Officers started warning me to be careful and I said because of food you are pointing at me telling me to take time, POLL I told him too, to take time, and he said he will beat me, but I told him that he can’t beat me. Before I know what was happening, he started hitting me, so we started fighting. Meanwhile, one of the Civil Defence Officers, said ” it is wrong for this young man, who call himself an NYSC member to be dragging  food with one of our men. ” He is wearing NYSC uniform but can’t express himself in the public, yet he has the guts to disrespect civil defence official because of food, and our people were just looking at them.This is bad, ” My concern is not even the food but how he was fighting with a uniform person. ” I am angry with some of our men who were looking at the whole thing instead of manhandling the guy”.