JOS – Concerned group, Plateau APC Consolidation Vanguard (PACV) has condemned what it called claims by Governor Caleb Mutfwang alleging that the administration of his predecessor Simon Bako Lalong did not hold Security Council Meeting for one year untill he came into office to organise one. Governor Mutfwang was said to have made the statement during his recent town hall meeting at PRTVC, state owned Radio to mark the June 12 Democracy Day celebrations. Mutfwang made this claim while responding to questions over his handling of recent attacks on innocent citizens of the state.. But in a swift reaction, the PACV said it would not fold its arms and watch the Governor made claims that are verifiable . PACV spokesperson Comrade Jok Samuel Camillus in a statement issued and made available to Daily Independent on Friday, described the Governor’s assertion as reckless and an attempt to “produce excuses rather than results and action”. According to Jok, “We are not surprised by the Governor’s fabrication of lies which are typical of the PDP that survives on propaganda and lies to get public sympathy and acceptance. Having used the rhetoric of insecurity to come into office, they are now faced with reality of governance. “To cover their incapacity to handle the situation, they are now lying, blaming and giving excuses. Assuming the Governor’s assertion is true, why has the Security Council Meeting held by his Government not produced results? “To put the records straight, PACV said the Lalong administration held regular security meetings including emergency sessions whenever the need arose. For instance in May 2023 alone, 2 Security Council Meetings were held in response to the attacks in Mangu and Riyom among others. This was reported by the media and a press statement issued by the former Director of Press and Public Affairs to Governor Lalong, Dr. Makut Simon Macham on 19th May. The statement and video footage of Governor Lalong press brefing are accessible online at: https://fb.watch/l9jqLyfGOF/?mibextid=Nif5oz.” POLL PACV advised Governor Mutfwang to face his duty of protecting the lives and properties of the citizens according to the oath he swore rather than engageling in diversionary tactics of blaming Governor Lalong who has since handed over to him and moved on. “If Governor Mutfwang needs the help of his predecessor Governor Simon Lalong, he should not be ashamed to ask without going round in circles. Afterall, Lalong while handing over to him prayed for his success and assured him of support anytime, anyday. “The peace and security of Plateau is above partisan considerations but requires collective efforts. Eventhough the PDP refused to support Governor Lalong in tackling insecurity during his term because of their hunger for power and consistently used it as a major campaign tool, Lalong and the APC will not pay them back in their coin because the lives of Plateauneans matter most”. PACV also said it was proud of the achievements of Ex Governor Simon Bako Lalong particularly in the area of peace and security during his tenure which is acknowledged locally, nationally and internationally. It also prays that Governor Mutfwang will build on Lalong’s successes but cautions him to realise that politics is over and its time for governance. Meanwhile, the PACV has also appealed to the Governor to pay the striking workers rather than offer further excuses such as saying he inherited 11billion naira salary arrears from the past Governor. “11billion naira is nothing compared to over 36 billion naira salary backlog that Lalong inherited from Governor David Jang in 2015 including eight months’ arrears, no work no pay, 12 months pension among others which he cleared and was nicknamed ‘Governor Alert’. You should take up the challenge of governance by showing capacity to solve problems which is the attribute of good leadership rather than offer excuses and trade blames while the civil service is grounded,” Jok Samuel said.