Pulled alongside Japan, the United States and Cameroon in Group E of the 12th edi­tion of the FIFA U-20 World Cup which Nigeria hosted in 1999, so much hope was on England because of their youth development policy and having been known to churn out talents that have gone ahead to become superstars. But at the end of the hostilities, the junior Three Lions, playing at the Sani Abacha Stadium in Kano, failed to earn a point and conse­quently went home after the three group matches. But one thing was certain after that seeming forgettable outing in Nigeria; stars were thrown up. While not many of the English players of that era made through to the Three Lions, a couple of them stood out and made it both at club and nation­al team. Ashley Cole played for some of the best clubs and earned a whop­ping 107 caps for the Three Lions. Also, Peter Crouch needs little or no introduction as he played to prom­inence at various clubs in the EPL and eventually earned 47 caps for the senior national team, among others. They all featured in that cadet cham­pionship in Nigeria. Although there was a snippet that England deliberately sent fringe players because of insecurity in Ni­geria at that time, such notion was quickly doused by the then British High Commission officials. The above scenario becomes im­perative given the superlative per­formance of one of Nigeria’s youth prodigy, Victor Osimhen, who is a product of U-17 formation. Osimhen, since conquering the world with the Golden Eaglets at the 16th Cadet World Cup hosted by Chile in 2015, has proved FIFA right on the rea­son for the inauguration of the U17 World Cup. FIFA introduced the ca­det World Cup to serve as avenues for the discovery of future talents and to also deepen international football culture among nations. From VFL Wolfsburg of Germa­ny to Charleroi of Belgium and then Lille of France before settling for Na­poli, Osimhen has passed through several developmental stages and capped it now with several records broken in the course of leading the King of Naples to their first Serie A title in over thirty years, with their last before now being in 1990. In 2019, Ronaldo, while playing for Juventus against Sampdoria, jumped 2.56 meters to head a ball into a goal and thus set a record with that immeasurable height while at­tempting to score a goal, but while playing for Napoli in their 3-0 away win over Spezia last season, Osim­hen jumped impressive 2.58 meters to dump Ronaldo’s record into the thrash can. POLL Osimhen achieved the incredible feat when he netted his first goal – Napoli’s second of the day – against the Little Eagles at the Stadio Alber­to Picco. The 24-year-old produced a stag­gering 71cm leap and reached a height of 8.47ft (2.58m) – higher than the crossbar (8ft) – before heading past Spezia goalkeeper Bartłomiej Drągowski. And according to Corriere dello Sport (via Tutto Napoli), Osimhen, with that jump, climbed to a height of 2.58 metres – a mark typical of elite NBA stars. In doing that, Osimhen set a new Italian Serie A record, rubbing off the previous 2.56 metres mark set by Ronaldo for Juventus against Samp­doria in 2019. The Nigerian international also set another record which the current two football greats, Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, could not achieve. In the last season, when he scored his 18th goal of the season against Sassuolo, that goal took Osimhen to 100 career goals since he turned a professional. Not including the eleven goals he got for the Golden Eaglets on the way to helping Nigeria claim a fifth FIFA U17 World Cup in 2015, Osim­hen bagged a century of goals in 198 appearances for three clubs and his country. Remarkably, it took Osimhen few­er games to reach his first 100 goals than PSG icon Lionel Messi (210 matches), Real Madrid ace Karim Benzema (235), Chelsea legend Di­dier Drogba (236), AC Milan great Zlatan Ibrahimovic (265), and Por­tuguese superstar Cristiano Ronaldo (301). Despite representing four clubs so far, Osimhen’s goals have been in the colours of three. The big one; after scoring the game-winning goal in Napoli’s 1-0 victory against Fiorentina in the season, Osimhen established the record for the best scoring African player in Italian Serie A history. The former Lille forward sent the goalkeeper the wrong way to then score his 47th Serie A goal and broke George Weah’s record of 46 goals which has stood since 1999 and sent the Napoli crowd into a frenzy. Speaking on the feat, the Liberia president extolled the Nigerian in­ternational: “I am glad that you have accom­plished a major milestone in your football career, after scoring your 47th goal in the Italian Serie A league,” Mr Weah wrote in his con­gratulatory message. “I am so proud of your exploits and congratulate you on this re­markable achievement, which is a result of your hard work, dedication and tenacity,” he added. However, Mr Weah did not stop there; he encouraged Osimhen to strive for even greater heights, urg­ing him to break more records and achieve further success. The former AC Milan star be­lieves that with the kind of hunger for success Osimhen has shown, he could be the next World’s best player Africa has been patiently waiting for after his own exploits. Osimhen had also dusted Samuel Eto’s record as the highest scoring African in a single season in Serie A when he netted his 22nd goal in the 2022/2023 season. He also tied Weah’s record with fewer games played as Weah played over 110 games compared to about 82 games played by Osimhen. Coming down to Nigerian play­ers, Osimhen dusted the record set by Obafemi Martins and Simon Nwankwo as Nigeria’s best marks­men in Serie A. While Simy Nwank­wo scored 22 goals in his three years spell in the Italian top flight, Martins netted 28 goals between 2002 and 2006. Meanwhile, other Nigerian prod­ucts of cadet categories who later shone in their careers included Nwankwo Kanu, the former Super Eagles captain who went ahead to play for clubs such as Ajax Am­sterdam of Holland, Inter Milan of Italy and Arsenal of England, among others. Kanu today remains the most decorated Nigerian player with two African Footballer of the Year honours in 1996 and 1999. He, alongside Finidi George and Mikel Obi, remains Nigerian winners of the Uefa Champions League. Kanu is also among the Invinci­ble in Arsenal who won the EPL in 2004 after winning it with the same club the year before, going the en­tire season without losing a match. He won Nigerian league in 1992, won three Eredivisie (Dutch league) three times, won the EPL once, won Uefa Super Cup once, won Uefa Cup with Inter Milan once, won FA Cup twice with Arsenal and once with Portsmouth, among other titles but before then, he led the Nigerian U23 team to Olympic gold medal in At­alanta Georgia, the United States, in 1996. There is also John Mikel Obi, an­other highly talented youth prodigy who later has the privilege of cap­taining the Super Eagles. Mikel was so talented that he caused a global tussle between Manchester United and Chelsea on who validly own the youngster. Playing in a holding midfield po­sition, Mikel was a bundle of talent and also feature among the golden generation of Chelsea, a team he won the Uefa Champions League with in 2012. With two EPL titles, four FA Cup medals, two Football League Cups, one Community shield, one Cham­pions League title and one Europa League title, obviously Mikel is one of the most decorated Nigerian play­er of all time. He was the runners up in the 2013 Africa Footballer of the Year race. Other notable products of youth football in Nigeria include Taiye Taiwo, Julius Aghahowa then, and now Samuel Chukwueze and Kel­echi Nwakali, among a few others who are holding their own in their various clubs. Despite all these, Nigerians are of the view that the country’s suc­cess at the cadet level, particularly at the U17 World Cup, where Nigeria is the most successful country with five titles, has not rubbed off on the national team, thereby throwing up some pertinent questions on why the country has not been able to raise so many stars from the youth level like Brazil whose success at the U17 level pales behind Nigeria. Anthony Kojo Williams is the former president of Nigeria Football Association (NFA); he said it boils down to age cheat. “I don’t see Nigerian football getting out of the quagmire, the problem it is in, today, is because corruption is getting deeper and deeper,” he told our correspondent sometimes ago. “From time to time we get flashes where we do well in some competi­tions with overage players and we celebrate. That was one of the is­sues I looked at; we can’t keep using overage players. We used over-age players for junior championships, I know that. “Why not say it? It’s the truth. We always cheat. It’s a fact. When you cheat, you deprive the young stars that are supposed to play in these competitions their rights.” Godwin Izilien, former coach of the Super Falcons, agreed with Wil­liams, saying age cheat in Nigerian football is real. “Age cheat in Nigerian football is real because we have examples of how it has negatively impacted our football,” he said. The former coach of Bendel Insurance however proffered solu­tion, saying for great stars to come out of the country once again, the country must revisit school sports where the players would be discov­ered young. “Let us go back to school sports and develop from the secondary schools. Through that, we may have less age cheats because at that level, they still maintain their innocence.” On the new age group team coach­es, he has this to say: “They may be looking at winning to add to their CVs but that is not the essence. “This is because after they compete at a young age, we can boast of one ‘Messi’ or ‘Ronaldo’ or ‘Osimhen’ in their teams; with that, the aim has been achieved,” he said. Also on the solution, the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, under the leadership of the imme­diate past minister, Sunday Dare, promised to adopt some measures that would be put in place to ensure that adequate screening is carried out to admit athletes for the National Youth Games in the country follow­ing the soaring issues around age cheat in the games. Dare disclosed this during the closing ceremony of the 6th Nation­al Youth Games held in Ilorin, the Kwara state. He said: “The Ministry of Youth and Sports Development wants to declare that going forward we will ensure that we adopt more scientific means of identifying age cheat next time and mete out stiff penalties to the offending athletes and the state they represent. “I want to condemn and express my disappointment about a few of the problem around age cheating that continues to roar its head spe­cifically even during this games,” he said. However, stakeholders are of the view that if certain programmes to discover and use talents at school levels were implemented across board, the country would be able to unearth budding talents that would be nurtured to be the future of sports in general and football in particular in t he country. There is no doubt that at this stage, Nigeria should have had players of quality talents scattered around the globe because of our huge success in U17 level but the current trend whereby after win­ning World Cups, majority of the players will resort to obscure leagues for succor says a lot about our policy of truly sticking to the essence of the cadet competitions. For instance, Crisantus Macaulay was a talent who shone past others at the U17 World Cup in 2007, win­ning the golden boot and silver ball. But no sooner did the championship ended than issues concerning him stopped making the rounds as he retired to obscure leagues when he should have been the most-sought-after player then. Stakeholders tied the devel­opment to age cheat as so many Nigerians believed that the play­er would have quoted wrong age which started affecting his perfor­mance moments after the cadet World Cup.