P/HARCOURT – The governorship candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in the March 18, 2023 governorship election in Rivers State, Architect Tonye Cole, has been asked not to dissipate too much energy in challenging the outcome of the governorship election result at the tribunal, but should rather clear himself of the allegations of ant-party activities he committed. Throwing the challenge on Saturday in Port Harcourt, Riv­ers State, the leader of APC in Rivers state, Chief Tony Okocha said Cole must rather concern himself with the issues of an­ti-party he committed before and during the past elections which led to the woeful performance of APC in the state. “Cole has not challenged the burden of anti-party activities against him, during the Presiden­tial Election on the 25/02/2023. “It was in response to his an­ti-party that informed and infu­riated the action of mainstream APC members who believed in President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to sway support to the PDP gov­ernorship candidate (Siminalaye Fubara), in reciprocation of the Governor Nyesom Wike and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State. Okocha enumerated rea­sons that may propel a party to withdraw its petition from the election tribunal without neces­sarily giving consideration to the governorship candidate. “It is rare to have a party withdraw a petition and allow the petitioner to his fate. Many reasons abound. First, the party may have found it a waste of time and resources knowing that the grounds of challenge, are puny. Secondly, the party may have been irked too by the candidate’s infidelity to the party. It will be recalled that on Mon­day the state chapter of the party, said it has withdrawn its petition against the PDP and the Indepen­dent National Electoral Commis­sion (INEC) in the March 18, 2023 governorship election. With the withdrawal of the APC, Tonye Cole remains the only petitioner against the INEC, PDP and its candidate, Fubara Simina­layi. Cole is challenging the vic­tory of Siminalayi in the March governorship poll in the state. POLL Worried by the withdrawal of the petition the spokesman of Tonye Cole Campaign Organ­isdation, Barr Sogbeye Eli, said the stories making the rounds of the withdrawal of the petition by Arc. Tonye Patrick Cole, 2023 gov­ernorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress are false. Sogbeye Eli said in a state­ment that Tonye Cole as the first petitioner on record is still before the court, saying that the All Pro­gressives Congress as the second petitioner on record withdrew the petition through her legal representative, Solomon Umoh, Esq. “The facts forming the grounds for the aforementioned objection bother on trust and are not unconnected with the con­comitant effect of the decision of the High Court of Rivers State in the case of Ibrahim Umah & Ors v. APC in 2018 on the party’s fortunes at the 2019 general elec­tions. “It is an error of judgment therefore for Sahara Reporters, or any other medium, to present yesterday’s development with such slant that misleads the public to the conclusion that the petition challenging the declara­tion by INEC of the winner of the Rivers 2023 governorship election has been withdrawn. “For emphasis sake, the par­ty’s right to withdraw does not sound a death knell to the peti­tion by Tonye Cole who is now the Sole Petitioner.”