MAKURDI – High Chief Moses Ayom has lauded President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for appointing the immediate past Minister for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). The appointment of Senator Akume, a former Governor of Benue State was announced by the Director Information, State House, Abuja, Abiodun Oladunjoye at the end of the meeting of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) with President Tinubu at the presidential villa. Recall that Chief Ayom had earlier turned down a call by a group of clerics calling on the President to appoint him (Ayom), as a Minister in Tinubu’s government. Instead of bowing to pressure to be appointed a Minister, the former presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had rather called on President Tinubu to appoint Senator Akume as the SGF. Speaking to newsmen in Makurdi on Saturday, while Ayom said it gladdened his heart that President Tinubu heeded his advice among others and appointed Akume as the SGF in his administration, he said the appointment was his prayers answered. According to Ayom, “You remember that I resisted the pressure being mounted on me and calls by some groups that I should be appointed a Minister. “I rejected the call to be given a ministerial slot in preference for the appointment of Senator Akume as SGF. “I told you at that time that I was not interested in a ministerial position, not because I am too big to serve my country under the Tinubu-led government, but because, I have tremendous respect for elders and leaders. POLL “I will rather demand and passionately appeal to the President that, Senator George Akume be considered for the position of SGF and today the President has heeded my call. “Both Akume and the President have a long-standing relationship, first as former governors, leaders of our party and critical stakeholders, so now that the president has appointed Senator Akume, they will work closely because they know each other well. “It is also my firm belief that, now that Senator Akume has been appointed SGF, he will not leave me behind, because he is a man with a charitable heart and magnanimous disposition. As far as I know, he is my leader and as a loyal and committed party man, protecting his interest and projecting his image is what I consider a sacred duty. “Senator George Akume is my leader and mentor. He made me who I am today, just as he has made so many others. Akume was also the one who brought me into our great party, the APC. He has done so much for me and I cannot deny it.” Ayom, an astute businessman cum politician said he was very elated that the president has honoured his appeal by appointing his mentor and leader, Senator George Akume as the SGF. While he noted that his joy knows no bounds by the appointment, the former presidential aspirant called on all and sundry to give the SGF the necessary support to succeed in his assignment. It would be recalled that a few months ago, a group under the auspices of Clerics Congress of Nigeria and Middle Belt Bishops Conference (MBBC) had called on the President shortly after he was elected, to consider Chief Ayom for appointment as minister. But, the former presidential aspirant had turned down the offer, opting to rather support Senator Akume for appointment as SGF or Chief of Staff.