LAGOS  – A major financial inclusion advocate, Enhancing Financial Innovation & Access (EFInA), has restated the need for informal sector practitioners to embrace opportunities in Micro Pension Plan. The advice came on the heels of most informal sector employees’ lack of interest in the scheme set up in 2019 to take care of their welfare after retirement from active work life. This is just as contributions under MPP have peaked at N435.61 million. The gradual input of the scheme to the economy shows that more Nigerians, both in the formal and informal sectors of the economy, are sustaining their confidence in the new pension scheme that was set up in 2004, with the Micro Pension Plan, however, coming on board in 2019. Speaking at a one day sensitisation programme organised by Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp) on Friday in Lagos, a research officer with EFInA, Chioma Nwaiwu, said most informal sector workers planned to rely on their savings, children or businesses in retirement. She said while 14 per cent of adults under the age of 55 have not made financial plans for old age, only 29 per cent of adults under the age of 55 plan to primarily rely on pension in old age According to her, “how will you ensure that you have money to meet your needs when you are old and cannot work?” Identifying some of the challenges militating against the scheme, she said lack of awareness was a major barrier to uptake and usage of micro pension. POLL According to her, “94 per cent of adults without pensions are unaware of the service. Sixty two per cent of individuals with pension have not heard of micro pensions –lost opportunity for testimonial marketing. “One-third of adults who have heard of Micro pensions have a pension account. Nigeria lacks wide variety of distribution channels. For Micro pension, distribution is concentrated in a handful of PFAs/PFCs as well as agents and brokers. “Mobile network operators are a key distribution channels that is missing in Nigeria.” Speaking further on the lack of understanding of the distinct features of the micropension product, she said irregular income and not having enough money were the most frequent reasons given for not making regular retirement contributions. “Of those not making regular retirement savings, nearly half cite irregular income as a reason. This indicates that pension products with flexibl contribution and timing could be useful in reaching those without pensions. More efforts needed to educate the populace on the features, reliability and safety of Micro pensions,” she said.   