ABUJA – A sociopolitical group operating under the Asiwaju Mandate Group (AMG) has unveiled its organizational structure, which spans Nigeria’s six geopolitical zones. The group’s mission is to act as watchdogs, closely observing the actions and inactions of public servants to make sure they uphold the spirit of our collective mandate and to support policies and programs that are developmentally and people-centered. Serah Shekwonya Tukurah, the AMG’s National Coordinator, stated on Wednesday in Abuja at the unveiling ceremony that the group is dedicated to keeping itself and all of its leaders accountable for their duties and campaigning for the interests of the Nigerian people. She urged Nigerians, the NLC, and the TUC to prioritize Nigerians above their unions’ interest, saying that the subsidy system as practiced has proven to be a drain on the nation’s resources, leading to significant fiscal deficits, corruption, and limited investment in critical sectors such as healthcare, education, and infrastructure development. “The removal of the subsidy will create a rationalized and market-driven approach to petroleum pricing. This will not only ensure a fair distribution of resources but also stimulate economic growth by attracting private investments, fostering competition, and promoting innovation within the sector. “The funds saved from subsidy removal can be redirected towards social welfare programs, job creation initiatives, and the development of vital infrastructure projects that will benefit all Nigerians. This indeed will be a worthy sacrifice under President Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s watch. “We laud the President for hitting the ground running. His recent appointments indicate intents and purpose to deliver on his promise during the campaign. While congratulating Hon. Femi Gbajabimiala and Senator George Akume on their appointment as the Chief of Staff of the President and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) respectively. The group urged the new Chief of Staff and SGF to live up to the expectation of the teaming masses and be reliable assets to the President In delivering his mandate, saying that they equally trust that all future appointments would be top-notched and aimed at delivering the dividend of democracy to all Nigerians. POLL “More so, the renewed hope mandate places a strong emphasis on the rule of law and inclusive governance. The President believes that a just and fair society can only be built upon a foundation of strong institutions and transparent processes. “This group will advocate for the strengthening of the judiciary, fighting corruption, and ensuring that all Nigerians have equal access to justice. This presentation of the central Working Team of Asiwaju Mandate Group is a call to action to all progressives and by extension the members of the fourth estates of the realm to eschew divisive rhetoric and embrace tolerance, broadmindedness, and acceptability. “AMG recognizes that strength that lies in Nigeria’s diversity. It promotes inclusivity and unity, respecting and celebrating the diverse cultures, religions, and ethnicities that make up our nation. We will work tirelessly to foster national unity, bridging divides and promoting dialogue among various stakeholders, building a stronger and more cohesive Nigeria. “Our group is a platform for unity and collective action, and we invite every Progressive to join us in this noble endeavor. Together, we can shape the destiny of our nation and build a brighter future for generations to come,” she said.