A group, under the auspices of Coalition of Civil Society on National and Community Security Development has advised President Bola Ahmed Tinubu against using sentiments or political patronage in appointing a substantive National Security Adviser (NSA) for the country. According to the group, this is the time President Tinubu should deploy his vast experience as a politician to choose NSA that knows his onions and can deliver on the job. Danladi Garba, Executive Director, the People’s Care and Advocacy Initiatives, (TPCAI), while addressing a press conference on behalf of the group on Tuesday, in Abuja, noted that the antecedents of Tinubu in the last two weeks he assumed office speak volumes of a man ready for pragmatic reforms. Although Garba was not specific on who he thinks deserves such appointment, he said the personality to occupy the office should be one that can tackle Nigeria’s daunting security challenges headlong. He said the new NSA must be a knowledgeable, innovative, and experienced personality that understands the security architecture of Nigeria. A personality that will earn technical support from Global securities apparatus for new secure Nigeria. According to the CSO, there is no room for mediocrity and lukewarmness. A tried and tested hand who has transformed or built a national security and diplomatic outfit will be a good fit. He said, “there is no time for theoreticians and office workers. It is urgent and critical. There is a crying need for complete transformative change in the security architectures in Nigeria. “Judging by Tinubu’s utterances and actions in the last two weeks we believe he knows the gargantuan security challenges we presently face as a nation, he should not be easily cowed by politically-induced influence but adopt pragmatic consideration in the appointment of his NSA. POLL “We urge and appeal to Mr. President to shun politics in this vital appointment and consult widely for a logical conclusion by putting a round peg in a round hole in his choice as National Security Adviser”. Using the recent removal of the subsidy on petrol to buttress his position, he said despite being an issue that could have easily ignited fire amongst the populace, Tinubu was able to douse the tension when he promptly intervened by physically having meetings with the stakeholders in the oil industry as well as with the Labour Union, to calm agitating nerves. He said Tinubu warmed himself into the heart of Nigerians by convincing the health workers to sheath their swords by suspending their strike. While also signing into law the harmonisation of judiciary officers across all levels of their retirement age and pension. “Just on Monday, June 12, which was Democracy Day, he signed into law, the student loan bill, which basically provides interest-free loans to indigenous Nigerian students to pursue their education with less stress. All these in two weeks. While this period is definitely nothing in the assessment of Tinubu’s administration, it is a pointer that he is ready to provide platforms for dialogue and consensus building”. Corroborating Garba’s position, Dr Isaac Ichima said security challenges in the north east in the last five years, particularly cases of banditry, kidnapping, farmer-herdsmen clashes, illegal mining and oil bunkering would need a firm NSA that can deal with the situation. According to him, because these security constraints have reached an astronomical and intolerable level, it must be handled by not just a competent man in just military security, but a proactive, bold, calculative, well respected, and that will be accepted. “Apart from the aforementioned military security challenges, there are issues of economic security, involving multi-national agreements, mutual inter-dependence and availability of natural resources, with the freedom to exercise choice of policies to develop a nation’s economy in the manner desired by the exigencies of the market forces. “We can not also forget cybersecurity. Electronic information systems are vital for maintaining the national security of any Nation. Possible unauthorized access to the critical Governmental infrastructures by state and non-state entities can create a serious threat and have a negative impact on the entire security landscape of the Nation. Mr. President Sir. This is not the time to use the appointment of National Security Adviser for political compensation, but for National re- architectures and engineering of security systems”.