The Federal High Court in Kano has been asked to restrain the Economic and Financial Crimes Commis­sion (EFCC) from probing the immediate past gover­nor of Kano State, Abdulla­hi Umar Ganduje, over vid­eo clips allegedly showing him receiving dollars from a contractor as kickbacks. In court documents, the former Attorney General of Kano State in the originat­ing summons filed against the EFCC as the sole de­fendant asked the court to declare that based on the supremacy of the consti­tution, the anti-corruption agency does not have the right to investigate a case already pending before the state House of Assembly. It was observed that the suit was filed before the court on March 23, few days after the gubernatorial elec­tions in which the opposi­tion party came out on top. It was further observed that the court papers was only delivered to the EFCC on June 5. Members of the legal team that filed the suit on behalf of the Attorney General confirmed that the suit was pending before the court but promised to cross check and revert on the next hearing date. In the court documents, the then attorney general asked the court to also make a mandatory injunction “directing the defendant to withdraw all invitations is­sued to the Executive Chair­man and Director, Finance, SUBEB, as well as the Ac­countant General of Kano State in connection with the video clips of bribery alle­gation against Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, and await the conclusion of the case no: CV/1598/2021, Dr. Abdul­lahi Umar Ganduje v. Jaafar Jafaar & Anor before High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja”. The court was also asked to make an order of perpet­ual injunction “restraining the defendant, either by themselves, officers, op­eratives, servants, agents, privies, cronies and or rep­resentatives by whatsoever name known or called from further inviting, investigat­ing, interrogating or taking any action whatsoever and howsoever in connection with the video clips of brib­ery allegation” against Gan­duje until after the conclu­sion of the civil case. Recall that the video clips published in 2018 by an on­line newspaper, allegedly re­vealed the former governor stuffing wands of US dollars in the pockets of his flowing dress. POLL While the publisher of the video clips said the mon­ey were kickbacks from con­tractors the then governor had awarded contracts, he (Ganduje) denied all allega­tions of wrongdoing. The state House of As­sembly had then subse­quently set up an investi­gation committee but until the end of the tenure of the Assembly, the findings of the investigation were not made public. While the new Kano State governor, Abba Kabir Yusuf, was yet to make any decla­ration as regards the video clips since assuming office, a civil society organisation, War Against Injustice, has asked the EFCC to investi­gate and prosecute Gandu­je since he no longer enjoys immunity.