Mrs. Oluwatoyin Adeyeye is a female shoe cobbler in Lagos State that picked interest in shoe-making. In this interview with TUNMISE PHILLIPS, she speaks about the challenges she faces as a female in a male dominated field, her ambition for the business and other issues. Excerpts: What are your reasons for entering into this business? I decided to venture into this business because I needed extra income for my family. I needed to support my family financially. We had a seminar in my church then and a man who is also into shoe making was brought to lecture us on how to make palm slippers. During the lecture, I developed interest and after the seminar I went to him and told him I would like to learn more. I also discussed it with my husband and he encouraged me and assured me that I could do it. That was how I started training to make footwear. How long have you been in the business? I have been in this business for about five years. What challenges do you face in the business? POLL The number one challenge is capital. It is not easy to succeed in any business without capital because most people want to see the products before paying. Another challenge is the environment. People are not really patronising locality products. They end up buying products of less quality and overpriced in the market when I can provide same quality footwear at lesser price. Also, I face the challenge of high cost of materials. The price of materials just keeps increasing every day and it is affecting the business. How do you handle the challenge of been a female in a male-dominated field? At first, it was not an easy task because most people believe that it is not a job for females. But, I was able to overcome by having confidence in myself. I told myself I can do it How profitable is the business? The business is profitable, I can boast of. It is able to address my needs and provides an extra income for me and my family. What are your future plans for the business? My future plan for this business is to own a shoe-making factory. I want to make shoes in large quantities. I want the brand, Lolly Kick Ventures to be known all over Nigeria and even beyond. What support do you expect from the government? The support I want from the government is to help fund my small scale business by providing a long-term loan. What is your advice for youth and others who are not doing anything or involving themselves in criminal activities? I will say they should find a skill they have interest in, learn it and be determined to be good at it. They should stop doing nothing, because, an idle mind is the devil’s workshop.