Ibadan High Chief and Pub­lisher of Street Journal Mag­azine, Mogaji Wole Arisekola, has penned an open letter congratulating President Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his swear­ing-in as President of the Fed­eral Republic of Nigeria. In the letter, the Dub­lin-based publisher also ap­pealed to President Tinubu to consider IbadanLand for his ministerial appointment for Oyo State. Arisekola congratulated President Tinubu, wishing him well in his quest to put Nigeria back on track. According to Arisekola: “As you begin to settle down to the hard tasks ahead, I wish to bring to your highly esteemed attention, the concerns and anxieties of the leadership and people of Ibadanland over the imminent appointment of min­isters into the federal cabinet. I feel it is right and appropriate to apprise you of the neglect and marginalization Ibadan­land has suffered under the pre­vious APC federal leadership. “Sir, I will start from 2006 when you asked me to come to Lagos with Dr. Ismail Adewusi, a gubernatorial aspirant from Ibarapa, under Action Con­gress in Oyo State. You told Dr. Adewusi to follow me back to Ibadan and see Alhaji Lam Adesina and Aare Arisekola Alao, both of blessed memo­ry. Whatever decision both of them arrived at is final. You said Sir, no one can become governor in Oyo State without Ibadan elders. “Fast forward sir, in 2015, at the beginning of the President Muhammadu Buhari adminis­tration, the ministerial appoin­tee from Oyo State was Alhaji Adebayo Shittu, who hailed from Saki in Saki-West Local Government of Oyo State. This is even though the 11 lo­cal governments of Ibadanland account for 60% of the entire population of Oyo State and 50% of the votes cast for the APC. “In the same manner, in 2019, when the ministerial ap­pointee for Oyo State was Sun­day Dare from Ogbomoso. You will recall Sir, that you invited me to Abuja and introduced Sunday Dare to me, Sir. You directed me to inform Ibadan elders that Dare was the minister designated from Oyo State. You told me that our gubernatorial candidate then, an Ibadan indigene, Chief Bayo Adelabu, had a very good case at the tribunal and his case may likely scale through. Sir, I did as you directed me and Sun­day Dare was accepted and he became a minister represent­ing Oyo State. POLL “In the Presidential election of February 25, 2023, Oyo State cast a total of 449,884 votes for APC of which 204,296 or 45.5% came from Ibadan land.” 