He is a mere attention seeker, professional liar – APC fires back ABEOKUTA – A People’s Democratic Party, PDP, governorship aspirant in the last election in Ogun State, Segun Sowunmi, has accused Governor Dapo Abiodun of operating a killer squad in the State. In an open letter written to the newly appointed Acting Inspector General of Police, Kayode Egbetokun, the former spokesperson of Atiku Campaing Organisation during the 2019 presidential election, promised to supply the names and contacts of the alleged killer squad. Sowunmi, who was attacked by some political thugs during a sitting of the Ogun State Election Petition Tribunal in Abeokuta about two weeks ago, had also written the new National Security Adviser, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, alleging that the attack was carried out by alleged agents of the Governor. On his fresh letter to the Acting IGP, Sowunmi described the attack as a shameful activity, adding that the Govenrnor shouldn’t be allowed to set the state on fire. “IGP sir, allow me to bring to your notice a shameful activity in Ogun State, one of the states in Nigeria which happens to be both our states, a few weeks ago the agents of Dapo Abiodun the governor of Ogun state within the precinct of the state high court in Isabo, in full view of the police, agents of the governor made up of miscreants that he enables under some cultists and gun runners masquerading as enforces and parks and garages personal. “IGP sir, as I wrote to the National Security Adviser on the security implications of thugs running around a state governor, I am compelled to remind you that it was politicians recruiting such non-state actors in the northeast that metamorphosed into the madness that cost us human and material resources. “Do we not have enough challenges that a so-called chief security officer in the person of Gov Dapo Abiodun will now be allowed to set the state on fire, or does the office you now have authority over not see that there is a need to look into an attack on my person, the type that could have cost me my life. POLL “I have never subscribed to the idea that non commissioned layabout civilians should be encouraged to misbehave right in front of what should normally be a good number of police officers, while the police standby. Made worse is the fact that the state police public relations officer converted herself into a lying liar attempting to deny what is wildly in media space. “We must collectively do everything to ensure that this attitude is discouraged, I will be willing to furnish you the names and telephone numbers of his killer squads that you might demand from them an undertaking that this rubbish will not be tolerated under your watch. “Ogun has been peaceful until Dapo Abiodun introduced his killer squads.” But in a swift reaction, Olusola Ogunsanya Blessed, the Assistant Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, APC in the State, described Sowunmi of an attention seeker, unstable soul and a blatant fraud, who should have been ignored. The APC spokesperson said, “Save for the necessity to further expose the chameleonic nature of Segun Sowunmi, the notorious political jobber and professional liar in Ogun State, in the interest of new residents of the State who might not be aware of his character, we would ordinarily have ignored the attention-seeker in his latest ranting anchored on mischief. “However, the virus of his maniacal plot may have mistakenly infected unsuspecting members of the society, hence the need for a robust response to his pathological lies in order to once again unmask the unstable soul for the blatant fraud that he is. “Every discerning member of the public is aware and will recollect the incident of Monday, 5th June, 2023, outside the gate of the Magistrate’s Court at Isabo, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, where the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal is sitting. “On that day, Segun Sowunmi, in his accustomed hauteur, was trying to gain forceful entry into the premises of the court after proceedings had already commenced and the gate shut for security reasons following the directive of members of the Tribunal. “It was this arrogant and uncultured attitude exhibited by Sowunmi that infuriated supporters of different political parties who had also come late to the venue and were denied entry. “In fact, eyewitnesses confirmed that members of PDP were those that championed the violent reaction against Sowunmi’s utter lack of decorum. “That Sowunmi immediately changed the narrative and quickly rushed to the press to lie against Governor Dapo Abiodun, accusing him of being the brain behind the alleged attack.” The Party however called on the Acting IGP to invite Sowunmi for questioning ‘especially on the intention to cause unnecessary tension in the State by raising false alarm and making baseless allegations.’