Prince Dapo Abiodun was sworn in three weeks ago for his final four-year lap as Governor of Ogun State. In this piece, SULAIMAN FASASI looks at challenges he must confront to justify the confidence vote by the electorate of the state, by delivering the much touted dividends of democracy. On May 29, 2023, Prince Dapo Abiodun joined the league of governors sworn in for a second term in office, when he took the oath office at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abeokuta, the state capital. As expected, the venue was agog, despite the early morning downpour which was not enough to discourage people from thronging out to witness the historic event, with the governor decked in traditional Aso-Oke attire with a cap to match. He was accompanied by family members, political gladiators and sundry stakeholders, as he took the oath cheered on by the crowd. Daily Independent recalls that Governor Abiodun’s electioneering campaign focused on a five-point agenda he christened “ISEYA” just like in his first term, told his people that in the first four years, his administration agreeably “delivered on virtually all the promises we made…” “ISEYA” is an acronym for Infrastructure, Social Welfare and Wellbeing, Education, Youth Empowerment, Agriculture and Food Security. The governor, in his inaugural speech noted as part of his achievements the fairly equitable distribution of infrastructure across the state, including over 400 kilometres of constructed, reconstructed, or rehabilitated roads, comprising more than 80 major roads, lower level roads, and even Federal Roads. These, he said, for the umpteenth time, are more than those of his predecessors combined. A quick check by our correspondent however showed that Governor Abiodun’s immediate predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, had during an Investors’ Forum organised by his administration a year before the expiration of his tenure, claimed his government constructed 357.11km of standard roads, encompassing 15 flyover bridges. POLL Amosun added that a total of 3,125 roads were also maintained and repaired within the period, in the three senatorial districts of the state. These claims notwithstanding, residents and commuters across the state say motorable roads remain a daily desire in Ogun State, from Sango-Ota to the OGTV/ Lafenwa road, Adatan/MAPOLY road, and the Akute/Alagbole/Yakooyo road, and some major road started by the immediate past administration but have been abandoned. Observers also agree on the need for the administration to work on the street lights that stopped working almost four years now, including the celebrated streetlights on the rehabilitated Abeokuta/Kobape/Siun road, commissioned about a year ago. Transparency/IGR Analysts agree that transparency remains a key ingredient in a democratic governance, based on which they believe the people of Ogun State deserve to know how much the government gets as Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), and federation accounts and sundry taxes. Although project delivery remains a constant demand from the government, stakeholders lament the way the cost of most state governments projects remains shrouded in secrecy, especially in the first four years. Those who know say Ogun State, before Governor Abiodun, was not doing badly in the area of IGR, and was rated third behind Lagos and Rivers, and in fact grew revenue by 144% between 2015 when it raked in N34.6 billion, and N84.55 billion by 2018, while Lagos and Rivers states only grew their revenues within the same period by 42.5% and 37.4% respectively. They believe Ogun can do better than its current fourth position behind the Federal Capital Territory. LG Autonomy Residents of the state have also challenged the governor to keep his promise made during the 2021 LG election across the state, in line with his 2019 campaign promise during that year’s governorship election when he promised to “respect the autonomy of the local government in line with the yearnings of the Governors’ Forum.” He had expressed belief “that they are a tier of government that should be given a free hand to run their affairs. They are the closest administrative office to the grassroots; they are able to make that impact because they are much closer to the people than any organ of government,” he had noted further.” The current reality in Ogun, observers say, does not show a government that is committed to a functional local government administration, but rather an appendage or a mere office under the ministries of finance and local government and chieftaincy affairs. Local governments in Ogun State have lost almost all their sources of income to the state government. From the tax from Okada riders, tenement rates, and operations of the Primary Health Care Centre, among others. Speaking under condition of anonymity, a local government chairman in the state told this reporter how he and his colleagues are not signatories to the accounts opened for their councils at Access Bank Plc with none of them being signatories. “All we receive regularly are credit and debit alerts,” the chairman lamented. Worse still, our correspondent was told, “this is the only account we have in the local government. “It is the same account with which local government allocations are received, (as well as) all interventions from the Federal Government and grants from the World Bank, and International Monetary Funds (IMF), among others, are deposited into this account, and we do not have access to them. Gbesan believes that to make a third tier of government function effectively, its autonomy through enactment of appropriate law by the House of Assembly to revoke the Local Government Joint Account; and allowing for free and fair elections into the local government thereby producing the best of candidates instead of hangers-on, among others. Security Residents of the state also agree that there is a rise in violence and criminality, with cases of ritual killings, supremacy battles between and among cult groups requiring the governor to adopt a more holistic strategy that would check the menace. Some have expressed worry recently when the governor was quoted in Sagamu Local Government as likening cult killings and violence to acts of terrorism. For example, the computer village, right in front of Ibara “underbridge” that always has a heavy security presence and is a short distance from the Ibara Divisional Police headquarters, in Abeokuta, the State capital, was attacked. Reports say the incident was not a robbery attack, but a cult clash. As if that was not brazen enough, there was another attack during the sitting of the Ogun State Election Petition Tribunal in the Isabo area of Abeokuta, in what has been described as a desecration of the judicial environment, and weaponization of criminality by those believed to be ‘state boys.’ In that attack, Otunba Segun Sowunmi, a governorship aspirant under the aegis of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was a victim. Abayomi Babalola, another public affairs analyst, told Daily Independent that although Governor Abiodun came at a time when “the whole country was battling with insecurity, Ogun State in the last four years has had the challenge of kidnapping, cultism and thuggery. “In my opinion, the Governor didn’t do well in handling the first two cases, because if he had equipped and motivated the newly established AMOTEKUN outfit alongside the VGN, the twin problems of kidnapping and cultism would have been reduced drastically. The personnel would have been very helpful in complimenting the police in areas of gathering information, apprehending and handing over criminals to the police.” He urged the Governor, as chief security officer of the state, to put an end to the menace of cultism. Mere Sloganeering Gbesan, like some other analysts, believe the administration’s ISEYA mantra has been more of a slogan than “a programmatic manifesto indicating the direction he intends to take Ogun State, after which he would set up parameters to measure performance in each of those areas. Such conclusion, he says, is based on the difficulty encountered while attempting to evaluate the administration on the various pillars. Conclusion Continuing, Gbesan lamented that the second-term has always been “a failure when you look at the pattern, facts and trends. In the history of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun would be the third Governor to have a second-term since 1999. When you look at the second term of both Daniel (Gbenga) and (Ibikunle) Amosun, they were disastrous. Disastrous (to the extent) that they become unnecessarily involved in the politics of succession, and that created not just enmity between them and their political bases, it also created a big distraction for their administrations. I think Ogun State people should not expect much from this government,” he concluded. There are however those who believe that Governor Abiodun can still turn the tide, by pursuing his second-term agenda, thereby ensuring that the people of Ogun, the gateway state will at the end of May 2027 thank God for the decision they made to return him to Government House. For now, the people are still clamouring for basic necessities such as motorable roads. All the governor needs is listen to phone in programmes on radio stations covering the state to know where his focus should be in terms of fixing the road infrastructure in his domain.