The African Democratic Congress (ADC) has constituted a seven-member Peace and Reconciliation Committee to resolve all intra-party disputes arising from the 2023 general elections. The committee is also charged with ensuring harmony, discipline, and respect for the party as an institution and its values. Mabel Oboh, the National Publicity Secretary of the party and the party’s Guber candidate in the 2020 Governorship election in Edo State, in a statement on Wednesday, said the recommendation was presented by the national secretary of the party, Alhaji Said Abdullahi, head of the 2023 general election cycle appraisal team. According to the statement, “It would be recalled that shortly after the party primary elections that produced the various standard bearers for the party for the 2023 general elections, the party, which had relatively been peaceful and focused for over 16 years of its founding, was embroiled in some crisis that led to member discomfort, infighting, leadership tussle, and a few court cases. “It was observed that as much as many political parties in Nigeria face internal rancour, ADC’s internal squabbles could have been avoided but for the indiscipline on the part of some members, aspirants, and candidates on one hand and lack of proper screening template on the other. “Another factor was also due to misinformation and deliberate propaganda. The Abdulahi appraisal team observed that our party was penetrated by fifth columnists, ominously planted in ADC, but were agents of destabilisation from other parties. “The committee report cautioned that ADC puts a two years ceiling for any member before standing for any election or becoming an executive member at both state and national levels. “The ADC has approved the recommendation of the Abdulahi team and appointed peace and reconciliation committee with Lady Jumoke Lawoyin as Chairman and Dr. Aminu Anas as secretary, while other members are Hon. Salman Idris, Mabel Oboh, Chief Mrs Biola Are, Hon Hauwa Lawal and Barr Emeka Igwe.” POLL The National Chairman, Chief Ralphs Nwosu, thanked the appraisal team for a job well done and said that their report will help the party learn good lessons from the bad garbage. He said that the resilience of the party was tested, and it showed superb elasticity. He urged the peace and reconciliation committee to urgently pursue reconciliation to bring back ADC’s glory and find accommodation for all top presidential candidates and other contestants that felt aggrieved.