LAGOS – There have been growing calls for mandatory inclusion of Multiple Micronutrient Supplements (MMS) in the national Micronutrient Deficiency Control Guidelines and full implementation of government policy across the country to boost its use during pregnancy. As a result of their decreased access to the essential micronutrients needed for the fetus’ optimal growth throughout pregnancy, women and children in Nigeria suffer the most from the country’s rising malnutrition rates. Incredibly, the country has not yet made significant headway in incorporating nutritional issues into development plans and governance, despite its attempts to combat malnutrition, non-communicable diseases, and micronutrient deficiencies. As a result of the loss in primary healthcare facilities and increased illiteracy, research indicates that women and children are particularly susceptible to hunger, poverty, and infections. Multiple Micronutrient Supplements Concepts Thus, the Multiple Micronutrient Supplements (MMS) concepts from Vitamin Angels – which incorporate greater education and MMS access for pregnant women across the country – have grown to be extremely important. Experts have advised collaboration between non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and public-private entities to improve access to and integration of nutrition within health systems. This can be accomplished by including MMS in the national Micronutrient Deficiency Control Guidelines and completely implementing government policy to scale it up. POLL Others are committing to the goals of MMS to strengthen collaboration and coordination between governments and programme partners. There is also a need for improved human resources for the delivery of nutrition interventions, nutrition financing, availability of commodities, and coordination service delivery. The rest are addressing weak nutrition information systems and lack of community voice and accountability, and the political commitment needed to translate policy goals into reality. Addressing malnutrition that occurs when a person lacks sufficient intake of energy and nutrients, the formalisation of Social and Behavioural Change (SBC) interventions would have the potential to dramatically improve MMS uptake and adherence, and maternal diet quality. These issues were the focus of a just-ended two-day media engagement and capacity-building workshop on MMS in pregnancy organised by Vitamin Angels, Nigeria in Lagos. Also, scaling up health services through expanded training for government front-line healthcare workers is important, according to experts. Similarly, improving the inclusion of data sets for MMS and Vitamin A uptake at community and primary healthcare facilities will provide the country with robust data for decision-making and planning. The goal is to present an opportunity to rapidly and safely provide supply chain solutions like Bi-annual vitamin A doses, Albendazole, and MMS when properly supervised and supported. Over time, the failures of access to multiple micronutrient supplements (MMS) and poor primary health care systems have created an overburden on the private health sector and made Non- governmental organisations (NGOs) more prominent. This necessitates the need for the government to hasten to strengthen health care capacity and support advocacy efforts to create an enabling environment for optimal nutrition outcomes. National Guidelines For Micronutrient Deficiency Prevention According to experts, there is a need for the Federal Government to adopt national guidelines for the prevention and control of micronutrient deficiency diseases in the country. In addition, improving knowledge and awareness of micronutrient deficiency control and effective implementation is an important area of public-private sector collaboration. So also, the delivery of evidence-based and effective micronutrient interventions, and strengthening research, monitoring, and evaluation of Micronutrient Deficiency Control (MNDC) programmes are crucial. In Nigeria, the most common micronutrient deficiencies are Iron, folate, iodine, vitamin A, and zinc. Four main strategies are employed to address micronutrient deficiencies in the country which include; dietary improvement increased production and consumption of micronutrient-rich foods, food fortification, supplementation, and public health and other disease control measures. Reports show that dietary diversification in Maternal, Infant, and Young Child Nutrition (MIYCN) and proper feeding of infants and young children can increase their chances of survival, development, and growth. Adolescents, pregnant women, postpartum, and children between six and 23 months of age are the priority target groups for iron and folic acid supplementation (IFAS) based on the likelihood of both iron deficiency and the public health benefits. However, due to the high prevalence of anaemia in the country, adolescents, especially girls and women of childbearing age are to be targeted with this strategy- MMS. To strengthen Nigeria’s health system by increasing access to nutrition interventions with an emphasis on ensuring underserved populations, the work of initiatives, such as the Vitamin Angels’ model integration would guarantee success. Vitamin Angels is a proof of concept that a public health non-profit organisation working to improve nutrition across Nigeria, can work directly with local and national organisations, including governments, to reach the most underserved, nutritionally vulnerable populations – pregnant women, infants, and young children – with evidence-based nutrition interventions and technical assistance. This framework utilises Vitamin Angels focusing on improving nutrition because it is proven to break the intergenerational cycle of poverty and poor health, and leads to greater economic success for individuals and entire communities. In Nigeria, the Vitamin Angels model engages in advocacy and advisory services to create an enabling environment, provides technical assistance to ensure effective delivery, implementation of science, learning solutions, monitoring, and evaluation, and increases the availability of evidence-based nutrition interventions in Nigeria. The strategic approach of the model has significant coverage and support partners in 33 States out of the 36 States. So far, beneficiary states include; Kano, Kaduna, Plateau, Niger, Kwara, Oyo, Kogi, Gombe, Akwa-Ibom, and Nasarawa. Vitamin Angels are increasing the availability of evidence-based nutrition interventions by providing programme partners with grants for vitamin A, Albendazole, and MMS globally. In addition, they partner with NGOs and state governments in very rural areas as well as very urban locations. The Vitamin Angels programme, implemented partnerships with government partners, including key Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), FMOH, and the SUNN Secretariat Programmes with States to augment Primary Health Care service deliveries. According to Christian Ugbo, pharmaceutical logistic specialist, at Vitamin Angels, “Before now, MMS was not widely known in Nigeria. But with this project, I can say the technical services that we provide, and the strengthening of the health system by building the capacity of health workers and community volunteers have increased their knowledge about evidence-based nutrition interventions. “Ordinarily, knowledge transfer helps raise awareness and increase nutrition interventions’ acceptability. Our program efforts have made significant progress over the last year despite Covid-19. We convened the first community of practice for nutrition with the Federal Ministry of Health,” he said. MMS Is Crucial For Mothers Dr. Francis Ohanyido, Country Director of Vitamin Angels, Nigeria, and public health consultant noted malnutrition is still a serious issue in Nigeria and lack of micronutrients is vital for mothers. Ohanyido also spoke during a recent two-day media engagement and capacity-building workshop on MMS in pregnancy. He said, “Pregnant women in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), including Nigeria, are at increased risk of being deficient in multiple, critically important, micronutrients. However, poor maternal nutrition has dire consequences for women and children.” Dr. Ohanyido also said that micronutrient deficiencies can have lifelong impacts on a child’s physical, mental, and emotional development. “Vitamin Angels have been in Nigeria as a pilot study for years but have been in operation officially for four years now. One of the things done in public health which is important is giving supplements to vulnerable groups who need certain micronutrients. “A lot of children are vulnerable to infections like measles. As a sort of preventative measure in public health, micronutrients are given to prevent chances of deficiencies. “Because a mother is carrying a foetus, the demand on her body’s nutrients increases which needs proper supplements to help the immune system response. Multiple micronutrient supplements (MMS), commonly referred to as prenatal multivitamins, are one of the most impactful nutrition interventions that significantly improve maternal health and birth outcomes.” Dr. Ohanyido further said that “MMS contains 15 essential vitamins and minerals for pregnant and nursing women and meets micronutrient requirements that poor diets cannot meet. It has significant benefits compared to Iron and Folic Acid (IFA) which contains just two essential vitamins and minerals.” MMS is already a component of the Federal Government’s all-inclusive plan to lower the rate of malnutrition in Nigeria. In order to reach its goals, the Vitamin Angels programme is urging increased reductions in maternal undernutrition, expanded MMS accessibility throughout the country, and increased funding from all levels of government. MMS contains 15 essential vitamins and minerals for pregnant and nursing women and meets micronutrient requirements that poor diets cannot meet. It has significant benefits compared to Iron and Folic Acid (IFA) which contains just two essential vitamins and minerals