LAGOS  – Analysts have advised fiscal and monetary policymakers in the country to sustain ongoing policy tightening, albeit at a slower growth rate, in the short term to tame the negative real interest rate gap and reduce external pressures in the country. The suggestion follows Nigeria’s economic destabilizing shocks of the recent fuel subsidy removal by the Federal Government with adverse effects on commodity markets, supply chains, inflation, and increasing prices. They suggested that the Federal Government should come up with immediate and short-term measures that would mitigate the pains of the sharp increases in transportation and feeding costs on the citizens, citing that food and transportation account for over 50% of the household budget of the populace, noting that “something urgent needed to be done”. They implored the fiscal and monetary authorities to stimulate lending to the real sector to generate employment opportunities and encourage spending which would revitalize the economy. They cautioned authorities to stimulate lending to the real sector to generate employment opportunities and encourage spending which would revitalize the economy They maintained that the current government’s capital control measures and weak macroeconomic conditions that impaired the growth contributions of Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI), Foreign Direct Investment (FDI),are the major factors making Nigeria a less attractive investment destination compared to her peers They advocated the need for more prudent spending and greater transparency as well as a stable macroeconomic environment and policies like tariffs, quotas, subsidies and non-tariff barriers which protect infant industries to enable them to create jobs in the country. The Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited, Mele Kyari had said that plans by President Bola Tinubu are underway to dole out palliatives to Nigerians to cushion the effect of the sudden removal of fuel subsidy. POLL He said this in Abuja shortly after a meeting with the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee NWC of All Progressives Congress APC at the ‘Buhari House’ national secretariat of the party. According to him, one of the countries four moribund refineries would come back on stream this year while another one would be revitalised next year until all of them are put in order. He said “there is a gradual process now of making a flexible and single foreign exchange regime. Everyone will be able to have access to foreign exchange and there is a transition going on now and NNPC cannot continue to be the sole importer. We know that this is going to vanish and the market will stabilise. There is an ongoing process of rehabilitation and one of the refineries will come on stream this year. The second will come on stream next year and the third will come the 2025. Of course it is very obvious that we can no longer afford it. Subsidy bills have piled up. The country is not able to settle NNPC for the money we are spending on the subsidy. Therefore pricing petroleum at the market is the right ring to do at this time. We believed that this will benefit the overall country in the long run and in a long term. Dr. Muda Yusuf, Founder/CEO Centre for the Promotion Of Private Independent on how to overcome the current risk of weakening economic growth amid subsidy removal crisis, urged the government to introduce palliatives and measures to cushion the effects of the fuel subsidy removEnterprise (CPPE), in a chat with Daily al which would address the food and transport costs for Nigerians. He also noted that Nigerians spend over 50% of their income on food and transport, adding that FG should also introduce a reduction in import tariffs for intermediate products for food processing companies. He noted the government needed to come up with immediate and short-term measures that would mitigate the pains of the sharp increases in transportation and feeding costs on the citizens, citing that food and transportation account for over 50% of the household budget of the populace, noting that “something urgent needed to be done”. The CPPE boss added that such measures should reduce the cost of food, provide cheaper public transportation options and improve power supply, also urging that improved power supply would help to reduce demand for fuel, electricity, generators, and incentives to promote the use of autogas, the statement added: He also advised the monetary authority to make the financial sector more willing to take more risk and lend to the real sector, thereby stimulating economic growth. “There must be a reduction in import tariffs for intermediate products for food processing companies, elimination of taxes and levies on all agricultural inputs. “ This will boost food production and reduce import tariffs on mass transit buses, among others.” He also noted that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited (NNPCL) Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) pricing should be at least 15% less than the prices of private fuel stations, which he says is necessary to signal social sensitivity by the government. “Admittedly, the increase is quite high and the shocks on citizens are enormous as well, but these are some of the inevitable costs of reforms and we need the reforms to prevent the collapse of the economy. “Apparently, things have to get worse before it gets better. “It would be painful, initially, but it would progressively get better. “As the supply side response improves, the prices will moderate.” The National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NLIDS) implored the Nigerian government to introduce palliative measures to mitigate the impact of fuel subsidy removal. Prof. Abubakar Suleiman, the Director-General, NILDS in chats with Daily Independent, stated that the removal was necessary, however, the Nigerian labour and private sector would be affected, as it is a painful decision that needs to be taken “In spite of the fact that it is necessary to have subsidy removed, I pity Nigerian labour who are going to be the major casualty of such necessity. “There is nothing anybody can do about it, there is a need to remove subsidy, with time to come, Nigerians will adjust to it, it may be very difficult, maybe a very painful decision that the government needs to make.” He also urged the Presidency to come up with palliatives, to see the removal does not dampen Nigerian labour, saying: “We have a collective responsibility to see that the effect of the removal does not dampen the morale of the Nigerian labour, I think it is very important. “I want to use this opportunity to advise the new government under President Bola Tinubu to come up with a palliative to cushion the effects”, he said An executive director of a new generation bank in Nigeria, who craves anonymity, told Daily Independent that the ongoing development in the nation’s economy as a result of subsidy removal reflects that foreign exchange illiquidity remains intact two years after the COVID-19 pandemic distorted the supposedly smooth functioning of the economy. The banker, who argued that the foreign exchange liquidity conditions will remain frail over the short-to-medium term in the absence of reforms to attract dollar inflows to the economy,advised the monetary authority to continue its intervention mechanism to deploy funds to output-stimulating and employment-generating sectors of the economy in contrast to the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) advice of slowing down its credit intervention programmes. “The CBN should not discontinue its intervention mechanism because of the likely market distortions it could generate on the economy in the long run. “We believe that there is need to stimulate lending to the real sector to generate employment opportunities and encourage spending which would revitalize the economy. “We are of the view that this should be the focus on the financial sector,while the CBN and Federal Government should focus on ease of doing business in the economy and their primary responsibility of achieving internal balance, a situation where the economy is operating close to potential and inflation is at a stable rate”, the banker said. Chief Tunde Adetunji, CEO, President Africa Heritage Foundation, Marietta, Georgia, United States, in a chat with Daily Independent, emphasized the need for diversification as a strategy for economic growth in Nigeria. He noted that diversification of production and trade structure is a very important tool for the well-being of any economy, adding that lack of diversification often leads to increase vulnerability and shocks that can obviously undermine prospects for long term economic growth. To achieve a full diversification strategy, Federal Government has to restructure the economy where the movement of factors of production within and across the sector is towards higher productivity so diversification can be achieved in private sector investment, foreign investment, infrastructure and so on. “If you drive down further, agriculture provides a kind of passive income for investors as there is a huge opportunity in the wholesale and in the retail segment of that value chain”, he said. Cordros Researchers in their Weekly Economic and Market Report (02-Jun-2023), stated that the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL) announced that it adjusted the pump price of PMS across its retail outlets in line with current realities, indicating the end of the country’s age-long PMS subsidies. “ We are unsurprised by the NNPCL’s announcement as we argued (see report: A Look at the Inaugural Speech) in favour of a reference price to clear the queues that ensued after President Tinubu’s pronouncement in his inaugural address. Accordingly, we note that PMS prices across the country increased by 174.6% to an average of NGN526.70/litre (previously: NGN191.84/litre). “In the near term, we expect the significant increase in PMS prices to fuel inflationary pressures, depressing consumer spending and weighing on economic activities. “Nonetheless, the subsidy removal helps free up government resources for more productive uses.”