AKURE – Ondo State government has put up more efforts in ensuring the application of contents of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) law in the state as all stakeholders gathered on Tuesday in Akure, the state capital, to synergize on eradication of gender violence in the state. Leading the gathering, tagged: “Enhancement of the capacity of state institutions for effective implementation of laws to promote inclusion, gender equality and reverse GBV,” the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Charles Titiloye charged the sponsors of the law, Westminster Foundation for Democracy (WFD) and Ondo State Agency Against Gender-Based Violence (OSAA-GBV) to work with the security agencies in the state, particularly the Police, to ensure suspects of gender violence are prosecuted with VAPP Law. He noted that the Police College has not included the VAPP law in its curriculum, thereby the police officers are only aware of the existing Criminal Code and Child Rights Law which they use to prepare charges against suspects. The Attorney General, therefore, charged WFD and OSAA-GBV to work with the law enforcement agencies and acquaint them with the new law on gender violence so as to make use of this in prosecuting suspects. He said: “It is important to note that the relevant security agencies that would make use of the VAPP law, which is the new gender violence, law are not aware of the existence of the law. “Up till now, they still make use of the existing Criminal Code and Child Rights laws. Even in the Police College, the VAPP Law is it taught there. So, the police officers are only aware of the existing laws. “So, it is important to liaise with them to get the new gender violence law enforced. “The court will only work on the charges presented by the law enforcement agencies, prosecution.” POLL Commemorating the Attorney General’s position, Justice Bankole Akinwumi of Ondo State High Court, Owo Division, who was a resource person at the event, called on all necessary agencies to synergize on how to ensure the adequate Implementation of the new gender-based violence law. He assured that the Bench was ready to support the law, but noted that the Bench would only work on whatever charges presented by the prosecutors. Justice Akinwumi, therefore, called for a cultural reorientation of the people, who are usually the victims of gender-based violence. He noted that some victims frustrated the prosecution of the offenders as a result of culture. In her address, the Special Adviser(Gender)to the state Governor, Mrs Olamide Falana, states Gender Based Violence could be commitment backed by funding. She observed that with the advent of the VAPP Law, there has been a fall in the rate of gender-based violence in the state. According to Falana, “This explains the need for continuous coordination of the state GBV response, with a mantra to leave no one behind in the train of capacity building and awareness creation and as well leave no stone unturned in obtaining justice and succor for the affected and negatively impacted persons. “As we go forward as a state, it is important for the handlers of the sector such as the security operatives and prosecutors to be aware of what they can do in their various commands and agencies towards enhancing the collective prevention of GBV. “Keeping in mind that the fight against GBV cannot be won by words but rather by commitment backed by funding.” Country Director of WFD, Mr. Adebowale Olorunmola appreciated the support of the stakeholders from the drafting to passage of the gender-based violence bill and assenting of the bill. He assured that the international agency would continue to do all within its power to support OSAA-GBV in ensuring the citizens are aware of the contents of the law.