Super Eagles of Nigeria had since lost the glamour of fan­tastic football artistry, which the team was known for in almost three decades gone in Africa and the world, especially in crucial qualification matches, friendlies and in competitive games within and outside the country. Recently, Nigeria was involved in a qualification match with Sier­ra – Leone for the Confederation of African Football (CAF) Nations Cup championship billed for Ivory Coast come 2024. The football match was played outside Abuja and Freetown. The game was hosted in Monrovia, the capital of Liberia. However, the match ended 3-2 in favour of Nige­ria. Nigerians were engulfed in var­ious reactions over the outcome of the duel; even though Nigeria has qualified for the CAF Nations Cup coming up in Ivory Coast in 2024 with one match to spare, and that match will be against Sao Tome and Principe. These days the national team of Nigeria no longer plays like the Super Eagles of yesteryears. They have lost the glamour, colour, candour and carriage with which it usually executes matches. The Ea­gles have totally lost out in all the aforementioned; hence, they have equally lost relevance on the pitch of play irrespective of which team they confront. Little wonder, the Si­erra Leoneans could penetrate the Nigerian side with two goals in a competitive game in spite of Nigeria winning the match. The Eagles have always been a struggling side to win a game against any opponent and could be easily defeated by any side in a duel at any point in time. That’s how the team had lost steam of purpose and finesse of the beautiful round leath­er game. We lost it to hiring incompetent coaches, we lost it to maladministra­tion in the federation, and we lost it to non-commitment on the side of players. However, there may be other factors dwindling the better perfor­mance of the national team, which of course cannot be divorced from nepotism, tribalism, sectionalism, descent, bribery and corruption not forgetting mediocrity. The football federation has an in­delible record of not paying coach­es even at the point of exiting the country, the NFF has always been at loggerheads with both the local and foreign coaches. In fact, records still show how many cases of sacked coaches from the national team that has not been finally settled after leav­ing the services of the Eagles. But can Nigeria still employ a better foreign coach who can return the lost glory of the country’s football if I may ask? Of course, yes! Nigeria has what it takes to return the Eagles to win­ning ways once again only if the ad­ministrators of the Glasshouse are prepared to look beyond bribery and corruption. If only they can allow the coaches free hand to pick their choice of players without interfer­ence from the outside or within the football administrative building. POLL The readiness of the administra­tors to be honest in honouring the terms of the agreement between coaches to the letters must be a case of adherence. All of these must include the ability to shun federal character reflection in the selection of players that make up the national team at a go. However, in as much as we contin­ue to parade mediocrity as coaches, the Eagles will continue to perform below average in every match. I will also want to sound this warning to the administrators of the football federation that qualification for tour­naments without proper representa­tion is a mere jamboree; therefore, the qualification for the AFCON in Ivory Coast 2024 is not the ultimate victory. Nigeria has qualified severally with woeful representations; the last we saw was in Cameroon. Yours tru­ly just hope that such a scenario does not repeat itself in that francophone country of Ivory Coast. No doubt, whether in victory or loss, the Eagles of Nigeria are no longer attractive in all ramifi­cations. They no longer command followers; they have ceased to be the darling team of Nigerians, perhaps the NFF is pretending not to know but that is the reality on the ground for everyone to see. We saw the level of football exhibited in Monrovia; that wasn’t in the class of the defunct Green Eagles of 1980 or thirty years ago Super Eagles who qualified Ni­geria for her first FIFA World Cup tourney in the USA, in 1994. The relics of this period, today’s Eagles cannot replicate in the minds of Nigerian football bedfellows! Therefore, there’s more to football competitions than mere qualifica­tion! This is the authority of the game in the country that must always be put into consideration whenever the Eagles qualify for a championship is it for CAF or FIFA. Nigeria my country used to be the best entertaining team in the world after Brazil as declared by FIFA after the 1994 Mundial in the USA. Nigeria was ranked 5th best team in the global world of football. You would ask, where has the country got it wrong after this golden era of my nation’s football? Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria! 