LAGOS  – The operatives of the Delta State Police Command said that sequel to a follow-up on the investigation of suspected kidnappers neutral­ized in Abraka where one AK-47 rifle was recovered, the Division­al Police Officer (DPO), Abraka Division again led operatives to comb the surrounding bushes where some of the suspects es­caped into. The team, upon thorough search of the bush, it was re­vealed, recovered two AK-47 mag­azines, fifty-two rounds of AK-47 ammunition. Bright Edafe, Police Public Relations Officer of the Com­mand who confirmed this in a statement said investigation also revealed that one of the neutral­ized suspects poses as an internet fraudster (yahoo boy) and had been using the proceeds from kidnapping to build a 15-room duplex around Orogun, Ughelli North LGA. He said efforts to arrest the other members of the gang were ongoing. Edafe, a Deputy Superinten­dent of Police (DSP), said that following series of reported cases of vehicles removed from parking areas in Asaba, Warri, Ughelli, and environs, “the Commission­er of Police Delta state CP Wale Abass psc directed Area com­manders and DPOs to nip this trend in the bud and also warned that if the trend continues, offi­cers concerned will be severely sanctioned. “In line with this directive, the DPO Ughelli Division closely su­pervised by the Area commander Ughelli ACP Adebayo Ademola, on June 15, 2023, while acting on intelligence gathered, arrested the duo of Phillip Ekugbe (m) and Onome Erikefe(m) both of Ekpan community, Effurun, who special­izes in snatching vehicles from Warri and environs, take them to Ughelli where they disassem­ble and sell the vehicles in parts.” The PPRO added that 74 ve­hicle tyres, 16 vehicle engines, 8 gear boxes, 15 motor batteries, 2 motorcycle engines and 7 suspect­ed stolen vehicles have so far been recovered. The vehicles, according to the police image maker, include one Toyota Corolla with Reg. no. AJ 638 EFR, Toyota carina with Reg. no. WW 748 SL, Toyota Corolla with Reg. no. DU 60 LSR, Toyota corolla with Reg. no. WWR 799 AE, Toyota Corolla with Reg. no. KSF 758 DC and one unregistered Nissan car. He said the suspects are in custody, and the investiga­tion is ongoing.