ENUGU – The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Lucky Irabor, has charged troops of Operation Udoka to redouble efforts and flush out remaining criminal elements in South-East “You are mandated to flush out the criminal elements disturbing the peace and socio-economic well-being of the South-East,” Irabor said while addressing the troops, which are drawn from the military and paramilitary security formations. The CDS gave the address at the headquarters of the 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Enugu on Tuesday. Irabor also said that the Commander-in-Chief, President Bola Tinubu, also sent his commendation to the troops for their doggedness so far in the operation. He, however, appreciated the troops of the operation, which was launched towards the end of January 2023, for a “very successful operation leading to violence-free, fair and credible elections in the South-East. “From the briefs, I have been receiving from the General Officer Commanding 82 Division, who is the overall Commander of the Operation and other field commanders, I am proud of your conduct during the general elections. “I say well done to you for your effectiveness and commitment that led to a resounding success during the general elections. “However, it is not over yet, I want you to redouble your efforts and get ready for more serious work to see that the report of pockets of insecurity in the South-East by criminal elements is totally checked,” he said. POLL The CDS said that the recent move by Gov. Peter Mbah of Enugu State and by extension other governors of the South-East to stop the illegal sit-at-homes must be supported by all. According to him, this move will stop the monumental socio-economic, cultural and relationship losses incurred by the people of the region. He said: “I am using this medium to call on the people of Enugu State and the South-East that they should not allow any criminal enterprise a space to operate within Enugu State and the South-East any more. “They should join efforts with members of the security agencies to defile illegal order of sit-at-home in the region. “I am counseling the criminals to desist from illegal and criminal enterprise of keeping people down on the guise of sit-at-home.” Irabor said that the sit-at-home “does not do anybody any good; rather there are avenues that they (aggrieved) can channel any grievance they have.”