LAGOS  – Chuks Ibegbu, the immediate past publicity secretary of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, has urged President Bola Tinubu to reverse the removal of subsidy on petrol, adding that the policy has brought hardship and misery to the Nigerian people. He argued the decision was hasty and did not take into consideration the economic condition of Nigerians, who, he said had been pauperized by the Muhammadu Buhari administration. He made the call in an interview with Daily Independent at the weekend. The Ohanaeze chieftain stated that the decision was taken without consultation with critical stakeholders, adding that it could lead to a crisis in the country. He called on the President to ensure that the refineries in the country are repaired and made to work so that Nigerians can enjoy the benefit of being an oil producing country. Speaking on the political situation in the country, Ibegbu said that President Tinubu should not interfere in the work of the judiciary, adding that the President should allow the electoral tribunal hearing the case brought by his opponents on election to do its work without interference. According to the former Ohanaeze spokesperson, “If at the end the tribunal declares Tinubu as winner of the presidential election, he should heal the nation because the people are divided along ethnic, religious and political lines. He should bring the people together and be their President without ill will towards any part of the country. “He should unite the nation; he should not say these people voted for me or these people did not vote for me and treat them differently. He is now the President of Nigeria and not President of APC; he should ensure that infrastructure, appointments and others are equitably distributed.” POLL Ibegbu, however, called on Ndigbo to support Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu as president of Ohanaeze Worldwide in the overall interest of the Igbo nation. He said, “I contested the election that brought our revered leader, the late Professor George Obiozor and I had my misgivings about the election. “However, today, Chief Iwuanyanwu has emerged. Ndigbo are in a tight corner today and we need a stable Ohanaeze. He called on Iwuanyanwu to stretch a hand of fellowship to all aggrieved persons and give Ndigbo quality leadership.