The new Rector of the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH), Dr. (Engr.) Adedotun Abdul has unveiled his 5 Point Agenda for the progressive running of the institution in the next five years. The Rector disclosed this in his inaugural address as he revealed his goal, mission and vision for the College, saying his administration will focus on five major developmental projects which he coined as ‘ERECT’. In the mission tagged: “5-Point Progressive Agenda For YABATECH”, the Rector said the first ‘E’ in his agenda means E – Empower the entire workforce in the college Others are ‘R’- Repackage all academic and skills development programs of the college; ‘E’ -Explore the creation of the industry advisory committee (IAC) and set up STBI Hubs; ‘C’ – Consolidate and Expand all the sources of internally-generated revenue (IGR) of the college and ‘T’-Tap into the national and international grant and endowment for funding vital infrastructures. Dr. Abdul, the 7th indigenous Rector of the 76-year-old college noted that the world is changing at an unprecedented pace, and technology is at the forefront of this transformation and pledged to do everything in his power to ensure that YABATECH students are equipped with the skills and knowledge they need to succeed in the rapidly evolving world. To achieve this agenda, the Rector charged the institution to continue to focus on providing students with the best possible education, grounded in a deep understanding of the latest technologies as well as a broad-based foundation in the liberal arts and sciences. “The College must also ensure that faculties and staff are empowered to pursue cutting-edge research and innovation and that facilities and infrastructure are world-class”, and assured that his earnest aim is to work with all without fear or favour and this is the time to consolidate on the past achievements while shaping the future for our beloved institution. He vowed to leave YABATECH better than what it is today. He disclosed his area of focus would be staff welfare, improvement of academic standards, and security, critical look shall be taken at revenue generated system, and provision of conducive, aesthetic and safe campuses with state-of-the-art learning environment, functional laboratories, and workshop amenities.