Senator Seye Ogunlewe a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Minister of Works in this interview talks about issues of the Senate Presidency, why Godswill Akpabio, an anointed candidate should market himself to his colleagues, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: The issue of the ruling APC to dictate the party’s choice for the leadership of the National Assembly, some people said that it is wrong because section 50 of the 1999 constitution talks about legislative independence, that the lawmakers should choose from among themselves, and nothing like party supremacy should the party detect the leadership or allow the lawmakers to be independent? The members of the National Assembly, 109 of them are representing their constituencies, they have aspirations, and some of them want to be chairmen of juicy committees. They have to negotiate before they go to elect who will be president of the Senate. If you are outside and you have recommended somebody, the Senators that will vote will consider their stake. If you don’t specify what their benefits would be either as a zone or political party or individuals. It is more likely for them on that day to vote for somebody who has promised them positions, who has promised political parties positions. It happened in 1999 when we went to the National Assembly. The party wanted Evans Enwerem, and members didn’t agree but we voted. The problem started almost immediately because there were so many interest groups in the Senate with important personalities who wanted to get these positions, who did not participate in your emergence as President. They will choose the person who is more attractive to them. The person who they think they would be able to work with. The issue in this Senate is that somebody like Akpabio has been part of this senate before he resigned. They seem to know him. They can access him, they can determine his tendencies. They will think if he is the appropriate person for them or not. These are the things that the party must work on to make sure that they are selling a product that will be attractive to the majority of the Senators. You are clearly aligning with your party which is the anointed candidate, that is Senator Akpabio, how is the party managing other aspirants who are hoping to be President of the Senate, and are not backing down at this eleventh hour, so is the party working to bring people together like former Governor Yari, who is insisting on pursuing his ambition, Orji Uzor Kalu, and others, is there anything the party is doing to avoid what happened at the eight Senate? It all lies with Senator Akpabio. What is he offering these other groups? How much influence does he have? Because people at the National Assembly will like to go back to their constituencies with a few things to show. He must be able to sit down with them. He should leave the party. The party has already endorsed you, just leave the party. You need to talk to the Senators who will vote for you. What is the negotiation? What are they taking to their zones? How can they have confidence in your leadership? What have you done before? How did you behave to them when you were in the Senate? What is your interaction with them? Some of his colleagues will make sure that they de-market him if he is not careful. He should talk to the Senators now. He should leave all those people who are following him to the villa. You are giving those who oppose you the opportunity to say that you are going to be dictated to by the executive. Address their issues, let them have confidence in you so that on that day they will vote for you if not, they will just say that you are an executive person and they don’t want an executive person. They want a person of their own and they will vote for that person. Get into the Senate and talk to them. Tell them what you are going to offer them because they are the ones who will vote for you, not outsiders. The first estate of the realm, that is the executive is very independent, it takes decisions on its own, people refer to the fourth estate of the realm as the media and we are very independent to a large extent. Then coming to the legislature which is the second estate of the realm, there are fears among many Nigerians that if a political party or the executive will pick the leaders of the 10th Assembly they will not be independent, do you think that fear is founded? It is there but it depends on the personality of the person that is proposing. What kind of campaign of calumny they can use against him among themselves that will make them think otherwise. Some people say that the Northwest gave 30 to 35 percent votes to the President. That is a factor. What will be attractive to that zone? Akwa Ibom State is a PDP state, is that an advantage to APC to bring somebody whose state is an opposition party. Nigeria is not what you see in the day. Nigeria is run in the midnight, and members of the Senate have very powerful mentors, who bankrolled their elections into the Senate. They would listen to those people in the midnight before the morning of that election. So, if you don’t get the trick of some people, you will be stranded on that day because they listen to people who you don’t see. It has happened many times in the Senate. You will talk to them in the afternoon but at midnight there are people who will talk to them and they will listen to them and that is the problem that we have. They are constantly relating with their masters and mentors, people who can influence them. On the floor on that day you would be surprised what will happen. What you just analyzed is that the APC is not quite strong in Akwa Ibom, you are an active party man that supports the party excellently well over the years, do you think that Senator Akpabio will be a perfect leader apart from the fears that people have that he probably will oblige whatever the President wants, and that is not supposed to be what the National Assembly should be doing, do you think he is a good choice considering the constituency where he comes from? POLL The campaign that they will mount against his ambition may work or may not work. About the issue of the power of the executive, our President is different, in the history of Nigeria since 1999. Bola Tinubu is a politician. He is not an ordinary person. He is a master strategist. He is a master in this game. If you are for him or against him and you are the Senate President, there is constitutional provision for a party caucus meeting. He will not act arbitrarily. Anything that he wants to do, he will call the Senate President, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Secretary of the party, the chairman of the party, and the governors, they will sit down and once he is able to persuade them, they will make a decision. Everybody is aware unlike when you send letters to the National Assembly, for them to pass the law. So, there is no fear with the person of President Bola Tinubu. He knows this game and has done it many times. Senator Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State has said that the consideration should not be religion, ethnicity, nepotism, but should be about ability, quality leadership, someone who can provide leadership, what is your take on his position, and hope that there won’t be a repeat of 2015 scenario with the emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki as Senate President? There is nothing to fear, religion, ethnicity, it depends on the position of Mr. President. Don’t act arbitrarily, discuss with the people. Whoever is the Senate President doesn’t matter. It depends on the contact that the Senate President has. The President will call them to discuss the matter over breakfast, over dinner. They will agree as a political party, this is where they are going, this is what they want to do. The leaders of the National Assembly and the executives will sit down and discuss. They will agree and take it to the National Assembly for ratification. When you think that you are the President and then attract so many busy bodies, it will not work. It is not only APC that is in the National Assembly there are other parties, which is why I asked that question, you said that Senators will have to get back to their constituencies. Is it standard practice that leadership positions in the National Assembly are for sale, available to the highest bidders? As I said so many years ago, politics in Nigeria is not for the poor. No matter how you describe it, it is for the rich. If you don’t have enough funds don’t go into politics. So, a poor man cannot say, I am a Senator, or that I want to be the President of the Senate. You must be able to stand very solid to be able to play politics in Nigeria. Are saying that all these distinguished Senators cannot function unless they collect rent? I am just saying that they are not poor people.