Senator Shehu Sani represented Kaduna Central at the Senate. In this interview, he talks about the race for minority leadership of the Senate, why the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should perform its role as a strong opposition and ensure that the ruling party doesn’t foist a stooge as Senate Minority Leader. The activist also speaks about fair appointments of leaders across the six geo-political regions. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What are your thoughts about the race for the minority leadership of the10th Senate? The position of the minority leader is saddled with huge responsibility. By that it means that he will be the galvanizing factor and also the symbol of the opposition in the parliament. What the ruling party is trying to do is to see how it can foist a minority leader that will be in sync with its programmes and policies and also the agenda of the National Assembly and by doing so try to prevent the opposition party from playing its role as opposition. They want a stooge, or someone who is not going to be hostile to them. That is politics. But what is actually going on in the National Assembly today and the politics of the minority leader is that in the major opposition, which is the PDP, there are factions, the G-5 faction and the mainstream party. What the G-5 is trying to do is to help have a minority leader that will help play the card of the ruling party. If you have a minority leader who is an agent of the ruling party, you will have a stooge. He is going to synchronize and be another rubber stamp minority leader. In earnest the minority leader is supposed to be one who stands for opposition and that will form an alternative representation in the parliament and the one that will represent and perform the agenda of his party. They are trying to prevent the opposition from playing its role and doing that in a due process means having a minority that will synchronize with the ruling party, that is what they are trying to do. There is a report that an aggrieved member of the PDP who is also a former governor of a South-Southern state is actively collaborating with these forces that are trying to foist a friendly minority leader of the ruling party on the senate, how can the PDP put its house in order to prevent such an internal sabotage from occurring? Well, to be candid with you the main opposition the PDP has not taken a serious action against its members that betrayed or subverted its own course in the 2023 general elections. They opted for the part of reconciliation but what is very clear is that the faction that broke away from the PDP to form the G-5 is determined to work 100 percent in line with the ruling party, and there is no way that you can call yourself an opposition if the people you are appointing in the position of leadership are simply the agents or stooges of the ruling party. The former Governor who is a member of the G-5, all that he is trying to do, I believe is to have a minority leader that he anoints, which will give him the relevance in terms of his engagements with the ruling party. That is all politics. I believe that the ruling party has enough membership to be able to get most of its programmes, motions and bills too, but it is natural that it will need an opposition that will work together with it but not to the point that you have an opposition that will be a rubber stamp. The danger is that the opposition will disappear once you have a minority leader who is there simply to work for the ruling party. The main opposition PDP has to be careful about this because if it allows those who are among the G-5 to have an agent who is going to be the minority leader, they have simply surrendered for the next four years the role that they ought to have played in the National Assembly. What will you advise the PDP to do to get out of this situation where they will be outsmarted by the ruling party? In the last four years we have seen the legislature simply become an appendage of the ruling party, where the Senate pushes anything that is sent by the President. From the statement made by the new Senate President, my friend Godswill Akpabio, he tried to present a balance, saying that they will work in partnership with the executive and at the same time protect the sanctity and the independence of the parliament. Well, that would have been a good thing to do but the sounds that are coming is that they also want to have a minority leader who is a stooge of the ruling party and if that is done it will be the death of the opposition as far as the National Assembly is concerned. For what I know is the two main opposition in the National Assembly is the PDP and the Labour Party. Why you hear of the Labour Party today playing more of the opposition role is because of the fact that the PDP has mortgaged that responsibility as the main opposition party to the Labour Party. Nobody says it should go to the National Assembly and fight the executive but knowing fully well that the dignity and integrity of the National Assembly is centered on its own independence, then there will be no independence if everything that the ruling party wants it simply gets it. The minority leader in a parliamentary system is like an authority, a government but in the presidential system it is not the case but if you have a minority leadership that would play the role of an opposition it will be better for the country in the sense that issues will be looked at from different perspectives and the nation will also have different perspectives on issues and decide which one is okay. But if you have an opposition leadership that is working for the ruling party, you simply have a one party state. It is the parliament that can stop a move towards a one-party state, and one-party dictatorship. If you have an opposition party that is ready to play the cards of the ruling party then that is the death of the opposition. The PDP is standing in a very dangerous position now, despite the fact that we have a president in the country and the party, they have to know that their relevance is anchored on the distinctiveness of their position as far as the political realm is concerned and they have to be the opposition. You cannot have a stooge controlled by someone outside the parliament who is ready to always play the role of a puppet and always manipulate what the National Assembly minority caucus will do. To me if PDP is not very careful it will simply disappear out of relevance, if it doesn’t play the role of a disciplined and responsible opposition. If they turn themselves into stooges of the ruling party. We have a President for the first time who was a Senator in the country, he knows the relevance of the influence of the parliament and I think that it is not also in his interest that he has an opposition that is simply going to be a stooge of his own party. After all, the opposition to the National Assembly came from his own party. He should allow the opposition to play its role and I believe that as a democrat he will do that. There are people within the PDP who simply want to use the National Assembly as a bargaining tool to their own relevance in terms of reaching a bargain with the President. I don’t think that they should do that by using a stooge at the National Assembly either in the House of Representatives or in the Senate. If you have a President that will engage the Senators or House of Representatives members at a good time, and also make sure that there are regular consultations, certainly most of the programmes and policies of the government will get through and not destroy the opposition by having a stooge as the leader. You talked about the danger of foisting a candidate in the National Assembly, can you take us through the proper process by which a minority leader will emerge? POLL A minority leader is the choice of the minority. Naturally this is on the floor of the National Assembly. When you have a minority caucus, they will meet regularly and decide for themselves who is going to represent them as Minority Leader, Deputy Minority Leader, Minority Whip and Deputy Minority Whip. When they decide then they will make a formal presentation to the chamber. In the process of that, what the ruling party will do is to see how it can sponsor a candidate, give him all the necessary resources and backing to get as many supporters from the minority as possible. The fear is that if an independent candidate emerges as the minority leader and the leadership emerges from a minority caucus, they are going to have a serious battle as far as issues are concerned in the chamber and in the National Assembly as a whole. The election of the minority comes from the minority and it is usually done after due consultations with members and a decision is taken, and also with a proper perspective on zoning. If you have a minority leader from one zone, the deputy will come from another, the chief whip from another and then the deputy chief whip from another, that is how it is done. Naturally there will be interference, there will be meddling, but it is for the minority leader to decide what part of history they will be remembered for. Do they want to have a leader who will be seen to be part of the ruling party or do they want to have a leader who will play the role of an opposition and stand to defend the interest of their own party. Do they want to be stooges of someone who is outside the parliament, who is always there to manipulate them? From what I have seen, the rumour going round is that there is a former Governor who wants to foist a minority leader. I think the Governor is doing everything possible to show the President that he is in control despite the fact that he is out of power. One of the instruments he wants to use in the next four years is to be in charge of the National Assembly, both the House of Representatives, and the Senate, and that will not be in the interest of the party and in the interest of those who are there. Let also make this clear, if you are elected as a minority leader or chief whip doesn’t mean that you cannot be removed. If you don’t perform or those who you are representing feel aggrieved and if you don’t play your roles well, it won’t take years or months before your tenure comes to an end, you will certainly be removed. It is not something that will be there for four years. The legislators can decide to remove you any time they feel that you are not doing what you are supposed to be doing. All the appointments that the President has made so far, especially the appointment of the service chiefs, do you think that it is a fair representation of the six geo-political zones? First of all I am highly impressed with the way and manner in which the Senate President has emerged. When you have a country that has a Muslim President, a Muslim Vice President, a Muslim Speaker of the House of Representatives and a Muslim Chief Justice if the Federation, what it means is that if you have a Muslim Senate President, all the suspicions, the criticisms the accusations of Islamization of Nigeria will simply be indefensible. The government will be at a very tight corner. The efforts made by the Vice President, Kashim Shettima to support Godswill Akpabio, I think has really saved this country. It has also saved the government, and also saved the image of the country. We want somebody who can perform, we want somebody who has the experience. We are still a developing country, where people are still attached to their ethnic identities and religious affiliations, and you cannot in this kind of political equation marginalize or sideline one part of the country or alienate one religion in favour of another. It is simply indefensible. If we have a country where all the major leaders have been headed by Muslims that is very wrong. So, having Akpabio as the Senate President is one of the best things that should happen. As far as the service chiefs are concerned, President Bola Tinubu is fair unlike the culture in the last eight years, under President Buahri administration where one part of the country occupied almost all the security apparatus of the state. This is one of the fairest in the history of Nigeria. We have the Chief of Naval Staff from the South-East, Chief of Army Staff from the North-West that is Kano State, Chief of Defense Staff from Kaduna State, and Chief of Army Staff from the South-West, that is fair and equitable. I don’t know how people want to say that is marginalization. It is not correct. It is the right thing to do and it has been done. What we should expect from our security chiefs now is how they can address our security challenges.