ABUJA – The Labour Party (LP) has described the suspended governor of the Central Bank (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, as a fall guy who is paying for his sin, as it accused President, Bola Tinubu, of vendetta. The party, in a statement on Saturday by its National Publicity Secretary, Obiora Ifoh, alluded that the suspension and subsequent arrest of the CBN Boss may not be unconnected to “the Naira redesign policy initiated by Emefiele primarily to check vote buying in the last general election.” According to the opposition party, the policy was a noble one, which “a particular candidate then, unfortunately, believed was targeted at him”. It also alleged that the Apex Bank’s move was considered as “a mortal sin which cannot be forgiven and must be punished.” While frowning at Emefiele’s suspension and his subsequent arrest by the Department of State Services (DSS), the LP’s acting National Publicity Secretary described the action as unconstitutional, and without the permission of the National Assembly. It also insisted that the action was not in good taste and sounds punitive, as it feared that going forward Nigerians may face a regime “where perceived enemies are dealt with, perceived opposition parties and their members are dealt with, even when they are protected by the law.” Citing remarks by the federal government that the suspension is “sequel to the ongoing investigation of his office and the planned reforms in the financial sector of the economy,” LP warned that Nigerians will not tolerate political and peripheral investigation. This is even as it suggested forensic auditing by an independent firm to unravel the “real culprits, not just Emefiele.” POLL Additionally, it urged for an investigation of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and its Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. It stressed that such investigation should be with the utmost urgency, insisting “this is the institution that is responsible for the mockery of our democracy. This is an institution which asked and received N355 Billion in taxpayers money to conduct, the worst-ever election in the history of Nigeria and in Sub Saharan Africa. “This is an election umpire that has shamelessly chosen to be partisan during and after the election, even at the tribunal. Finally, we urge the APC led government to carry out a thorough investigation of the CBN and particularly, the last APC government’s interference in the operation of the apex bank.” The front-runner political party recalled remarks in 2014, by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, in the place of former president Goodluck Jonathan to sack ex-CBN governor, Lamido Sanusi. “Mr President has the right to ask the CBN governor to resign, the same way, Nigerians have the right to ask him or anyone to resign. “However, he does not have the powers to do so. Having a right is one thing, having the power is another. Many have asked Mr President to resign but lack the powers to compel him to do so,” Femi Gbajabiamila, the minority leader of the House of Representatives, January 13, 2014″, the statement submitted. “The leadership of the Labour Party is disturbed by the decision of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to suspend/sack the Governor of the Central Bank, Godwin Emefiele, albeit unconstitutionally without seeking the permission of the National Assembly and we insist that the action was not in good taste and sounds punitive. “Drawing inspiration from what Femi Gbajabiamila, then Minority Leader, had said years ago (as quoted above) over a similar situation when President Goodluck Jonathan sacked former CBN Governor, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, wherein he questioned the powers of the President in sacking the CBN Governor. “The opposition leader made it clear that the President lacks powers under the laws of the land to sack the CBN boss. One wonders what has changed between that time and now. “Femi Gbajabiamila is the current Speaker of the House of Representatives and also holds the enviable portfolio as the Chief of Staff to President Tinubu. “He had then argued that the law requires the President to seek the approval of two-thirds of the Senate to be able to sack the CBN Governor. “Reasons being essentially to enforce the doctrine of Checks and Balances and to avoid the abuse of powers of a capricious and arbitrary President, while at the same time guaranteeing the autonomy of the CBN. But under Gbajabiamila’s watch, Emefiele was fired in a most unconstitutional and vindictive manner. “It is only in Nigeria that we find people that approbate and reprobate at the same time. People say one thing from one side of their mouth and another from the other side, especially when it favours them politically and otherwise. “That explains why the country is in shambles: no rule of law, no equity, no justice, and no fair play. People don’t follow standard rules and procedures. That is why every aspect of our live, be it our economic, political and social live, is challenged. Gbajabiamila because he was in the opposition at that time, he saw everything wrong with President Jonathan sacking Sanusi, today he is on the other side of the divide, he doesn’t see anything wrong with it,” Ifoh insisted.