Peter Obi, presidential candidate of Labour Par­ty (LP) in 2023 elections, has described the process leading to the election of the Van­guard Newspapers Editor, Eze Anaba, as President of the Ni­gerian Guild of Editors (NGE), as a sign of new beginning for Nigeria. The LP standard bearer congratulated Anaba and other successful contestants, describ­ing their emergence as positive development for the media and the country at large. Obi who made the remarks in a statement, urged the new officers to see their election as a call for more contribution in the making of a new Nigeria where truth, justice, equity and hard work would be the watch words. He recalled the noble role by the media at strategic points in Nige­ria’s march to nationhood, urg­ing contemporary practitioners to further dedicate themselves to the collective efforts at making the country a better place for all. Obi, former Anambra state governor, enthused that the transparency of the processes leading to the new NGE officials, aligns with his dream of a Nige­ria where the voters are allowed to vote candidates of their choice and their votes counted. “By the peaceful and trans­parent conduct of the elections, the NGE has shown that a new Nigeria, free from manipula­tions and vote rigging, is possi­ble. The keenness of the com­petition among the contestants and ability to stick to the issues while campaigning, is a lesson to politicians and all Nigerians seeking elective offices. Every Nigerian of good conscience should be proud of the marks of true statesmanship demonstrat­ed by the entire members of the NGE in the election. “I congratulate the elected officials and others who contest­ed with them for the nobility of their efforts. The victory in the election is a victory for all NGE members and victory for democ­racy”, Obi stated. He charged the editors to re­commit themselves in the search for an equitable Nigeria, adding that with the uncertain econom­ic atmosphere in the country and other challenges of insecurity, all hands needed to be on the deck to pull the nation through. Obi urged the journalists and other citizens not to lose hope in the country but to continue to contribute their quota in reposi­tioning it. He urged Anaba and his team to see their election as a call to service and victory to the media profession.