LAGOS – Following the global call for nutrition sufficiency, experts have said that promoting protein-rich foods consumption from different sources is the right move towards achieving nutrition security and sustainable development goal 2. Nigeria would make great progress toward ensuring nutrition security for all if it invested in the production of protein-rich foods that are inexpensive, accessible, and sustainable, according to the experts, mainly nutritionists. The wide array of experts spoke at the ‘Right To Protein Nigeria,’ Conference held on last Thursday, in Lagos. They tasked Nigerians with the importance of adequate consumption of protein-rich foods which leads to a healthy productive life and ultimately a sustainable future. Right To Protein is a public health initiative of the U.S. Soybean Export Council (USSEC) that aims to raise awareness about the importance of protein in everyone’s diet in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Right To Protein also recognises the right of every individual to have access to sufficient, affordable, and high-quality protein for better nutrition, health, and well-being. According to health experts, good nutrition starts before birth, which is why all women of childbearing age should eat food adequate in nutrients. Sustainable Development Goal 2 targets that every country should end all forms of malnutrition by 2030. This includes achieving the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under five years of age, and addressing the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women, and older persons, by 2025. POLL The SDG 2 targets further recommend universal access to safe and nutritious food and sustainable food production and resilient agricultural practices. Protein is an essential nutrient that is required in the human body to build and repair tissues, support immune function, and overall good nutrition and health outcomes. The various sources include meat, milk, fish, soy, and eggs, as well as beans, legumes, and nut butter. These foods are essential to the structure, function, and regulation of the body. USSEC’s ‘Right to Protein Campaign’ The USSEC’s ‘Right to Protein campaign’ in the country is aimed to promote adequate protein consumption among Nigerians and improve good nutrition and health outcomes. The objectives are to reduce the burden of malnutrition and contribute to the overall well-being and productivity of the population. According to the World Health Organisation, the protein requirement of an individual is defined as the lowest level of dietary protein intake that will balance the losses of nitrogen from the body in persons maintaining energy balance at modest levels of physical activity. In children and pregnant or lactating women, the protein requirement is taken to include the needs associated with the deposition of tissues or the secretion of milk at rates consistent with good health. Consequently, the Right to Protein educates people about the importance of adequate protein consumption for better nutrition, health, and well-being. The Nigerian Protein Deficiency Report 2020, reported that a total of 92.7 million Nigerians do not eat any protein in a day. The survey which measured protein adequacy in Nigeria showed that about half of the country’s population or 45 percent are protein deficient as they lack access to sufficient protein and thus do not consume the daily recommended grammage. The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations recommended minimum per capita daily protein intake is 53.8g, with global daily intake at 64g. However, in Nigeria, the daily protein intake is 45.4g, the Nigerian Protein Deficiency Report 2020 further reported. The survey further noted, “Nigeria is ranked below the bar in the global food security index with a protein per capita – daily intake lower than the global standard. This is a major burden that requires continuous interventions to combat and reduce the nutrition crisis in Nigeria. Proteins And Nutrition Security In his welcome address, Kevin Roepke, Regional Director, South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa (SAASSA), USSEC, noted that the ‘Right To Protein Nigeria,’ Conference focuses on “Protein for a Sustainable Tomorrow and Nutrition Security.” Roepke also observed the theme of the conference is a true reflection of the past four editions of The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World (SOFI) reports which identified a widening gap in the efforts to actualise SDG 2. Seven years ahead of SDGs 2030, the gap to especially reach the Sustainability Development Goal 2 target of ‘Zero Hunger’ is growing wider each year, the Regional Director, SAASSA, USSEC lamented. Further, he said that this year’s SOFI report sadly confirms that the world is moving backward in its efforts to end hunger, food insecurity, and malnutrition in all its forms. He said, “So, at this critical juncture, where do we stand now? And what can be done to help us build forward better and put us on track to achieving Zero Hunger?” “When transformed with greater resilience to major drivers, including conflict, climate variability and other extremes like economic slowdowns and downturns, food systems can provide affordable healthy diets that are sustainable and inclusive, and become a powerful driving force towards ending hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition in all its forms, for all.” Stating that proteins have been an essential part of human diets, Roepke noted that due to the ever-rising population, the demand for protein is increasing exponentially. “Ensuring access to adequate and nutritious food for every individual is a fundamental human right. Unfortunately, millions of people worldwide still suffer from malnutrition and lack access to a diverse and balanced diet. By focusing on protein sources that are sustainable, affordable, and accessible, we can make significant strides towards achieving nutrition security for all,” he said. In her keynote presentation, Dr. Olubukola Omobuwa, a fellow of the West African College of Physicians and the current acting Head of the Department of Human Nutrition and Dietetics at the University of Osun (UNIOSUN), noted that nutrition is a critical part of health and development, adding that people with adequate nutrition are more productive and can create opportunities to gradually break the cycles of poverty and hunger. She explained that malnutrition is known to contribute to about 50 percent of deaths among children under the age of five in Nigeria. Highlighting the importance of proteins to human beings, Omobuwa urged Nigerians to take in at least 53.8g of protein daily as recommended by Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO); adding that complete proteins are those which contain all essential amino acids, such as animal products, soy, and quinoa. According to Omobuwa, besides its numerous health benefits, protein consumption contributes significantly to economic development by promoting sustainable farming practices and supporting small-scale farmers who can boost productivity, generate income, and thus contribute to improved lives and livelihood and poverty reduction. “Protein consumption can also promote food security by causing an increase in demand and diversifying protein sources beyond the traditional options to reduce reliance on a few staple crops and so mitigate the risks of crop failure due to climate change or pests”, she said. Other ways promoting consumption can engender a sustainable tomorrow for Nigeria is by employing sustainable protein production methods to minimize the environmental impact associated with traditional farming practices, promoting agroecology, organic farming, and sustainable aquaculture techniques by reducing the use of harmful chemicals, and reducing carbon footprint thereby mitigating climate change. There was a panel discussion moderated by Dr. Ifeoma Akeredolu, Centre Coordinator, Yabatech UNESCO-UNEVOC Centre and Lecturer, Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Yaba College of Technology, Lagos. Other panelists were Kevin Roepke, Regional Director, South Asia and Sub Saharan Africa (SAASSA), USSEC; Prof. Wasiu Afolabi, President, Nutrition Society of Nigeria (NSN) and a Professor of Community Nutrition in the Department of Nutrition and Dietetics and current Dean, College of Food Science and Human Ecology, Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta, Ogun State. The rest are, Dr. Beatrice Oganah Ikujenyo, Associate Professor of Nutrition, Department of Home Economics, Lagos State University of Education, Oto-Ijanikin, Lagos, and Dr. Ayoola Oduntan, Group Managing Director, Amo Farm Sieberer Hatchery Ltd. The interactive discourse deeply focused on accessible sources of plant and animal-based proteins, increased protein consumption and its effect on health, productivity, and sustainable future for Nigeria and Africa, thereby ultimately, ensuring that everyone has an actual right to protein. There were also presentations by the conference partners – Amo Farm Sieberer Hatchery Ltd and West African Soy Industries Ltd (WASIL). One of the significant features of the conference was the Nutrition Workshop by a nutritionist, Durodola Omolewa Kuteyi, Chief Executive Officer of Spectra Industries Ltd, and a chef, Nkiruka Asika, Creative Director of Food Empire. Attendees were taught how to interpret food labels and understand the nutritional contents of various food items, safe handling, and storage of foods. They were also taught how to incorporate proteins into everyday meals, especially using soybeans. Prioritise Protein Production, Consumption Jim Sutter, CEO of USSEC, in his closing remarks, thanked the conference participants and explained that the #RightToProtein initiative aims to increase public understanding of the importance of protein and to encourage governments, businesses, and other organizations to prioritise protein production, distribution, and consumption in their policies and practices. Formally launched in Nigeria in February 2023, #RightToProtein is Nigeria’s first protein awareness initiative, and it emphasises the role of protein in supporting good health, reducing malnutrition, and promoting sustainable development.