LAGOS – Think Tank For Democracy, a group of veteran democracy activists, has revealed its agenda for President Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his administration. In a statement titled ‘Agenda for the President’, the activists who were at the forefront of the fight for the return to democracy after decades of military rule, in their statement made available to Sunday Independent, in their agenda for the new administration, focused on four important policy areas, economy, politics, human rights and foreign policy. In the statement signed by Prof. Lucky Akaruese, Chairman; Prof. Sylvester Odion, Secretary, and Debo Adeniran, Publicity Secretary, the group stated that it is under the burden of history to put before the new leadership a checklist of dos and don’ts to steady the polity, improve the wellbeing of our people and consolidate our democracy. On the economy, the Think Tank for Democracy lamented what it termed the conspiracy in the oil sector, even as it maintained that the country had become a dumping ground for foreign manufactured goods. It said: “The oil sector, its major foreign exchange earner has been compromised by an elite conspiracy that has rendered the four refineries in the country comatose, elevated import of petroleum products into the country to the pedestal of a national creed. “The web of conspiracy has fostered mind-boggling oil theft and the so-called oil subsidy that has been a rip-off of the national resources to the gross impoverishment of the Nigerian people. “There seems to be no end to this national robbery. The former president is securing $800 million with the concurrence of a rubber stamp National Assembly ostensibly to cushion the effect of the eventual removal of said oil subsidy.” It maintained that the oil subsidy has remained a scam that should be stopped, maintained that there should be alternative ways to refine fuel locally to “stop the pulling of wool over our eyes in the name of a fictional category known as a subsidy. POLL “We do not believe in waiting for the Dangote refinery which is obviously a monopoly venture, a range of alternatives must be made available in the country to stop once and for all, this national heist. “After all, no individual or government can dictate to Dangote refinery its pricing policies (albeit, what for example should be the cost of a litre of PMS). “A comatose economy means misery and suffering for the people; and solving this problem provides legitimacy for the government of the day. “The incoming president must repudiate the World Bank loan as it is a parting gift for the out-going administration with a consequent deepening of our debt profile. On politics, the group lamented that the game has not been perfect in the country and called on the incoming president to ensure there is a reform for the better. It said: “The new president must unleash the necessary policy reforms to strengthen the election management body to be able to conduct a credible, free and fair election. “There is no gainsaying that the outgoing administration abused and undermined the diversity of our country in ways that hobbled the lines in our former national anthem that says “though tribe and tongue may differ, in brotherhood we stand…’ “Although we believe that the sense of alienation in the polity today can be addressed by restructuring or the reform of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), including working toward the emergence of a peoples’ horizontally and vertically driven constitution, the extant provision in Section 14 of the 1999 Constitution can do justice to the feeling of deprivation and the consequent alienation.” The group also urged the incoming administration to ensure that the citizens’ rights are upheld, lamenting that “In the last eight years of the Buhari administration this country has diversely bled uncontrollably.” It stated: “The country has descended into a near (the) Hobbesian state of nature of where life is brutish, nasty and short. “Life has been completely devalued and particularly losing its ontological status. The spate of killings across the country, whether by Boko Haram, so-called bandits, Fulani herdsmen, kidnappers and ritualists is alarming and blood-chilling, and seemingly not in a hurry to retreat. “The fact that no one or two culprits have been brought to book aggravates the matter. The raison detre of the state is the protection of lives and poverty (property). “The Nigerian state under President Buhari grossly failed in this. The new administration must uphold the sanctity of lives, and non-state actors ravaging the country must be dealt with decisively and made to face the full wrath and weight of the law. Without security, productive activities can hardly take place.” On foreign policy, the group lamented that Nigerian foreign policy in the last decade or so has had no direction, and had been hobbled under the out-going administration whereby the country has remained inactive and a mere onlooker in global affairs. “Therefore, the country has yielded its continental leadership to countries like Egypt, South Africa and Ghana. “The country must re-engrossed its foreign policy about China, and the collective West Africa. We must provide leadership for the continent through the non-alignment and outright defence of continental interest without intrusion into our national sovereignty by global hegemony and historic imperialist powers.”