LAGOS  – The adequate maintenance of facilities in the existing state owned Housing Schemes is one of priorities of the Lagos State Government led by Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The Permanent Secretary in the Lagos State Ministry of Housing,Mr.Kamar Olowoshago stated this while reviewing the activities of try in his office at Alausa, Ikeja. According to him, as part of the goals of its THEMES agenda, the Governor is highly interested in the well-being of the residents of the estates and would do his best in ensuring the durability of the infrastructure in the estates. “Lagos, in its pursuit of the objectives of the THEMES agenda, aimed at transforming the state is working on various initiatives targeted at guaranteeing a longer life span of the infrastructure in its housing schemes” Olowoshago said. He further said :The infrastructure which include central sewage treatment plants, water treatment plants, network of roads and drainages as well, standby generator as electricity transformer are put in place to add value to all the estates irrespective of their locations. “Our efforts in the past three years are geared towards making Lagos a 21st Century economy and a model mega city with decent homes for all. We do not only provide homes, we deliver complimentary infrastructure that can transform the homes to livable communities.” He went on:“Our ultimate goal is to ensure that the facilities stand the test of time so that the allotees can enjoy their investment in home ownership for a long period of years,” He revealed that qualified facility managers are being engaged to manage all the joint facilities so that they can serve the people satisfactorily. POLL He however, enjoined home Owners to have a sense of ownership by taking charge of the facilities and report maintenance issues as soon as they occur. His words:”I want to seize this opportunity to call on home-owners to always be on the alert to bring any snag to the attention of the facility managers”. Olowoshago also pointed out that the State Government has already commissioned seventeen schemes with an additional five located at Odo-Onosa\ Ayandelu, Agbowa, Gbagada, Egan-Igando cluster 1 and Sangotedo Phase 2 at various stages of completion. He further said that provision of decent housing is one of the key components of the transformation agenda of this administration particularly towards making Lagos a 21st Century Economy hence the huge attention granted to housing development by the state government. In speaking about the efforts of the state in bridging the Housing gap, he disclosed that in spite of the work done in the past three years, the State Government is strategizing on developing homes in thousands so as to match up with the increased level of migration to the state. Olowoshago reiterated the commitment of the State Government to increasing the housing stock of the State while ensuring adequate maintenance of existing ones. He thereby urged all Stakeholders particularly home owners to align with the State Government‘s initiatives by cooperating with the facility managers so that the State Government’s vision of sustainable housing can be fully achieved.