AKURE – A civil rights group, Society for Women Empowerment (SWE), has chided Deputy Governor Lucky Aiyedatiwa of Ondo State for allegedly manhandling his wife, Oluwaseun. According to a statement signed by the National Coordinator of the group, Mrs. Damilola Charles, and made available to newsmen in Akure, the Ondo State capital on Saturday, the group alleged that the deputy governor repeatedly manhandled his spouse in the presence some of people, including his staff and friends. Describing battery as a civil rights problem of great magnitude, the women group noted that the campaign on violence against women must be applicable to elected public officers in the country. The statement reads in parts: “We have taken our time to investigate and confirm the allegations of domestic violence between the deputy governor of Ondo State, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, and his wife, Oluwaseun Aiyedatiwa. “Rumour mills are abuzz about the condemnable act of the deputy governor. We indeed, have it on good authority that the deputy governor has physically assaulted his wife twice in the last four months. “It is unacceptable that a deputy governor would physically assault his wife and inflicted grievous bodily injuries on her. It is equally disturbing that the deputy governor would perpetrate this crime against humanity and womanhood and attempt to cover it up. “Those who occupy public offices are expected to be above board and conduct themselves in a manner that would inspire the people and serve as role models. “It is shocking to discover that the deputy governor assaulted his wife severally to the point that the Wife had to escape to the United Kingdom to save her life. POLL “The deputy governor has broken moral decorum and acted in a manner that brings his office to disrepute. We are, to say the least, disappointed with this embarrassing conduct.” The group called on the First Lady of Ondo State, Chief Betty Anyanwu Akeredolu, and the commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development to dig deeper into the matter and unravel the details. “We are calling on the First Lady, Chief Betty Anyanwu Akeredolu, and the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development in the State to look deeper into the situation and represent the interest of the Nigerian women. “We are aware that the deputy governor had deliberately attempted to cover up this incident and also silenced his close aides who witnessed the scene on different occasions. “We are also giving the deputy governor seven days ultimatum to come clean and apologise to his wife publicly. Failure to do this will attract massive action against him.” Distancing himself from the incident when contacted for reaction, the Deputy Chief Presd Secretary to the governor attached to the Deputy Governors’s office, Kenneth Odusola said he had nothing to say because he didn’t know anything about the alleged incident. He said: “There is no reaction. Family matters should be left for family matters. That is not for your own consumption, so I don’t know about it. “I don’t look at family matters, so I don’t know about any domestic violence. Whoever may have talked to you or given you information should go and get his facts and not from me because I am not employed by a family and I don’t get involved.”