JOS – Plateau State Governor Caleb Mutfwang has assured Plateau residents that nobody would be victimized following the constitution of the committee to review the recent appointment exercise into the State Civil Service. Governor Mutfwang gave this assurance on Friday during the swearing-in ceremony of the State’s new Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff, four Special Advisers and Members of Plateau State House of Assembly Service Commission, held at the New Government House Little Rayfield, Jos. According to him, those appointed to serve in the Committee to review the issue of appointment will not witchhunt anyone. “As a matter of fact, the information that we based our action on are coming from citizens and we thought it will be irresponsible not to investigate such complaints”. “We will continue to do all we can to ensure that the process is seamless, fair and just. We won’t treat anyone in isolation and I can assure you that no one will be victimized.” Governor Mutfwang assured those that have been victimized in the civil service, for one action or the other of good intention of government to address the issues squarely without intimidation. He urged the people to continue to pray for government as it unfolds policies that are beneficial to citizens. Mutfwang admonished those appointed to see their appointments as a responsibility and trust bestowed on them by Plateau citizens. POLL Barr. Mutfwang appealed to citizens not to run anybody down in the name of looking for appointment and assured that all appointments would be made based on merit, assuring that every part of the state would be carried along. Responding on behalf of the appointees, the Special Adviser on Political Affairs, Hon. Latep Dabang, appreciated the Governor for choosing them to serve in their respective capacity. He assured Gov Mutfwang that the officers would bring to bear their wealth of experience to add value to the administration with a view to ensure the requisite development Plateau people are yearning for.