BENIN –  Seplat Energy Plc weekend declared in Benin that no fewer than 96000 persons have so far benefited from its free eye screening, surgery and other health-related issues since the inception of its ‘Eye Can See’ programme which was launched 13 years ago. The management of the company also revealed that it has dispensed over 45000 free eyeglassesand carried out 4,218 eye surgeries for beneficiaries of the health scheme since the commencement of the programme in 2012. Seplat Energy Plc management who is collaborating with NNPC E & P Limited to execute the programme noted that the scheme was aimed at restoring sights and improving the health conditions of the Nigerian people, The Director of External Affairs & Sustainability, Seplat Energy, Dr Chioma Afe disclosed this during the company’s 2023 Eye Can See programme, which she described as Seplat Energy CSR initiative, held at the palace of the Benin monarch, Oba Ewuare II, in Benin City. The initiative, she said, is a signature of the firm’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) health programme designs to provide quality eye care for Nigerians, adding that this is a flagship programme of Seplat in its quest to place smiles on its host communities.According to her, we have served over 90 communities in Edo and Delta and created 13 centres in the two states. “Since 2012, Seplat Energy in conjunction with NNPC Exploration and Production Limited (NEPL), has engendered adequate eye care services, annually, to help fight widespread visual impairments by providing eye care services and making it accessible to all who are in need of such services in our host communities and beyond via our ‘Eye Can See’ Programme. “Our primary objective is to combat avoidable blindness in Nigeria by providing comprehensive eye care services to vulnerable Nigerians. The programme aims to prevent and treat eye conditions, raise awareness about eye health, and improve access to quality eye care facilities and treatments. POLL The scope of the ‘Eye Can See’ programme encompasses a broad range of activities, including eye screenings, diagnosis, treatment, surgeries, rehabilitation, and capacity building for healthcare professionals” she said. Dr. Afe also said that Seplat Energy’s partnership with eye care specialists and surgical teams has facilitated numerous sight-restoring surgeries for beneficiaries. “These interventions have not only improved individuals’ quality of life but also enabled them to actively participate in their communities and contribute to socio-economic development. “Apart from the health care programme, Seplat Energy also have education improvement programme such as STEPS, the teacher empowerment programme; we have the Safe Motherhood, which is geared towards supporting pregnant women. “There is also community development projects where we carry out development of our communities such as construction of roads, construction of hospitals and even funding of those hospitals, ensuring that our host communities get the right support. “We have an empowerment programme and in all, Seplat is ever committed to ensuring that we put smile on the faces of the people wherever we operate that is why we say Seplat is unique”, she said. In his address, the Managing Director, of NNPC E & P Limited, Ali Zarah thanked the Oba of Benin and all the host communities for what he called “unalloyed support for the NNPC E&P Limited operations over the years. According to the MD, who was represented by Mrs AJakaye Emily Ladi “we seek your royal blessings for the company’s continuous growth and progress in our Oil and Gas exploration pursuits. “It is our pleasure as an organization in partnership with SEPLAT to roll out the “EYE CAN SEE” optical care programme for our communities. This programme is designed to provide free Eye Care, Visual aid and Surgical treatment for Cataract, Glaucoma and other eye diseases within the NNPC E&P Limited/SEPLAT operational communities. In the past “EYE CAN SEE” optical programmes, we have partnered with highly reputable medical practitioners, who have proven themselves in the field of optical care to deploy this programme over the years and today marks the Kick-Off of the programme for this year which will be extended to our other host communities”. The Oba of Benin was represented by Chief Stanley Obamwonyi, the Esere of Benin the management of Seplat Energy andNNPC E & P Limited for the health care services to the host communities. Expressing his gratitude and appreciation to the organizers of the event, Mr. Sam Igbinoba, a beneficiary said he would continue to pray for the existence of the companies so as to continue their good service to the less privileged in society.Igbinoba said he was half blind before the company carried out an operation in one of his eyes last year and successfully operated the second one this year, adding that he was now seeing with the two eyes now. Another beneficiary, Mrs. Rose Edugie who also had eye surgery said if he had gone to other hospitals to carry out the eye surgery, she would have spent over N200,000 for the operation, pointing out that Seplat/NPDC has done it for her free of charge. According to her, I want to thank the organizers of this programme for providing us these free treatments, because before now some of us have visited many eye hospital but due to the high cost of the operation we could not do it. “I thank the organizers and God will continue to bless them and prosper them in all their areas of operation”