AUSTIN OBOH Amid calls for cut in cost of governance, the chairman of the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Muhammad Shehu, shocked the nation on Tuesday when he hinted that the salaries of politicians, judicial, and public office holders would be increased by 114 per cent. According to reports, Shehu revealed this when he presented the reports of the reviewed remuneration package to Kebbi State governor, Nasir Idris. Expectedly, vocal sections of the society reacted angrily to the news. Most of them wondered why the commission had decided to increase the salaries of the same categories of public servants who were – in the opinion of many – already getting more than was appropriate. Majority of stakeholders insisted that it was rather workers in the lowest rungs of the ladder that should be considered for wage increase as demanded by the NLC/TUC which are agitating for a review of the national minimum wage. Most importantly, many critics argued that the raise was antithetic to the posturing of the new government which have promised to cut public spending in order to have enough for capital expenditure. The RMAFC chairman, who was represented by a member of the commission, Rakiya Tanko-Ayuba, said the implementation of the reviewed remuneration packages would be effective from January 1, 2023. He said the move was in accordance with the provision of paragraph 32(d) of part 1 of the Third Schedule of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Government (as amended). He advised the Houses of Assembly in the states to move quickly on the amendment of relevant laws to pave way for upward review of income packages for political, judicial, and public officers. He said the last remuneration review was conducted in 2007, adding that it culminated in the “certain political, public and judicial office holders (salaries and allowances, etc) (Amendment) Act, 2008”. Tanko-Ayuba said: “Sixteen years after the last review, it is imperative that the remuneration packages for the categories of the office holders mentioned in relevant sections of the 1999 constitution (as amended) be reviewed.” However, spokesman of the commission, Chris Chukwu, dismissed his boss’ claim that a 114 per cent salary increase had been effected for the President and other public office holders. “There is a process that must be followed for such salary review. That process has not been undertaken,” he said. According to him, to review salaries of public office holders, the commission can only make a recommendation to the president who will submit it to the National Assembly in form of a bill. He added that after passing such a bill, it would then be sent to the president to sign into law for the review to become effective. POLL If the hint was to test the waters, it worked perfectly since the Federal Government received more than enough responses to its intention. A versatile commentators and Executive Director of the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, CISLAC, Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, described the increase as “unjustifiable” in an interview. Rafsanjani, who is also head, Transparency International (Nigeria), noted that the category of persons in question were “already being overpaid,’ adding that “the country’s resources cannot sustain the salary increases.” He added: “If they go on with this increase, then the social inequality will be widened. Once ASUU says pay us reasonable amount as lecturers, you attack and blackmail them. Medical doctors say improve our services, you tell them to leave the country or leave the work. Security agencies demand improvement in the salaries, you punish them and take harsh decisions on them. “A lot of states cannot even meet up to the 30 per cent of the minimum wage you set as a law and that is why you see some of the states are owing their workers for up to six months. You even see some state governors squander and pack away resources meant for the public. “I think it is important that if we the citizens are told to bear the hardship and make sacrifices created by the same political elite, I wonder why the elites cannot do the same, instead they are all scrambling for the nation’s resources all for themselves and do that in many ways. This has to stop.” Former senator and popular critic, Shehu Sani, reacting through his verified twitter account, said: “Raising the minimum wage of poor workers should come first before that of the elites holding public offices. With this 114 per cent increase, a federal legislator will earn about N2million monthly salary and N25million monthly running cost for his office. Money derived from the removal of subsidy should be spent wisely.” On Thursday, Peter Obi, Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, in a post he made via his verified Twitter handle, said what Nigerians expected from FG was a cut in cost of governance to create opportunities for it to focus on alleviating the sufferings of Nigerians. Obi said: “I learnt with great reservation, the approval of a 114% increase in the salaries of elected politicians, including the president, vice president, governors, lawmakers as well as judicial and public office holders by the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC). “This is not the appropriate time for such salary increment if it is at all necessary. We are living in a time when an average Nigerian is struggling with many harsh economic realities, and with over 130 million Nigerians now living in poverty. This is a moment when recent reform measures by the government have increased living costs astronomically. “One would expect the leaders and public office holders to focus on cutting the cost of governance, alleviating the sufferings of Nigerians. This moment calls for creative ways of pulling the majority out of poverty. “In the immortal words of Shakespeare’s Julius Caeser, ‘What touches us ourselves shall be last served.’ The leaders, therefore, should prioritise what affects the masses and those on the lower strata of society over themselves. “The sacrifice, at this time in our nation, should be borne by the leaders. The increment should be reversed immediately, and the savings should be devoted to fixing education, healthcare and poverty alleviation especially in the remote rural areas.” Faced with the swelter of criticisms, the Presidency was compelled to make a clarification on Wednesday. Dele Alake, spokesperson for the president, said the president had not approved any salary increase as was being reported in both social and mainstream media. “While we recognise that it is within the constitutional remit of Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission to propose and fix salaries and allowances of political office holders and Judicial Officers, such cannot come to effect until it has equally been considered and approved by the President,” he wrote in a statement. Part of the statement read: “We have followed with consternation the viral story of the purported 114% increase in the salary of the President, Vice President, elected Federal and State political office holders and judicial officers. “We state without any equivocation that President Bola Tinubu has not approved any salary increase, and no such proposal has been brought before him for consideration. “While we recognise that it is within the constitutional remit of Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission to propose and fix salaries and allowances of political office holders and Judicial Officers, such cannot come to effect until it has equally been considered and approved by the President. “It is important to note that RMAFC, through its Public Relations Manager, has responded to this fake story being circulated and has already set the record straight. “However, that this unfounded story gained prominence on social media and in a section of mainstream media, again, brings to the fore the danger fake news poses to the society and our national well-being. “The misinformation was, obviously, contrived to create ill-will for the new administration, slow down the upward momentum and massive goodwill the Tinubu-led administration is currently enjoying among Nigerians as a result of its fast paced, dynamic and progressive policies. “It is important to reiterate to journalists, media managers, and members of the public that stories on government activities and policy issues that do not emanate from approved official communication channels should be ignored. “Media practitioners are enjoined to, at all times, cross-check their stories to ensure accurate reportage, which is the hallmark of responsible journalism.” The dust over the salary increase for already over-fed and privileged public servants would seem to have settled for now, but some analysts believe the matter is not dead yet and may recur in the future, given the propensity of Nigerian politicians to look after themselves in excess.