UYO – Akwa Ibom State Police Command says it has arrested 269 suspects over murder, kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism, rape, stealing in the second quarter of 2023. The number, according to the Command, especially skyrocketed by the pre- and post- inauguration period of the present Government, the Eastern Obolo and Ikot Abasi crisis and the Nwaniba cult clash. In a second quarter press briefing at the state Police Headquarters, Ikot Akpan Abia, Uyo on Friday, the Commissioner of Police, Akwa Ibom State Command, CP Olatoye Durosinmi said while some of the Suspects have been charged to Court, others were still under investigation. He listed some of the cases to include that of the Vice chancellor of a private University in the State who was kidnapped on his way home. “Two days later, being the 16th, in a prompt and discreet investigation, Operatives of the Anti-Kidnapping Squad of the Command, arrested one Prince Thursday Okon, a former domestic staff of the VC, sacked because of his criminal tendencies who masterminded the kidnapping and two of his gang members, Saviour Sunday Luke and Richard Friday, all of Ikot Ebam Village in Mkpat Enin LGA. “The sum of one million, two hundred and seventy thousand naira cash was recovered as part of the ransom paid, while Two Hundred and Fifty thousand naira was left in one of the Suspect’s account. The Toyota Corolla used for the operation was also recovered. The VC has been reunited with his family. “Another, a MURDER case, according the police Commissioner was of One Aniekan James of Ikot Ndot village in Ukanafun L.G.A who was arrested by Ukanafun Division for shooting his 35year old only Son who have been having war of words with him.” In his words: “One odudu Aniekan James. Suspect is suspected to be a habitual murderer who has committed murders in Lagos and Aba Abia State. POLL “ARREST OF RITUALIST: On 15/05/2023, at about 8:05pm, one Edu Udeme Ime of Mbak Etoi Village, UYO was arrested at Urua Ekpa junction by the Command’s Quick Response Squad for being in possession of human skull. Suspect could not give any reasonable explanation as to why he was in possession of same but named their ring leader who is a suspected ritualist. “ARREST OF 2 AIRPORT VANDALS: On 3/5/2023, at about 11:05pm, in a coordinated operation, the duo of Enyeneokpo Ubeh of Ikot Antia Village and Gabriel Essien of Ndon Ebom village, both in Uruan LGA were arrested by Operatives of the Anti-Narcotics Squad of the Command for vandalizing and stealing part of the airport gate facing the Okobo axis of the Victor Attah. International Airport. “Some of the vandalized parts have been recovered and efforts are being made to arrest other fleeing gang members. “ARREST OF FIVE SUSPECTED CULTISTS: On 13/6/2023 at about 10:30am, five additional suspected cultists involved in the Nwaniba brutal cult clash which led to the loss of lives in the month of May were arrested after a painstaking investigation. “The following were arrested; Kemfon Inyang Imeh a.k.a Laptop, Horgan Edem Obongedem a.k.a Eburutu, Brown Uduak Emmanuel a.k.a Spunky, Godwin Effiong Okon a.k.a Buy and Buy, Sunday Udofia a.k.a Ikang Inwang – The Native Doctor who prepares their charms.” While thanking the Akwa Ibom State Government and other sister agencies for the support and robust synergy in fighting crime in the state, the state police command pledged to remain committed to providing the best of Policing Services for the people of the state, in line with international best practices.