Cadbury Nigeria Plc, has received three awards and a special recognition at the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NGX) Nigeria2Equal Programme Awards. In the award that took place in Lagos State, recently, Cadbury Nigeria awarded Company Board Gender Diversity Award (which spotlights organizations that have achieved a gender balanced board of directors of up to 40 to 60 percent on their supervisory and management boards); Family-Friendly Workplace Excellence Award (spotlights organizations that have implemented best-in-class policies, especially in the areas of parental leave and paid childcare programmes); and Gender Diversity in Supply Chains Award (spotlights the exceptional achievement of organisations that have demonstrated an unwavering commitment to gender diversity in their supply chain). Cadbury Nigeria also received a Special Recognition for Women Empowerment and Leadership. Speaking on the awards, managing director, Cadbury Nigeria, Oyeyimika Adeboye said the organization’s philosophy of promoting Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) in the workplace is embedded in its DNA. “We signed on to the Nigeria2Equal Gender programme in 2021 as part of our agenda on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) and Great Place to Work (GPTW). “This has helped us to focus on what matters most. We will continue to provide the right platform for female employees in our organization to achieve their career objectives. We will also maintain our current policy of supporting our female business partners to thrive in their business because we believe in the empowerment of women,” she noted. Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the governor of Lagos State, commended the awardees for promoting initiatives that focus on women, saying that the programme is drawing more attention to gender equality in Nigeria. “Your unwavering dedication to reducing gender gaps and fostering a more equitable workplace serves as an inspiration for us all. “We must continue to challenge the status quo, break down barriers and ensure that men and women alike have equal opportunities to contribute to the growth and prosperity of our nation,” Sanwo-Olu said.