LAGOS – The National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) has told President Bola Tinubu to return Nigeria to the path of federal constitutional governance upon which Nigeria secured her independence and which most ethnic nationalities leaders, civil society bodies, opinion leaders vigorously campaigned for in the last 30 years. According to the Coalition in a press statement signed by its leader, Chief Ayo Opadokun in commemoration of the 30 years anniversary of June 12, stated that while Nigeria practiced federal constitution, there were spectacular and visible developments by the regional and national governments. “The economic policies lifted the people out of poverty and we were the envy of the black world and even our colonisers, Great Britain. “As an activist and pro-democracy leader, there can be no excuse to retain this unsustainable system that negates all known transparent, technological and value driven, modern governance. “President Tinubu perhaps was brought to government by providence, nay by God, to return Nigeria to the path of sanity where it would be able to establish a productive government that can quickly lift it’s people out of prolonged misery and poverty, modernise its education system, and organise its agricultural endowments to meet the value chain necessities required in the modern world where agriculture is organised as a business. “NADECO therefore demands from President Tinubu to capture accurately the national mood and demands from his government to implement the report of Mallam Nasir El Rufai Panel which recommended that the All Progressives Congress (APC) should fulfil its manifesto promise of returning Nigeria to Federal Constitutional Governance. Popular will is giving prominent recognition in modern governance,” the statement added. “While a return to Federal Constitutional Governance won’t immediately solve all the many infractions imposed by the military on our governance, most of the aberrations at the national and sub-national levels can be taken on board for resolutions. “For example, the fear that states created whimsically to satisfy the selfish interest of the military strongmen and their civilian friends and confederates will be reverted is unfounded. Mono Regions as you have in Germany, Canada, Belgium, etcetera, will determine what is best suited for their regions. POLL “President Tinubu must be conscious of his place in history, timing is critical. Upgrading Socio-political and economic, infrastructural etcetera, are desirable and urgently needed considering our national endowment. But the most lasting and worthy legacy to pursue now and vigorously is to legally and constitutionally restore Nigeria back to federal constitutional governance which was the basis upon which the heterogeneous people accepted to be part of project Nigeria. “Otherwise, whatever he possibly believed he has accomplished can be reversed within hours, weeks, months or years by the new ruler. This system is unsustainable. Our President must govern to meet current challenges and what his legacy will be after he has completed his tour of duty,” NADECO stated. The Coalition berated the military for having abrogated and substituted Nigeria’s cherished and negotiated federal constitution and replaced it with their various decrees which had unitarised all government policies and activities and which in turn has occasioned injustice, inequity, disregard for the rule of law and all kinds of discriminations. “All the giant strides recorded by our founding fathers in the First Republic had been significantly destroyed while all the hopes and aspirations of our people at independence have been dashed by the politicians in military uniform who have staged insurrections against Alhaji Tafawa Balewa and Alhaji Shehu Shagari governments and even their fellow colleagues in arms,” the statement added. The Coalition recalled that retired public servants, military and civilians, professional groups, Nigerian workers, civil society organisations, leaders of ethnic nationalities, traditional and religious leaders, youths including students Unions, women and other non-unionised bodies met at different times in 1994 and established NADECO, a broad based, nation-wide, non-partisan platform to reject the contemptuous, provocative and tyrannical annulment of the June 12, 1993 election which most Nigerians and the international community considered to be the then freest, most transparent presidential election in Nigeria and where Chief M. K. O. Abiola of the SDP defeated Alhaji Tofa of the NRC, on June 12, 1993.