Award-winning Nigerian actress and filmmaker, Toyin Abaraham-Ajeyemi has written a letter to the newly sworn-in president of Nigeria, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The actress, who came under fire for openly supporting the APC candidate during the recently held elections, noted that she received insults, was bullied, and received threats to her life and her business, “all because of my personal choice, which I have never forced on anyone else.” According to her, despite her belief in the president, she will always side with the people and Nigeria over anyone. “After all, you have been preparing for this role since your NADECO days in 1993 and the role you took in defending M.K.O Abiola’s candidacy as president during the June 12 protests. I have a lot of respect for you but now that you are president, you belong to all Nigerians,” she said. Noting that the elections have shown that not everyone is happy with the government, she further pointed out that some of the youths are angry, not because they hate Mr Tinubu, but because the system has failed them. “Very few of them trust the government to do the right thing when given power. You have an opportunity to change the narrative and regain their trust. You must avoid the mistakes of your predecessors and unite Nigerians under your vision for our country. Listen to our concerns, and address our fears about the future of Nigeria. “The country needs hope and real progress, and you have an opportunity to restore hope in our leaders and our country. There are many challenges that we face, from inflation to poverty, to insecurity. We will all be watching closely to see how you deal with these problems. Continue your long-held tradition of hiring the most intelligent minds, listen to their advice and give them the freedom to make their contributions to nation-building. Listen to the people, and let your achievements in office convince those who are still distrustful of your motives about your genuine interest in the advancement of all Nigerians,” she added.