Prince Adewole Adebayo, the presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the 2023 general elections, in this interview talks about how the government can liberalise the energy sector, what the government must do to ease the impact of subsidy removal on citizens, among other issues. TITI JOSEPH brings the excerpts: What is your take on the removal of subsidy by President Tinubu? From what I know, especially for someone who took an opposite view when we started the campaign, President Bola Tinubu said he was going to remove subsidies during the campaign. Vice President Atiku Abubakar also said he was going to remove the same. When they said that, I thought to myself that these people have lost the election with that kind of statement. Peter Obi also came around during the campaign that he was going to remove the subsidy. So I said Nigerians would reject these three people but it turned out that the majority of the votes went to them. For those of us that do not agree that removing subsidies is the best solution. We cannot pretend that the election hadn’t taken place. The people have chosen. No matter what you think about it, the voters didn’t mind them removing the subsidy instead they encouraged these three people to remove the subsidy. The only contribution we can make to the development is to see how Nigerians live well, and grow the economy without the subsidy. There are still subsidies in other areas but this fuel subsidy is gone now. The discussion going on around the government with the unions is not to remove the subsidy but to see how the government can manage the fallout of the removal. The removal will not cure the problem they want it to cure as time goes on. But as a leader and someone who ran for office, I have no moral authority to criticise a man who says what he would do. You don’t criticise a man for keeping to his word. Just live with it. Government said the money realised from the subsidy removal will be ploughed back into areas like education and health. Does that mean there is no alternative? Of course, there is. We need to audit the subsidy money to see that it is not all the money we spent in the name of subsidy. I thought we had the capacity to audit properly. We have capacity to get our legacy refineries to work and any other commercial refinery that anyone establishes like that of Dangote. You cannot force them to sell their products because it would be unwise to ignore the marketers around them. You have modular refineries you can create, moreover all monies in government are unified, if I make savings from other leakages elsewhere, I can use it to cushion what I spent on subsidy. If for example, you are spending N4 trillion on subsidy, with proper audit, you can reduce it to N2 trillion. But it is not their manifesto, so you can’t force it on them. Maybe they didn’t believe that we have the capacity to use the alternatives. Maybe they didn’t listen to it or maybe they listened more to the music of the campaigns. The bottom line is that the subsidies are gone. What we may prepare people for is to know that removing subsidies is just one of the options you have to deal with in the financial anemia of the government. There are other things you can do without removing subsidies. On top of that, after removing the subsidy, it doesn’t mean the problems will go away. If the government wants to grow the GDP by 6%, subsidy savings will help achieve maybe 10% of that. You still have about 90% of money to fund elsewhere. These are the issues they have to deal with. If you look at the 2023 budget, half of that has subsidy provision, the other half doesn’t have. Your half year savings from the subsidy didn’t make a dent in the deficit. We still have to borrow. There is no one door to solve an economic problem. But they have taken one liberal door to solve it, hopefully their partners in the IMF and World Bank and International community will cooperate with them. Don’t you think that unintended benefits would come later along the way? We knew how much we consume. It’s just that we didn’t want to acknowledge it. That is why labour unions complained the other time that they don’t know how much we consume and things like that. The people working at the Atlas cove, pipelines, gas stations, tank farms, different stations across the country, are they not members of your unions? Are they not the first to know what comes into the country? When you ship, the insurance company knows how much laden in the ship is, how many metric tonnes in the ship, when you finally offload, the owner of the tank farm knows how much is imported. If you go to Atlas Cove now, they know which is coming and how much metric tonnes are coming into the country. All dispensers are metered. If you know how much you consume at the metering point, then your problem is solved. It is not that difficult to know how much we consume and how much is filtered away. I know that to make an economic soup that would be palatable for everyone, subsidy alone won’t be enough, you have other things that you need to look into. For example, if you have savings and you have about N3 trillion from subsidies and you apply it to the government, while N1.5 trillion is stolen, the people haven’t gained anything. If you take N1 trillion to work to make a good road and the people get a value of N400 billion, then you haven’t saved anything. If you don’t generate employment, you have a problem. If you have cost push inflation because the workers and government would combine and that will injure the economy. Why the government has raised factor cost, raising the price of petrol, workers would say minimum wage should no longer be N30,000, minimum wage should be N100,000. Maybe by the time they negotiate, it would drop to 70k. All of them are driving the economy not because inflation is going to come, there is going to be much more money to put out. You want the interest rate to come down, how is it going to come down below inflation? If money is losing its value by 25% per annum and I lend you money at 15%, I am losing already. Even if you have interest, these are some of the factors that the government needs to look into. I know subsidy is hard but the truth of the matter is that you (the people) removed the subsidy. I warned you not to try it but it has been done now. You have to take the injection with the pain, hopefully, the malaria would be cured. Instead of quarreling with the government over a subsidy which is already gone and you allowed it to go, we must start to hold the feet of the government to fire. Start scrutinizing the expenditure, not only expenditure meant to cushion the effect of subsidy but expenditure generally. We have to start saving money. We have to start growing our GDP. The investors coming into the country must have the ability to have a long term stability, that is why though you might be against the policy being announced, flip flop over policies is even worse. Today the fuel price is N470 in six months you are bringing it to N700. Since you have decided to take the bullet for that one but make sure there is competition so that people don’t end up having the ability to choke supply because that is what ends up with other products that have been freed. NNPC must get out of the import business. Don’t rig the market. Allow everybody to bring their product to the market. I don’t want the government to fix the price. NAFDAC doesn’t import drugs, it only regulates. NNPC should liberalise it. The business of bringing fuel into the country should be between the oil marketers and their bankers. What do you think about the President’s take on interest rates and the forex market? POLL If you studied the All Progressives Congress (APC) renewed hope manifesto, you won’t be surprised at what is playing out presently because these are clearly what they said they were going to do. Of course, there have been some contradictions. For example, if you say you want to unify the exchange rates, you have to allow the market to determine them. You can pretend that you don’t know much about the market and say the dollar is N500. Then people won’t bring out their dollars. So what we call a dual exchange rate is what the government says it is selling dollars for. So the only way the government can unify the market is by selling its own dollar at the market rate because the government cannot force me to sell my dollar to them at their own official rate, rather than do that, I will keep it, take it outside the country and do whatever I like with it. So the unified market, when created, should not be under the control of the government.