ENUGU – Enugu State governor, Dr. Pe­ter Mbah, has commended civ­il servants, transporters, the business community and other institutions in the state for the significant compliance with government’s directive ending the Monday sit-at-home order. This was even as he put the compliance level at about 70 percent, expressing hope of to­tal compliance on subsequent Mondays. The governor stated these during the monitoring of compli­ance to government’s directive by government Ministries, Depart­ments and Agencies (MDAs), markets, among others, restating government’s resolve to secure lives and property. Ministries and offices visit­ed included Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Com­merce, Ministry Capital Territo­ry, Ministry of Inter-Ministerial Affairs and Special Duties, Min­istry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Lands, Ministry of Finance, Office of the Accoun­tant-General, Office of the Head of Service, Office of the Survey­or-General, among others, where he was received by the civil ser­vants and heads of MDAs. Mbah also visited several markets, including the Akwata section of Ogbete Market, May­or Market situate along Agbani Road, among others, where he was warmly received by happy traders and their leaders. Mbah said productivity was key to all the promises he made to the people to drive investment inflow into the state, create jobs, and provide quality services. He reminded the people that the power and mandate belonged to them, hence they should never allow those who had no stake in the state’s economy to under­mine the peace and prosperity of the Enugu State. Our correspondent who mon­itored the situation reported that while some traders and trans­porters defied the sit-at-home order to carry out their Monday business, some public institu­tions like ministries and offices still run skeletal duties as most workers are yet to resume while most schools still remain shut. POLL A trader at Artisan Market, who spoke to our correspondent, Chidinma Ugwu, expressed opti­mism that the sit-at-home order will soon fade away. She said: “We thank Gover­nor Mbah for this move as life is gradually returning to Monday activities, though some people are still afraid to come out due to fear of attack but with the level of security on ground and the gov­ernors commitment, I am sure next week Monday will witness more turn around.”