The Leader Of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele has hailed the president of Kenya, William Ruto for his presentation at the recently concluded ‘Summit for a new global financing pact’ that was held in Paris, France. President Ruto during the summit slammed the unfair lending system and advocated for the African continent to be treated better than it is currently being addressed by the West. He has also been clamoring for African nations to stop trading with the US Dollars but with their own currencies. In a statement signed by his media office, Primate Ayodele described Ruto as the messiah of the African continent because presidents have mortgaged their country but they fail to understand because of Leaders who don’t have vision and don’t want to leave their positions. He explained that the continent has been enslaved and deceived by foreign organizations like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and foreign countries especially the United States of America (USA). Primate Ayodele advised African countries to boycott IMF and foreign aids because they have the resources needed to thrive. Rather than going to beg foreign organizations, he urged them to have a unified currency in Africa and stop relying of the US dollars to trade in Africa. He made it known that foreign organizations are not the best for Africa because they are killing the continent and introducing ungodly things to the continent. ‘’William Ruto of Kenya will be the messiah for every other country on the continent. Other presidents have mortgaged their country and they don’t understand. They are too old, ruling the government for more than 40 years. There is no way that kind of person will lead, so God is angry with African leaders.’’ ‘’We have natural resources but we begin to go to these people and be begging them for nothing. For how long will we continue to beg? It’s either they all listen now or there will be economic and political revolution in Africa. These organizations are killing Africa, trying to introduce ungodly things to us. Africa has been blessed, let us kick against IMF loans for years. It’s not a must we spend dollars, let us have a unified currency we can use, let us ha an African central bank we can use. Africa is blessed but these people want to kill Africa and the future of the youths. Why are we allowing it?’’ One of the issues Primate Ayodele pointed to as a problem in Africa is the poor democratic system of government. He stated that if Africa must progress, democracy must be allowed to thrive in choosing leaders so the voice of the people can prevail. He assured that Africa can survive alone if presidents can be intentional about it. POLL ‘’African leaders are the problems of the continent, we must stop this, we can change the mentality of our democracy, let us stop rigging and let the voice of the people prevail. White people are not the best for Africa, they thought us about same-sex marriage and corruption, and it started from them. Some novel viruses also emanated from them.’’ ‘’We are sleeping in Africa, we are in a serious mess, we need to rescue Africa, our leaders should be responsible and stop going to the Western world for loans and assistance. We can exist on our own without their help, we only have leaders without visions, and that’s our problem. We need young and vibrant presidents on the continent instead of those who have been in power for decades.’’