ISAAC ASABOR There is no denying the fact that consumer protection as the practice of safeguarding buyers of goods and services, and the public, against unfair practices in the marketplace is essential in all sectors of the economy. It is therefore against the backdrop of the foregoing reason that the services being rendered to consumers in the laundry sector of the economy cannot be left unprotected and hapless. Again, the sector which seems to be negligible to not a few people who feel they have the strength to wash their clothes on their own might had being disappointed as the sector is undeniably huge enough that it was recently predicted to hit $8.94m in 2033 As gathered, the Nigerian laundry care service industry valued at $8.4 million in 2019, is projected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.4 percent in the next 10 years – to hit $8.94m in 2033 as Mr. Bayo Rotimi, the MD/CEO of Greenwich Merchant Bank, disclosed last month at the launch of Fabricare Professionals and Drycleaners Association (FPDA), themed ‘Raising Global Champions in the Drycleaning Industry in Nigeria’. Ostensibly to buttress the fact that the industry is huge, and thus has been patronised by a large spectrum of Nigeria’s population that needs to be protected, the leadership of SON has recently moved to standardise the laundry Services Sector. As gathered, the SON has convened a Technical Committee meeting on the draft of the standard for Laundry Services. The meeting was held at the SON Corporate Headquarters in Abuja and is aimed at standardising Nigeria’s Laundry Services sector to ensure the quality of services offered by stakeholders in the sector. The Director-General (DG) Mallam Farouk Salim represented by the Director, Standards Development, Engr. Yahya Bukar welcomed the stakeholders to the meeting. He noted that the draft standard for laundry services was initiated in 2017. However, the Committee could not present the Standard for approval due to limited input recorded by consulted stakeholders and the COVID-19 pandemic. He went on to explain that this highlights the importance of stakeholders’ participation in the standard development process, as any standard that does not elicit enough interest and comment from stakeholders, will not meet the prerequisite due process for Technical Committee meeting and Council approval. According to Salim, Technical Committees constituted by SON are responsible for articulating Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS). The Committee thus, decides what requirements are best in their general interest to determine the minimum requirements, while SON as a National Secretariat is to ensure the processes involved in obtaining the National position align with International Best Practices based on the principles of standards development, which are Transparency, Openness, Impartiality, Consensus, Efficiency, Relevance and Consistency. POLL The SON helmsman said hopefully that consensus would be achieved from the diverse opinions raised by participants on the circulated draft as documented in the collated comments to conclude the standard. He added that on completion, the standard would receive its due attention for implementation, to give “Made in Nigeria” products and services, the leading edge in quality, customer satisfaction, sanitisation of the sector, and empowering of the service providers to make the most of their skills, create jobs and make profits. The DG wished the participants fruitful deliberations and appreciated them for taking out time to participate in the meeting. He noted that without their involvement in the decision-making process for standards development it would be impossible to avail Nigerian businesses of the much-needed Nigeria Industrial Standards for manufacturing, service, trade, and investment. In the same vein, the Director, Products Certification Department (PCD), Mr. Tersoo I. Orngudwem described the meeting as a National service and contribution to national development. He noted that the outcome of the work put in place by the members of the committee would contribute to the development of the nation and the economy in general. The Director (PCD) pointed out that the standard on laundry services like any other standard faces its own challenges. He said there should be good service provision so that customers will get value, as the standards are to guide and provide the basic bench line and minimum requirement to begin with and the services should be comparable to the best practices in the world. An election was conducted and Prof. Ujam, l. Oguejiofo Theophilus from the University of Nigeria Nsukka was chosen to Chair the committee. In his remarks, the Chairman said standards need to be obeyed to achieve effective results so that they can be beneficial to the public and to businesses. He noted that he was looking forward to fruitful deliberations. He further added that from time to time standards can be revisited and deliberated upon for positive improvement. The hybrid meeting was convened to create an opportunity for some committee members to attend the meeting virtually. On his take regarding the move made by SON, Mr. Enoch Egede, a consumer enthusiast, said “There is no auspicious time to protect consumers in the sector than now as there is rampart disservice been rendered to consumers in the sector. He said, “Well, I am of the view that you have a rudiment understanding of the customer centricity that nowadays, organisations in every industry are facing a battle for customer loyalty. This battle no longer spins around the prices, promotions, or quality but the customer experience is playing an important role. This is why it is encouraging that the implementation of an approach that is called customer-centricity is ongoing in the laundry sector of the economy”. For the sake of clarity, Customer Centricity is the way of doing business that focuses on enhancing the positive customer experience throughout the journey. Simply put, it means putting the customer’s needs on priority and at the same time keeping the customer at the center of anything that you do. It helps in creating meaningful experiences and building long-lasting relationships with them. So, it is as much a strategy as a culture. It has to be inveterate in a company to be recognised by the final decision maker, that is, the customer. If the customer is not happy, they won’t stay with the company for long. And if you don’t have customers, you don’t have a business. Now, the question arises what is the importance of Customer Centricity in the Laundry Business? The foregoing question, no doubt, seems to have been answered with the formation of the Fabricare Professionals and Drycleaners Association (FPDA). Against the foregoing backdrop, it will be recalled that the reason for forming the newly launched national body, FPDA, among other reasons, was to curb rampant debt and poor customer practices. Mr. Henry Oviawe, in his view, said every effort made to sanitise the laundry sector of the economy is timely, particularly as there is a need for laundry companies to improve their services, even when they act as agents between the customers and the laundry companies, and urged them to always to recognise the importance of Consumer/Customers Protection including Return, Damage, Loss and Refund. He said, “Laundry companies should in recognition of international consumer protection laws, policies, guidelines, regulations, and protocols should seek to earn their trust and confidence”. He said there is a need for laundry companies to value the lifetime relationship they have with their valued customer.