Telecom service giant, Globacom, is set to speed-up economic and commercial activities as well as boost the productivity of professionals, students and traders across the country with the launch of its Fourth Generation Long Term Evolution Advanced network, popularly known as 4G-LTE Advanced. In a statement in Lagos, Globacom said, “Delivering a superior 4G LTE Advanced technology was a major step in actualizing our objective of empowering Nigerians for a better internet experience and more productive life”, adding that service will be rolled out simultaneously in several major cities. Describing Glo LTE Advanced as the power of three LTE data networks in one, the company stated that, “It is faster, stronger and better”, adding that over 4,000 LTE Advanced sites will be rolled out in major cities across the country in 2023. Explaining how new and existing customers can connect to the network, Globacom said, “It is a simple process. Those who already have 4G SIMs, will be able to enjoy the Glo LTE Advanced service. “But for those who do not have the 4G SIMs, they first need to upgrade their SIM cards to USIM (4G SIM). The upgrade process is also simple, as all you require is a SIM Swap, which takes two minutes. The customer also needs a device that is 4G-enabled. Then, you will experience seamless and super-fast mobile Internet services on the Glo network,” The company stated it acquired an additional 4G spectrum on the 2.6GHZ band to enhance capacity and quality, adding that this was underscored by the consistent growth of smart devices in Nigeria, the demand for bandwidth and high-speed capabilities which is also increasing as subscribers exchange, as well as download and upload more videos, music and documents and use of mobile applications that are bandwidth intensive, adding that the need for Access to affordable 4G LTE Advanced technology will enhance the experience of these subscribers. “Our subscribers today already enjoy superfast music, video and movie content downloads. They are also streaming content on their phones and other devices.” that have bedevilled Nigeria and the entire world. In recognition of this, we have decided to engage with you today to share with you some strategies that will enable you to remain afloat as well as the various initiatives Access Bank has deployed to make your business a lot easier across the globe. POLL “In our pursuit of maintaining leadership as Nigeria’s most innovative bank, we are thrilled to announce an addition to our bouquet of credit card products and our newest collaboration with American Express, a renowned global payment platform organization. This strategic partnership marks a significant milestone as we become the first bank to introduce American credit cards in Nigeria and West Africa. “Through this partnership, we reinforce our unwavering dedication to driving progress and providing an expansive network and unparalleled support to our over 60 million customers. “I assure you that Access Bank remains dedicated to delivering exceptional service, fostering financial well-being, and upholding the highest standards of integrity”. that have bedevilled Nigeria and the entire world. In recognition of this, we have decided to engage with you today to share with you some strategies that will enable you to remain afloat as well as the various initiatives Access Bank has deployed to make your business a lot easier across the globe. “In our pursuit of maintaining leadership as Nigeria’s most innovative bank, we are thrilled to announce an addition to our bouquet of credit card products and our newest collaboration with American Express, a renowned global payment platform organization. This strategic partnership marks a significant milestone as we become the first bank to introduce American credit cards in Nigeria and West Africa. “Through this partnership, we reinforce our unwavering dedication to driving progress and providing an expansive network and unparalleled support to our over 60 million customers. “I assure you that Access Bank remains dedicated to delivering exceptional service, fostering financial well-being, and upholding the highest standards of integrity”.