Seyi Makinde, Oyo State Governor, has enjoined residents of the state to key into the agro-business policy of his administration, as he also reassures investors of business-friendly environment in the state. He made this call during an on-the-spot-assessment of Fashola Farm Estate, Oyo Sugarcane Processor Limited and Iseyin-Ogbomoso-Fapote Road in Oyo town and Iseyin respectively. The tour was led by, Dr. Debo Akande, the Director-General of Oyo State Agribusiness Development Agency (OYSADA). Makinde, while speaking shortly after the tour of the 1200 hectares Fashola Farm Estate located in Oyo West Local Government area of the state, expressed satisfaction with the level of work done, saying that residents would soon feel the economic impact of the project. “You have seen the level of activities here currently and I can say I am satisfied. I look forward to when the real business of value extraction will start, where you have trucks going in and out with produce from this farm, and the time is very near. “I want to tell the people that opportunities are being created and they should take advantage of the positive economic activities going on here and key into it because that is what we want to do.” He explained that the project was being driven by a private-public partnership arrangement, assuring that his administration would continue to create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. “I have mentioned it several times that the only business of the government is to create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. So, here, it is not the government that is doing this, we are only creating a conducive environment for private businesses and the result is what we are seeing. POLL He noted that the farm estate project combined with the brown sugarcane processor company would play a significant role in reducing rural-urban migration. “We don’t want people moving from the rural areas to urban centres. Now, you can see that facilities are being built around here and, quite honestly, I don’t feel like going back to Ibadan.” Ongoing projects on the site include farmhouses, farmers’ lodges, machinery service center, Fan milk industry and road network, among others. Also on the farm are the young Oyo State farmers who were trained in Nassarawa State by the Makinde-led administration under the Youth Entrepreneurship Agri-business Programe (YEAP).