ABAKALIKI – The Site Manager of Chuba Okadigbo International Airport, Onueke, Engineer Frank Ngwu said that the clamour by various groups and individuals for the newly sworn-in Senator David Umahi to rather be appointed Minister for Works is because of his demonstrated capacity to undertake projects with high quality, speed yet at relatively low cost. The Engineer explained that he worked with Umahi in the construction of the Ebonyi International Airport, the Ebonyi Shopping Mall and some others, “He (Umahi) did civil Engineering, but you would be surprised how much he guides civil, electrical and even mechanical engineers to specifications. For him it’s either perfect to specifications or you start all over again”. He said that the current situation in Nigeria demands that professionals, persons with Umahi kind of passion take over management of the deserved reconstruction of the Nigerian infrastructure, ‘If you ply through the over 15 flyover bridges, the wonder Iyere bridge he built in Ebonyi State you will join the league of those requesting that Umahi be deployed to the Federal Ministry of Works and Transport so that he would replicate and advance on what he bequeathed his State in the interest of all of us”. “He is a visions bearer and pursues such with great zeal. Just imagine how he constructed the best and biggest International Airport in Africa and sub-Saharan Africa. Umahi has big heart, his quest for speedy development of his State and people as demonstrated here and around us is unprecedented”. Earlier, a professional group in the South East geo-political zone under the aegis of South East Professionals yesterday urged President Bola Tinubu to appoint Umahi as Minister for Works and Transport in his administration. The Group in a statement signed by its convener, Engr. Fredrick Ejimogu and made available to newsmen in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital said that Senator Umahi will be well positioned as Minister for Works and Transport to bring unprecedented Infrastructural development to the country. Engr. Ejimogu said that the commitment, zeal and political will of Senator Umahi is what the country needs to achieve massive sustainable infrastructural development adding that Governor Umahi stands in a vintage position to replicate what he did in Ebonyi in 8 years across the country. He noted that Umahi as a Senator of the Federal Republic in the 10th National Assembly will be underutilized, “As a Professional body that cuts across all sectors, we have been following the infrastructural developments in Ebonyi State under the administration of Governor Umahi and we are convinced that Governor Umahi has proven integrity, Political will, commitment that is needed fix the Nigerian roads and other transport systems in the country. POLL “Governor Umahi has brought his wealth of experience in engineering to bear in the level of infrastructural development witnessed in Ebonyi. He is an embodiment of knowledge and a paragon of excellence by the massive infrastructural development in the state. “The introduction of 9inches concrete pavement roads with a guarantee of 50years in Ebonyi State is now being copied by many State governments to ensure durability. In Ebonyi today, all the roads constructed by Gov Umahi on the concrete pavement are expected not to collapse in the next 50 years. Engr. Ejimogu who described as deplorable and death traps many major federal roads in the country appealed to President Bola Tinubu to as a matter of urgency give a marching order to contractors handling several federal road projects in the country back to site. He expressed the regret that the number of deaths recorded on Nigerian roads especially the Southern parts of the country has become so alarming as a result of the bed nature of the roads adding that road rehabilitation and reconstruction needs urgent attention to save the lives of innocent road users. The South East Professionals further urged President Bola Tinubu to consider those with track records of infrastructural development, corruption-free and National interest in making his Ministerial appointment adding that such will bring the much-needed development in the country. Similarly, Chief Charles Akpu-Enika, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressive Congress, APC said that Umahi has while he led as Ebonyi State Chairman of PDP, Deputy Governor and two-term Governor developed and grown uncommon political friendships and networks across the nation. Akpu-Enika, an Anambra State-born politician, but a long-time resident of Ebonyi State explained that the peculiarity of Umahi’s kind of politics is his penchant for all-inclusive polity, without the sentiment of religion or ethnicity. He noted that each of the times the Nigerian nation has been challenged with issues that border on ethnic/religious sentiments, Umahi has stood strong on the side of national unity, and oneness even when such postures could kick against his personal interest. He pointed out that the chance that Umahi remained the Chairman of the South East Governors Forum played out as an instrument, a platform for amicable settlement of issues that cropped up at the volatile times when the herders/farmers clashes wanted to pitch the federating zones of Nigeria against each other through his (Umahi’s) broad minded, unbiased fair mediations. “He appointed me a Commissioner into his State Executive Council, alongside other appointees in his administration, including those from the Yoruba and Hausa communities living in Ebonyi State. To him , it does not matter where you come from . Such is the quality of leaders Nigerians need, especially, now” , he said .