Expanding access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene has a significant, multiple impact on any nation’s health indicators. Without greater access to safe Water, Hygiene, and Sanitation (WASH), malnutrition and stunting would be very difficult to control. Water and sanitation access are fundamental human rights. Typhoid, typhoid fever, intestinal worm infections, and polio can all spread due to poor sanitation, as can cholera, dysentery, and other diarrheal illnesses. Stunting gets worse and antimicrobial resistance gets worsened by it. Despite the importance of hand hygiene to prevent the spread of COVID-19, millions of Africans, including hundreds of thousands of school-going children, do not have access to handwashing facilities with soap. People living in rural areas, urban slums, disaster-prone areas, and low-income countries are the most vulnerable and the most affected. A well-managed water cycle underpins progress across the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly in relation to hunger, gender equity, health, education, livelihoods, sustainability, and ecosystems. Further, the overall healthcare indicators could potentially be adversely affected on a number of levels by improved access to WASH. The health indicators include diarrhea, nutrition, complementary food hygiene, female psychosocial stress, and violence, maternal and newborn health. Others are menstrual hygiene management, school attendance, and oral vaccine performance, waterborne and neglected tropical diseases. World Health Organisation (WHO) recognises access to Safe Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) services as an essential precautionary measure for protecting human health from the onslaught of emerging diseases, epidemics, and pandemics like COVID-19. In addition, studies show that improved WASH has the capacity to address the water crisis, a critical age-long problem in many African countries such as Nigeria. POLL It is not news that some people grew up meeting the problem of WASH as children in the villages, slums even in many poor suburbs in popular Nigerian cities. In many villages, the stream served multiple purposes and is the primary source of water for domestic use. The situation has not changed much today. Open defecation into the stream is still a common practice. Yet the stream serves as a place for bathing, fishing, and recreation. In a few communities where you found spring water, residents regarded the scarce natural resource as a goldmine. In many instances, people still travel long distances along dangerous bush paths to source both spring and stream water and expose themselves to bites from reptiles and sexual violations by humans. Girls, women, and children are the most vulnerable, and disproportionally burdened by the scarcity of clean drinking water. In most African societies, women are the collectors, managers, and guardians of water, which they shared with their children, especially the girls. The trend promotes school absenteeism, increasing school dropout among girls. Despite the emergence of boreholes, which have replaced pipe-borne water in many parts of the country, the situation is growing worse today, Many citizens at both urban and rural community levels hardly have access to safe drinking water, hygienic toilet, and soap, despite boreholes’ availability mainly dug through private efforts. Even when they have access to clean water and soap, many children forget to wash their hands, despite regular demonstrations and monitoring. Sadly, many households cannot afford one good meal in a day to meet their educational expenses due to the economic downturn, worsened by the COVID-19 pandemic. WASH brings together several interventions that frequently affect a wide range of direct outcomes beyond just health. According to the United Nations Children’s Fund(UNICEF) clean water, basic toilets, and good hygiene practices are essential for the survival and development of children. Poor access to improved water and sanitation in Nigeria remains a major contributing factor to high morbidity and mortality rates among children under five. The use of contaminated drinking water and poor sanitary conditions result in increased vulnerability to water-borne diseases, including diarrhoea, which leads to the deaths of more than 70,000 children under five annually. Seventy-three percent of the diarrhoeal and enteric disease burden is associated with poor access to adequate water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) and is disproportionately borne by poorer children. Water is also at the heart of adaptation to climate change, serving as the crucial link between the climate system, human society, and the environment. Without proper water governance, there is likely to be increased competition for water between sectors and an escalation of water crises of various kinds, triggering emergencies in a range of water-dependent sectors. Most disasters are water-related. Floods, landslides, storms, heat waves, wildfires, extreme colds, droughts, and waterborne disease outbreaks are all becoming more frequent and more intense, mainly due to climate change. Climate change is primarily a water crisis. We feel its impacts through worsening floods, rising sea levels, shrinking ice fields, wildfires, and droughts. Similarly, water can fight climate change. Sustainable water management is central to building the resilience of societies and ecosystems and to reducing carbon emissions. Everyone has a role to play – actions at the individual and household levels are vital. Nigeria’s water crisis has developed into a public health emergency that calls for immediate policies and actions to prioritise investment in WASH initiatives.