Senator Athan Achonu, Labour Party governorship candidate in the 2023 gubernatorial election in Imo State has explained why he is throwing his hat in the ring in the November governorship poll, declaring that he is the only candidate that can stop incumbent holder, Senator Hope Uzodinma from his self- succession plot. Senator Achonu who received endorsement of leaders of Imo Town Unions, Zonal & LGA Associations in Abuja, on Saturday said he has what it takes to confront and subdue the Imo State governor,give Imolites a lease of life and restore peace in the beleaguered South East Heartland. He also used the gathering of who-is-who to debunk the viral allegation that he collected $1million from Governor Hope Uzodinma on his way to securing the LP ticket, with ultimate intentions to work for the governor, dismissing the allegation as the handiwork of enemies of the State. Senator Achonu , Agu Otu Aka, as he is popularly called, wondered how Uzodinma who is yet to pay him N100 million awarded to him by the Supreme Court over the destruction of his multi-storey hotel in Owerri, would part with a million dollars to help him secure the ticket of Labour Party. While acknowledging that he does no harbour animosity towards Uzodinma, having served in the senate with him, Achonu however declared that the race to salvage Imo goes beyond friendship. “If Labour Party is the strongest party in Imo State and South East, why should someone collect one million dollars to work for somebody else. Wouldn’t it be more reasonable for me to run and win for governor and steal the money of the State” he asked rhetorically as he put the lie to allegation. Senator Achonu , an apostle of” no shishi” told leaders who congregated at his Abuja residence as part of his consultation with Imo indigenes at he.and in the diaspora,that the fight to liberate Imo State from the stranglehold of selfish leaders is one that must be fought by all Imolites . The LP candidate who traced a harrowing history of how successive administrations in the State had blocked several of his investments in the State, including a refinery as well as a design to make Imo cargo airport a regional hub, for which had secured Hectres of land in Ohaji Egbema and , maintained that his aspiration to lead the state was to return it on the part peace and prosperity. POLL “Ordinarily I do not have anything to seek in government house. I made my first $1 million dollars at age 19 .Since then, I have always been on top of my game, enjoying life at the top. My strength is my brain. Ideas rule the world. I have businesses in USA and Dubai. But I am offering myself as your servant to rescue Imo State. “Our children are suffering, go to mutuaries in Owerri, there are over one thousand unclaimed corpses. Imo people should not allow this evil to continue. Those who are surrounded by enemies cannot afford to dose off” he charged in his native Igbo language. Responding, leaders of the Town Unions and Associations led by AIG Charles Ugomuoh (rtd), Chairman , BOT , Imo Community Association , individually endorsed the aspiration of Achonu and promised to go home during the campaign and mobilize their various communities in Imo State to vote for Labour party party candidate in the coming election.