Liverpool are reportedly ‘evaluating’ whether to make a ‘concrete bid’ for Nicolo Barella as a potential alternative to Dominik Szoboszlai. Manchester United have also been linked with a move for Barella, though Inter have so far insisted that the Italy international is not for sale unless a mammoth fee is offered. Fabrizio Romano confirmed over the weekend that Barella is “appreciated” by the Reds, though Inter want more than £50m for their star midfielder. He told: “The reported fee of £50million for Barella is not going to be enough for any club to sign him. Inter want way more than this and it is not going to be an easy negotiation in any case. “For Liverpool, he is appreciated yes, but they are not sure yet that this is the kind of player they need. “Let’s see in the next days or weeks.” Italian outlet Il Tempo since claimed Liverpool are ‘ready to offer £69m for Barella’ and Italian journalist Rudy Galetti took to Twitter on Wednesday to confirm the Reds remain interested and they’re pondering a ‘concrete move’. Galetti tweeted: ‘#Barella remains a target for #Liverpool to strengthen the midfield. #LFC are internally evaluating if made a concrete move (bid!) for Nicolò in the next days. #Inter – to date – consider the player non-transferable.’ POLL Barella could be an alternative to Dominik Szoboszlai, whom the Reds are also interested in according to The Athletic’s David Ornstein. Ornstein claimed Liverpool are ‘exploring transfer deal’ and ‘met with 22-year-old’s representatives this week with a view to a transfer this summer’, though they haven’t got long if they want to meet his release clause. Jurgen Klopp is a big fan of Barella, who was unavailable for both legs of Inter’s Champions League last 16 clash with Liverpool in the 2021/22 season. Klopp said: “That Barella is not able to play is not bad for us. He’s a really good player, a really good player, and I like him a lot. “He has all the things you want from a midfield player: he is aggressive, he is technical, he can run for ages and all these kinds of things. That’s a top-class player.”