The operatives attached to Zone 2 Police Command, which comprise Lagos and Ogun States with headquarters in Lagos,  said they have smashed a syndicate which specialises in armed robbery and car snatching. The operatives said four suspects were arrested in the process,  while two stolen vehicles were recovered. The suspects are 44-year-old Adams Michael Onoriode, 40-year-old Ojokola Mathew, 27-year -old Osikhena Mercy (female) and Ejeh Esther (female), 29-year-old. Hauwa Idris Adamu, Zonal Police Public Relations Officer,  Zone 2, confirmed in a statement made available to Daily Independent. Adamu, a Superintendent of Police  (SP), said on May 8,  2023 a petitioner, one Akolawole Omowunmi who uses his Silver Toyota Camry Saloon car 2009 model with Registration number BDG 80 HU for Uber services received a call from the Principal suspect,  Adams, who booked a ride from Lekki phase 1 at Presken hotel. The PPRO said that on arrival of the petitioner, Mr. Adams told him to cancel the ride and take an offline trip; under the guise of engaging his services for three days, which he obliged. “On same day about 2000hrs, Mr. Adams called the petitioner to drive him and his girlfriend to a supermarket in Lekki and the suspect intentionally left his phone in the car and requested all three of them; the Uber driver, the suspect and his girlfriend to go into the mall to shop. “While at the Mall the suspect deceived the petitioner and collected the car key from him claiming he wanted to take his phone from the car with the above mentioned description. POLL “When the petitioner waited a while and did not see the suspect return to the mall, he went out of the mall and realized that his car has been removed from where it was parked. “The petitioner saw the suspect driving the car on the other side of the road on high speed but could not do anything to stop him as he watched the suspect drove his car off. “Detectives from Zonal X-Squad Section swung into action while the phone number was tracked and the suspect was identified to be Adams Michael Onoriode with his locations around Edo and Delta state respectively. “On May 24, 2023, detectives from the Zonal X-Squad moved to Edo/Delta states where the principal suspect and three other suspects were arrested with exhibits and brought to Zonal Headquarters. Investigation is ongoing and suspects will soon be charged to court, ” said SP Adamu. Photo Caption