ABUJA – The Deputy Speakership candi­date of the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) in the incoming 10th Assembly, Benjamin Okezie Kalu, has assured Nigerians that the 10th House, under the leadership of Tajudeen Abbas and himself as Deputy Speaker, would strive for transparency and inclusiveness if voted in on Tuesday, June 13th. Kalu, who represents Bende Federal Constituency of Abia State, and who is the outgoing spokesman of the 9th House, stat­ed this in a statement he issued on Monday in Abuja to commemo­rate this year’s Democracy Day celebration. He congratulated Nigeria and Nigerians for attaining 24 years of uninterrupted democracy during which successive presi­dents have been inaugurated un­der a very peaceful atmosphere. The statement reads: “Today, as a nation, we have celebrated 24 years of uninterrupted democra­cy. Over the last two decades, our nation has undergone significant transformations, with democracy serving as the unifying force driv­ing Nigerian society forward on its development pathway. “Democracy is more than just a form of government; it is the embodiment of our shared values and unity in diversity. It is a pow­erful reminder that every Nige­rian has an equal responsibility to contribute towards building a better country. Most importantly, it provides a platform for us all to work together to shape the des­tiny of Nigeria through active participation in our democratic system. “This year’s Democracy Day commemoration is even more special because it marks the fourth successful and peaceful democratic transition since 1999, a remarkable record that shows our nascent democracy is grad­ually attaining maturity and has paved the way for the emergence of a renewed hope for us in our journey to greater prosperity. “As an elected Representa­tive, I understand the immense responsibility entrusted to me by my constituents, the good people of Bende Federal Constituency and the nation at large, and as such, I vow to diligently fulfill my mandate with integrity and dedication. “The 10th House of Represen­tatives will strive for transpar­ent and inclusive governance through legislation that enhances accountability, strengthens demo­cratic institutions, and promotes the welfare of all Nigerians. POLL “As we celebrate this momen­tous day, I urge all Nigerians, ir­respective of tribe or religion, to continue to believe in the strength and potential of the Nigerian democratic system. It is my sin­cere desire that we all collaborate harmoniously towards ensuring a society where justice, equity, and the constitutional rights of citizens are upheld.”