In one of the matches the Su­per Eagles played which Ni­gerians would like to forget in a hurry, the three times African champions, under erst­while manager, Gernot Rohr, showed complacency and bun­dled four-goal lead at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City to draw a game they seemed to have had under their belt 4-4. The match was a 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier between the Super Eagles and Leone Stars of Sierra Leone and Nigerian showed quite early that they were meant for business in that day as the home team, as early as the fifth minute, got off to a very good start with Alex Iwobi pouncing on a loose ball to score from the edge of the box. In the 21st minute Sierra Le­one almost drew level through Kamara who had all the time in the world but volleyed over from inside the box following a cross from Buya Turay. A minute after Kamara’s miss the Eagles doubled their lead on 22 minutes thanks to Victor Osimhen who finished at the far post off a low cross from Zaidu Sanusi. Iwobi grabbed his second goal of the game to make it 3-0 in the 28th minute after curling into the top corner inside the box. The Eagles continued to pile the pressure and were once again rewarded in the 31st minute this time through Samuel Chukwueze who received a flick from Osim­hen, went on a solo run before putting past the Sierra Leone keeper. Regrettably, that was all that could be said of the Super Eagles in that match as two minutes lat­er, the Leone Stars started the comeback as Quee Kamara pulled one back after complacency led to the Super Eagles losing posses­sion in their own dangerous area. Like a mad man on the prowl for destruction, the Leone Stars gave no room for mistakes as they came back stronger in the second half and within a space of thirty minutes, the Super Eagles let go of the four goals and drew the game 4-4 to the surprise of Nigerians. POLL That game was a sad remind­er of when not to believe in the Nigerian national team as they promised so much, matching the promises with early incursions but later delivered little or noth­ing after they capitulated when it mattered most. Today in Monrovia, the capi­tal of Liberia, presents another challenge for the Super Eagles against the same Leone Stars as both teams fight for chances to qualify for the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations in Côte d’Ivoire. Which­ever way the pendulum swings today, the Super Eagles are still with a chance but anything short of victory for the Leone Stars will see them kiss their ambition of a fourth appearance at Africa’s biggest football tournament good­bye. Sitting third in the qualifying Group A with five points from four matches and trailing leaders Guinea Bissau with five points and second placed Nigeria with four points, Sierra Leone will revive their chances with a win over the Super Eagles and Coach John Kester admitted this while talking to his players ahead of the game. “We still have our destiny in our hands and this is what we are going to do against them (Nige­ria). “If we fail to beat them, we can as well forget anything about the Cup of Nations next year so we should collectively take respon­ sibility in this match. “It is going to be difficult be­cause Nigeria is a great aide but remember we have known them and their strengths; let’s go for it,” he was quoted as saying by a local newspaper. However, Nigerian manager, Jose Peseiro, also know the enor­mous work already cut out for his wards and expect a tough duel In Monrovia, venue of the match. The Portuguese said during a presser in Lagos while they were training: “It will be a difficult game because in the last three games, we have drawn two and won one, which was in Abuja last year,” Peseiro said at a presser. “Also, Sierra Leone has just one opportunity. They have to beat us. If they don’t, they are out. “No one can say the result clearly, but we can only talk af­ter 90 minutes will we know the result. “Sierra Leone opened camp last Thursday, they started camp before us, it’s a good team. So we need to put in our best, and our best concentration and play a col­lective game.” Meanwhile, for Nigeria to avoid the mistakes of Benin City and book their passage to the next Cup of Nations, they must be in charge of the game and assert themselves in the match. With the avalanche of first team players in Europe that would be on parade, nothing short of nicking the ticket may be toler­ated by Nigerians but that will only happen if certain mistakes observed in their earlier games are corrected. For instance, in the dou­ble-headers against Guinea-Bis­sau, Nigerian defence was ex­posed as a lot of through passes and mistakes were made. The Guineans almost effortlessly got past the back line of the Su­per Eagles at some points in the game. However, with the return of William-Troost Ekong, the Udi­nese star should have a formi­dable partnership with Kenneth Omeruo who has experience in his favour. Leaving the back open affects the general performance of the team from the midfield to the at­tacking line. Sierra Leone will desperately come out for the win to get back in contention for qualification, especially as Guinea Bissau are now calling the shots at the sum­mit of the log. According to Victor Ezeji, former Super Eagles forward, while in a chat with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, early qualifica­tion will remove every stress and anxiety from both the players and their coaches and make it easy for proper planning for the event proper. He challenged the players to shun all forms of distraction and focus on the task of defeat­ing their hosts in today’s match. “I fancy them qualifying right at that stadium but all that will depend on the players. “We have enough quality to get this job done right there and I am challenging them to do it. “They should take away every distraction and face the match; football might have developed and improved in every country but on a good day, we should be able to defeat Sierra Leone and that is one thing I want them to do on Sunday. “Winning the match will have a lot of advantages as it will give them rest of mind while the coaches will begin to plan for the greater challenge which is the cup of nations proper,” he said. Ezeji might have spoken on the backdrop of that inglorious 4-4 draw in Benin City, given that Nigeria has that game firmly un­der their belt. According to the coach of the Super Eagles then, Gernot Rohr, while speaking at the presser after that draw, it was complacency that led to that mis­erable result. “If we had played the way we played at the first half, we would have won and even score more goals. “But the players thought at 4-1 at the break, they have all but done the job but it was one mis­take we cannot allow any more,” he was quoted as saying after the match by Nigeria’s sports radio. However, Taiwo Awoniyi, whose goal rescued Notting­ham Forest from relegation at the end of the English Premier League last season, said Nigeri­ans should not expect anything short of win against Sierra Le­one as, according to him, they knew what is at stake. “This is a game that you have to put in your best because you only have 90 minutes to play. Perhaps, the next time you play again in September or thereabout. “Of course, Nigerians should not expect anything other than victory. Because looking at the caliber of players that we have in the team, these are players that have done well for their club sides, and I hope that we can bring home the same spirit that we have from our club sides.” To Julius Aghahowa, the play­ers can beat Sierra Leone if they put seriousness in their game, noting that they have enough quality to do that. “We are not lacking players with quality but the problem with the present Super Eagles is that at times they don’t show seriousness. “Except that, they can over­come Sierra Leone right there. If they can be on the game for the entire 90 minutes, they will have it wrapped up and qualify for the Nations Cup,” he told our correspondent. But the coach of the Leone Stars, Kester, is very much up­beat, saying Nigeria should not expect them to lie down as be trounced as they would give the match their all in order to beat their more fancied opponent. “We are going to go there to compete. We are not going to go there and lie down. I don’t real­ly need to let the players under­stand the significance of this game,”Keister said in a short video posted on the official web­site of the Sierra Leone Football Federation on Thursday. ” I think the players them­selves should understand that. They should relish the challenge of coming up against Nigerian players who are doing well over­seas.” Ismael Dumbuya, Sierra Le­one striker, said they hope to beat the Super Eagles as that would be a massive achievement for them. “We want to beat Nigeria and qualify for the next AFCON. That will be a big achievement for us because Nigeria is a big country when it comes to football. “We are not afraid of them but we will approach the game with strong mentality to go out there and win the match,” he said.