LAGOS  – The Global Leadership Summit (GLS), a prominent global leadership organisation in partnership with The Leadership Project, has successfully concluded the highly anticipated third edition of the GLS4Business summit stirring industrial transformation models that would spur the economic prosperity of Nigeria. The summit, recently held at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria, brought together business leaders and industry experts to explore the theme of “Leading Effectively in Uncertainty.” The conference immersed attendees in a dynamic environment filled with thought-provoking keynote speeches and engaging panel discussions. In today’s rapidly evolving 21st-century marketplace, excelling in the face of uncertainty requires exceptional leadership skills. Recognising this imperative, the GLS4Business summit aspired to empower business leaders with the tools and insights necessary to navigate the challenges they encounter. With an unwavering commitment to empowering leaders, the summit embraced a forward-thinking approach that fostered innovation, resilience, and adaptability. The GLS4Business summit showcased an array of inspiring speakers who captivated the audience with their transformative ideas, urging the business leaders in attendance to embrace change and seize opportunities amidst ambiguity. Through their insights, participants gained invaluable perspectives on driving growth, fostering collaboration, and maintaining a competitive edge in an ever-changing business landscape. Chris Ordway , during the event, emphasised the importance of integrity as a fundamental value in business leadership. “Integrity is the cornerstone of successful business leadership. By prioritising ethical practices and maintaining transparency, leaders can build trust and create a foundation for sustainable growth,” he said. POLL In her keynote address, Ibukunoluwa Abiodun Awosika , former Chairman of First Bank of Nigeria, encouraged businesses to adapt to the dynamic and constantly changing business environment. “Identifying problems puts you in a position to do something about it. Before you jump into anything, plan properly and do your due diligence. Many businesses fall short due to insufficient information on how to engage the relevant apparatuses of government,” she said. Renowned leadership expert and Founder of the Daystar Leadership Academy, Dr. Sam Adeyemi, highlighted the need for businesses to keep pace with the evolution of technology or watch their businesses fossilised into obscurity. With an unwavering commitment to empowering leaders, the summit embraced a forward-thinking approach that fostered innovation, resilience, and adaptability. Heather R. Younger also provided the audience insights on how powerful communication serve as a guiding light for leaders and organisations seeking to create lasting success in keynote address streamed virtually. “In a world full of distractions, being present is the best present you can give to anyone. It deepens connections, strengthens relationships, and fuels genuine understanding,” said the founder and CEO of Customer Fanatix USA. Dr Gabriel Ogbechie , GMD of Rainoil Limited, in his powerful speech, urged participants to embrace change, challenge conventions, and proactively seek opportunities to evolve their businesses for long-term success. “Business leaders must adapt or die. To thrive in today’s ever-changing landscape, step out of your comfort zone and embrace innovation. You cannot expect different results by doing the same things repeatedly. Do business as they are and not as they ought to be,” he said. Since its inception, the GLS4Business has made veritable business insights and skills accessible to business leaders who want to lead sustainable businesses. Alongside the impactful keynote speeches, the GLS4Business summit provided vibrant panel discussions led by Godman Akinlabi, President and Founder, PISTIS Life & Leadership Institute and the Convener of The Leadership Project, igniting meaningful dialogue among business leaders. These engaging sessions brought together industry experts and thought leaders to share their experiences, insights, and best practices. Attendees had the opportunity to clarify doubts, exchange ideas, challenge conventional thinking, and co-create innovative solutions that could shape the future of their organisations. The Global Leadership Summit Nigeria, in collaboration with the Global Leadership Network USA, which hosts the Global Leadership Summit in more than 120 countries, are the host of this event. In his remark, Francis Olubambi, the Regional Director, West & Central Africa said, “We are committed to empowering leaders and making them better in every facet of their leadership.”