Former President Donald Trump has been arrested at the federal courthouse in Miami. He will soon face charges related to mishandling classified documents. During the proceedings on Tuesday, deputy marshals took electronic copies of his fingerprints. However, they did not take a mugshot of Trump because he is easily recognizable, as reported by CNN. Trump’s assistant and co-defendant, Walt Nauta, has also been arrested, fingerprinted, and subjected to standard legal procedures. These criminal charges, pertaining to the mishandling of classified documents as declared by the Justice Department, significantly increase the legal risks faced by the leading contender for the 2024 Republican Party nomination. Trump is currently confronted with 37 felony charges. These allegations assert that he unlawfully retained national defense information and engaged in the concealment of documents in violation of laws related to tampering with witnesses during the Justice Department’s investigation into the materials. https://twitter.com/Travis_in_Flint/status/1668693244744441899?s=20 What to expect during Trump’s court appearanceThe hearing scheduled for Tuesday will serve as both an “initial appearance” and an arraignment for Trump. During this hearing, he will have the opportunity to enter his plea in the case. Lawyers representing Trump and his co-defendant, Walt Nauta, must make appearances in court on their behalf, according to Florida rules. POLL Sources familiar with the matter have indicated that attorneys Todd Blanche and Chris Kise are expected to represent Trump in court. However, the specific role that Kise will play moving forward is unclear, as he was sidelined during the legal proceedings last year due to internal conflicts within the Trump team regarding the Mar-a-Lago search. https://twitter.com/EdKrassen/status/1668685802769993729?s=20 Lindsey Halligan, another attorney licensed in Florida who previously worked on Trump’s lawsuit regarding the search, remains on Trump’s legal team and may be present at the hearing on Tuesday. During the hearing, the magistrate judge will address the bond package, which will determine whether the defendants can be released from custody while they wait for their trial. As part of this package, there may be conditions imposed on the defendants. They might be required to inform the court’s probation office before traveling to certain destinations. Additionally, prosecutors may request restrictions on Trump and Nauta, preventing them from communicating with witnesses involved in the case. Special Counsel Jack Smith is attending Trump’s arraignmentSpecial Counsel Jack Smith is present at the arraignment of former President Donald Trump in Miami, Florida. Smith was appointed by Attorney General Merrick Garland in November to investigate Trump’s handling of classified documents and any attempts by Trump and his associates to disrupt the peaceful transfer of power after the 2020 election. Last week, the special counsel announced the indictment in the case involving classified documents against the former president. Smith emphasized that he intends to pursue a swift trial in this matter. “Our laws that protect national defense information are critical to the safety and security of the United States, and they must be enforced,” Smith said Friday. “Violations of those laws put our country at risk.” (SOURCE: Greek Reporter)