LAGOS – Airtel Nigeria, has an­nounced its partner­ship with Samsung as part of its commitment to providing 5G innovative solu­tions that empower its customers to stay connected and do more beyond their imaginations with Samsung to provide some of the most affordable 5G devices in the country. With the launch of 5G, Airtel will be offering this cutting-edge technology, which promises to revolutionize the way Nigerians stay connected. The 5G network is expected to offer faster download and upload speeds, lower latency, and more reliable connectivity, providing Airtel customers with a seamless and enhanced digital experience. Commenting on the launch, Airtel Nigeria CEO, Carl Cruz, said, “5G is a completely new experience that supercharges cloud computing, telemedicine, self-driving cars, cloud gaming, Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (AR & VR), Internet of Things (IoT), Smart homes, and so much more. While we may think that 4G is a remarkable improve­ment on our internet experiences, 5G completely opens a new vista where anything and everything is possible. Right now, with 5G, we can only be limited by the limits of our imagination.” Cruz also described a link be­tween the 5G launch and the com­pany’s current marketing cam­paign, A Reason to Imagine. “If you go by our recent­ly-launched brand theme – A Reason to Imagine – you will no­tice that it fits perfectly with this paradigm shift. With 5G, it is more achievable to empower creatives and entrepreneurs in tech, medi­cine, fashion, retail, communica­tions, and media to bring execu­tive more adventurous ideas. 5G ushers in a new era of collabora­tion that breaks boundaries and presents a new wave of economic benefits for this generation and the next, and we cannot wait to see how young people all over the country explore this new world of instant and unbroken connections to unleash a revolution in creativ­ity,” he said. Also speaking at the event, Chief Commercial Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Femi Oshinlaja, said, “5G is simple and not meant to be out of reach, which is why Airtel has come to democratize 5G, so that Nigerians can get the most afford­able 5G routers. We are also glad to have partnered with Samsung to deliver the most affordable 5G mo­bile phone for 122,000 naira only.” According to Airtel, the Airtel 5G network is available in key cit­ies across Nigeria, and Airtel will continue to expand its coverage to other parts of the country in the coming months.”