A former member of the 9th National Assembly, Hon. Sam Onuigbo, was the chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Climate Change. He represented the Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South federal constituency of Abia State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The lawmaker in this interview speaks about climate change, subsidy removal and leadership of the 10th Assembly. TORKWASE NYIEKAA brings the excerpts: You moved a motion on the floor of the house on the implementation of the carbon credit scheme. When you talk of these technical terms, most Nigerians seem not to understand, and the House passed that motion calling for the implementation. What is the carbon credit scheme all about? When you talk about carbon, you are talking about part of the pollution that disrupts the atmosphere and leads to emission of greenhouse gases. It is not favourable to the environment, whether it is coming from oil producing, cement producing or those who are running factories. When it builds up in the air it becomes a big problem. So, what people ahead of us (industrialised countries) have done is to say, we should be able to impose certain taxes. So that if you are producing or polluting to this level, let us have a threshold. We can say it is acceptable and if you are going beyond you should be charged for the pollution that you caused. You should pay tax for the carbon. Today you would agree with me that it is almost a free for all in the country. There is no proper control. Whereas other people who have used different forms of energy including the ones that are polluting the system to develop their places. These people are now putting controls. Therefore, carbon credits, also known as carbon allowances or offsets, are permission slips usually issued by governments or its designated agency or independent verifying companies that allows the holder to emit one tone of carbon or equivalent greenhouse gases. These industrialised countries are also transitioning into renewable energy in such a way that they are using energy that is not polluting the environment and disrupting everything that we are doing. We put it in the Act that the Ministry of Environment, working with the Federal Inland Revenue Service should be able to come up with a carbon tax and put a figure. This is in collaboration with the National Council on Climate Change. And then we also said that there should be a pilot carbon budget 12 months after the bill was assented to. Can you throw more light? One of the reasons I moved that motion is to bring to the consciousness of the government that we appear not to be meeting the targets that we set by ourselves through the Act that we have passed and assented to. The law also provides in sections 19 and 20 that we should have a carbon budget of about five years. That again we do not seem to be able to have completed. You can see that from November 2021 to November 2022 that was one year. Remember the other one said 12 months after assent. Perhaps some of you were not aware, but when I felt that we were almost going to fall foul of the law that we gave ourselves, I had to write to three critical offices that we worked or collaborated with in passing the Act. The office of the Minister of Justice and Attorney general of the Federation. He really played a very important role, when we were working on the bill that became an Act. I also wrote to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), to say that there is a need for us to activate this law properly so that the international community does not look at us, and ask, “What are they doing? I also wrote to the office of the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to raise these issues. Why we are doing it is not because we want to be hard on the Executive and its agencies. No. It is just that we are joining others to take actions that are geared towards a very peaceful, organized and orderly transition from fossil fuel based economic activities to something that guarantees that even when you are using the fossil fuel to produce, the emission levels do not get to a point where they are dangerous. So that is the reason for moving the motion and writing those letters that I wrote last year to call attention to these concerns. It appears there are people in the system who frustrate government policies and laws from being implemented. Just like you said earlier that for over one year after the passage of the climate change bill, nothing has been done. Should there be sanctions to ensure that laws are not breached and that the government especially this government and the 10th Assembly live up to expectation? I would like to put certain things in proper shape. One is that yes, I was worried. And I think you will permit me to say we were worried as the Parliament that there was an appearance that the law was not being duly followed as at that time. But I must also state publicly that the immediate past Federal Government moved ahead and started taking some actions. I would not say the letter from me prompted them, because it takes some time to make some very high decisions. Former President Buhari moved ahead and appointed a Director General. I think it was in September 2022, and also inaugurated the National Council on Climate Change. You could argue that it took almost one year for it to be inaugurated, which is a while. After inaugurating the National Council on Climate Change in September, early this year they were able to hold the first inaugural meeting. On what you have to do to the government whether there are individuals that work to frustrate a law that has always been the case. I’m not particularizing on the Nigerian Government, but when you check what goes on between bureaucrats and even the legislature you find out that sometimes, the bureaucrats have their own ways of circumventing rules or even laws. So I’m not saying that is what happened, but of course if we didn’t know that, people like Max Weber would not be talking about why we need to make sure we have an efficient and effective system in place and running to achieve results without applying rule of the thumbs. So such a thing happens. We are not saying it is happening with this government but that it is up to people to work to ensure that you prevent such a situation from becoming the order of the day. Whether there was anybody who was working to frustrate it, I do not know about that. I think we have crossed the point where one could say that maybe there were challenges from the bureaucratic angle which made it impossible for the climate change bill to be passed to either in the 6th Assembly. For it to fail again in the 7th Assembly and also in the 8th Assembly, when I first sponsored it. By the grace of God, we were able to get it in the 9th Assembly. Where do we go from here? POLL But it is up to us to work together as a people to look at where we are standing. Why it is important that we must pursue the process of transitioning in an orderly and organised manner since we know that ours is a fossil fuel based economy. Well, we are also aware that major polluters like China, the United States of America, India, Brazil and others are working on transiting from a fossil fuel based economy to an economy that is powered through renewable energy. They are working very hard and are rapidly transiting. If anybody is telling you that industrialised countries and even developing countries are not transiting, that person is not telling you the truth. That is why the efforts of the Federal Government to integrate the Energy Transition Plan into what the National Council on Climate Change is doing is a welcome development. We have a duty to get ourselves ready by planning and executing well on how to transit. The reason this is crucially important is that if we fail to do it now, we may end up being stranded with critical assets like oil, gas, etcetera, that we know we have in abundance. If nobody is buying, if everybody transits and you are not joining in transit in an orderly and inclusive manner, then you would be left with it. So, that is why it is important for all hands to be on deck. We have a new President now, what is your message to him over the implementation of the climate change Act? What I would like to see the new administration do as far as the implementation is concerned is to have a robust approach towards the implementation of the Act. Not to allow gaps to occur in the implementation because this is a well thought out Act that is intended to give us a framework for a low greenhouse gas emissions, inclusive green growth and sustainable development. Essentially that is what this Act is all about. So we should see it implemented in an orderly manner. And we are not going to achieve that if we have gaps here and there. Like I said earlier, when we are aware that other people are making efforts including those who are the main polluters, you should know what to do. Does subsidy removal have an impact on the pollution on the environment? The issue about removal of subsidy is that this is a problem that has lingered for decades. Where money that was supposed to be invested in infrastructure, education, health, was being paid to a few. They were busy increasing their private jets. We have a duty to come and work together for the government of President Bola Tinubu.