Dauda Ali Biu, Corps’Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps has directed the mobilisation of adequate logistics and personnel for the 2023 Eid-el-Kabir celebration to enhance visibility and guarantee safe travels for all road users before, during and after the celebration. A press release signed by Bisi Kazeem, the Assistant Corps Marshal Corps Public Education Officer stated that the mandate is to curb road crashes and reduce traffic gridlocks on the highways and the special patrol operations have been scheduled to commence from 26 June and be terminated on 1 July, 2023. The Corps Marshal equally mandated that the following objectives must be achieved in the special operations: Reduction in Road Traffic Crashes, Road Traffic Fatalities, and Road Traffic Injuries; Prompt response to road traffic crash victims; Engagement of robust public education and enlightenment; and speedy removal of obstructions from the highways among others. The release further stated that the Corps is embarking on the special patrol operation to ensure motorists and other road users have a hitch-free celebration amidst the rainy season, revealing that about 750 Patrol Vehicles, 120 Ambulances, 25 Tow Truck and over 200 Bikes would be on the road during the special operation. FRSC has over the years developed this tradition of always organising special patrol operations during festive periods as a way of averting the chaos that characterises the road during such celebrations, as such, this year’s Eid-el Kabir would not be an exemption, it reads further. Advising that motorists must endeavour to avoid traffic violations and remain conscious of their safety to avoid not only arrest and prosecution by members of the Corps but falling prey to avoidable road crashes. It gave the corridors to be covered as: Akwanga-Lafiya-Makurdi, Jos-Bauchi-Gombe, Sokoto-Tambuwal-Jega-Birnin Kebbi corridor, Katsina-Kano-Wudil-Dutse-Azare-Potiskum corridor, Kaduna-Saminaka-Jos corridor, Abuja-Kaduna-Kano corridor, Okene-Ogori-Isua-Owo corridor, , Asaba-Abraka-Ughelli-Warri corridor, Ibadan-Ogere-Sagamu corridor, Sagamu-Mowe-Lagos corridor, amongst others. It stated that to achieve maximum coverage, the Corps has deployed operational equipment and logistics materials for this exercise. More so, the Corps Marshal equally directed that all Zebras must be active 24/7 and be responsive to calls within the minimum FRSC response time to crashes reported. POLL While also using the medium to appeal to motorists to obey all traffic rules, and regulations and cooperate fully with the FRSC and other law enforcement agencies that would be deployed for traffic management duties, it pointed out that Mobile Courts would be in session across the country for prompt dispensation of justice to recalcitrant traffic violators. Also the Officers were asked to pay attention to effective traffic control, wrongful overtaking, use of phones while driving, Drivers licence violations, lane discipline, removal of rickety vehicles on the road, and driving with expired/worn out tyres and without spare tyres among others. The Corps will go into the exercise with the friendly collaboration with Military, Paramilitary and emergency service providers en-route or resident, the release revealed.