Do you know that irrational fear is the worst thing that can happen to anyone? Are you aware that fear is one of the major causes of hypertension and phobia? Are you even aware that fear could discourage people from attaining their life goal? Child of God, I may not know what you are afraid of. But one thing is certain, today our Lord Jesus Christ has come to deliver you from the spirit of fear. Through this reflection you will not only be delivered from fear. Your courage and your lost glory will be restored! In the gospel of Matthew 10:26-33 our Lord Jesus Christ said to his apostles, “Have no fear of men; for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.” Human beings are the major threat to their fellow human beings. There are people who go about intimidating their fellow human beings either with charms or their diabolic powers. Our Lord Jesus Christ is the Man with the highest authority (Matthew 28:18). Today, He has come to deliver you from all forms of fear and intimidations. That is why He is telling you not to be afraid of men. Fear not! For Greater is He that is in you than He that is in the world (1 John 4:4) Jesus told His followers, “Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul; rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.” Child of God, your soul is more important than your body. Human beings can only destroy your body but they cannot destroy your soul. In 1 Corinthians 3:16-17 St. Paul wrote, “You are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? If anyone defiles the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, and you are God’s temple.” God has not permitted anybody to destroy you. He will destroy all those who try to destroy you! Jesus gave more reasons why His followers should not be afraid, “Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground without your Father’s will. But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows.” Child of God, as long as you are connected to Jesus Christ, you are secured! You are more than many sparrows! God will not allow anybody or anything to attack you. So, fear not! You are untouchable! If you really want to enjoy divine security, safety and protection then you must be ready acknowledge Jesus as your Lord and Saviour. “So everyone who acknowledges me before men also will I acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven; but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven.” This is the only prize you need to pay for your safety and protection. Jesus will protect you as long as you are ready to promote Him. POLL As for those who are plotting evil against you, worry not and fear not! As Jeremiah rightly prayed, “They will be greatly shamed, for they will not succeed. Their eternal dishonour will never be forgotten.” Child of God, as you remain connected to our Lord Jesus Christ, your fear is over! You are secured and you will live to see the downfall of your foes and it shall be well with you in Jesus name- Amen! Happy Sunday from Fr. John Damian Adizie, ADM.