In the last two weeks, the national media space has been dominated by reports, analyses, and commen­taries on the arrest of suspended governor of the Central Bank of Nige­ria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, and sus­pended chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa. Emefiele was sus­pended on Friday, last week, while Bawa was suspended on Wednesday, this week. Both were suspended, according to the Federal Government, to pave way for un­interrupted and thorough investigations into their activities while in office – an exercise that became necessary after the relevant authorities received disturbing allegations of abuse of office against the two men. But they were not arrested by the Police but by the Nigerian State Se­curity Service (SSS), the Nigerian secret service which prefers to be called the Department of State Services (DSS). A pattern appears to have been established: suspension by FG and arrest by DSS. Curious thing though: public commen­tators appear worried that the SSS has usurped the position of the police in both cases. There are other reservations so far expressed by those who have not been seized by the largely celebratory orgy occasioned by these two events. DSS’s love for Emefiele has long been signposted, since 2022. Recall that on De­cember 7, 2022, the DSS, in an ex parte application, sought an order to arrest Emefiele. The security organ accused Emefiele of financing terrorism, fraud­ulent activities and economic crimes of national security dimension. The Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice J.T. Tsoho, however, refused to grant the application of the DSS. The court said such an application should have been accompanied with the presidential ap­proval because of the grave implications for the Nigerian economy if the CBN governor was arrested and detained. This then could be the background of the DSS’s invitation to him to spend some time with them now that he has gener­ously been relieved from those onerous duties as national coordinator of mone­tary matters. It would seem his alleged indiscretions are more fundamentally injurious to the nation’s security than its economy, though the former would ultimately be disastrous for the latter. Again, the Federal Government may consider funding of terrorism as abuse of office. The DSS may have succeeded at last in convincing the president about this: that funding of terrorism amounts to abuse of office. It could not convince General Buhari about this when he was in Aso Rock. The retired General probably demanded watertight evidence but did not get any whereas the present occupant of the presidential villa, I sus­pect, is quite satisfied that an allegation, at least, exists. As long as the DSS is able to, soon­er, provide convincing details of Eme­fiele’s sponsorship or financing of terrorism, together with publication of his accomplices in high and low places, the confusion arising from the DSS’s sudden metamorphosis into sus­pended public servants’ detention unit will be clarified. Since it has been on this for a long time, I expect – like other Nigerians – astounding revelations that will possibly engage the attention of all in the next few weeks, and which will fully justify the long detention of the suspended governor. As for the young, exuberant Bawa, having not been previously accused of terrorism financing or gun-running, or any of such grave sin against fatherland, his arrest and detention by the DSS in­stead of the Independent Corrupt Prac­tices and Related Crimes Commission (ICPC) or the police may prove more enigmatic to defend. But we are used to this. The DSS is so pronouncedly involved in routine mat­ters that could ordinarily be handled by the police that I sometimes wonder how they are able to cope. I mean, given Nigeria’s unenviable security profile, is the nation’s secret service so resourceful enough to permit itself the minor tasks of arresting and detaining accused public servants and still be adequately assertive in its immediate responsibility of tracking national security threats? Of course, I admit that the activities of some public servants are threats to national security but should the DSS be so overt­ly and dramatically involved in arrest and detention as often as it does? I have a sickening feeling that some persons may be wrestling with cats while allow­ing prowling tigers a free reign. For in­stance, terrorists have inflicted so much damage on easily identifiable sections of the North-East and South-West and carry out daring, predictable raids in North-Central with telling freedom, yet security organs of government have not been able to successfully penetrate the inner circles of these enemies, which is why they operate within the same envi­ronment consistently and successfully for years. If the nation’s security organs have had enough time for these annoy­ing threats, they should have achieved significant mileage in the war against terror by now, including unveiling the financiers and profiteers, but this has not happened and that is why the wide­spread atrocities in the affected parts of the country is growing expansive. My plea: let’s move security resources to terror-rattled communities where they are needed most. And, by the way, I am much more bothered by the international implica­tions of government’s actions as these re­late to critical public institutions whose activities have global ramifications. A number of anti-corruption elements in the country have expressed unease over the persistent doubtful changes in the leadership of the EFCC, one of these in­stitutions, over the years, the odium that accompanies the changes, the gradual loss of faith in the institution, and the obvious gaps created by insistent dis­continuities. In my opinion, the EFCC has lost its whack with the continued de­monization of its head at every political juncture. By sheer association, it can no longer inspire any respect – and that is as much as saying it has lost compelling authority. It has been defamed in the eyes of the Nigerian public over which it is supposed to exert authority. How much then can the global community trust such denigrated institution? In the same way, global financial insti­tutions are not likely to have trust in the CBN which is understood to be the reg­ulator of the country’s financial space. At one point, the integrity of the CBN has been called to question in the same manner as its leadership’s, and more critically, its status as an independent institution, reasonably free from capri­cious politics has been dented. To keep their jobs, CBN heads will keep playing to the gallery as did Emefiele. And soon it will be, if it has not already been, re­duced to a political tool. So far for the as­piration to have strong institutions that can ensure continuity and steadfastness even in troubled times. It is important that the new gov­ernment address fundamental errors and distortions in the system, which are many, but it should not create new ones in their place. This is why, I think, it should at this point review its de­cision-making mechanism and seek means to ensure thoroughness in its overall engagements. POLL Finally, a word for Emefiele and Bawa: these two men have been humili­ated out of office but maybe they deserve the humiliation; however, one need not stress the point that it is the solemn wish of many Nigerians to see changes in the manner criminal prosecutions are car­ried out in the country. On my mind is the flat disregard for the rule of law even in our democratic setting. I pray that this government, led by a man who – in the past, as opposition leader – advocated democratic values in his engagements with cohesive powers, will find it neces­sary to fine-tune Federal Government’s exercise of authority with care for the fundamental human rights of Nigerian citizens. Emefiele and Bawa should be released after days in detention – they will certainly still be available whenev­er the DSS, or any other state authority would need them.