ABUJA – Natural Oil and Gas Suppli­ers Association of Nigeria (NOGASA) on Wednesday declared that its members do not have money to pay differen­tials as price of fuel tanker has suddenly jumped to N25 mil­lion up from N7 million before the removal of fuel subsidy. Mr. Bennett Korie, Nation­al President of NOGASA, who stated this while addressing the journalists at a world press conference in Abuja, noted that in as much as the group supports subsidy removal 100 percent, there is need to also consider the problems associ­ated with the removal. He lamented that the cost  interest of bank loans are as much as 30 percent, wonder­ing where marketers would get money to continue the distri­bution of petroleum products across the country. He urged the Federal Gov­ernment to pay marketers their outstanding of the Petroleum Equalisation Fund (PEF) to boost their capital and enable them stay in business. “We are 100 percent in sup­port of subsidy removal, but you know that everybody is talking about subsidy removal but they don’t talk about the problem behind the subsidy removal. It is good to remove subsidy but there are things that people don’t know, for in­stance, some of the marketers don’t have the money to pay differentials. “This is because in less than an hour that Mr. President an­nounced the removal of subsi­dy, the price changed and that affected a lot of marketers. We are talking about millions of naira. Before the removal, a tanker of fuel was selling for about seven million, but in less than an hour, it went up to N25 million, where is the money. As we speak, marketers are rioting in Port Harcourt and Warri. There are crisis there, they are not happy. Where are they go­ing to get this money, from the bank, banks are giving loans at 30 percent, so where is this money going to come from, that is a fresh problem that nobody is talking about. Subsidy was removed without consider­ing some of these problems, at same time, before now, we have this PEF. But they are not paying the marketers. There is no money, where do we get the money? Therefore, I want to use this opportunity to appeal to government to please pay marketers their PEF, so that they will continue in business, if it is not paid, we would not get fuel to sell. “It is important for Nigeri­ans to know that marketers do not have this money to pay, even though we support the remov­al, we have no choice. Because there is every need to pay this PEF, very, very important”, he said. Korie also appealed to the government to expedite actions on repairing roads, adding that marketers are losing a lot of products due to bad roads. POLL “Again, the issue of roads, is another big problem that we are facing. Last year, I spoke about this road, today, the problem is still there. I am not saying that government is not trying, they are trying, there is no doubt about that, but some of these roads are very bad, we are losing products. “So, if you remove subsidy, use that money to fix the road, it is important, not just to re­move subsidy, and also make it easy for us to do this business. Pay the PEF, fix the road and again, the issue of interest in the bank, we are talking about 28 or 30 percent to borrow mon­ey from bank, it means we are working for the banks, the marketers are working for the banks, where are they going to get the N13 million differential to pay NNPC. I also want to use this opportunity to appeal to NNPC to note the marketers paid three months upfront for the products, before this subsi­dy removal. “Now you are telling the marketer to come and pay the difference. Where are they go­ing to get that money, be fair to marketers. Allow us to load our products at the price we paid before the removal of subsidy, because we are expected to load when we pay. Now we paid up­front, so, allow us to load our products at the old price. “Removing subsidy is not the problem but it will suffer us, we are the traders, we are the ones bringing the product to the stations, give us that chance to load our products. “I also appeal to my fel­low marketers to consider, they are considering because NNPC Ltd today is a private company, they are like us, but we know that it is govern­ment that floated it, however, they should also understand that we are also business men. They should consider that be­cause it is very important, to allow marketers to load their product at old price. I am also hammering on the issue of diesel cost. If diesel is high, expect the PMS to be high. The only way out is to give priority to diesel, because that is what everybody uses for industry, construction companies, etc. Even the transport, you cannot use PMS to load any product, it is diesel that you will use, so priority should be given to die­sel. Tell CBN to give priority to diesel importation not just PMS, it is very important be­cause when it is cheap, it will also make the PMS to go down. We want the price of PMS to go down, that price is not fair to Nigerians, of course, I am a Nigerian, the price is high. If we want to lower the price, we must bring down the price of diesel, it will also help the econ­omy, not just subsidy removal, we need to consider this area too, very important”, he stated.