A  group, christened Southwest Presidential Inauguration Celebration (SW PR-IN-CE) is planning a grand reception for the former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu over his victory in the 2023 Presidential poll. The ceremony is billed to take place at the Ojaja Resort in Ile-Ife, Osun State on Saturday, July 22, 2023. Unveiling, the agenda, the  chairman of the  planning committee, Professor Kayode Familoni flanked by  the head of the media and publicity sub-committee, Femi Odere disclosed that the event, expected to be  the biggest in recent time  said, though the planned celebration  can be said to have the stamp of approval of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the organizers have extended invitations to the governors of other  states The  ceremony, expected to  be the largest assemblage of Yorubas at home  and in the diaspora, according to the organisers, has received the blessings of the foremost Yoruba traditional ruler, Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi and  the governors in the region Familoni disclosed that Governors Biodun Oyebanji(Ekiti), Babajide Sanwo-Olu(Lagos) and Dapo Abiodun(Ogun) are expected to preside over the event, alongside other leaders of the ruling party across the country. He stated that the event is significant to the unity and progress of the country as exemplified by the new president in his agenda for the country, adding that the people of the South West were determined to support the administration for success. Familoni maintained that the new president since his assumption of office a month ago has demonstrated genuine intention for the development of the country with his policies and programs. “ We had a previous president who did not have a solid home in the past but for the first time we are having a president that is genuinely loved and supported; hence the uniqueness of the inauguration deserves a special event. We are planning an honorary degree for the president in one of the universities and as well a book launch in his honour. POLL “ Yoruba people regardless of political affiliation are ready to support him. The leaders are committed to his success and you can see what he achieved in one month, what some people can’t do in eight years. “This coming celebration of our President is perhaps the first time that Yoruba sons and daughters from the Diaspora and within the country will have a structured and formal social gathering for a true Yoruba Sons as the President of this Republic. “Two governors from the Southwest region will be the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of this unique occasion.” The Professor of Economics, Public & International Affairs, also stated that the celebration will be the first gathering of Yoruba sons and daughters from the diaspora and within Nigeria to celebrate a President from their race. In his words, “The overarching objective of this inauguration celebration of President Tinubu in his core political constituency, the Southwest, is to emphasize the fact that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is strongly supported at home. This support can only get stronger in the course of his administration, “ he said. Also speaking, a member of the group and former Senior Special Assistant on Diaspora Affairs, Odere disclosed that the Ekiti State governor  Biodun Oyebanji has expressed his firm commitment and support for the Southwest Presidential Inauguration Celebration for President Tinubu. He said this when Familoni and Odere paid a courtesy visit to the governor during the Eid holiday at his Ikogosi Ekiti country home. According to him, even though the planned celebration of President Tinubu can be said to have the stamp of approval of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the organizers have extended invitations to the governors of the states under the control of the opposition party. Odere, the head of the media and publicity sub-committee, however, said that the organisers were  not unmindful of the critical role that Governor Seyi Makinde played in his support for the president during the elections. “We would be extremely happy if the Oyo State governor can grace our inauguration celebration for Asiwaju in the Southwest,” he said.