A Gender Advocacy Group, Gender Strategy Advancement International ( GSAI ) has called on journalists to increase awareness on women’s economic inclusion and gender accountability in government through their reportage. The Executive Director of the GSAI, Adaora Sydney-Jack made the call on Friday in Abuja during a One Day Capacity Building Workshop for Reporters and Editors. She said the training was aimed at creating conversion and advocacy with government institutions and making necessary demands for women in President Tinubu’s administration. Adaora tasked the media practitioners who have been standing in the gap for women’s issues and rights to use their various platforms to coordinate engagement between the stakeholders and set agenda for the new government. According to her ” The training will help on how the media would further amplify and increase the awareness on the women issues and rights. ” This training will bring to bear the issues on data and accountability, reporting and gender budgeting. When they get the training and when they get back to the newsroom where they will report it they will be able to look at every engagement and story through a gender lens to make sure that they hold the government accountable”. She noted that the training would be the second engagement of the organization with Wole Soyinka Center for Investigative Journalism  ( WSCIJ ) adding that the availability of data through the training would helped in making comparisons with the old data and determine if there is substantial progress in gender accountability. ” Going forward, what we intend to do with this training is to begin to use these numbers to create a lot of conversation and advocacy with the government institutions and make demands. POLL ” Because it is not just the media that is in the space to seek accountability, the civil society as well but what media does is that media takes frontline space to bring facts to some of the issues and begin to coordinate engagement between the stakeholders” Adaora added. Also speaking at the occasion the Keynote Speaker who is also the Executive Director , Men Against Rape Foundation (MARF), Lemmy Ughegbe charged journalists to strive for a society where gender equality is not merely a slogan but a lived reality. He added that it is imperative that women have equal opportunities to participate and lead in political, economic, and social spheres. He also asked them to aspire for a government that truly reflects the demographics and aspirations of the Nigerian population, where women’s voices are heard, and their contributions are valued. He noted that the media’s role in holding the government gender accountable requires professionalism, objectivity, and a commitment to ethical journalism. ” Upholding these principles will ensure that the media’s efforts are credible, impactful, and contribute to positive change in the Nigerian government’s gender accountability. ” In many sectors, women remain underrepresented in key decision-making positions. The gender gap in politics is particularly striking, with women occupying only a fraction of parliamentary seats and ministerial positions. ”  This lack of representation not only undermines the principle of equal participation but also leads to a significant loss of diverse perspectives and talents that are crucial for effective governance” Lemmy stated. He, therefore, asked the participants to engage in rigorous investigative journalism to uncover instances of gender-based discrimination, inequality, and corruption within the government. On her own part the Assistant Director Programme Presentation Nigerian Television Authority ( NTA ), Olalade Adeniji Adele berated the cultural and religious limitations placed on women in some parts of the country particularly in the North as absurd, ridiculous and unacceptable. ” Women has been breaking ceilings and glasses across the world. What Makes Nigerian woman different from the woman in Canada, Zimbabwe, Morocco. ” Even in the Islamic countries we still have women rising to the top. We had a women who became the Prime Minister in Pakistan. We just have to wake up and smell the coffee and realize that these limitations are not getting us anywhere and we must keep talking about it ” Some of the participants who spoke to journalists said the training would enrich their reportage with reference to ethics and professionalism in storytelling as a tool for advocacy, influencing policies and promoting behavioral change. No fewer than 25 journalists from different media organizations participated in the training. Gender Strategy Advancement International is women-led non-profit organization who have been engaging with policymakers, institutions, NGOs, LNGOs, media , private and public organisations and other development sectors to key into gender mainstreaming with deliberate attention to the need for women’s role in the elections, politics and governance.