Dr. Tony Aiyejina, the Federal Commissioner representing Edo state at the National Population Commission, NPC, has declared in Benin that the rescheduling of the 2023 census was occasioned by many extraneous factors other than a deliberate postponement of the exercise by the commission. Dr. Aiyejina who made the declaration while addressing participants and media executives, said the commission was fully ready for the conduct of the census before it was rescheduled. According to the NPC Commissioner, “Pursuant to its constitutional mandate of conducting accurate census for the country, and having obtained the approval of Former President Muhammad Buhari to conduct a Population and Housing Census (PHC) for Nigeria, the National Population Commission (NPC), began preparatory activities for the census. The Commission as a body, he said, took the bold and unprecedented decision to conduct a digital census for the country. “The first major preparatory activity was Enumeration Area Demarcation (EAD), which is the delineation of the country into units, where enumerators will work during the actual census. “The EAD is the strategic architectural frame and foundation for the census and the 18 LGAs in Edo State have been successfully demarcated. “The Commission has also conducted the 1st and 2nd Pretest, as well as the Trial Census, which was a dress rehearsal for the census proper meant to test the instruments and methodology for the Census. “Therefore, the Commission created a recruitment portal for all categories of census adhoc officials to apply online for recruitment, while the training of census officials has already been done, except for Enumerators and Supervisors”. POLL Dr. Aiyejina also revealed that all nonsensitive census materials including training manuals have been distributed to all the LGAs in Edo State, while the sensitive materials for the census including Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) have been warehoused with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Benin Branch, for safekeeping. “It is instructive to note that all processes and pre-census activities were conducted on digital platforms, using digital equipment and devices. “One major reason for the postponement of the census was the need for the incoming administration to be allowed to take ownership of the census and pursue it to it’s logical conclusion “Secondly there was the compelling need to ensure that no part of the country will be naturally disadvantaged if the census is conducted during the rainy season. “This is predicated on the fact that simultaneity, is a key attribute of census taking, which demands that the census MUST start and end at the same time in all parts of the country”. Speaking further, Aiyejina said, “going by international best practices, not even natural encumbrances should be allowed to affect the simultaneity component of the census, which may lead to undercounting in certain areas of the country He however disclosed that the media will naturally play a critical and pivotal role in the sensitization of the populace. “This is why this Media Chat on the postponement of the census is apt, timely and important as the Commission intends to take census advocacy to the highest organs of government and other critical stakeholders in the State, even as we await a new date for the census. “I want all of us to bear at the back of our minds that the census is a statistical exercise, that should be insulated from political influences, whose primary purpose is to provide socio, economic and demographic data, for national planning and development”, Aiyejina further declared.