…..As Troops Kill Over 40 Bandits ABUJA – The Defence Headquarters, Abuja (DHQ), on Thursday, commended troops of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other sister security agencies for their relentless efforts in curbing insecurity in Nigeria. Director, Defence Media Operation (DMO), Major General Musa Danmadami stated this at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja during a media briefing on troops activities and operationalsuccesses recorded in the various operational theaters within the six geo-political zones of the Country. General Danmadami who conveyed the DHQ’s commendation on behalf of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor said, “I wish to once again convey the military high command commendations on the unrelenting efforts and resilient of troops and other security agencies in the various theatres of operations across the country. “The media community is also acknowledged for their partnership and continued cooperation with the military and other security agencies, in our quest to restore peace and security to our dear Country. “Also, the entire populace is hereby appreciated, for the support given to the members Armed Forces and other security agencies in the conduct of our various operations across the country, while also urging them to continue to provide prompt and creditable information on the activities of terrorists and other criminal elements, in their respective areas.” He also disclosed that in the past two weeks, both kinetic and non-kinetic operations were conducted in the various theatres of operations, with significant results recorded. According to Danmadami, the briefing covers operational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies conducted in addressing the various security challenges across the Country between the period of 1 – 15 June 2023. POLL In the North Central and North West regions, the DMO Boss, said, troops killed over 40 bandits, terrorists and other criminals within the period under review. Danmadami further revealed that troops apprehended 13 suspects in Irekpeni community along Lokoja-Kabba-Okene Road in Kogi. “Troops also recovered a mobile phone containing numbers of four suspected ISWAP terrorists on the watch list of security agencies. The seven kidnappers informants and collaborators were apprehended in Nasarawa Eggon Local Government Area of Nasarawa State following a tip off. “Troops also arrested 86 suspected criminals and rescued nine kidnapped civilians across the two zones within the period. In North West, troops of Operations Hadarin Daji and other operations eliminated 38 bandits, apprehended 10 and rescued 24 kidnapped civilians. “They also recovered 20 AK47 rifles, 92 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 894 rounds of 7.62mm special, 2 PKT gun, 28 AK47 magazines, eight rounds of 9mm ammunition, 83 rounds of 7.62 x 54mm special, five dane guns, and three IEDs. “Other recovered items include 19 motorcycles, 10 mobile phones, three boafeng radio and 34 cattle.” This is as the air component had between June 2nd and June 6th conducted air interdiction operation at a terrorist leader’s enclave in Zurmi Local Government Area of Zamfara observed with terrorist activities. “Accordingly, the target was attacked with rockets neutralising several terrorists. On June 4th, a similar operation was carried out within the Batsari, Danmusa and Jibia Local Government Areas of Katsina State and the Shinkafi Local Government Area of Zamfara following intel on terrorists converging at these locations. The target areas were engaged with rockets with several terrorists neutralized in the air strikes.”