OSOGBO – Osun State Governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke has counseled Nigerians against casting their votes based on religion, ethnicity and monetary reward. Adeleke spoke on Monday at the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the 1993 presidential election, popularly acclaimed to have been won by late Chief Moshood Abiola but was annulled by the then Military Head of State, General Ibrahim Babangida. He observed that voting for candidates based on religion and ethnicity played negative roles in the just concluded election in the country stressing that Nigerians should therefore cultivate the habit of upholding certain basic democratic norms for citizens’ participation to yield the needed results. The Governor also avered: “Conditionalities such as a truly fair electoral umpire and impartial security agencies are strong complements to an active citizenry. We must add that voters must also eschew vote-selling to ensure the manifestation of their will, not only at the ballot but during the governance process.” Osun State Governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke has charged stakeholders in Nigerian politics to always allow the will of the people to be supreme. The State Helmsman, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Honourable Teslim Igbalaye, urged Nigerians to continue to support our fledging democracy with a view to strengthening it. The Governor posited: “Recent elections from state to the federal levels raise critical questions about the state of our democracy. The transition process challenges our commitment to the democratic principle where the will of the people should be supreme. We are at a stage where our voting process is under questioning, where voters are struggling to realise the immensity of their power, where the political class is corrupted by anti-people tendencies and where democratic institutions are wobbling between upholding the integrity and compromising their mandates. POLL “In the last elections, we saw a hyper level of citizen mobilisation across the electoral cycle. Even when low turnout is still a nagging question, we must accept that citizens’ electoral militancy was the hottest in Nigeria’s political history. We can then arguably posit that the citizenry has woken up from their slumber and are prepared to enforce a functional, people-based electoral process.” In his welcome address, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Regional Integration and Special Duties, Mr. Mudashir Oyedeji said June 12 annual event is to continually establish the making of Nigeria Nation in the tradition of the world democracy,as exemplified in the electoral process thereof. The Chairman of the occasion, Mr. Ayo Alabi recounted how the struggle to actualize the mandate given to M.K.O Abiola led to the death of some prominent Nigerians like Pa Alfred Rewane, Kudirat Abiola, Wife of the acclaimed winner of the June 12 election, Chief M.K.O Abiola himself, while several politicians went on exile. His Royal Majesty, The Orangun of Oke- Ila, Oba Dr. Adedokun Abolarin also reminisced on his political experience as a delegate who worked for Abiola, as a member of the Social Democratic Party, from the state to the national level, advancing that June 12 election would have foster Nigeria unity if it was not annulled. Chairman, of Civil Societies Coalition in Osun State, Comrade Waheed Agboola appealed to the general public to actively participate in politics to actualize the dream of our past heroes, pinpointing,” This current democracy is not the democracy that Pa. Obafemi Awolowo, Nnamdi Azikiwe, Tafawa Balewa and M.K.O Abiola and others fought for.” Dignitaries at the event were Royals Fathers, Permanent Secretaries, University dons, Members of Civil Societies, Students and members of the public in general.