ABUJA – Chief Frank Kokori, for­mer General Secretary of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), on Monday told President Ahmed Bola Tinubu to serve Nigeria, as the peo­ple are expecting so much from him. Kokori, who spoke at June 12 @ 30 World Press Conference, organised by Coalition of Pro-Democra­cy Groups for a Better Ni­geria, noted that Nigerians have suffered enough, pray­ing that President Tinubu would take the people out of the mess they found themselves as Nigerians. The pro-democracy ac­tivist also declared that Nigeria was recaptured by the cabal under General Muhammadu Buhari, the immediate past president of Nigeria. Kokori said that for eight years, Nigeria was under the stronghold of the cabal with the dividends of democracy which Nigerians hoped for becoming a mirage. He expressed gratitude to God for sparing his life to witness the time a true democrat has taken over the leadership of the country. “I remember after the 16 years of the PDP, years of locust, how do I describe the PDP, the PDP to me, is a conservative party that was supposed to play a liberal capitalism system. But the PDP decided to play an ex­treme right, chauvinistic, primitive capitalism. And that is where we found our­selves today. But we had so much hope when the legacy party took over. Unfortu­nately, a man like General Buhari, we remembered him for a short rule as a military dictator. He was a no nonsense General. And Nigerians relied so much on him, but at last Nige­ria again was recaptured by the cabal. And for eight years Nigeria was under the stronghold of the cabal with the dividends of de­mocracy which Nigerians hoped for became a mirage. “I am happy today that at my age. I have seen a man, my dear comrade and a part of that struggle, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who was in the trenches with us. And I remember when some of us were finally picked up, and locked up, he managed to escape the evil machinations of the mili­tary. He escaped into exile and those were the soldiers internationally flying the flag abroad”, Kokori said. He recalled that Nigeria was producing enough pe­troleum products to serve the populace, wondering how it happened that this time the country uses all her foreign exchange to import fuel, describing the development as the greatest humiliation of the country. POLL In his submission, Com­rade Awa Bamiji, National Coordinator, Coalition of Pro-Democracy Groups for A Better Nigeria, demand­ed that his coalition be considered for ministerial posts in the President Tinu­bu’s administration. Bamiji, who specifically demanded to be assigned to Ministry of Informa­tion and Culture, said: “If Tinubu’s presidency serves as best atonement for June 12 election spirit, allocation of Ministry of Information and Culture by Tinubu’s presidency to Coalition of Pro-Democracy Groups for a Better Nigeria will be most appropriate”. He said for three decades running, the coalition re­mains the most organised youths/civil societies’ plat­form with intimidating number of affiliate organi­sations within and outside Nigeria. The former President of Ijaw Youth Council, Asari Dokubo, said when the June 1993 presidential election was cancelled, some of them wanted to go into arms struggle, but MKO Abiola was not ready for that. “When finally it dawned on us that they were ready to kill him, and after he was arrested, we went into the trenches together with President Bola Tinubu, Pa Enahoro, Dan Suleiman, David Jang, Wole Soyinka, Ndubuisi Kalu and several others.