BENIN – The Labour Party (LP) on Friday received former Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Governorship Aspirant, Barrister Ken Imansuangbon, into its fold amidst jubilation. Imansuangbon had on Tuesday in a letter addressed to the Edo state chairman of the party and copied his ward, Esan South East Local Government Area chairman of the party respectively resigned his membership of the PDP. The Edo politician in company of his wife Mrs Kate Imansuangbon and large supporters, stormed the National Secretariat of the Labour Party in Abuja where he was received by the National Leadership of the party. Imansugbon who was received into the party by the Julius Abure’s led executives of the Labour party, showered praises on the party’s Presidential candidate , Peter Obi and his Vice, Ahmed Datti for championing the course of new and better Nigeria noting they remain President and Vice in minds and hearts of Nigerians. He said the Labour party has come to stay and will continue to give fresh hope and leadership to the Nigerian people whom he noted have been pauperised by the APC and PDP. The philanthropist popularly referred as the ‘riceman’ in Edo state and across described his 20 years sojourn in the APC and PDP as full of pain and deceit. “I want to thank the Labour party for this opportunity and for giving Nigerians fresh hope. My political history is well known. I ran to PDP little did I know that I was running from frying pan to fire, PDP and APC are birds of the same feathers, they don’t love Nigerians but their pockets. “I must also thank the youths of Nigerians who supported the Labour Party for what I failed to see in the Obidient and Datti movement. Today, we know who the president is and he is in the minds of Nigerians. The world is watching the courts and to see what they will do. This is the party for the Nigerian people, students and the very weak. POLL He assured the leadership of the party that more people in Edo state are ready in the 192 political wards to join the Labour party. The National Chairman of the party, Barrister Julius Abure, while welcoming Imansuangbon into the party, called on those who are still sitting on the fence to join the Labour party now in the movement to rescue Nigeria. He said, “On behalf of the national leaders of the party, I heartily welcome you to the national secretariat. We are happy you joined the party to rescue Nigeria and Edo state. “In the general election our party provided the most viable alternative and our candidates are the best and that is why the people came out in their numbers to support the party. Just like what Ken said it is clear to every Nigerians that we won the election. He promised that the party will offer equal opportunity to all irrespective of when they join the party adding that there is no godfather in the Labour Party.