A former member of the House of Representatives, Mansur Ali Mashi and three bank officers have been convicted on eight counts of conspiracy and ob­taining by false pretenses. Justice Sale Musa Shuaibu of the Federal High Court, Ka­duna on Thursday, convicted Mashi, who represented Mashi Dutsi Federal Constituency. He was convicted along with three bank officials, Ab­dulmumini Mustapha, Shehu Aliyu, and Muazu Abdu in a trial that lasted for 12 years. The Head, Media, and Pub­licity, EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, in a statement on Friday, said Mashi was for using fictitious companies to fraudulently ob­tain a loan facility to the tune of N212,439,552 (Two Hundred and Twelve Million, Four Hundred and Thirty-nine Thousand, Five Hundred and Fifty-two Naira) only from Sterling Bank, which he diverted to personal use. “Upon arraignment, the de­fendants had pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them and the case proceeded to trial. In the course of the trial, the matter suffered several set­backs due to the elevation or retirement of the trial judges. But the prosecution called six witnesses and tendered sev­eral exhibits to prove the case against the defendants. “At the last adjourned date, counsel to the parties adopted their final written addresses, and the matter was subsequent­ly adjourned till June 15 and 16, 2023 for judgment. “However, when the matter was called on Thursday, June 15, the 1st defendant was ab­sent in court. But the court in a well-considered judgment, pro­nounced him guilty on counts 1 to 8 and was convicted accord­ingly,” the statement read. According to Uwujaren, the 4th defendant was also absent but the court found him guilty on all counts and convicted him. POLL He disclosed that the court, however, reserved sentencing for the two absentee defendants until they are arrested and brought before the court. According to him, the 2nd defendant Abdulmumin Musta­pha who was the former branch manager of a second-gener­ation bank was convicted on counts 1 to 15 and sentenced to five years imprisonment on each count without the option of fine.