LAFIA – The Nasarawa State chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has ordered factional members of the Party to sheath their swords and respect the constituted authority or be sanctioned. This was contained in a statement issued and signed by the spokesman of the party in the state, Chief Douglas Otaru and made available to journalists in Lafia, Nasarawa State capital. The statement said APC as a party is an institution that is greater than individuals, According to the statement, “You either belong and respect the party structures and leadership or you quit. His Excellency, Engr Abdullahi A Sule must be respected as your Governor, he is the leader of the party as of today,” the statement added. “For the avoidance of doubt, Rt Hon. Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi is the speaker of the 7th Assembly. There cannot be two speakers of an Assembly at a time, whoever is parading his/her self as speaker other than Ibrahim Balarabe and its leadership recognized by the party and the government in power is an impostors and enemies of the same party which provided platforms for their election. “It is obvious there seem to be no love lost within the ranks of the Nasarawa State APC given the myriads of provocations occasioned by some of its members who in tacit connivance with the opposition element to undermine the authority of the state. This is rebellious, totally unacceptable and stands condemned in all ramifications. “While we maintained the golden silence over time for the sake of peace, our silence must not be misconstrued. we would like to caution the renegade of rebellious members who are bent on dragging the party to disrepute to beware of the days of reckoning which lies ahead of them if they don’t turn a new leaf and tow the consensus decision of the party,” the statement declared. According to the statement, the party frowned with dismay at such unruly behaviour of some of its members who in flagrant disobedience to the party’s constituted authority attempting to create infractions within its ranks for their selfish gains. POLL “We therefore, wish to warn in strong terms that the party will no longer tolerate such acts of ignominy and may be forced to invoke its constitutional sanctions on any erring member no matter how highly placed. The statement added that it was not unaware of the activities of some agent provocateurs from within and outside the party who are hell bent on exploring the situation to further their inordinate ambitions by causing strife and disharmony within the party.