Total telecommunications solutions provider, Globa­com, has unveiled a special data roaming offer which gives its subscribers per­forming the Hajj the op­portunity to enjoy Glo data roaming services in the Holy Land for as low as N5/MB. The offer by Globacom, in partnership with Zain Sau­di Arabia, gives subscrib­ers the chance to enjoy and share their Hajj experiences with their family and friends back home. Globacom explained that a subscriber who activates a N15,000 bundle will receive 3GB, valid for 30 days, while the N6,500 bundle comes with 1.25GB with 15 days validity. Also, 600MB and 300MB bundles will be re­ceived by subscribers who activate the N3, 500, and N2, 000 bundles and are valid for 7 and 3 days respectively. According to Globacom, “Subscribers are also in control of their usage and there are no fears of addi­tional billing as they only use from the bundle they purchase. Glo also ensures that customers receive con­sumption messages sever­al times to enable them to monitor their depletion of the data purchased”. Globacom, which said the data bundle can be pur­chased while in Nigeria and its validity starts when the subscriber lands in the Holy Land, urged prepaid subscribers to ensure they have sufficient balance on their account since roam­ing services are activated by default on prepaid lines. It advised postpaid subscrib­ers to activate the roaming service before they purchase any of these bundles. Globacom has a roaming partnership in Saudi Arabia and several other countries including the United King­dom, United States, United Arab Emirates, Canada, Netherlands, France, Cam­eroon, Ghana, Germany, Kenya, Italy, South Africa, South Africa, Cote D’Ivoire, Switzerland, Niger, Croatia, Greece, Sweden, Senegal, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Re­public, Estonia, Ireland, Mal­ta, Sri Lanka, Qatar, Turkey, Benin, Luxembourg, Moroc­co, Hong Kong, Iceland, Po­land, Vatican, San Marino, Liechtenstein, Monaco and Andorra. Subscribers can enjoy seamless roaming ser­vices anytime they travel to any of these countries.