..As Long as Akpabio, Kalu, Others Are There Yari Can’t Contest Senator Bamidele Opeyemi, representing Ekiti-Central at the red chamber of the National Assembly has said that the standing order for election of presiding officers, bares Abdulaziz Yari from contesting for the Senate Presidency because he is not a ranking Senator, has never served in the upper chamber before. Opeyemi in an interview on Monday said that as long as ranking officers like Senators Godswill Akpabio, Uzor Orji Kalu, Osita Izunaso are in the race, Yari doesn’t stand a chance. He said, “The standing order for the election of presiding officers and the inauguration of a new National Assembly, following the position of section 60 which says that we shall have power to regulate our procedure, the state instituted some rules of engagement which we call, our standing order. “In Order 3 paragraph 2, I to 3, the Senate standing order and rules 22 as amended is very explicit. It provides for ranking status and identifies three categories of senators for the purpose of the contest of the election of presiding officers. “Category A, says, returning Senators based on the time that they have been elected. Once you are a Senator, you are a Senator forever. Category B, also mentioned that Senators-elect who have served in the House of Representatives before. Category C are those coming to the Senate for the first time and to the National Assembly for the first time. He added, “Again for the purpose of being nominated to be a presiding officer these ranking Senators should apply, the first category has the first right of refusal. In other words if you are going to nominate a Senator who is a returning Senator in the event that you have one, it is when such a Senator declines or refuses to accept that nomination or there is no returning Senator that you can move to category B, which is a Senator who has served in the House of Representatives before. “Again if such a Senator-elect declines or there is no such, then you can resort to Category C, which is a Senator who is coming for the first time. Why did we make these rules? It is because you cannot come to the Senate and for the first time, you haven’t served in the Senate and you don’t even know what the rules are, and you want to be a presiding officer. POLL “Our rule says it can only happen when you don’t have a ranking officer and it is consistent with global best practice. In the United States of America which is the democracy that we fashion ours after, their rules provide for senior senators and junior senators. “When I hear people talk about Hon. Abdulaziz Yari, a senator-elect, and he keeps saying he has served in the House of Representatives and that he is a ranking Senator, no. He is only a ranking member of the House of Representatives. If he has contested to go back to the House of Reps he will be ranking there. But in the senate you cannot place an Akpabio who is a returning Senator beneath an Abdulaziz Yari who is a Senator-elect, and has never been in the Senate. Yari can only contest if there is no Akpabio, Orji Kalu, Izunaso,” Opeyemi said.