Mr Peter Obi, the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party in the just concluded general elections, has asked the new Abia State governor, Dr Alex Otti to ensure that the poor and needy are carried along in his government. Obi who spoke on Sunday at the a Victory Church Service in Umuahia, Abia State capital organized by the state chapter of the Labour Party (LP) also tasked him to ensure that his campaign promises of paying pensioners, all public servants without discrimination are adhered strictly. He explained that the responsibility of rebuilding the state is now on his head, even as he told Governor Otti that his victory was made possible by God and the masses of Abia State. “That’s why you should not abuse the privilege given to you and must manage it to the benefit of mankind. The poor should benefit more from your programmes and policies”, the Labour Party Presidential Candidate in the February 25 election declared. He, therefore, enjoined Nigerians to continue to pray for a better Nigeria, even as he regretted that the country’s leadership is still in the hands of the wrong people. In his speech at the service, Governor Otti assured Abia citizens and residents of better days ahead, saying that he is determined and poised to work for their well-being and welfare. He assured that Ndi Abia will soon rejoice as his administration will lift the poor Abia masses out of poverty. According to him, “this is the time for Abia people to rejoice; I thanked God for the marvellous work He has done for me and I assure you that I’ll not take God’s grace and people’s support for granted. The Abia chief executive used the opportunity to thank the governorship candidates of some opposition parties in the state for supporting him and called on others that filed petitions in the Elections Petitions Tribunal against him to withdraw such petitions and sheath their swords. POLL “I make this plea because it is very clear that the Labour Party won the election they’re contesting in the tribunal “, he added. In his sermon, the Lead Pastor of Streams of Joy International, Pastor Jerry Eze stressed the need for people to always return thanks to God, pointing out that some people get familiar with God that they forget to give thanks to Him as required. He prayed for God’s holiness manifest in every sector of Abia’s economy. The cleric was of the view that because of the special thanksgiving organized by Dr. Alex Otti’s administration, Abia’s case would henceforth be different as the Lord, he opined, would make every area of the state straight and significant. The special thanksgiving service which featured special prayers for Governor Alex Otti, his Deputy, Engr Ikechukwu Emetu and Abia State attracted the presence of the wife of the Governor, Mrs. Priscilla Otti, wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Adaeze Emetu, Secretary to the Abia State Government, Prof. Kenneth Kalu, Abia State Chairman of Labour Party, Chief Ceekay Igara. The special thanksgiving service was organized the state chapter of the Labour Party to appreciate God for its electoral victory in the March 18, 2023 poll and a successful inauguration on May 29, 2023. The theme of the event was, “The Lord Has Done Great Things For Us”.