The U.S. Coast Guard said a miss­ing submersible imploded near the wreckage of the Titanic, killing all five people on board. Coast Guard officials said during a news conference on Thursday that they’ve notified the families of the crew of the Titan, which has been missing for several days. Debris found during the search for the vessel “is consistent with a catastrophic implosion of the ves­sel,” said Rear Adm. John Mauger of the First Coast Guard District. “The outpouring of support in this highly complex search oper­ation has been great appreciated. Our most heartfelt condolences go out to the friends and loved ones of the crew,” Mauger said. OceanGate Expeditions said in a statement that all five people on board, including company CEO Stockton Rush, are believed to be dead. Rush, Shahzada Dawood and his son Suleman Dawood, Hamish Harding, and Paul-Henri Nargeolet “have sadly been lost,” OceanGate said in a statement. OceanGate did not provide details when the company an­nounced the “loss of life” in a statement or how officials knew the crew members perished. The Titan’s 96-hour oxygen supply like­ly ended early Thursday. OceanGate has been chroni­cling the Titanic’s decay and the underwater ecosystem around it via yearly voyages since 2021. The Titan was estimated to have about a four-day supply of breath­able air when it launched Sunday morning in the North Atlantic — but experts have emphasised that was an imprecise approximation to begin with and could be extended if passengers have taken measures to conserve breathable air. And it’s not known if they survived since the sub’s disappearance. POLL Rescuers have rushed ships, planes and other equipment to the site of the disappearance. On Thursday, the U.S. Coast Guard said an undersea robot sent by a Canadian ship had reached the sea floor, while a French research institute said a deep-diving robot with cameras, lights and arms also joined the operation. Authorities have been hoping underwater sounds might help narrow their search, whose cov­erage area has been expanded to thousands of miles — twice the size of Connecticut and in waters 2 1/2 miles (4 kilometers) deep. Coast Guard officials said underwater noises were detected in the search area Tuesday and Wednesday. Jamie Pringle, an expert in Forensic Geosciences at Keele University, in England, said even if the noises came from the sub­mersible, “The lack of oxygen is key now; even if they find it, they still need to get to the surface and unbolt it.”