Dr. Ibraheem Abdul, the Rector, Yaba College of Technology, has averred that governance, today, faces multifarious difficulties to pave way for a culture in public service. He gave this stance at a Public Lecture featuring the presentation of a Compendium titled: The Man, The Rule and The Pen in honour of Yaba College of Technology’s (Yabatech) immediate past Registrar, Dr. Sikiru Olukayode Momodu. The event was to mark the end of his tenure as Registrar. In his welcome address, the Rector said that there is a need to foster a culture in public service that upholds the highest standards of integrity, transparency, and accountability. According to him, “Our societies require ethical leadership capable of navigating the complexities of legal frameworks while ensuring fair and just administration of public affairs. “Only through the alignment of law, ethics, and good governance can we lay the groundwork for our communities to thrive.” Abdul reminded guests present, of the gravity of their obligations, stating “It is not just the responsibility of our politicians, but also of all citizens, to uphold the values of good government. “We can develop a society that lives on justice, equality, and trust, by embracing a culture that values ethics and integrity”. POLL The diversity of perspectives and the richness of discourse that we can collectively envision a future where the principles of law and ethics become ingrained in the very fabric of our public service institutions, he posited. The Rector said the Public Lecture is being inaugurated to celebrate all principal officers who showed unwavering dedication and commitment during their tenure as the College modality of showing appreciation which will be a policy of Recognition of Distinguished Service in the college forthwith. The chairman of, governing council of Yaba College of Technology, Prince Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) commended the efforts of the celebrants in reforming the Registry Unit of the college and setting a new piece in public service. He described Dr. Momodu as a man of many virtues, especially integrity, transparency and accountability, saying that in the celebrant’s five years of occupying the position of the Registrar, he proved himself as an exemplary civil servant. Prince Fagbemi urged the staff of the Registry to take up from Dr. Momodu and perform whatever function they are assigned with unwavering determination and integrity. The college chairman of the council was represented by Mr. Peter Nwabueze Okolie, a member of the college governing council and a chief lecturer in the Department of Food Technology in the School of Technology. The guest speaker, the Chairman, the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences, Commission, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye (SAN) OFR, who was represented by the Director, System Study Review and ICT, Barrister Abbia Udofia of the agency spoke on ‘Law and Ethics: Evolving Law Culture in Public Service for Good Governance as the focus of the lecture. Owasanoye said that law and ethics are crucial elements to evolving new culture in institutions like public service and good governance will not emerge with conscious and consistent ethical structures and efforts by the people and society. “Everyone must constantly engage the question on the essence and application of ethics and values,” he cautioned. He equally encouraged public officials and citizens to stand up for the law, good ethics and value for good governance. The guest speaker extensively spoke on law, ethics and education, public service and good governance enhancing ethical values for good governance. He further outlined the roles the ICPC plays in the culture of good governance and encouraged the attendees to leave a track record of Integrity. The ICPC chairman, however, recognised the unrelenting efforts of Dr. Momodu at improving the services of the Yabatech Registry Unit and enjoined the college not to permit a vacuum to emerge by the completion of the statutory five-year tenure as the Registrar of the College. In his response, Dr. Momodu disclosed that his administration was able to digitalized the way the registry operates, especially as regards sending memos and circulation of appraisal forms among members of staff and collection of transcripts by former students, who can now apply online and delivered such within a very short period of time