ABUJA – Prof. Adesoji Adesug­ba, Managing Direc­tor/Chief Executive Officer of the Nige­ria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), has said that the current NEPZA Act, established almost 30 years ago does not conform with the realities of modern Spe­cial Economic Zones (SEZs) regulation and administra­tion both locally and inter­nationally. At a media briefing on Monday in Abuja, Adesugba said the obsolete Act has cre­ated many challenges in zone operations, as the Act does not provide incentives that support skills acquisition and technological transfer to the domestic market, nor for enterprises to drive back­ward linkages to the customs territory which is the key to economic development To address this challenge, the NEPZA boss said the Au­thority was driving the pro­cess of ensuring a change in the regulatory framework for the Authority. He noted that an up-to-date legal and regulatory frame­work is crucial to support the current SEZ landscape. He, however, revealed that the Act has been reviewed with input from key stake­holders and a bill has been drafted that seeks to comply with international best prac­tices for the scheme. He said: “This draft bill has been submitted to the Honourable Minister Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment for trans­mission to the legislature for debate and adoption. “Successful passage of this bill into law will position the Authority on the right course to successfully achieve its mandate.” It would be recalled that NEPZA is an agency under the Federal Ministry of In­dustry, Trade and Investment (FMITI), established through the NEPZA Act 63 of 1992 with the mandate of licens­ing, regulating, monitoring, and promoting the opera­tions of Free Trade Zones in Nigeria. POLL The mandate seeks to pro­vide a conducive investment climate by offering a com­petitive incentive regime, streamlined administrative procedures and world-class infrastructure. With the Commissioning of the Dangote Refinery, the Authority now has a total of 52 Free Trade Zones under its supervision with a total of an estimated 35 billion US dollars in combined invest­ment profile. Adesugba further iden­tified infrastructural deficit and imposition of levies and taxes within the Free Zones by other agencies of govern­ment as some of the challeng­es confronting NEPZA. According to him, “Basic infrastructure within zones is critical for investors to conduct effective operations so as to yield a return on their investments within a reason­able time frame.