ABEOKUTA – The Ogun State Chairman of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, NNPP, Olaposi Oginni, has refuted the claim that he was arrested and detained by Nigeria Police from Abuja. Oginni, in a telephone chat with Independent, said he was invited by the police based on a frivolous petition and had since honoured the invitation and left the Federal Capital Territory headquarters in Abuja. Oginni who described the Nigeria Police as professionals said a lawyer wrote a petition to the Inspector General of Police on a matter that had been investigated by the Ogun State Police Command and culprits in the matter charged to court. He specifically alleged the governorship candidate of the party in the just concluded election in Ogun State, Ajadi Oguntoyinbo as the one behind the petition, adding that he is desperate to hijack the structure of the party in the State. “It is the figment of the imagination of the evil-minded former gubernatorial candidate of our Party, Ajadi Oguntoyinbo, who is so desperate to hijack the structure of the party in Ogun State. “Nigeria Police are the best you can have in Africa and in the world, and they will never be available to be used against anybody for intimidation. They are professionals, all that insinuation is just the figment of their imagination. “I was invited by the police, I responded and the Federal Capital Territory command where they took the matter to, the matter that was supposed to be done by the Ogun State police command, they have investigated the case, and charged the culprit to court, I wonder how somebody will take the same matter to Abuja, thinking I am so powerful in Ogun State. “I came to Abuja, I made my point known and nobody detained me, as a matter of fact, the petitioner did not even show up as at this time I am talking to you. There is no cause for alarm, they are just playing to the gallery. POLL “Anybody, no matter who you are, can be invited by the police if anybody writes a petition, no matter how stupid the person is, it is the right of the police to know the fact of the matter. “I honoured the Abuja invitation; I sat comfortably in an office where I was interrogated and I have since left for my hotel. “I was the one who was asking about the identity of the petitioner. Because the petitioner who happened to be a lawyer said that he was instructed by the Board of Trustees of New Nigeria People Party to write the petition. “But the Chairman of the BoT, Chief Boniface Aniebonam denied knowledge of the petition and he wants to know the impostor who wrote the petition. We are still waiting to unmask the writer of the petition to know exactly what to do about it. “I was never detained, the Nigeria Police are not an instrument of intimidation, and a give kudos to them.”