AKURE – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been advised not to be dictatorial in the discharge of his duties. The Primate and Founder, Success Gate C&S Christ’s Church International, His Grace Primate (Dr) Ade Ademisokun-Turton Onibode, gave the advice on Monday in Akure, the Ondo State capital. He said if President Tinubu desired to succeed in office, he must shelve any form of dictatorial tendency. Ademisokun-Turton, who is the President, C&S Unification, Ondo State, suggested that the President should reach out to other political parties and work with brilliant ones among their members for the development of the federation rather than compensating members of his party with appointments. The cleric said: “President Tinubu ought to have known now that God has an assignment for him and he should beware of politicians around him who want to head certain ministries or another to amass wealth.” “Tinubu should not forget that people did not vote for him in Lagos State during the last election. You know his campaign was anchored on his achievements in Lagos State to become the president, but they didn’t vote for him in Lagos. Why? “He became so overbearing in Lagos? They were lords in the state. Also, his dictatorial tendency should be addressed if he desires to succeed as Nigeria’s president. “He should put favoritism apart. He should know by now that that was the reason why some people worked for him to put him into power. POLL “It is now left for him to decide whether to write his name in gold or go along with others. He must not forget what happened to former President Goodluck Jonathan, the man who said he went to school without shoes. He had the opportunity at that time whether his name should be written in gold or become a member of a ruling class. He eventually joined the ruling family. “Tinubu should not join the ruling family and everything has to start with picking his ministers. Although the politicians will eventually become his ministers. But ideally, he shouldn’t have done that in all ramifications. “He shouldn’t forget former President Shehu Shagari who brought in those who are not politicians into his government to help him solve some problems. He shouldn’t look at some of the past governors who have looted the treasury and helped him to get into power, now needed to be compensated. Compensation can come in another way. “Ideally, people should not be compensated with a political office. He should reach out to the opposition. Those who are likely to be useful there should work with him. We are all Nigerians. As far as he wants to solve Nigeria’s problems, he should reach out to everybody that can assist him to achieve that.”