The Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has attributed Nigeria’s comparative backwardness among the comity of nations, despite its huge pool of material and human resources, to the selfishness of the majority of the country’s political leaders. He stated this at the Literary Swansong and Day of Tributes organized in honour of the late paramount ruler of the Tombia community, Chief Christian Otobotekere, father of the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Mrs Didi Walson-Jack, at the Chief DSP Alamieyeseigha Memorial Banquet Hall, Government House, Yenagoa, on Thursday. Ewhrudjakpo, who spoke as a special guest of honour at the event, lamented that the selfishness of the political class had been the bane of progress in the country, pointing out that every progressive nation has leaders who are not only patriotic but selfless. Describing the departed foremost traditional ruler, author and educationist, popularly known as “The Poet King”, as a man of impregnable integrity, the deputy governor urged the political class to emulate people like Otobotekere to make a positive impact in society. He said the lifestyle of the departed 98-year-old Bayelsa monarch, was devoid of greed and selfishness which enabled him to lead the Tombia community in the Yenagoa LGA for about 50 years and his native Ekpetiama Kingdom as clan head for 14 years without recording any major intra or inter-communal crisis. Ewhrudjakpo said, “Selfish countries are less progressive. Nigeria is not progressing because of the greed and selfishness of most of her leaders over the years. “The less selfish a country’s leaders are, the more progressive it becomes, and vice versa. Our father whom we have all come to honour today, clearly lived an impactful life. “He was not greedy. He was not also selfish. And so, we really have to imbibe and follow the footsteps and positive legacies of people like him for us to be able to make good progress in this country.” POLL He also applauded the deceased for contributing immensely towards the intellectual development of Bayelsa State and the Niger Delta region in general through his outstanding literary works. He equally commended the nonagenarian’s children for the elaborate celebration they put together for their father at his 97th birthday, adding that it is more worthy to celebrate a great man while he is alive than to do so when he had passed on. Responding to some of the recommendations made by the reviewer of the 14 books written by the late Otobotekere, the deputy governor noted that the poet-king deserved to be immortalized not just for a decade as recommended, but for as long as Bayelsa remains. Earlier in his remarks, the chairman of the occasion, Dr Seiyifa Koroye underscored Otobotekere’s contributions to the literary development of society, with several anthologies comprising no fewer than 400 poems. Koroye, who described Otobotekere as a compassionate and true leader of men in all spheres of life, appealed to the Bayelsa State government to institutionalize a biennial writers’ festival named after the literary icon to immortalize him. In his 30-minute book review, Professor Kontein Trinya of the Ignatius Ajuru University of Education, Port Harcourt, noted that although Otobotekere’s creative writings had not been streamed in the global literary screen, his works were quite outstanding, especially in the genre of poetry. Trinya, who was represented by Professor Saviour Agoro, cited several works of Otobotekere such as “Live Two Lives” “Beyond Sound and Voice”, “All Around About”, among others, stressing that “he was a contemporary poet of revered ancestral order.” He recommended, among others, the institution of an annual poetry competition for junior secondary students, adding his poetic works to the school curriculum, and the floating of Otobotekere best-graduating student award in at least three universities in the South-South region to preserve his legacy. The event, which was well attended by notable personalities including a former deputy governor of the state, Rear Admiral Gboribiogha Jonah (retd.), also featured an exhibition of the late monarch’s literary works by the Chief Historian and Archivist of Bayelsa State, Dr Stephen Olali.