Valentine Chineto Ozigbo (VCO) Foundation and Decagon Institute have unveiled an ambitious new partnership Thursday, June 15, 2023, aiming to tackle youth unemployment in Anambra State by training them to become proficient software engineers and facilitating their entry into the global tech industry. The landmark alliance between the two organisations offers a unique opportunity for high-achieving Anambra graduates interested in tech to be provided with a VCO Foundation guarantee to access student loans to participate in the Decagon Software Engineering Training Program. VCO Foundation, a leading non-profit in Nigeria, is providing a guarantee worth N400 million to enable 100 students from Anambra to take part in the life-changing programme with ease. “We are proud to enter into this partnership with Decagon Institute. Through this partnership, we are investing not only in the individuals but the entire Ndi Anambra community and beyond,” Valentine Ozigbo, a multiple-award-winning global CEO and the Founder of VCO Foundation, said. “By empowering our youth with cutting-edge tech skills, we are equipping them to become drivers of innovation and progress. “The Decagon Programme is more than just learning to code; it’s about unlocking potentials, creating opportunities, and shaping the future of Anambra. When our young people succeed, we all succeed,” Mr Ozigbo added. Renowned for its holistic training approach, Decagon Institute has graduated roughly 1,000 software engineers to date, successfully placing alumni in prestigious tech firms like Microsoft, JP Morgan, Interswitch, Flutterwave, and Sterling Bank. Their training program, unique for its PAY AFTER YOU LEARN option, provides accommodation, meals, laptops, and a supportive community of software engineers. POLL The VCO Foundation’s role in the partnership will be pivotal in helping Anambra individuals, particularly those from underprivileged backgrounds, to gain access to Decagon’s comprehensive training. The foundation is steadfast in its belief that education and technology can catalyse social transformation. “We are thrilled to join hands with the VCO Foundation, extending our programme’s reach to gifted individuals from Anambra State,” said Mr Chika Nwobi, CEO of Decagon Institute. “This partnership strengthens our commitment to equipping them with essential skills and support for their tech industry success, ensuring a promising future.” This alliance promises to build a generation of adept tech professionals who can drive innovation and economic growth in Anambra State but also marks a significant stride in narrowing the skills gap and promoting inclusivity in the tech sector for Anambra indigenes. For more information or to apply to the Decagon Software Engineering Training Program, visit http://decagon.institute/anambra.