LAGOS – The need for Nigeria to adopt the global principle of utilisng the specialised skills of clinical pharmacists in revitalising the deteriorating health sector is becoming more crucial. Research has shown that the role of pharmacists in healthcare has evolved from dispensing to offering direct patient-oriented services beyond dispensing. Restating the call recently, the Clinical Pharmacists Association of Nigeria (CPAN) urged the Federal Government to employ adequate clinical pharmacists in its bid to revitalise the country’s ailing health sector. Speaking for CPAN, Dr. Joseph Madu, its National Chairman noted that only pharmacists are best trained of all healthcare professionals in the knowledge of drugs. The CPAN National Chairman spoke during the first-year international scientific conference of the association, with the theme, ‘Healthcare in the 21st Century: Prospects of Clinical Pharmacy Practice in Nigeria’. Madu reasoned that the pharmacy profession provides its members with specialised knowledge and a unique set of skills that enable them to perform a range of roles in the advancement of the country’s health sector. The ResearchGate reports, “The pharmacy profession offers unique expertise to members of the profession with a distinct set of abilities that enable them to play a variety of roles in developing the Nigerian health system. Pharmacy and community pharmacists play an important role in the public health system by providing prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medication with professional counseling, participating in health care programs, and maintaining contact with other healthcare professionals in the health care system.” He concluded by observing that any healthcare system that disregards the importance of clinical pharmacists is doomed to failure. Consequently, he urged the government to hire adequate clinical pharmacists to revitalise the nation’s failing health sector. Further, Madu told the Federal Government to encourage pharmaceutical care and its other aspects such as collaborative care and therapeutic drug monitoring. POLL The consultant clinical pharmacist also urged the Federal Government to establish the consultant pharmacist cadre in all healthcare facilities and to recognise the practice of clinical pharmacy. Specifically, he called the recognition of the Doctor of Pharmacy degree and the crucial roles that clinical pharmacists play in preventing, detecting, classifying, and resolving potential or actual drug therapy issues. He emphasised the need for the government to specifically engage clinical pharmacists with specialised training. These include infectious disease pharmacists, pediatric pharmacists, cardiology pharmacists, and critical care pharmacists, who are all graduates of the West African Postgraduate College of Pharmacy (WAPCP) or other foreign institutions. Madu, in his address, cited the National Drug Policy of 2021, which stipulates the enshrinement of clinical pharmacy practice in Nigeria’s healthcare institutions, the classification of all drugs in the country to capture the class of pharmacy-only medicines (Pharmacy Initiated Medicines), as well as the Pharmacy Council Act of 2022, which encourages pharmaceutical care and its other aspects such as collaborative care and therapeutic drug monitoring. He said, “In Nigeria in particular and the global healthcare space in general, we are fully aware that a major chance we have to grow capacity, competence, and impact for the benefit of the health of our citizenry is to latch on to Clinical Pharmacy Practice, Research, and Education. That is why we have chosen to address the theme: “Health care In The 21st Century; Prospects Of Clinical Pharmacy Practice In Nigeria.” “The Nigerian National Drug Policy of 2021 stipulates the enshrinement and encouragement of Clinical Pharmacy Practice in all our healthcare institutions. Furthermore, the Pharmacy Council 0f Nigeria, Act of 2022 recognizes key elements of Clinical Pharmacy Practice such as Pharmaceutical Care( PC ) and Collaborative Drug Therapy Monitoring (CDTM). “There is, therefore, no better time than now to begin to emphasise the prospect of Clinical Pharmacy Practice in Nigeria, and advocate that our governments at all levels should fully recognise and fully implement the practice of clinical Pharmacy in all its aspects and ramifications for the good of our people and their better life expectancy,” he added. Similarly, Prof. Cletus Nzebunwa Aguwa, the first professor of clinical pharmacy in Africa, in his keynote address, maintained that the pharmacist is usually the first point of call on health matters for many members of the community, as the majority of the sick in the society, the first report to the pharmacy for help for all types of ill health. Aguwa explained that pharmacists in Nigeria, especially those in various communities and rural areas provide primary health care and should be properly recognised for offering such clinical services. Contributing, Dr. Anthony Ikeme, immediate past president of the Nigerian Association of Pharmacists and Pharmaceutical Scientists in the Americas (NAPPSA), emphasised the need for other healthcare professionals to work closely with clinically trained pharmacists for a better quality of healthcare in Nigeria, as seen in other countries with good health indices and higher life expectancy. The conference said to be the first of its kind in the entire West African sub-region, was held in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State capital. It started with a sensitisation road walk against drug abuse and misuse of medicines by clinical pharmacists. The conference, which was declared open by the Akwa Ibom State Commissioner For Health, Prof. Augustine Umoh, had in attendance the state Commissioner for Information, Comrade Ini Ememebong, who represented Governor Udom Emmanuel. People from all over the world participated in the international conference in person and online. The conference concluded with an Annual General Meeting (AGM), which included some practical training for pharmacists and updated practical first aid skills. The event culminated with a closing dinner where a number of eminent Nigerians received honors and awards, including Prof. Cletus Nzebunwa Aguwa, a former minister of health, and Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi OFR. Others are Chioma Umeha of Independent Newspapers, Nigeria; Chukwuma Muanya of The Guardian Newspapers, and Prof. Amem Abasi-Bassey, the chief medical officer (CMO) of the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital.