The Association of Public Procurement Practitioners of Nigeria (APPON) has conferred the Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, with the “Excellent Service Delivery and Accountability Award”. The award was in recognition of Danbatta’s outstanding performance and contribution to the canons of the public procurement profession in Nigeria by ensuring that the NCC complies strictly with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act (PPA) 2007. He received the award at the 3rd Annual National Conference and Awards Ceremony organized by the APPON in Lagos recently. Danbatta was adjudged to have led an NCC that is transparent and open and compliant with the provisions of public procurement as enshrined in applicable laws of the land. In his remark, APPON National President, Akparawa Kanico, congratulated the EVC for his remarkable leadership and ability to inspire everyone around him towards ensuring effective procurement process in the Commission. He stated that the leadership finesse and administrative prowess of Danbatta have reflected in the impressive growth that the telecoms sector has witnessed in being an enabler of growth in other sectors of the economy and the national economy as a whole. Responding, the Danbatta appreciated the organisers of the Awards for the recognition while describing it as ‘a great motivation to him and the Commission to be more transparent, open and process-driven in its procurement activities.’ Meanwhile, speaking on the topic: “Implementation of e-procurement in Nigeria: Prospects and Challenges” at the event, Danbatta said broadband connectivity, being driven by the Federal Government, through the Commission, will enhance electronic procurement (e-procurement) that will ensure greater accountability and transparency in governance process in Nigeria. POLL He stressed that e-procurement was the way to go and that the Commission will continue to create the enabling environment required for e-procurement to thrive through NCC’s dedicated commitment to driving the attainment of ubiquitous broadband connectivity across Nigeria.