LAGOS  – Ibom Air on Wednesday celebrated four years of scheduled operations with a promise to continue to offer quality services to the travelling public. The airline stated that its inaugural flight from Uyo to Lagos was armed with a vision to offer industry-leading schedule reliability, on-time departures, and excellent service to passengers. Mr. George Uriesi, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Ibom Air ,said that since its establishment, the airline had recorded significant milestones, surpassing even the projections it set for itself within the period. Uriesi hinted that with its modern fleet of aircraft, commitment to safety, and unparalleled customer service, the airline had emerged as the preferred choice for travellers seeking safety, comfort, reliability, and affordability. He said: “It is with immense pride that we celebrate Ibom Air’s fourth anniversary today (Wednesday). Over the past four years, we have witnessed tremendous growth, exceeding our business plan projections and delivering on the very high expectations of our shareholder. These significant milestones were achieved through the careful and painstaking execution of our business plan and the hard work and dedication of our very committed staff compliment. “I am pleased to say that Ibom Air’s DNA, our unique internal culture of excellence, safety, integrity, passion, and innovation, has become institutionalised and permeates our entire business. This culture underpins our determination to continue to offer our customers the highest quality of service in our industry.” Uriesi recalled that earlier in the year, Ibom Air was awarded the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) certification, another testament to its commitment to the highest safety standards in the industry. The COO also expressed, on behalf of the board, management, and staff, the profound gratitude of the airline to its loyal customers, associates, and stakeholders across the country and beyond for their support these past four years. POLL As part of activities to mark this year’s anniversary, a fun event has been planned for June 9, 2023 to fete customers and critical stakeholders, he added.