Wema Bank Plc has launched Phygital Branch, a self-service platform that combines the best aspects of traditional and digital banking, in all its branches nationwide. “Phygital is the result of Wema Bank’s recognition that a segment of our customers still enjoys the physical experience of traditional banking but without potential hassles such as queues that can diminish the experience.”, announced Mabel Adeteye, Wema Bank’s Head of Brand and Marketing Communications at the launch of the initiative. “Phygital tablets grant our customers the seamless in-branch experience they desire by reducing the amount of time spent in the branch and eliminating long queues.” On the Phygital tablet, customers can perform a range of financial services on their accounts such as checking account balances, transferring funds, upgrading, or reactivating accounts, updating account information, generating statements of account, letters of reference and non-indebtedness, and much more—all without speaking to a customer representative or filling a form. Already, customers are becoming acquainted with the Phygital Branch; one such is Madame Olivia Oluwashetemi, who after initial skepticism lauds Phygital as a very smart and welcome idea. “When I visited my Wema branch some days ago to sort out some issues with customer service, I was told I could save some precious time by going on this new platform, Phygital—and to my pleasant surprise, I was through reactivating my account and updating my phone number in a few minutes.”, she said of the experience which is unlikely to be her last. “ALAT remains my first choice, but I wouldn’t mind the occasional visits to my branch for Phygital services.” The launch of Phygital further drives Wema’s digital dominance, which ALAT helped establish; but while ALAT is fully digital, Phygital combines the perks of physical and digital banking, and allows customers a wider range of options for how they choose to bank. Adeteye, Wema’s Head of Brand and Marketing Communications added that: “At Wema, we are constantly evolving and working to improve the lives and experiences of our customers. Phygital is another in a long line of products and services designed to provide them with the seamless customer services for which they trust us.”