OWERRI  – The National Drug Law Enforce­ment Agency (NDLEA) has said that although the challenges associated with drug abuse are complex, they remain solvable. Mr. Abubakar Wali, Com­mander of the NDLEA in Imo State, said this at an inter-school competition organised by the agency in Owerri, as part of activities marking the year 2023 International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking with the theme: ‘People First: Stop Stigma and Discrimination, Strengthen Prevention.’ Daily Independent reports that June 26 of every year is set aside by United Nations Gener­al Assembly in 1989 to mark the Day. Wali, a Commander of Nar­cotics, harped on the need for a people-centered approach to drug policies, with a focus on human rights, compassion and evidence-based practices. He advised the participating students to imbibe the message of having a drug free society and to remain worthy ambassadors of the war against drug abuse. He said: “The world drug problem is a complex issue that affects millions of people world­wide, with many drug users fac­ing stigma and further harming their psychological and mental health. “We must approach this problem with a human face, combat stigma, raise awareness and empower young people and communities as a way of solving the problem.” Mr. Lamuwa Shehu, the ND­LEA’s Assistant State Command­er, Operations and Training, laid emphasis on realistic prevention strategies such as abstinence from early drug abuse to prevent complications. POLL He advised the public to deal with only qualified personnel in matters of drug abuse, while condemning all forms of stigma against drug users. Mrs. Patricia Okwatibe, a representative of Evergreen Pharmaceuticals, Orlu, advised pharmaceutical outlets to insist on a doctor’s prescription for drug administration as a way of reducing the spate of drug abuse, while Mr Ifeanyi Nwadike, the Managing Director, Amber City Hotels, Owerri, advised hotel owners to be wary of persons granted accommodation in their facilities and the activities of such persons, to checkmate the menace of drug abuse. Miss Augusta Emecheta, one of the participating students, of the Ihitenansa Secondary School, Orsu, commended the NDLEA for the programme and pledged to take the campaign against drug abuse home. The participating schools included the Emekuku High School; Owerri City College; Young Scientists College , Ow­erri; Imo Government Girls Secondary School; Emmanuel College, Owerri; Government Technical College, Owerri and Santa Maria Secondary School, Assah among others.