Hon. Mrs Ngozi Cynthia Uchime, a missionary-turned politician, is former House of Representatives candidate for Nkanu East Nkanu West constituency in Enugu State under the All Progressives Congress (APC). She spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on her performance in the election, even as she proffered an agenda for the new president, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Excerpt: What are your expectations from Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as Nigerian president? HE Bola Ahmed Tinubu is an action man that is into human capacity development. We believe he will keep to his Renewed Hope agenda. HE Bold Ahmed Tinubu will work to keep his promise of ‘Renewed Hope’ by continuing the good works of HE, former President Muhammadu Buhari. I believe that Asiwaju Tinubu will run an all-inclusive government as he promised. He will choose the best brains and hands to head different ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). I am sure he will replicate what he did in Lagos State as governor in the federation, now as a president. Another area I expect him to perform very well is in the area of the development of all geographical zones. He will not discriminate in his development of different geopolitical zones based on what suits each zone. For example, he has promised to make the South East an industrial hub. As a woman, I believe Asiwaju will run a women inclusive administration. By the grace of God, women will dominate his appointments by 60%. In fact, our outgoing president, HE Muhammadu Buhari, did a good job by including women in his government to head some key ministries and parastatals like NNDC and Ministry of Finance, among others. We believe HE Bold Ahmed Tinubu will do more. Look at some of his campaign promises. Improved power supply and meter connectivity for fair billing; job creation by establishing industries in all geographical zones; building more schools as well as improving the standards of existing one. He also promised improvement in areas of technology; empowerment programmes that would build capacity among all sectors of Nigerian populace; repeating what he did in Lagos that turned the state to a mega city good and safe for everyone to live in. In conclusion, HE Bola Ahmed Tinubu will make Nigeria a prosperous nation that investors will like to come and invest in. What were your experiences during campaigns for the 2023 general elections? Campaigns for any political position can be time and money consuming. First, one needs to start with consultations with key leaders of the constituency. Such leaders as the Igwes and others like Presidents General (PG) as well as those people have major influence on the voters. Within the time open campaign starts, then the need to print fliers, billboards and posters commences. Depending on coverage area, radio, television as well as print media work will commence. There are also conferences and seminars with target voters. In this era, one also needs the social media handles to reach target voters. A lot is involved in the campaign and funds are highly needed to execute most of the segments. All these I had to contend with and I can tell you that for me as a woman and a missionary without funds, it was not easy. But, God saw me through. How would you explain your defeat in the election? For me to have emerged as a House of Representatives candidate, I cannot say I was defeated because not all that started in the primary made it thus far. Life is about ‘You win some’ and you learn from the one you could not get to the top. It was an experience because with the right spirit, a fellow contestant’s victory is equally my victory. The exposure has connected us together. And in one way or the other, we can join hands to bring the best to our constituency. By grace of God, the opportunities to be at the top will come. What would you say the people of Nkanu East/Nkanu West Federal Constituency lost by not electing you as their House of Representatives member? POLL During my campaign, I promised to bring home projects, grants, empowerments, jobs, etc., that were due to our people. Other representatives had in the past failed to bring home such benefits to the people. But, I had hoped that I would ensure that my people got what rightfully belonged to them. Some politicians normally would use resources given for constituency projects for selfish ends. But, in my own case, it would not have been business as usual. If I had won, I would have been among the politicians that would always make our party, APC, proud, as well as my constituency. As a missionary for the past two decades now, both in Nigeria and abroad, Our teams would have supported us to provide community services like healthcare, scholarships, feeding programmes as well as the spiritual needs of the people. All these would have been made possible as a result of our transparency in service. We would have replicated the same in our constituency in order to enhance the standard of living of my people. What would you say were your challenges in politics as a woman? My party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) gave opportunities for women to be involved in politics. It provided an enabling environment for the women. The party organised seminars and conferences to empower us. In fact, the support that came from the office was encouraging. Also, the Ministry of Women Affairs also was solidly with us. The ministry also supported us with some campaign materials like T-shirts and caps as well as some funds. In my opinion, being a woman was an advantage to me. Again, most men had failed to deliver their campaign promises in the past. This time around, there was improvement in the support of both men and women. However, the major challenge was lack of funds to cover more grounds. Another challenge was in the area of security. In some areas, our movements and campaigns were hijacked by hoodlums. Some people lost their lives, while some sustained inquiries. We have not yet arrived. But, we are moving. I believe that one day soon, a woman will be the president of Nigeria. Now that your party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) was pronounced victorious in the presidential election and the presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has been sworn in, as president, how do you think the victory will impact on the party in your state in particular and the South East in general? President Bola Ahmed Tinubu belongs to the All Progressives Congress (APC). He has been a strong National Leader of the party. We in the South East believe that his leadership will favour us. The party is indeed growing fast in the southeast geo-political zone and is expanding by the day. His Excellency Ahmed Tinubu promised to develop the entire country. So, Enugu State as well as other South East states will indeed be included in his developmental plans. Already, he has promised to run an all-inclusive government which will impact positively on all, including women in the South East. As a female politician, what is your advice to the First Lady, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, who herself is a seasoned politician? The first Lady, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, has been in government and has represented her people well. In fact, she was among the facilitators during the women conference and encouraged us to be constituency minded. She usually held town hall meetings periodically with her constituency. I will recommend that she continues to be our advocate in Aso Rock. Being a woman, a wife, a mother and leader, she should do her best to speak out for us women. With her interventions, more women would get appointments and head different parastatals. We indeed see her as a mother and capable leader who we will all learn from. Long Live our new President, His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and Her Excellency, the First Lady, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, and their team. Long live all the citizens of Nigeria.