..Congratulates Him On Emergence ..Urges Ex-Akwa Ibom Gov To Ensure Checks And Balances Dr. Monday Onyekachi Ubani, a renowned rights activist and lawyer, congratulated Godswill Akpabio for emerging as the senate president on Tuesday. While in a chat with our correspondent, the chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association Section On Public Interest And Development Law (NBA-SPIDEL) said the former Akwa Ibom State governor actually merited his election as the senate president, however, urging him not to be a rubber stamp to the executive arm. Dr. Ubani challenged Akpabio to ensure the independence of the legislative arm and to also make sure that laws that would directly impact Nigerians were given priority attention and to also ensure that there is a working Nigeria under his dispensation. While congratulating Akpabio, the renowned lawyer said: “I wholeheartedly welcome and congratulate Most Distinguished Senator Akpabio as the new Senate President of Nigeria. He merited it as he has the capacity and competence for that position. “His previous positions which he held were full of positives starting from being a commissioner to the governor, to minority Senate leader, and finally as a Minister. His ministerial position was controversial because forces against him desired it that way but he managed to pull through.Akpabio carries uncommon grace and I am not surprised by his election. “Distinguished Senators have exhibited sensitivity in his choice. Choosing a moslem as the next Senate President would have been a clear sign of insensitivity. POLL “Senator Akpabio is advised to ensure that he does not turn the Senate into a rubber stamp to the executive as that will send a very dangerous signal to the system. He should scrutinize things that come from the Executive to ensure proper checks and balancing. “He should be firm, fair, and committed to having a working country under the new dispensation. He should not allow ill feelings or rancor between the National Assembly and other arms of government but promote order and good governance. “Laws that will alleviate the sufferings of the masses should be promoted. We wish him success on this new role and assignment.