Professor Subuola Fasoyiro of the Food Technology Department, Institute of Agricultural Research and Training, Obafemi Awolowo University,(OAU) Ile Ife, has expressed her joy to the academic community for the opportunity to make known what she has discovered to reduce hunger, increase food processing and explore the untapped treasures in the plants that many are unaware of. The Professor of food scientist during the 372nd Inaugural lecture, titled, ‘The Hidden Treasure in Plants: for Food Security, Healthy and Wealthy Life’, said this is a rare opportunity to tell people what IART is doing to reduce food insecurity in the nation and to help develop the economy from poverty to wealth. She said that the necessity of tapping into food science and technology will help to create sustainable wealth through food processing which is the bedrock of poverty to job creation, and income to food availability. She opined that by exploiting hidden treasures in plants through food processing will bring about abundance nutrition, health and economic benefits for all. She said having researched in the past two decades focusing on post harvesting processing of food crops, the huge task ahead of feeding the ever increasing population of Nigeria is a challenging issue. She stressed that if the resources are well-designed and executed using sustainable food science and technology, food insecurity, hunger and poverty can easily be addressed. Prof Fasoyiro called for funding to promote utilization of products from underutiliSed legumes growing in Nigeria for addressing protein- energy malnutrition, also funding for farm- to-food processing centres for especially maize and cassava value chains to minimize post- harvest losses, aid value addition, enhance productivity for farmers and processors and create job in agripreneurship for youths. She stressed the need for sustainable food safety and surveillance policy to govern street-vended foods in reducing food hazards and the health risks. POLL Fasoyiro thereby, called on funding agencies to support youth empowerment in entrepreneurship to reduce the rate of emigration of the youth from the country. She also emphasised the importance of good working conditions and state-of- art facilities in the Nigerian public universities and research institutions for quality delivery and reducing brain drain, thereby calling for collaboration among universities, research institutions and the industries. The food technologist also lamented on the issue of Nigerian youth saying ‘ schooling is a scam ‘ and advocates that school curriculum should encourage more of practical approaches to teaching, teachers acting more as facilitators in helping students in self- discovery, engagement in critical and creative thinking in contributing purposefully as graduates, as change agents to the society and to it’s growth. She emphasised the importance of good mentoring programs and exchange programmes. The inaugural lecturer, while harping on the challenging threat of food security, also used the occasion to appreciate the Vice Chancellor of the Obafemi Awolowo University, the principal staff officers and dignitaries present. She made a loud call to the academic community, policy makers and all stakeholders to use her first hand innovative research as an opportunity to look critically into quality food production so as to forestall the looming danger of hunger and its attendant consequences. She stresses that small scale enterprises and industrialisation are ways to drive the economy from poverty to growth, that the government needs to seek ways to reduce inflation rate, increase value of the Naira and security in the country to encourage local and foreign investors. Professor Adebayo Bamire, Vice Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University, commended the lecturer, describing the lecture as rewarding and pointing to where the nation should be focused to resolve the growing trend of hunger in the land. Professor Subuola Fasoyiro is a professor of food scientist at the Institute of Agricultural Research and Training, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ibadan, Nigeria. In her pursuit to add to knowledge, she has presented scholarly articles on: Proximate, minerals and antinutritional factors of some underutilized grain legumes in south‐western Nigeria, minerals and antinutritional factors of some underutilized grain legumes in south‐western Nigeria; Chemical and Storability of Fruit-Flavoured (Hibiscus sabdariffa) Drinks; Chemical Composition and Sensory Quality of Fruit-Flavoured Roselle (Hibiscus sabdariffa) Drinks; among many notable other research works. She is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Food Science and Technology and International Food Technology. Her inaugural research work focused on food processing, food preservation and food safety. Among the notable dignitaries that graced the occasion are Prof. Kehinde Taiwo of the Department of Food Engineering, OAU; Prof Lateef Taiwo of the Department of Soil Microbiology, OAU; Prof Veronica Obatolu, executive director, IART; Rev’d Dr Supo Ayokunle; Prof Adekoya Olatunde, Provost, Federal College of Animal Health and Production Technology, Moore Plantation, Ibadan; Prof Akin Adeseyinwa of the Department of Animal Science and Production system, OAU; Prof Ayoade Ogunkunle; and Engr Olusina Fasoyiro, husband of the inaugural lecturer. etc. Also staff and students of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife were present at the occasion.