LAGOS  – The preliminary report of the Nigerian Safety In­vestigation Bureau (NSIB) has indicted Max Air of overwriting the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) of the serious incident, which occurred on May 7, 2023, on landing at its Nnamdi Azikiwe International Air­port (NAIA), Abuja. The report also accused the airline of feigning ig­norance of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority’s (NCAA) All Operators Let­ter (AOL) (NCAA/FSG/ AOL/19/03) in respect of continuous overwriting of CVR Information. The report also chal­lenged the NCAA to in­voke the relevant sections of Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig. CARs) 2015 in accordance with IS 1.3.3 Legal Enforcement Actions to non-compliant operators with the AOL (NCAA/FSG/AOL/19/03) on continuous overwrit­ing of CVR information by airlines. The serious accident oc­curred in Abuja on May 7, 2023, on Boeing 737-400 air­craft with the registration number: 5N-MBD, which occurred on landing at Nnamdi Azikiwe Interna­tional Airport, Abuja Nige­ria on 7 May 2023 with 143 passengers onboard. The preliminary report on the serious incident re­leased by Engr. Akin Olat­eru, the Director-General, NSIB in Abuja on Thurs­day, said that the aircraft departed Abuja for Yola as NGL1648 at 12:10 p.m. and arrived at Yola at 13:25 p.m. the same day. The report said that the aircraft was on the ground at Yola for about 30 minutes before the turnaround for Abuja. The report revealed that after take-off, the landing gear was left extended for three minutes to allow cool­ing due high temperature on the ground Yola, adding that at 14:08 p.m. Nigerian Air Force personnel from the Air Force Hangar close to runway 35, reported to Yola Control Tower that an object “appearing like a tyre fell off from the de­parting NGL1649.” The said control tower promptly informed the pilot as well as Kano Area Control (ACC) and Abuja tower. POLL Besides, the report stat­ed that the flight purser (L1) and another cabin crew (L2) informed the pilot that a passenger in seat row 24 informed them about seeing a wheel fall off from the airplane, but the pilot responded that instruments and landing gear indications were nor­mal. The report added, “Ac­cording to the pilot, the landing was normal, but after the airplane started decelerating, he noticed the port side wing was dropping lower than nor­mal. He applied full aileron control to keep the wing from dropping until the lift decayed. “Thrust reverser and minimal braking were used to stop the aircraft on the runway. At 14:57 p.m., Abuja Air Traffic Control (ATC) informed NGL1649 ‘be advised, it appears you have smoke around your aircraft. We called the fire watch room,’ the Aero­drome Rescue and Fire Fighting Services (ARFF), and emergency services were alerted. “The aircraft came to a stop between Link A5 and A6 about 2900m from the threshold of runway 22. The port wheel assembly was located by personnel of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) about 1000m from the threshold of Runway 35 Yola airport on 08th May 2023. The CVR recording was found to be overwrit­ten.” “Max Air Limited stat­ed that they were unaware of the NCAA All Opera­tors Letter (AOL) (NCAA/ FSG/AOL/19/03) in respect of continuous overwriting of Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) Information.” NSIB’s report also re­vealed that there was a wrong tech-log entry of the serial number of the incident aircraft by the airline, while the quality control department did not supervise the mainte­nance action of the brake unit and wheel change on 5N-MBD conducted on May 5, 2023. It also emphasised that the crew did not take ade­quate measures to confirm the information about the missing wheel assembly, stressing that there the serious incident also led to severe fire damage on the Number 2 main wheel as­sembly of the aircraft. It added that after the replacement of the wheel brake on May 5, 2023, an aircraft mechanic cross­checked the work per­formed by the engineer. NSIB recommended that Max Air Quality As­surance should ensure maintenance activities are supervised and monitored in accordance with Main­tenance Control Manual, while should conduct reg­ular Safety Management System (SMS) assessments to evaluate the capability of Max Air Limited to ef­fectively manage safety.