BENIN – The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ambrose Alli University (AAU), Ekpoma Chapter has condemned the selective payment of salaries of staff in the University since the inception of the University’s Special Intervention Team (SIT). The University’s Chapter of ASUU expressed sadness that it is unprecedented in the annals of the University to observe the non-payment of the salaries of some staff for, at least, seventeen (17) months for no just cause. “No disciplinary process against the staff being denied salaries and no explanation has been offered for the stoppage of their salaries from January 2022 till date”, the Union alleged. The Union warned that “enough is enough” and expressed sadness that the SIT has taken the University to the “stone age” characterised by impunity, non-adherence to the rule of law and the display of lack of knowledge and experience in university governance and administration. Rising from Congress meeting on Monday, 5th June, 2023, the University’s branch of ASUU denounced the deliberate denial of salaries to some staff for not less than 17 months without just cause and described the development as heartless, callous and inconceivable cruelty against humanity. In the statement signed by Dr. Cyril Oziegbe Onogbosele and Dr. William Odion, Chairperson and Assistant Secretary of ASUU AAU, Ekpoma, respectively, the Union wondered why SIT is enjoying the suffering, victimisation, repression and oppression of some staff through the denial of their legitimate salaries, all in the name of re-positioning of the university. In fact, the Union questioned if there is anywhere in the world where workers are denied salaries for no just cause. The Union expressed disgust that the University Administration has not shown concern about the career progression of staff of the University as demonstrated in the lack of interest in the appraisal and promotion of staff in the University since SIT was inaugurated. The Congress also expressed disenchantment over pay-cut that has become the hallmark of salary payment to some staff in the University. The Union maintained that SIT’s regime of pay-cut has crumbled the national statutory salary structure of staff in the University. Congress implored the Visitor to the University/Governor of Edo State to urgently prevail on the University authorities to resolve the salary crisis in the University without further delay. The Congress decried the recent politicization of disciplinary cases of staff by the University authorities and expressed dissatisfaction over the non-procedural handling and presentation of some staff disciplinary cases to the public recently. The Union enjoined the University Administration to strictly adhere to the University’s Rules and Regulations in dealing with disciplinary cases of staff. POLL Congress reaffirmed its criticism of the interim report presented by the SIT to Edo State Government in May 2023. The Union maintained that the report was designed by SIT to blackmail academic staff over some of the problems bedeviling the wellbeing of the University to give Government and the general public the impression that the SIT was doing well in ‘repositioning’ of the University. Having critically examined the upward review in school fees of prospective students in the University, Congress expressed sadness that the increment has the potential to limit peoples’ access to education in Edo State in particular and the country as a whole. The Union reasoned that the negative impact the policy may have on education will in turn affect the development of the society adversely. Consequently, Congress implored the State Government and University Administration to charge school fees that will make education accessible and affordable to citizens of the State in particular.