Baba Aye, a veteran activist and Co-Convenor, Coalition for Revolution (CORE), is the Co-President, Geneva Global Health Hub (G2H2). A former Deputy National Secretary of the Labour Party (LP) and former National Convener, United Action for Democracy (UAD), Baba Aye is a one-time Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), and a member of the National Implementation Committee of the Campaign for Democracy (CD) during the June 12 struggle. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the current situation in the country, Excerpt: What is your impression on the recently held general elections? A lot has been said by different people claiming that it was the worst general elections in Nigeria’s history. I do not agree with this. It comes nowhere near the brazenness of the 2007 ‘do-or-die’ elections, for example. This is not to say that the elections were not terrible. Vote buying, voter intimidation, ballot snatching and ethnicisation of politics were some of the nasty things that took place, and which have been taking place in virtually every election in the country since the 1959 elections. All the three major parties, the APC, PDP and LP, rigged in the ways they could in areas where they had greater influence. APC was the best rigger because it had a wider spread of influence. Would you say that the outcome and the controversies that followed the elections were surprising to you? Well, one thing for sure is that there are some new elements to electoral politics in the 2023 elections, which reflected the evolution and consolidation of liberal democracy in the country. The most visible is the rise of the ‘Obidients’ embodied as the Labour Party. This broke the trajectory of a two-party system, which itself was a consolidation of the trajectory of liberal democracy in 2015. In light of the questionable past of the APC candidate, who has now been sworn-in as president, and the high hopes of the ‘Obidients’ that their president could become president, it is not surprising that we have the kind of post-election controversies we are seeing. Many thought that Comrade Omoyele Sowore and the AAC would have made an impressive outing this time around. But the reverse was the case. Why did you think he and the party failed during the elections? The party might not have secured more votes, but it did not fail. It represented the only alternative voice to the politics of the class of exploiters in the elections. Qualitatively, the AAC entered the campaigns at a more developed stage than it was in 2019. It’s ‘Programme for the Revolutionary Transformation of Nigeria’, titled ‘A People’s Manifesto for Total Liberation’, was one of the clearest interpretations of the causes of the woeful state of Nigeria in the country’s history of partisan politics. It also presented the most well thought out perspective on how to change the situation to the benefit of the poor working people than any party of significance in the annals of our history. It also played an important role in aggregating support from a broader array of socialist groups, unlike 2019 when the Socialist Workers League was the only leftist group of significance that supported it. You should also note that it entered the elections as an alliance with the People’s Redemption Party-Vanguard (PRP-Vanguard), which represents continuity with the rich radical history of the NEPU and Second Republic PRP. Regarding the quantitative dimension which must have informed your question, there were several reasons for this. First was the fact that the state consciously undermined the party systematically and materially. The party registration was effectively hijacked for three years. It was barely days before campaigns commenced that the court ruled against the usurpers who were the hands of Esau, but the voice of Jacob. Omoyele Sowore was also consigned first to Abuja and then to Nigeria with his passport seized. This was to weaken possibilities of fundraising. Second, despite claims to the contrary, all the major parties sank huge amounts of money into the elections, including those who claimed not to spend ‘Shi shi’. This was while AAC battled to raise even minimal funds for basic campaign requirements. Third, reformist illusions of the ‘Obidient’ movement played a role in diverting the spirit of a significant number of change-seeking youths. Several opinion polls tipped Peter Obi of the Labour Party as the winner. Though the presidential election results have become subject of disputes, why do you think the predictions failed? POLL A dispassionate assessment would have shown that while Peter Obi was likely to have a good run as he did, Bola Tinubu was likely to trump him. There were several things that the predictions you mentioned failed to take into consideration. These include the power of incumbency of his party and the spread of its structures. It is often pointed out that structures are essentially about rigging. But, this is just part of the story. I used to be a Deputy National Secretary of the Labour Party. During the period, I was a leader of the party, I closely participated in the elections of a number of the LP candidates in 2007 and 2011. And it made me realise that it is much more than that. It is also about mobilisation at the grassroots through long established ties, including clientelist ties, between party faithful constituting the structures and the people making up the electorate. Rigging itself is much more feasible where a party is strong and these structures are at the heart of the strength of the bosses’ parties. That said and going beyond the failure of those predictions, I daresay that the worst thing that could have happened to Obi was to win. The illusions in him would have been dispelled within the first year. In essence, he is no different from Bola Tinubu and Atiku Abubakar. Like both of them, his neoliberal programme was aimed at increasing profitability of the system for the rich. It would not have led to the emancipation and transformation of the lives of the poor working people. How do you think the Bola Tinubu presidency will be? The Tinubu presidency will turn out to be an interesting animal. Bola Tinubu has long desired to be president and considers himself ready for the task. He also sees himself as a populist of sorts and will be keen to leave a mark in history. But, he is a dyed-in-the-wool capitalist. He is coming to power at a time of sharp crisis of the capitalist system globally. On one hand, this imposes severe limits on resources for welfare programmes. On the other hand, the first commitment of capitalists is to do everything they can to ensure the accumulation of capital. He will not side with working class people against capitalists. In concrete terms, this means that he will roll out programmes that will make life more difficult for the poor masses, while assuring us that things will be better soon and we should simply tighten our belts while waiting for the goodies to trickle down. But, they will not trickle down in any significant way. Thus, the rich are likely to get richer, despite the crisis of their system, under a Tinubu presidency, while the lives of the poor are likely to get nastier and more brutish. You are aware of the removal of petroleum subsidy that has led to increase in fuel prices and scarcity of petrol. What do you think of the development? This is an example of what I was talking about earlier when I said that a capitalist regime is not likely to side with the working class against capital accumulation and the interests of the rich bosses. That is why it is easier to simply remove the so-called subsidy than to take on the so-called cabal appropriating monies for the inflated figures of fuel consumed daily. That said, my position on fuel prices is a bit more nuanced. To be clear, it is a class-based position which puts working people at the centre of the political economy. But, my concern is that we started from prices in general, instead of from value. A major argument for keeping fuel prices low is affordability for the people. For those who call for ‘appropriate pricing’, which was once a synonym for removal of the fuel subsidy, they are always blind to this. The Nigerian worker is grossly underpaid. Working class people, particularly in the informal sector, lack social protection. Within this context, increasing fuel pump price under any guise is like strangulating a person who is already almost down and out. Now, to be quite clear, even with a living wage as the national minimum wage, as an oil producing country, we cannot be expected to pay for fuel at the so-called international market rate for importing countries. In Saudi Arabia for example, where the approximate monthly minimum wage is $632, the price of a litre of gasoline remains unchanged at 62 cents, which is less than 0.01 per cent of the minimum wage. With the current price that the NNPC unleashed on Nigerians, a worker on the minimum wage will now spend 1.8% of his or her salary on a litre of fuel. It will be much higher in other fuel stations. This is totally indefensible and should be reversed. What agenda would you proffer for the incoming administration? There is a Yorùbá saying that if you are told that it is an animal with horns that will kill you, be reassured that it cannot be a snail. Proffering an agenda for the new regime would be like pouring water on a duck’s back. Besides, it has already set an agenda for itself with its ‘Renewed Hope’ manifesto. As is common with the bosses, its defence of capitalism against the people is coated with the sugar of some promises such as improved employment, payment of a living wage to workers, revival of transport infrastructure and so on. I think the least we can do is to give it close marking on these while asking for more. There was something that an NGO did at the commencement of the Buhari regime, which they dubbed the ‘Buharimeter’, but they lost focus on that project along the line. I think that serious reformist NGOs should come together to devise something along such lines for holding the Tinubu administration to account. What is your advice to leftist masses oriented political parties and groups? There is a major problem with most leftist groups in the country. They often act like butterflies that think and talk as if they were eagles, and replace concrete work within the working masses with empty sloganeering such as the Quixotic ‘Campaign for socialist transformation of Nigeria’. We cannot change the world without building a critical mass of working class people and youth around our ideas. We need to forge strong ties between revolutionary theory and the practice of work within the organisations and communities of working class people. That is what we are trying to do in our own modest manner as the Socialist Workers League, and with like-minded leftist groups in the Coalition for Revolution (CORE). That is why the AAC/PRP-V alliance is crucial. The NLC and TUC backed the Labour Party with Peter Obi as the presidential candidate. As an activist, how could this arrangement be sustained for future elections? I have written extensively on the roles of the trade unions in the evolution of the Labour Party on one hand and on the Labour Party and Peter Obi on the other. The issues at hand go well beyond sustaining the arrangement you mentioned for future elections. What must be primary for the working class is its self-emancipation. Elections are definitely important politically. But, they arejustapartof thatemancipatory struggle of the class. I was a founding member of the LP and the longest servingrevolutionary activistonitsnational leadership. LP cannot lead, is actually not interested in winning the emancipationof workingclasspeople. Withthis reality, even if it wins elections, it would hardly be any different from the capitalist parties, in power. It would be like the ending Act of Animal Farm, where it was difficult to distinguish between farmer Jones and the pigs. How do you think the new administration should improve the welfare of workers and curb unemployment in the country? As I earlier said, I do not have any faith in the new administration. It is up to the trade unions to put pressure on it to win improvements in the welfare of workers and address the unemployment crisis. Some of the key steps to take in this regard is to fight for a new national minimum wage which must be a living wage and that fight must start immediately. It is also not enough to establish such a minimum wage and then go to sleep. Legislation must be won to institute a sliding scale between the cost of living index and annual automatic review of the minimum wage, with consequential adjustments on salaries in general. The argument that government and private sector employers do not have the money to pay workers living wages should be debunked. The avenues of corruption and over earnings for elected and appointed public officials should be identified and blocked. There should effectively be a maximum wage, which should be a reasonable ratio of the minimum wage. The trade unions should push for co-management in both public and private workplaces. A low-hanging fruit to start in this direction is the formation of bi-partite Occupational Safety and Health Committees. A lot of Nigerians are now trooping out of the country in search of greener pastures. How could this alarming trend be checked? The answer to this is simple. If the working andliving conditionsinNigeria areoptimal, mostof thosetravellingwill have no interest doing so. If the ruling class in Nigeria can ensure steady supplyof electricity, decent work forworkers and social protection for the people, and they are treated with respect and dignity, I can assure you that not only will the trend bechecked. Many peoplewhohave migrated will return back home.