Experts have reiterated the need for men to be integrated in programs targeted to eliminate Female Genital cutting in 17 other countries, including Nigeria by 2030 in line with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Repeating the call recently, the United Nations on urged stakeholders to include boys and men in their programs to eliminate Female Genital Cutting/Mutilation (FGM/C) in Nigeria and 16 other countries by 2030. Specifically, two UN agencies of the United Nations Children’s Fund and United Nations Population Fund, called for the inclusion of all stakeholders, men and boys, to protect millions of girls and women from FGM and end the practice. The call was contained in a joint statement by UNFPA-UNICEF on the Elimination of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in Nigeria released to mark the International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation. The statement reads, Nigeria is among the 17 countries where FGM is still prevalent with millions of girls and women subjected to the practice which is a violation of their rights. This year, the UN agencies revealed that 4.3 million girls are at risk of female genital mutilation, according to the latest estimates. This number is projected to reach 4.6 million by 2030, as conflict, climate change, rising poverty, and inequality continue to hinder efforts to transform gender and social norms that underpin this harmful practice and disrupt programmes that help protect girls. Despite the grave dangers of the practice, Nigeria accounts for the third highest number of women and girls who have undergone FGM worldwide, with an estimated 19.9 million survivors. Indeed, the 2018 National Demographic and Health Survey showed that the risk of cutting is highest during the first five years, as 86 percent of girls are circumcised before age of five. POLL However, it is cheering to note that FGM prevalence in Nigeria is decreasing among women aged 15-49 according to data from the 2021 Multiple Indicator Survey (MICS) (18 percent to 15 percent 2016-17/2021). Similarly, the prevalence among girls aged 0-14 decreased from 25 percent to eight percent during the same time period (MICS 2021). This significant decrease in prevalence among girls aged zero -14 is a welcome development, given that an estimated 86 percent of females aged 15-49 were subjected to FGM before the age of five (NDHS 2018). Thanks to the UNFPA-UNICEF global Joint Programme (UNJP) on the Elimination of FGM. The UNJP on FGM Elimination has supported over 3,000 initiatives within the last five years where men and boys actively advocate to bring an end to the practice. The UNJP on the Elimination of Female Genital Mutilation: Delivering the Global Promise works to eliminate female genital mutilation through interventions in 17 countries where the practice is prevalent. The programme creates opportunities for girls and women to realize their rights in health, education, income, and equality to help end the power imbalances that underpin this harmful practice. In Nigeria, since implementation began in 2018, UNJP has supported the engagement of 807 men’s and boys’ networks to actively advocate to bring an end to the practice. Interestingly, UNJP did this by providing opportunities and safe spaces for critical reflection on gender discrimination, power dynamics, positive masculinities, and comprehensive sexual and reproductive health education targeting men and boys, so they understand the consequences of FGM. On the contrary, it is regrettable to see that 12 states had a prevalence higher than the national prevalence over the same period, with rates ranging from nine percent in Edo to 35 percent in Kwara and Kano. Female genital mutilation violates the rights of women and girls and limits their opportunities for the future in health, education, and income. Rooted in gender inequality and power imbalances, FGM is an act of gender-based violence that harms girls’ bodies, dims their futures, and endangers their lives. Changing gender and social norms that encourage FGM is critical according to the UN agencies. Men and boys are powerful allies in the effort. Increasingly they are challenging power dynamics within their families and communities and supporting women and girls as agents of change. Agreeably too, men and boys remain key partners in addressing gender inequalities and harmful practices as we all collaboratively join hands to deliver the global promise of eliminating FGM by 2030. Ulla E. Mueller, UNFPA Resident Representative proposed this on Monday. Cristian Munduate, UNICEF Nigeria Country Representative agrees with Mueller. He noted that there is significant support from men and boys for the eradication of FGM following collective efforts. Today, men and boys are more receptive to change than before, and in some communities, they are more likely to disapprove of female genital mutilation and domestic violence than women and girls. Therefore, as the world marks Zero Tolerance for FGM, every stakeholder is urged to partner with and engage men and boys to shift unequal power relations, challenge the attitudes and behaviours caused by gender inequality that leads to FGM. They must integrate gender-transformative programs and change social norms into anti-FGM efforts. In addition, they must invest in national-level policies and legislation protecting the rights of girls and women, including the development of national action plans to end FGM. There is an emergency for more targeted and concerted efforts to turn the shared goal of ending FGM into a reality. The UN agencies insist, “We must work together with all stakeholders – including men and boys – to protect the millions of girls and women at risk and consign this practice to history.” It is unthinkable for anyone to disagree with this viewpoint.