Chinedu Ukatu is the president of Ndigboamaka Progressive Markets Association, an umbrella body of major market associations in Lagos State. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, he argued that traders should be consulted in formulating policies that affect them. Excerpts: What was the motivation to set up the organization and what actually does it do? We are a trade union; as the name stands, Ndigbo Amaka Progressive Association is an umbrella body of major market associations in Lagos. We are not talking about the 400 plus markets in Lagos; we are talking about the 58 major markets in the state. Our objective is to protect the interests of our members. We have a cordial relationship with agencies that have anything to do with trade and facilitate trade. We partner with the government where necessary and to checkmate the government where necessary. Seeing to the welfare of our members is what we do. We are apolitical; that does not mean we don’t engage in politics on an individual basis and when it comes to political issues, we always lend our voice. But, if you are not partnering with traders, we may go against you. But we always work with whoever is going to protect the interest of traders. From the name Ndi Igbo Amaka, does it mean that it is only Igbo traders that are members? POLL Our markets are predominantly Igbo; it is not a hidden fact that the Southeasterners are the people who are predominant as traders. There are some markets where other ethnic groups are predominant, they have their unions. But, the major markets in Lagos are managed by the Southeasterners, but that does not mean that people from other ethnic groups who are in our markets are not members. If you go to Alaba market, the Igbo are predominant but there are traders there who are not Igbo but those who manage it are Igbo. There has been a downturn in Nigeria’s economy in the past few years, how has it affected the activities of your members? The economic downturn has affected everybody, especially the traders. The naira has been devalued and the cost of imported goods has risen and there is high rate of inflation in the country. The downturn has affected the way things are done in the markets, for example, the apprentice system has taken a hit. Before now, you could settle your apprentice with N1 or 2 million and it would be enough for that person to set up his or her business. However, now that amount is not enough for any to establish a business. So, it is affecting us and that is why we are urging the government to implement friendly policies. The cost of doing business is high and the cost of goods and services is high. Many people have been thrown out of business because the volume business being done has gone down. If the economy is in good shape, with little money, you can start something and somebody will buy. Now, people are not buying because they are struggling to eat twice in a day. It is affecting society and everyone. What is your take on the ederal Government merger of the two exchange windows? In the first place, why were there two foreign exchange windows? It was wrong and it damaged the economy and conferred privileges on some people. What the government is doing is damage control and I don’t know what impactful it will have on the economy. I wish them luck if that would succeed. The problem is that some of the policies of the government are not holistic. My pain is that somebody who is a medical doctor or a lawyer will make policies for traders. The issue is that somebody who has not imported one tin of tomato or toothpick or somebody who has not cleared one container makes policies without consultations with traders. But, I think if traders are involved, the policies will have positive impacts on the economy. The terrain in the market is different from that of the office. If traders are consulted, we would advise them. When they want to do an appointment, let them appoint someone who has a trade background. Whether they like it or not, traders add to the GDP of every state we operate in the country. What are the things the government can do to help the traders and entrepreneurs to thrive? It should end multiple-taxation; most of the problems are caused by multiple-taxation. The government should make loans accessible to traders and entrepreneurs; it should set up a trust fund where people can get funds. As an association, we should be able to access loans for our members. Indeed, the government should set aside a fund for our members to access and we should control it. It would be very easy for them. When they set up a trust fund with minimal interest for the association, for instance, the president will disburse the fund to those who are qualified. You would see the multiplier effect. They should make the trading environment very friendly by stopping multiple taxes.