The founder and Group Chairman of Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc, Dr Akin Ogunbiyi, will facilitate the seventh edition of ‘Periscope’, an exclusive business seminar and exhibition organised by Christ Apostolic Church, Victory Land, GRA, Ikeja for entrepreneurs, professionals, artisans, job seekers, students and young school leavers. The frontline entrepreneur and politician will speak on the topic, ‘Strategies for Creating Sustainable Businesses’ at the seminar on Saturday, June 24, at 9 am at the church premises, 20 Joel Ogunnaike Street, GRA, Ikeja. “Our choice of Dr Ogunbiyi, himself a diligent worker in the Lord’s vineyard, is inspired. He grew Mutual Benefits from scratch to the industry behemoth it has become through hard work, creativity and God’s leading. As an elder of the Church and given all his phenomenal achievements, we felt it was right to have him come to share the secrets of his success with participants. God’s plan for us as Christians is that we should be successful, and Elder Ogunbiyi will share the secrets of success with us,” the Zonal Superintendent, Victory Calvary Zonal headquarters, Pastor I.D.O Akinpelu, explained. Also commenting, Associate Pastor Dr Joseph Minari expressed happiness with the growth of ‘Periscope’, noting that it is making strides in its objective of promoting financial freedom among Christians. He said, “Periscope is an initiative to drive financial independence in the Church and, as an extension, our societies. The objective is to equip members with information to help break boundaries for great financial exploitation. Periscope has happened on six occasions between 2020 and 2023. We are excited about the forthcoming 7th edition. We are certain that participants will be blessed and break free from financial shackles.” The Assembly’s Curate Pastor, John Omitinde, disclosed that grants would be given to the five best business proposals to assist participants further and succeed in ‘Periscope’s goals of helping people exit poverty. Apart from Dr. Ogunbiyi’s session, there would also be an exhibition of products, services, advisory services, and a health talk with free health checks.