ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) has finally slammed the door against Dr Cairo Ojougbo, a former chieftain of the party over alleged violation of provisions of the party’s constitution. Dr Ojougbo, through his counsel, FS Jimba had appealed his expulsion by the Chairman of Ika South Government of Delta and demanded a retraction of the decision. However, Ahmad Usman El-Marzuq, the APC National Legal Adviser who had initially sided with the Delta born politician on grounds of lack of fair hearing, in a letter addressed to Ojougbo’s counsel, declared that his expulsion from the party was in order and backed by the constitution of the party. Citing documentary evidence, Marzuq said that Dr Ojougbo dragged the party to court, ignoring laid down Internal Conflict Resolution mechanism prescribed by the constitution among other infractions. The letter reads in part: “As you may recall, your client vide your letter dated 28th pf March had appealed against his expulsion from the Party, citing lack of fair hearing, and presented certain documents in support of his case. Upon examination of the provided materials, | had initially formed the opinion that Dr. Ojougboh ought to have been afforded fair hearing with regards to the disciplinary action of expulsion meted out against him. However, subsequent facts have come to light revealing inconsistencies in your client’s claims and actions. It has come to our attention that Dr Ojougboh has filed an action against the Party in Suit No: A/82/2023 between Cairo Onougbo and All Progressive Congress and 3 Orsregarding his expulsion, thereby circumventing the internal dispute resolution mechanisms prescribed by the Party’s Constitution. “It is important to state that filing a matter in Court without first exhausting the Party’s internal dispute resolution mechanisms is a gross violation of Article 21.5 (v) of the Party’s Constitution and such an offense carries the punishment of expulsion. POLL “Furthermore, Dr. Ojougboh constituted an illegal parallel Executive Committee within the party, which purportedly expelled Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, the Deputy Senate President and gubernatorial candidate of the Party in Delta State. Article 21.2 (vi) of the Party’s Constitution explicitly prohibits the establishment of parallel structures or any Organ of the Party and such an offense necessitates disciplinary action” On the strength of the emerging evidence and review, the Marzuq said he is retracting an earlier letter and affirming the Ojougbos expulsion from the APC “Therefore, | must formally retract the earlier letter sent to you. It is now clear that the expulsion of Dr. Ojougboh from the Party is valid, based on his violation of the Party’s Constitution by filing an action in Court against the Party and establishing an illegal parallel executive committee to carry out his machinations aimed at destabilizing the Party. “I request that you communicate these developments and the Party’s position to your client, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh. It is crucial that he understands the grounds upon which his expulsion has been ratified by the Party and that the decision is final.