Osun State Chapter of All Progressives Congress(APC) has hinted that it will sanction all those involved in Anti-Party activities during the 2022 and 2023 Presidential elections. The State Acting Chairman of the party, Tajudeen Lawal stated this in Ilesa while speaking at the homecoming reception and award ceremony in honour of some former political office holders in Ijesaland. He said that members of the party that got involved in anti-party activities during the 2022 governorship and 2023 general elections, would soon know their fate Those honoured include; ex-governor, Adegboyega Oyetola; ex-Chief of Staff to the governor, Dr. Charles Akinola; ex-Commissioner for Works, Remi Omowaiye; ex-Speaker, Timothy Owoeye; and former members of House of Representatives, Lawrence Ayeni and Ajibola Famurewa. Apparently referring to former Governor of the State and Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola and his followers hip explained that those involved cannot go Scot free. He however admonished members to remain steadfast and stand by the party, adding that with hard work and commitment, APC would return to power in the state by 2026. Making particular reference to a release issued by the Osun APC Elders’ Caucus, in reaction to the comments made by the ex-Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, during his recent visit to the state, in which the group said, the doors of the party were opened to members ready to apologise genuinely, Lawal said the position of the group, was different from that of the APC leadership in the state. He further said, “We are the party and we know the members of our party. We know who voted for Tinubu and Oyetola during the last presidential and governorship elections. At the appropriate time, the party will come out with its resolution on the matter. POLL “We are not restructuring the party, the party is intact in Osun under Baba Bisi Akande and Gboyega Oyetola. At the appropriate time, we will reveal the plans we have for those who engaged in anti-party. “I read what the Igbimo Agba of our party said but they are in the advisory role of the party. The party is going to say its position about it. People should just wait a little bit.