Yetunde Adefolahan Odejayi , the Chief Executive of Folahan Fabrics, under Folahan Global Enterprises, in this interview with SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, speaks on her business, the effect of the cash crunch on her business, the instability in the economy and why every state should emulate the Lagos state government on skill acquisition programmes for civil servants before retirement, among other issues. Excerpts. You spent a major part of your life as a civil servant; when exactly did the thought of owning a business come? The thought of opening a business has been in my gene. All of my grandparents were traders, though farmers, they were highly industrious, hardworking and highly successful in their business endeavours. Apart from been in my gene, I had the opportunity of practicing little businesses with my Aunts both in maternal and paternal side. During the holidays in primary school I used to go to my mum’s senior sister in the village, she was a trader and she was highly successful and I also used to stay with my father’s senior sister who was also a trader in Lagos and whenever I sell they give me commission on whatever I sold. So, it has always been in me. How did you come about the idea of opening a fabrics store, do you get it while in service? I will say this is God’s factor. I like materials, both male and female, anything that is fabrics I love them and anytime I see them I have intuitions that I won’t get wrong with fabrics but, I never put it into any serious engagement until when I was about to retire. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ A great woman who God will bless that is into fabrics, I told her I will be retiring in June, I told her then, the December that was presiding my retirement, so the woman an elderly asked me what I intend to do when I retire, but I told her it is in the hands of God; and truly that was my state of mind, and she said okay that she will be praying along with me for God to show me what to do, so another visit to her after I had retired, she asked if I have thought of it and I said I am still thinking, but within me I said have spent 35 years in service. POLL I was thinking I want to relax, travel far and wide, enjoy myself and relax from the hustle and bustle of the civil service and she just said why don’t you try the sale of fabrics, at first I said who do I know, fabrics is humongous, meanwhile it has been in me but I wasn’t thinking in that line. Although, I was having an expectation of going into exporting food items then but, COVID-19 happened and all my plans for perfecting it before I retire did not come to fruition, so when the mama suggested the fabrics thing, I prayed about it. I told my husband and children about it, and they reminded me of all my stories of having so much interest in fabrics, the ingenuity by the grace of God that I have in fabrics, and by the grace of God we are here today. As women in this business, what has been some of the challenges? In life nothing is perfect, but by the grace of God it’s okay. The economy is not stable, the level of patronage dropped, the forex is an issue, the exchange rate skyrockets every minutes, the prices seems to be a little bit increasing more than what people can afford at a point in time; it is really an issue for buyer around this time. If there is stability in the economy then one can enjoy the fabric business, but by and large it is what you buy that you will sell, it is the margin that will drop, at least we are not selling at cost price, we are just praying for a better time in this country where everybody can be happy and do business with ease. What was your experience like during this current cash crunch in the country and how did you cope? You will agree with me that it affected not only businesses; it affected everything and everybody in Nigeria. Even non Nigerians, everybody that live in Nigeria it affected them. I will say the policy came at the wrong time for me, at the same time it was like it was not well thought of before the execution, but we believe that lessons were learnt and corrections will be made. During the period you cannot even transfer, for us to transact business it is very difficult, and for the uncertainly that it brought, people cannot be uncertain where they will get the next money and it would be fabrics they will go and buy, it really make the market dull, but now that the government is trying to reverse the system, by and large giving few weeks we should be able to enjoy good atmosphere to trade. What advice do you have for others who are still in service and about to retire like you? While in service, I thank the Lagos state civil service, there are skill acquisition programmes given to civil servants and I think other states should emulate Lagos state in this area, let civil servants be trained, be tutored on a lot of business opportunities that are out there for them to launch into and set their minds to be intentional on what they will be able to do after retirement. During our days the law says you cannot be a civil servant and also have other interest in business, yes you cannot participate in business, but you can invest. I used to invest in my friend’s business and the dividends there are been kept for later use, they can go into investment, they can fixed their money. The skill acquisition thing everybody must be alive to their environment now, everybody can use their laptops, there ae so many opportunities in ICT, you can write books. I write books, it is your brain that you are using, you are not using the time for work to do that, you cannot engage in the sales of fabrics while you are in service. You can use your spare time to do constructive things at our spare time. If someone wants to go into this line of business what advice would you give? Not even fabrics alone, any business you want to venture in to, I will advise that you do your feasibility study very well. You need to asked questions. You must not assume, you must understand the rudiments, the game itself, where to get your materials, the cost; you must factor in all your costs, not just the cost of purchase, there is the cost of freight, there is the cost of handle, cost of the building, NEPA bill among others If you want to go into any business sit down, don’t rush, take your time, ask questions far and wide, listen to those people who are in the business, that is why is advise people allow people to come to you, advise them, tell them your experiences, let them learn from your own mistakes. Nobody is an island, you can learn from a new starter and other people should learn from you too. Also intermittently interact with your colleagues on the business, it is not a one way traffic, it is not a one system fix all, be open to ideas, discuss and calculate. Also consider human factor; to get the right people to work with you. Especially this days in this country is a huge task, a lot of people there are not knowledgeable, if you hire them there will be problem, you should be able to get the right people that will work with you, not mediocres. Where do you hope to see Folahan Fabrics in the next five years? By the special grace of God I pray that Folahan Fabrics will grow in leaps and bounds and will spread far and wide not only to be in Lagos, not only to be in one area, to have branches all over the world by the special grace of God. We are working on it, we are talking to people about it, but at the same time we are content with what God gives us.