LAGOS – Canada-based Nigerian filmmaker, Pascal Atuma, has charged the Abia State Governor-Elect, Dr. Alex Otti, to invest in the youths, who are the leaders of tomorrow in his administration. Atuma made the call in an open letter to Otti on Monday, March 27, while congratulating him on a “well-deserved win”. Explaining, he states that the emergence of Otti as Abia State Governor in the recent 2023 elections signifies liberation and hope for the people of Abia who “have suffered severely over the years for lack of leaders with vision, intent, capacity, competence, and professional and technical know-how to lead a state. In his words, “We know the challenges you will face because you are starting from ground zero, unlike the other new governors with something from their predecessors to build on. “We will be very patient with you, but at the same time, we expect your best efforts and nothing but the best. Abia State needs more infrastructure, youth development, schools, roads, industries, and trained employees. It is not news that pensioners are hungry, more loans were taken but merely serviced, and security of life and property were not guaranteed and is still not guaranteed. So again, your work will be challenging, and we are fully aware.” While offering the governor-elect advice, Atuma states, “My honest advice is to look for the best brains from Abia State and bring them together based on merit and experience. Recruit technocrats who have succeeded, tested, and proven in their various fields to help irrespective of party affiliations, religion, local government, or village. You are no longer campaigning for an election; you are the leader now that the election is over and the people chose you. “Please, lead Abia State to greater heights than Governor Sam Onunaka Mbakwe did when we were all in old Imo State. You have what it takes, and we are confident you will do exceptionally well behind all odds and challenges.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Finally, invest in the leaders of tomorrow (THE YOUTHS). Make it a priority to carry them along in all that you do and create educative and innovative programs for them that will aid in preparing them to meet the challenges of tomorrow. POLL “Abia cannot afford to go back to the hands of the type of leaders you rescued us from, so please make it a priority to groom, nurture, communicate, listen, and pay attention to the needs and concerns of the leaders of tomorrow. Your care and love for the youth will create sustainable leadership for our dear state, Abia.” Atuma, who is the President/CEO of The Atuma Brothers International Company (TABIC) in Cannada and Nigeria further assured that the people of Abia State will give him all the love, support, and prayers needed to succeed for the birth of a new Abia.