No fewer than 40 youths have been trained in Ibadan on how to turn waste into wealth by the PneumArt. The beneficiaries who are mostly staff of the National Museum of Unity Ibadan during the training tagged “PneumArt Workshop” have been urged to embrace the training which according to the convener of the workshop Mrs. Olaide Turner worth not less than N250,000. In her welcome address, Mrs. Olaide Turner stated that the essence of the workshop is to help the youth towards transforming waste to wealth, which will strengthen youth empowerment, self-reliance and wealth creation. “It is pretty saddening that youths are out there with good certificates without any job needed, meanwhile, every minute, every day, wastes are used with no idea of recycling” “This is a huge opportunity for the youth in the country and Africa that wastes can be turned artistically to wealth”, she said. In the same vein, the chief Executive Officer,Waste Museum,Mrs Adejumoke Olowookere while facilitating a waste Art project using used tyre as dinning table enjoined the participants to uphold the training , assured them about greatness if taken the training seriously. Contributing to the workshop, a conceptual artist, Mr Kola Akintola added that art knowledge is needed every day, and only a creative artist will have higher patronage.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Speaking, a globally revered artist and a grand patron of the National Museum of Unity, Aleshinloye, Ibadan, Prince Tunde Odunlade applauded the convener of the workshop, facilitators, Jumoke Olowookere, an initiator of waste to wealth museum in the country, credited Kola Akintola who serves as an Art brain to Rwanda, a country without school of Art, depending on Nigerian artists; stressed two outstanding dispositions in the convener, Mrs. Olaide Turner, which includes humanitarian and legacy building should be emulated by the participants. Odunlade called every participant to guide the African histories, traditions and culture wherever they find themselves. Meanwhile, the curator, deputy director, the National Museum of Unity, Aleshinloye, Ibadan , Mrs Oriyomi Otuka credited the convener, facilitators and contributors of workshop for giving their time, strength, efforts and monies towards development of the entire staff of the Museum, both young and old for international -African development. Otuka called every participant at the training to willingly adopt skills learned towards training others, noted that the free training worths 250,000 naira , tagged it ” train the trainer” which will enable money making, creativity and entertainment. “I want to applaud the convener of the workshop for this huge opportunity for our staff. “Let it be noted that this workshop worths 250,000 naira, and now it is made free, it will be more ideal ,our participant make use of the skills, very well for themselves and the nation at large”, she said. One of the participants, Leigh Olufemi assured that the art skills learned will be transformed beyond expectations. At the workshop included an artist with the University of Kent, also the husband of the convener, Mr Moyet Turner, a columnist,Dr Mrs Adebola Aremu while the participants were presented a certificate in collaboration with the University of Kent.