LAGOS – The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has advised both fiscal and monetary authorities of countries experiencing high inflation like Nigeria to be vigi­lant and remain focused in the quest to bring down inflation. The Fund, in a new blog, said in addressing inflation, the monetary policy must remain focused on bringing inflation down while the fiscal authori­ty should aim for gradual and steady tightening, and thus re­duce the pressure on monetary policy to combat high inflation, while supporting the most vul­nerable. “As such, costly broad-based policies to mitigate the impact of higher commodity prices, including measures like price subsidies to limit the pass-through to domestic prices, need to be unwound and re­placed by targeted measures to support vulnerable households. “Such actions would help avoid distortions that would prevent or delay adjustments to higher energy prices. In addition, they would preserve incentives for development of alternative green energy sources, and support fiscal sustainability. This would also have beneficial distributional effects, as energy subsidies tend to also benefit richer house­holds. To minimise longer-last­ing adverse effects of volatility in commodity prices, it is also important to ensure strong macro-fiscal institutions that can buffer commodity price volatility”. It added that domestic ac­tions must not stand alone as multilateral efforts are essential in achieving shared objectives of addressing food and energy insecurity. “It is vital to sustain open trade in food. Moreover, free flow of trade in metal and mineral inputs that are critical for the green transition would also support energy security”, it added. Speaking on food and ener­gy prices, which surged to near historic highs in recent years amid the pandemic and the war in Ukraine and which prompt­ed major supply disruptions, the Fund said it was accom­‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ panied by a sharp rise in the volatility of commodity prices. POLL “Worryingly, the up-and-down swings in commodity prices will likely pose econom­ic challenges in coming years. We explore the effects of volatile commodity prices in a new re­port on food and energy insecu­rity that was prepared for the Group of Twenty. “Specifically, we examine how economic growth and inflation are affected by vola­tility in commodity terms of trade—that is, the movement in the prices that a country pays for commodity imports and the prices it receives for commodity exports. “Such swings in commodity prices can weigh on long-term economic growth, especially for commodity exporters. “For example, higher vola­tility in commodity prices may induce greater volatility in government finances in com­modity exporting countries and thereby lead to stop-start public investment. In turn, this would weigh on both physical and human capital investment. “What’s more, volatility in commodity prices also ap­pears to increase the volatility of domestic inflation over the medium term. This can occur, for example, as greater vola­tility in the price of imported goods passes through to domes­tic prices and thereby result in more volatile consumer infla­tion”, the IMF stressed. The Fund also said that the challenges from heightened commodity price volatility come on top of the problems caused by the surge in price levels. World food commodity prices rose nearly 40 percent in the two years just before Rus­sia’s invasion of Ukraine, and the war propelled prices even higher. Wheat prices jumped 38 percent in March 2022 from a month earlier. Energy prices rose sharply, with natural gas prices in Europe tripling. High energy prices also fed into re­cord prices of commonly used fertilizers for food production.