According to a report by 90min, Evan Ferguson is the subject of interest from Barcelona. The Catalan giants have scouted the 18-year-old Brighton & Hove Albion striker. And the player is also a target for Premier League bigwigs Chelsea and Manchester United, among others. Evan Ferguson spent most of his formative in his native Ireland, representing St. Kevin’s Boys FC and Bohemian FC. But the teenage sensation has risen to prominence since arriving at Brighton & Hove Albion in January 2021. He is the latest in a long line of talented prospects unearthed by the Seagulls and has become a regular this term. The 18-year-old was recently in the spotlight when he scored for the Republic of Ireland in a friendly win over Latvia. And Ferguson has also made his mark for Brighton’s first team, amassing seven goals and three assists in 16 appearances. Meanwhile, the Irishman’s progress has alerted Chelsea, Manchester United, and Barcelona. Chelsea will need to invest in a striker in the summer transfer window after the struggles for goals this term. The Blues will loosen their purse strings to sign Christopher Nkunku. But the Frenchman is not a recognised striker. So with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang likely to leave amid interest from Barcelona, Ferguson has emerged as a viable target. As for Manchester United, the Red Devils have been monitoring his progress for a long time. And with Wout Weghorst unlikely to join permanently when his loan deal ends, they will need a replacement. The 18-year-old Brighton striker is an attractive option considering his high ceiling. But Barcelona’s entry into the equation complicates matters for suitors like Chelsea and Manchester United. Meanwhile, as iterated, the Catalan giants are keen on re-signing Aubameyang. But Barcelona must also lay down a succession plan for Robert Lewandowski. And Ferguson fits into the scheme of things nicely. The 18-year-old can learn the ropes from Lewandowski before taking over as the first-choice striker. Meanwhile, apart from Chelsea, Manchester United, and Barcelona, Bayern Munich, Napoli, Newcastle United, and Liverpool are also interested. But Ferguson is happy at Brighton & Hove Albion. So a summer move might not be on the cards.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒