LAGOS – Bolaji Akinyemi, found­er, Leaders After God’s Own Spirit Initiating A New State (LAGO­SIANS), has written to Presi­dent Muhammadu Buhari, stat­ing that there is need to conduct an investigation and put on trial those directly responsible and those who sponsored attacks, es­pecially in Lagos to discourage the pattern of such act in future elections. He drew the attention of Mr President to the violence, threats and maiming, which greeted the presidential elec­tion on 25th February and 18th March gubernatorial and state Assembly elections respectively, noting that the inciting state­ment by the president-elect called for scrutiny of his kind of leadership which he described as divisive. In an open letter addressed to the President, the group noted that the just concluded Pres­idential election was marred with controversies that have attracted global criticism and condemnation as described by “The Economist” as chaotic, not­ing that it has further increased the negative perception of the world about the country to which belong our loyalty.” The letter read in part: ‘Pe­tition Against Mr. Bola Ahmed Tinubu For Making Incendiary Comments And Hate Speech Breeding Yoruba Supremacists And Causing Tribal Attacks Against Igbo In Lagos And Across Nigeria. “I write this petition with the full realization that with the recent general elections like ours that allegedly became a tribal war against a particular tribe, there is need to conduct post-mortem investigation and put on trial those directly re­sponsible and those who incited and sponsored such verbal and physical attacks, especially in Lagos State to discourage this pattern in future elections. “Your Excellency, you once opined that the rule of law must be subjected to the supremacy of national security and inter­est, for which a lot of persons including myself differ from you, not with the spirit of your position but rather the letters of it. “Sir, there is no point pre­tending Tinubu, MC Oluomo and his foot soldiers employed by Babajide Sanwo-Olu under the guise of Lagos State Park Management Agency have become a threat to National Security.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “May I inform you that the need to give the spirit of your position on national security su­premacy the letters to run with within the ambit of the rule of law is the reason for writing you and making the following recommendations: Immediate sacking of Professor Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC Chairman and appointment of another. POLL “Asiwaju must be put under house arrest same way you have with Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, till due diligence is done and clearance from the narcotic of­fence is gotten, as it must never be heard of, that anyone with tainted character is given the leadership of the most populous black nation in the world. This no doubt will affect the global fight against drug peddling and narcotic trafficking for which Lagos State, of recent has be­come home for world record breaking volumes of drugs nev­er seen before.” the document stated.