ABUJA – The upper chamber of the National Assembly has mandated its committee to investigate and recover the over 6trn accrued from the non-payment of ground rent from property owners across the country. The Adhoc committee set up by the Senate to recover the money is also mandated to investigate the inability of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to investigate and recover these incomes for the government. The upper chamber, which also called for comprehensive data on federal government property, is also to investigate the circumstances that led to the inability of the land use act allocation committee, saddled with the responsibility of handling rent and licence matters, to carry out their responsibility on the matter. The resolution of the Senate followed a motion by Senator Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf (APC, Taraba Central) . Coming under orders 41 and 51 of the Senate Standing Rules, the lawmaker noted that the Land Use Act has vested ownership rights on the Federal Government over its land in states and the Federal Capital Territory. The rights, according to Senate Yusuf, include the power to control and regulate town planning, and physical development in relation to such lands and by extension prescribing and collection of any tax, fees or rates. The lawmaker lamented that since 1992, over two million houses across the 36 states of the federation, including FCT have been built and allocated to beneficiaries by the federal government, yet the majority have no evidence of payment of ground rent on their properties.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He noted that with the current revenue challenges facing the country, there is a need for the government to look into other means of generating income than relying on oil revenue. POLL He further stated that the investigation reveals that, the failure of relevant authorities to recover these funds has led the country to lose over 6trn. In their contributions, some of the senators who spoke called on the federal government to come up with a computerized system where all allotted lands and properties, persons yet to pay and fashion out mode of recovering these funds. The lawmakers called for a comprehensive database of federal government properties that are sold to the public under the ministry of works and housing across the country. Members of the committee include Adamu Aliero (PDP, Kebbi Central ), Sani Musa (APC, Niger East), Sam Egwu (PDP, Ebonyi North), Smart Adeyemi (APC, Kogi West ), Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti Central ), Betty Apiafi (PDP, Rivers West) and Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf (APC, Taraba Central). The committee was given one month to report back to the plenary.