Hon. Moshood Salvador, Lagos-West Senatorial candidate of Labour Party (LP) in the just concluded general elections, in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU speaks about the general elections, why his group, the Conscience Forum endorsed Sanwo-Olu, among other issues. Excerpts: Did you decamp to APC? No, I cannot decamp to APC. It cannot give me what I want for the youths and that is why I cannot decamp. I am interested in helping the youths to become what they should become. Having contributed to his victory, I want Sanwo-Olu to pay serious attention to the youths. Why did your group Conscience Forum decide to support Sano-Olu? It is because Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour has disappointed the Conscience Forum by going out openly to campaign against its leader, Hon Moshood Salvador and gave support to Segun Adewale, popularly called Areoland, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), for Lagos-West. The word you used earlier, ethnic profiling started from him. You can imagine him going to an Igbo gathering with Areoland and telling them that he was the one he knew. He told them that Areoland was the man that could protect Igbo people in Lagos State. It was actually what he said that made them reason that they were planning to hijack the state from them. What is the interest of Igbo? It is on video and nobody can deny that. He told them that Aeroland was the man he could trust. That was how the ethnic profiling issue started until it got to a terrible state. Since he didn’t have interest in my election, the Conscience Forum rejected him; it is a group with over 350,000 members in Lagos State. Go and check the result of that election, if you check the difference between what we had and what APC had in the presidential election, you will see that it is the number of Conscience Forum in Lagos State that made the difference. Consienc Forum contributed to Sanwo-Olu’s victory in the election. We have done our analyses. Baba Ayo Adebanjo appealed to me, after a terrible primary arrangement. They asked me to bring 100 delegates and Rhodes-Vivour should bring 100 delegates too, is that what the law says? We asked how a winner would emerge with that arrangement, they said they would add state exco. Is that what the law says? Electoral law 22 clearly stated that delegates must emerge from the wards, at last one from each ward. Minimum delegates from Lagos State should be 225, and anything short of that is not in line with the law. I didn’t bother to fight it because Baba Ayo Adebanjo told me to forget it and take the senatorial ticket. After taking the ticket, more than three Igbo men claimed the same ticket. They brought LP to me in carcass no flesh, they asked me to use Conscience Forum to give them structure and after that, Kayode Salako became caretaker committee chairman, he said that Salvador has become the Asiwaju of LP and has taken the party to his house. I said that I only gave them a place to use as a secretariat and if they didn’t want they should take it away and they took it away. So that was how I left them and they started reducing the strength of the party You said that you supported Sanwo-Olu because of the youths, can you elaborate on that? About 90 percent of Conscience Forum members are youths, I mean between the ages of 18 and 40. From 40 to 60 years make up the 10 percent. Having seen the type of person Rhodes-Vivour is, a man from Edo asked him to come to me, another group from overseas said they wanted to do something that would benefit the party and they wanted Rhodes-Vivour by my side, he cancelled the programme once that was mentioned. Since he didn’t want us in the organisation of the party we needed to make sure that he didn’t get power. For him to go to Chief Bode George to have an alliance with PDP showed he didn’t have any regard for us. His running mate will be threatening people around that she would lock them up because she was deputy governorship candidate. They disqualified themselves. We cannot put Lagos State in the hands of mediocre, inexperienced people. He refused to go to the Oba of Lagos for support. He must have discouraged Peter Obi from going to the Oba of Lagos too. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ What can be done to address some of the issues that you just mentioned about LP? POLL I am a member of the party, I am not ready to leave the party. I am ready to help the party but the members must be ready to help themselves. All the rubbish structure of the Labor Party must be changed. Can you imagine a ward assistant secretary calling me from Alimosho LGA and telling me that she saw my posters in her ward without passing through her table? She queried why I came to her LGA without seeing her. What kind of party is that? You are talking to your senatorial candidate in that manner. They don’t understand how a party is run. All the people that they put as caretaker committee, in the state and LGA, do not have any idea about their duties. They need to be tutored. Assessing the conduct of the general elections, and the call for the sack of the INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, what are your thoughts? Talking about the sack of INEC chairman is not the solution, you need to get to the root of the problem. People always talk of punishment, what do you gain if you punish against what you have lost? It is getting what you lost that matters and not punishment, take for example what happened between me and Rhodes-Vivour, the Lagos State gubernatorial candidate of Labour Party, I acted now without anybody sanctioning him. I just told the public what happened and they sympathised with me and reacted. The reaction of the public has affected his victory. Don’t fight them, just act intelligently and smartly to defeat them. I don’t like the way the All Progressives Congress (APC) government is handling things. People are complaining that you cheated them and you don’t bother to prove to them, and you are talking about court, which court? Are we not in this country when you were arresting the Judges? So, nobody has confidence in the court. If the APC doesn’t act carefully it will have serious problems on its hands. Agitation by the youths can finish this country, which is why I keep telling them to go and appeal to the youths’. They should tell them that they made a mistake, if you don’t do that these boys are in the digital age, we shouldn’t take them for granted. I know that you are a seasoned politician, can you advise on what should be done to bring reform to our electoral system? They know it. They put the system in place and refused to implement it. What can anybody do? When you said that at the polling units, you would transmit results electronically, you put it in law, you put it in the guideline, and at the point of implementation you changed the process, what can anyone tell you? If you bring Jesus or Mohammed to be the INEC chairman in Nigeria, without implementation, you are going nowhere. A president–elect has emerged in the person of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, he has also said that it is time for healing, do you have any advice for him to ensure that the unity he is proposing is actualised? I am not in a position to advise him because I know that he knows better. He was part of the military healing process. He followed MKO Abiola and during the Ernest Shonekan era, he was part of it. He knows what to do, which is why he was using the word healing period. The word healing that he was using was the advice that I gave to them in Lagos, I told them to stop saying they would build bridges or do that, that is where our money is. We are not talking about our money but about our lives, we are not talking about our money but our future. I advised them that instead, they should just tell them (youths) that mistakes were made and nobody is above mistakes. Appeal to them, which is the meaning of the healing. That is the political healing Asiwaju is talking about. I will advise him to start doing it and not waiting for court judgment. It is what will affect the court judgment, because nobody believes in the court. When the aggrieved see you appealing they would embrace whatever olive branch that you offer. This one is more difficult than the primary elections or the main elections. It is tedious work, and the movement is different from the normal political movement and at the end of the day you will see results. You have to do it alongside with court agitation of your opponents, to the extent that it is your opponents who would suggest a unity government. 