LAGOS – Justice Tijjani Ringim of the Federal High Court sitting in Lagos on Mon­day granted an order of interim forfeiture of seven properties, three vehicles and $50,000 cash from the National President of the Maize Grow­ers, Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria (MAG­PAMAN), Prof. Uche Chigozie Edwin. The judge made the order se­quel to an application filed and argued by counsel to the Eco­nomic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Rotimi Oyedepo, SAN. Rotimi told the judge that the EFCC traced the properties to Edwin and that it reasonably suspected that the defendant ac­quired them with the proceeds of unlawful activity. The prosecution also sought an order of the court “directing the publication in any widely circulated national newspaper, the interim order under reliefs 1 herein to enable any interested party to appear before the court to show cause within 14 days why the final order of forfeiture of the properties sought to be forfeited should not be made in favour of the Federal Govern­ment of Nigeria.” The properties are a four-bed­room detached duplex at House 13, Road 2, Setraco at Gwarinpa II Estate, Abuja, purchased at the sum of N120 million They include all the prop­erty at Plot 284a, Road 7, No.11 Okeikpe Street, Aladinma Hous­ing Estate, Owerri, Imo State; a plot of land at Mkporo Isiojabi, at Umuofor Eziobo, Eziokele Au­tonomous Community, Owerri West, Imo State; and a plot of land known as Okwu-Odajuru­ba (Njikatu), at Umunbiakwa, Umudukwo, Umuagwo in Oha­ji/Egbema LGA of Imo State. Also involved are a plot of land known as Ishiawom Farm­land, at Umunebo Obokwu Obinze, Owerri West LGA of Imo State as well as three Toyota Hilux vehicles worth N34,010,500 and $50,000 cash in favour of EFCC Recovery Fund Account.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Oyedepo persuaded the court that it had the statutory powers under the provisions of Section 17 of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences Act, 2006 to grant the reliefs. POLL Granting the prayers, Justice Ringim held: “I have perused the motion and affidavit with the written address just adopted by learned Silk for the Applicant. “I am satisfied with all the averment in the affidavit. Con­sequently prayers one and two are hereby granted.” Justice Ringim adjourned till May 9, 2023, for a report of compliance. The anti-graft agency had arraigned Edwin and three of his firms – Visionary Integrated Consulting Limited, NEMAD Associates Limited and Revamp Global Enterprise – before Justice Nicholas Oweibo on an 11-count charge of conspiracy, retention and conversion of funds to the tune of N1, 473,367,046.04.