Senator Representing Gombe South, Bulus K Amos and House of Representatives member for Yamaltu/Deba Federal Constituency, Inusa Ahmed Abubakar and 58 other All Progressive Congress (APC) members are liable to face expulsion if two different committees constituted to investigate allegations of antiparty activities finds them wanting. They were all accused of working against the success of the party during the Presidential, Governorship and State Assembly elections where they publicly asked voters to vote other opponent party candidates instead of the APC candidates during the elections. In the Governorship election, Governor Inuwa Yahaya of the ruling APC got reelected for a second term while the party won 20 out of the 24 seats in the State House of Assembly. In the Presidential election, Atiku Abubakar of the PDP got overwhelming votes in the APC controlled State. For Senator BK Amos, the chairman of the APC in Bambam ward of Balanga LGA, Mohammed Kaka said a five man committee under the chairmanship of Inusa Abbah was constituted to investigate allegations of antiparty activities against Senator BK Amos during the Presidential, the Governorship and State Assembly elections. Addressing Journalists in Bambam, Mohammed Kaka expressed concern that the serving Senator could ever work against the partythus, recommended to the state chapter, stiffer penality that may include expulsion. According to him, characters like senator Bulus “should not be tolerated in or around our party”, he said even before the investigative committee submitted it’s report. The ward publicity secretary, Michael Jonah added that a committee was set up and given two weeks to investigate the role of Bulus in both presidential and governorship elections.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The committee found out that Bulus played inglorious role in the governorship poll, in fact he said it openly that he would not support the governor and truly, he lost all the seven polling units in his ward. POLL “These kind of people ought not to be in our party or around it,” he added. For Inusa Ahmed Abubakar, Member Representing Yamaltu/Deba Federal Constituency, secretary of the APC in his Lubo/Kinafa/Difa ward, Sama’ila Aliyu alleged that the lawmaker only supported Senator Danjuma Goje of the APC in the last election. He added that the lawmaker however fraternized with the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) candidates in other elections. He said an investigation panel has been set up against the lawmaker along with 57 stalwarts of the party that participated in the anti party acts.