AWKA – Journalists in Anambra State are at war with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the state over disrespect, intimidation and threat to life of Journalists by the Public Relations Officer of the commission, Mr. Kingsley Agu in the cause of covering activities of the commission. The situation became so bad that on some occasions Agu alerted security officers in the commission in the run-up to the election by alleging that journalists who came fol;   r coverage of events in the commission might be bearing explosive devices and should be thrown out of the premises. Part of petition by the Correspondents’ Chapel of NUJ signed by the chairman, Chief Chuks Ilozue and Secretary Mrs. Tochukwu Ifejika, addressed to the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Queen Elizabeth Agwu through Head of Department, Voter Education and Publicity and copied to Federal Commissioner, Information and Voter Education Mr. Festus Okoye in Abuja, national President of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Chief Chris Isiguzo as well as State chairman of NUJ Dr. Odogwu Emeka Odogwu read in part: “We the members of the afore mentioned union have resolved to officially communicate you in your capacity as the head of Voter Education and Publicity of growing incidences capable of endangering the existing working relationship between our members and INEC as orchestrated by the conducts of the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of INEC Anambra state, Dr. Kingsley Agu. “We write to intimate you with the unwholesome and repulsive attitude of your  Public Relations Officer, Dr Kingsley AGU to journalists in Anambra State in general, and especially members of the Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists ( NUJ), Anambra State council. “To begin with, in the just concluded 2023 general elections, Dr AGU unleashed the security operatives stationed at the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Awka against Journalists with special mention of Mr Cajetain Mmuta, the Bureau Chief of ThisNigeria newspaper during which Agu openly told the security operatives that they should be watchful of Journalists entering the commission as they equally could bring in Improvised Explosive Devises (IED) into INEC”. The body said that it is disappointed that considering the weighty nature of the unguided outburst by Agu, Mmuta wrote official compliant to Agwu who did nothing but the comment seemed to have been swept under the carpet.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The group said its concern “swell due to several other reports by members during our March 2023 monthly meeting that Agu had at different times reported our members mala fide  to their offices , an act that has threatened and is still threatening the employments of our colleagues. POLL As if these were not enough, on March 31 when elected members of the House of Assembly were issued certificates of return, Journalists were not allowed inside the INEC premises. No reason was give.