BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI , ISAAC ASABOR LAGOS  – Prof. Benedict Oramah, Presi­dent/Chairman, Board of Di­rectors of African Export-Im­port Bank (Afreximbank), has at the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria’s (CIBN) 2023 Annual Lecture proposed the creation of a domestic fi­nancial system that would allow Africa as a continent to develop, prosper and earn respect. In his lecture with the theme: “Unlocking the Constraints to Africa’s Economic Transfor­mation: Insights into the Power of Capital’’, on Wednesday in Lagos, Oramah said Africa may be rich in natural resources but posited the wealth can further be developed, stressing that its usefulness can be deepened by those who control the capital re­quired to bring them to market. He said, “it is, therefore, important that we build a do­mestic financial system that welcomes foreign banks but which, as a deliberate policy, must have the strong participa­tion of Africa-owned banks.’’ Oramah said there was a need to welcome foreign banks, and that the space on that note must not be completely ceded to them if Africans wish to drive the continental devel­opment towards the desired direction. Ostensibly buoyed by the antecedents where Africans look unto other climes for grants, he interrogated the tradition of African leaders begging for grants all the time, despite several years of independence, and also won­dered why Africa’s money was being spent outside Africa and by whom. He said although Africa had about 500 billion dollars, which is about half of Africa’s exter­nal debts today, hoarded away in foreign banks, the same countries (African countries) could not borrow from the same foreign banks holding the resources.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said the excuses of compliance complication and country risk constraints that were hardly mentioned when the funds were being deposit­ed, had made it impossible for Africans to borrow from the same foreign banks holding the resources. POLL He said, “It is in the context of this foregoing that the topic of today’s lecture “Unlocking the Constraints to Africa’s Economic Transformation: Insights into the Power of Capital’’ is apt and opportune. “Without any doubt, capital represents the foundation on which a viable economic trans­formation can be built and why ownership of capital is necessary, it is its control that provides the sufficient condi­tion for capital to become an effective factor of production that can deliver development.” In his goodwill message at the lecture, Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu, Chief Executive Officer of Zenith Bank, said that for Africa to achieve the restoration that she needed to prosper, she would require the cooperation of all stake­holders.