…..As Gbolarumi holds annual lectures in memory of Adedibu, Arisekola A renowned Islamic lecturer, Sheikh (Dr.) Muhydeen Ajani Bello has cautioned political gladiators across the country to shun any forms of violence but always embrace peace and love in their dealings. The popular Islamic lecturer affirmed that God honoured whom he please with wealth and positions of authority irrespective of who they are. Sheikh Bello made this call on Tuesday in Ibadan the Capital City of Oyo state, during the 20th Gbolarumi Annual Special Ramadan Lecture. The annual Ramadan lecture with the theme; “Allah Gives Authority to Whom HE Pleases”, was organised by the former deputy governor of the state, Barrister Hazeem Gbolarumi who doubles as the Balogun Adinni of Ibadanland and Mogaji of Olugbesan family. Ajani Bello in his lecture said, “God gives power to whoever that pleases Him irrespective of their religion, political affiliation or background.” He said, “I’m using this medium to call on all politicians across the country to stop fighting one another over political power because all powers belongs to God and He gives whom He pleases.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I’m urging politicians, especially the political gladiators in Oyo state to embrace peace, there is need for them to shun any forms of violence, and love one another, power and positions of authority belong to God.” He said. POLL Earlier in welcome remarks, the convener of the lecture, Alhaji Hazeem Gbolarumi stressed that the 20th annual lecture is in memory of 15th year remembrance of Late Alhaji Lamidi Ariyibi Adedibu and 9th year remembrance of Late Alhaji Abdul-Azeez Arisekola Aloa. Barrister Gbolarumi used the event to hold a special prayer for the souls of his late political leaders, Late Alhaji Adedibu and Alhaji Arisekola. He described the late leaders as iconic leaders, he also narrated how he single handedly facilitated the annual ramadan lecture 20 years ago with the support of the duo iconic leaders, Late Ariyibi Adedibu and Late Abdul-Azeez Arisekola Alao. He said, “Sheikh Muhydeen Bello is known for being blunt while delivering his lectures, he always speak the truth irrespective of whoever is involved, and for this reason some politicians don’t like him, but I insisted then that he will be the guest lecturer of our annual Ramadan lecture, and with the support of my Political fathers, Alhaji Adedibu and Aare Arisekola I was able to organised the first individual Ramadan lecture in the whole of Ibadan.” The annual ramadan lecture was chaired by the Arole Iba Oluyole Alhaji Chief Nureni Adebayo Akanbi, while the Olubadan of Ibadanland, His Imperial Majesty Oba Mohood Olalekan Balogun, who was ably represented by some High chiefs, the Chief Imam of Ibadanland, Sheikh Abdul-Ganiyy Abubakar Agbotomokekere was ably represented at the event.