LAGOS – Simon Patrick Obi, Executive Director for GreenLight Initiative, has called on the new government to prioritise road safety, safe, and sustainable mobility by increasing investment and interventions as well as checkmating the quality and safety of autos being allowed into the Nigerian market in order to ensure they meet the minimum standards. Obi gave the admonition through a press release from the organisation as the country prepares for the transition to a new government come May 29, when a new President will be sworn in to steer the ship of the country to a new haven. When prioritized, safe and sustainable mobility will boost our lingering economic, strengthen health system, create job opportunities, and stimulate the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in Nigeria, he noted. He reitrated that Transportation drives our economy, as more than 80% of national activities, including food, health, social wellbeing and others are largely hinged on road transportation; but remaining the deadliest means of transportation. Recalling the way the horrific crash involving a bus and a train around the Ikeja axis of Lagos on March 9, he said, “This is one of many road crashes bedeviling our nation and has continued to occur at a frightening proportion on our roads daily. The crashes are mainly caused by human factors, poor road designs, and low safety vehicles. “According to the global status report by the World Health Organization (WHO), more than 39802 people are killed annually on the Nigerian roads. The report adjudged Nigeria as one of the most dangerous country on road with an estimated death rate of 21.4 per 100000 population compared with that of the entire Europe which stands at 9.3 per 100,000 population. Empirical statistics suggests that road traffic crashes continue to remain the leading source of violent death,” he added. Obi expressed how unacceptable the situation is, stressing that road crashes are all preventable and avoidable.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We know what works, to feign ignorance to the solution of road safety is the worst form of deception and betrayal of trust from government at all levels. Road traffic crashes take a toll on countries’ economic situations.” He lamented. POLL Highlighting a World Bank report, Obi stated that countries who fail to prioritize road safety loses up to 5% of their annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The report further indicates that low and middle-income countries who fail to invest in road safety will become even more poorer due to the economic losses associated with traffic crashes. Speaking further, he stated that Nigeria and some low and middle-income countries are known for dumping grounds for used and unsafe vehicles. The task of achieving safe, clean, and sustainable transport system is possible but the onus lies with the new government in terms of policies direction and priorities. The new government has the opportunity to make history with this.