LAGOS – The Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) has partnered AOA Windstream and Applistructure Consulting Limited to launch a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme, tagged “LAWMA GrassRoots Benefit,” which saw the distribution of packages of essential commodities, to the people of Otto, Ijora-Olopa and Ilaje communities. Ibrahim Odumboni, the Managing Director/CEO of LAWMA, while speaking at the event, which held at LAWMA’s headquarters in Ijora-Olopa, noted that the grassroots benefits program was designed to cater for the needs of the less privileged members of communities, including those on low-income, the unemployed, and vulnerable groups. He said the CSR program included various components, such as food stamps, unemployment benefits, scholarships, free healthcare, empowerment programs, and admission into LAWMA Academy, adding that the program would assist the food budget of low-income people and support small businesses experiencing temporary difficulties. “The GrassRoots Benefit program is an aid program to help those who have lost their jobs. It can help with unemployment insurance benefits, finding a job and training. If you need help paying for admission into tertiary institutions, technical, or other vocations, GrassRoots Benefits is the option you may be eligible for from the LGA and other sources,” Mr. Odumboni said. He appreciated the people of those communities (Otto, Ijora-Olopa and Ilaje), for supporting the Authority over the years, noting that the gesture was a way of giving back to the people, to foster more positive relationship, while also urging them to exercise their civic responsibility, by voting in the forthcoming governorship and state assembly elections. The LAWMA CEO, expressed his gratitude to AOA Windstream and Applistructure Consulting Ltd for partnering with LAWMA to launch the GrassRoots Benefit program, reiterating LAWMA’s commitment to providing sustainable solutions for waste management and improving the quality of life for residents. Cole Adeboyejo, the Managing Director of AOA Windstream, earlier in his welcome address, disclosed that the company’s decision to identify with the communities was informed by the need to cater for people at the grassroots.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “Over 450 people were registered for this empowerment. We have packaged different food items to be handed over to them. This is just the first phase; we will do more of this subsequently, even at a higher scale”. POLL The choice of those communities was after due consideration by a careful select Committee, putting into consideration all parameters for fairness. Also speaking, Applistructure Consultant, Ladi Ojo, appreciated the LAWMA boss, for giving them the opportunity to set up the empowerment programme within the Authority’s premises, noting that it is a beneficial way to give back to the society. Two of the beneficiaries, Sanusi Mujidat and Gbade Oyetola, thanked the organisers, imploring other corporate organisations to take a cue from the laudable gesture. The event was attended by representatives of Otto, Ijora-Olopa and Ilaje communities, as well as LAWMA officials.