LAGOS – Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, of Crediometer, Mr Adewumi George has said it is imperative for businesses to enjoy boundless credit transactions for the economy to thrive. George said this while speaking to journalists on the country’s state of the economy on Tuesday in Lagos. The Co-Founder explained that the small and medium-scale traders are major contributors to any economy in the world. Adewumi further explained that the SMEs are determined to create unhindered access to financial services with no request for collateral or guarantor for loans and other credit facilities. This was just as he stated that equipping both young and old businesses to maximize their entrepreneurial strength toward success and global relevance should be highly regarded. Wumi, who was an overall winner of the European Union. Africa the journey Global Hackathon 2021, expressed determination to have Crediometer agents or outlets in every street in Nigeria in a few years. “The small and medium scale traders are the major contributors to any economy in the world.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Businesses must enjoy boundless credit transactions. POLL “Putting the SMEs on a pedestal, they are determined to create unhindered access to financial services with no request of collateral or guarantor for loans and other credit facilities. “Businesses and lives thrive when access to financial services is opened to their family and society. “Equipping both young and old businesses to maximize their entrepreneurial strength towards success and global relevance should be highly regarded. “Crediometer targets the unbanked and disconnected people who struggle to open bank accounts because of identification issues. “Wunmi George was an overall winner of the European Union. Africa the journey Global Hackathon 2021 where 2000 participants from 110 countries came together to hack the biggest socio-economic issues. “We are determined to have Crediometer agents or outlets in every street in Nigeria in a few years.” He said.