LOKOJA – Against the backdrop of the dra­matic withdrawal of Hon. Abio­dun Faleke from the Kogi State governorship race, a stalwart of the APC, Hajia Hadiza Ibrahim, has called on the leadership of the party to extend the sale of nomination and expression of intent forms to enable her par­ticipation in the forthcoming governorship election. This is just as she expressed shock and embarrassment over the sudden withdrawal of Hon. Faleke from the ongoing screen­ing exercise. She lamented the action of the lawmaker, which she averred had put her political life in the balance, saying the best thing he would have done was to discuss his intention with the critical supporters before taking such a decision. She noted that she has to jettison her intention to pick the APC nomination and ex­pression of intent forms as a mark of honour and respect for Hon. Faleke who is the current representative of Ikeja Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. Hajia Hadiza Ibrahim made the appeal on Monday in a press conference in Lokoja to an­nounce her next political action in the wake of the withdrawal from the race of Faleke . Ibrahim stated that she has to jettison her governorship am­bition for not picking the party forms in order to honour Faleke, whom she called her political leader and teacher. She explained that from 2015 election cycle, she has been vy­ing for the office of governor of Kogi State at a time when wom­en were buying the forms the same amount with their male counterparts, lamenting that it would have been easy for her now to pay for the forms which have been subsidized in favour of female politicians.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I have to state emphatically that the reason why I did not obtain the expression of inter­est form was borne out of some political reasons. My ambition in the first place is borne out of the genuine desire to provide a people-oriented leadership that would ensure the provision of genuine gains of democracy to our people. POLL “However, that desire can only be attained when it is not in conflict with my political lead­er Hon. James Abiodun Faleke who is my mentor and teacher. “Having worked so closely with him on the political fronts for years, I consider it an affront to be in the same contest with him as a student cannot know more than his teacher. “I have decided to allow rea­son to prevail that I have to step aside to allow James Abiodun Faleke as my leader to carry on with the vision for a better Kogi State.”