…FG To Inject About N14bn Into Corps, Staff Welfare The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare has said the National Youth Service Scheme (NYSC) Trust Fund Bill is now awaiting President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent. The Minister also disclosed that the Federal Government (FG) is planning to inject about N14bn into the welfare of Corps Members and Staff of the Scheme. Mr. Dare stated this on Tuesday, in a speech during the opening ceremony of the 2023 NYSC Annual Management Conference which took place in Abuja. He said, “I must thank the National Assembly. At a period when people were clamouring for the NYSC to be disbanded, this Bill was being pushed through the National Assembly. We found so many lawmakers who rallied around, from the House of Representatives and its leadership to the Senate leadership, to see that this Bill went through the three stages, and then to the table of the President. “The NYSC Trust Fund that is coming, is a part of that reform. There are other reforms that we must bear in mind both internally and externally. I will give you another good news. The final document and the final approval have been waiting for us to increase and improve the quality of the uniforms of our Corps Members. “We will also increase their bicycle allowance, their feeding allowance, and compensation to the staff. All of these have been done and have gone to the relevant finance ministry, and I am sure that as it makes its way to the Presidency, we will get a positive response that will see an injection of about N14bn naira into corps and staff welfare of NYSC.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ While talking about empowerment for Nigerin youths, Mr. Dare noted that, “The youths of this country deserve investment in skills but also those of us entrusted with taking care of them must be sensitive to their needs and also to the issues that are affecting them today he said” POLL Also speaking, the Director General of NYSC, Brigadier General YD Ahmed explained that, the NYSC Annual Management Conference is a forum where members of the NYSC top management and other key officers make critical review of the Scheme’s operations with a view to developing policies and strategies for improved performance. This edition, he said is special as it is taking place when the Scheme is close to celebrating its 50th Anniversary. “Just two weeks ago, a 22-Member Inter-Ministerial Committee on the Anniversary was inaugurated by the Honourable Minister of Youth and Sports Development. This Conference will, therefore, serve as a veritable avenue for appraisal of our journey in the last five decades, and enable us to set new agenda for a post-Golden Jubilee Scheme that will have greater impact on national development. “I am pleased to state that since the establishment of NYSC in 1973, it has remained a reference point for other organizations owing to its vital roles in the promotion of national unity and integration; peaceful co-existence among Nigerians of diverse socio-cultural backgrounds; and free movement of labour. “The contributions of the Scheme in the areas of health, education, rural infrastructure, culture and tourism, sports, conduct of elections, population census and job creation, amongst others, are enormous and have earned it.” Meanwhile, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello commended Corps Members posted to the FCT for their various innovations and positive strides in the City, saying they have contributed “immensely to the development of Federal Capital schools, hospitals, rural infrastructure and others.” This is as he assured that his Administration will continue to provide necessary support to the NYSC.