Anthony Ode is Group Head, Entrepreneurial Sales at AXA Mansard Insurance plc, one of the leading insurance companies in the country. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, he said that small and medium enterprises need insurance more than large companies. He also spoke on other issues in the sector. Excerpts: What does AXA Mansard Insurance plc do in the entrepreneurial space in the country? One of the things we do is that we partner with entrepreneurs to expand the reach of insurance. The reach of insurance in the country is low; about two percent of Nigerians use insurance products. One of our roles is increase and expands the reach of insurance and to do that we understand that we need to partner with people who have the presence and knowledge of the local communities. To partner with them, we bring them in and train them to understand insurance, understand the products and services and all that and whenever they are able to expand the reach of insurance to end users, they earn commission and bonuses. What is your assessment of the entrepreneurial space in the country?‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Entrepreneurship is growing in the country and many people, especially the young, are getting into the space. POLL A lot of activities in entrepreneurship space is focused on trading and financial services, however, many young entrepreneurs are doing wonderful things in other areas. For instance, during the cash crunch, many young entrepreneurs came up with different applications and alternative payment solutions that helped people to buy and pay for goods and services. Yes many young people are doing wonderful things in the country in terms of entrepreneurship. They are doing the right things by finding gaps and filling them; they may be financial or process gaps or logistics gaps. Things are getting better in the country and will continue to do so for a long time. Many young people are looking at the entrepreneurship option as opposed to paid employment; many young people want to start a business; they do not want to work for anyone. They think they can start a company, grow it and become employers of labour. Many young people are coming up with new business ideas and they are thriving to a large extent. What is your advice to small and medium enterprises on use of insurance products? Small and medium enterprises need insurance products more than the large companies; I say that because established companies have funds that are put aside for emergencies and unforeseen circumstances, however, most small and medium businesses do not have large funds and hardly set aside any fund for emergencies and unforeseen circumstances. So, they need insurance the most. If a company that makes hundreds of millions of naira and if one of its offices or shops gets burnt, this will not cripple its entire business. But, the story for a small business is different; in most cases most small businesses do not have funds for emergencies and unforeseen circumstances and have only one shop and they are adversely impacted when something happens to that shop. However, what insurance does is to protect you or your business and you do not need to go back to where you started. For instance, somebody goes into paid employment and works for 10 to 15 years, saves money and uses that money to start a business and that business is lost; the loss is not only the business, it also includes the savings he made when he was in paid employment. Insurance stops that from happening; for a small fee, we are able to protect you so that if something happens to you or your business; you do not need to go back and start from the scratch and start saving again. Insurance helps to take you to where you were when the incident occurred. It is more important for small businesses to key into insurance than large companies. For instance, there are people and businesses that have not recovered from the EndSARS crisis; not just the trauma and stress of the event but loss of business. Many people lost their businesses and are yet to recover; and that is where insurance comes in. Most of the large and established companies that were adversely impacted during the crisis had insurance products and were help to go back to where they when the crisis occurred. But, most of the small businesses that were not insured suffered and many of them have not recovered. What is your assessment of the insurance sector in the country? The sector is growing and providing products to Nigerians; there are a lot of innovations that the sector is yet to catch up with especially in the cyber space and IT space. However, we are growing every day, especially at AXA Mansard. There are things we do today that we were not able to in the years past. We now have technologies and other tools that enable us to innovate and do more in the insurance sector. A lot has been done to make insurance simpler and accessible to the people.