The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, has stated that Nigeria can no longer afford to neglect research and development (R&D), saying it is strategic to national growth hinged on home-grown solutions. This is just as the chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service, Muhammad Nami, described research and development as a veritable means for companies that want to remain competitive and profitablity in today’s rapidly changing business environment. Both Wabote and Nami, who spoke at the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Suppliers’ Tax Awareness Workshop 2023 jointly organised by the NCDMB and the FIRS at the Local Content Towers in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, on Tuesday, noted that tax incentives would encourage investment in R&D to benefit the public and private sectors. The NCDMB boss said, “I must stress that we can no longer neglect R&D as it is key to local content development, enhancement of future tax revenue to government, development of home-grown solutions and retention of industry spending within Nigerian financial institutions. “It is a no-brainer that once a sustainable R&D investment culture is attained, it would be mutually beneficial to the public and private sectors.” He noted that the NCDMB and the FIRS have complementary mandates as the former is responsible for promoting the development of local content in the oil and gas industry, while the latter is responsible for collecting taxes on behalf of the government. According to him, the two government agencies have seen the need to forge a strong collaboration to drive government’s aspiration to develop local technology with consequential impact on increasing government revenue from tax.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He expressed the hope that the FIRS would through the workshop provide critical insights into the incentives inherent in the Finance Act 2021, and how companies that invest in R&D could benefit from tax credit. POLL Wabote added: “Surely, opportunities exist within our tax laws for the industry to tap the benefits derived from investing in Research and Development. Workshops like this provide the necessary education and enlightenment to enable businesses position themselves appropriately to benefit from making research an integral part of their business model. “We have high hopes that this workshop will rectify gross underfunding of research in Nigeria, which is currently estimated at less than 0.2% of the national budget. It is our expectation that through the awareness that will be created from this workshop the private sector will reverse the trend. He explained that the forum was intended to highlight the inherent benefits of investing in research and development and showcase mutual benefits to both the private sector and the government separately and collectively. On his part, the FIRS boss said the Federal Government offers several tax incentives to encourage research and development activities in the country. Nami said, “These incentives are designed to encourage businesses to invest in R&D, which can lead to innovation, job creation, and economic growth. “However, it is important to ensure that tax incentives are designed and implemented in a way that is fair, transparent, and sustainable, and that they do not have unintended consequences, such as reducing government revenue through aggressive avoidance schemes for base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) or distorting market competition. “By investing in R&D, companies can develop new products, improve existing ones, reduce costs, expand into new markets, protect their intellectual property, and build a strong brand reputation. These factors can lead to increased sales, profitability and overall improve the income of the company.”