Sometime in 1993, a national magazine carried a rumour on the political ambition of Gen. Sani Abacha, then the Defence Secretary of the Interim National Government, headed by Earnest Shonekan. I dismissed it as a huge joke. Abacha, I reasoned, was too unpolished to crave a political space of such magnitude; besides he’s barely able to write his name. Conse­quently, I did not imbibe the rumour. Now, it’s 13 years after, it rankles; I couldn’t forgive such culpable inno­cence. But how did the ‘murderous imbecile’ come to rule Nigeria, for five unabated years for that matter? Could Shonekan have saved us the plague even if he would not oversee the inauguration of M.K.O. Abiola as the President? And the military itself, was there no one worthy of honour? Indeed, Gen. Abacha was not only adroit enough to persuade Babangi­da into retaining him after stepping aside with all his accomplices in the National Defence and Security Coun­cil, he was to benefit from ‘resigna­tion or death’ of the interim Head of State, according to the ING decree. That should have jolted Shonekan if he were prescient. But he could bid his time and wean himself from po­litical surrogacy within a few weeks of firmly in control of machinery of force. Or did the import of the title ‘Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces’ elude him? While the ghoul is representing him in distant Yenagoa, another Defence Secretary is being sworn in in Abuja since the appoint­ment takes immediate effect! All the lackeys of IBB and Abacha could have been retired in one fell swoop. Heavens wouldn’t fall, for the Nigeri­an military was then an institution of perfidy and opportunism. Was the ING man supine, bereft of chivalry or simply petrified by the weight of opposition to the contraption he over­saw, even when Abacha’s ambition was no longer a matter of conjecture, that he essayed no move of self-pres­ervation; or even hurriedly handing over to the winner of the fairest and freest election in the annals of Nige­ria? Chief Ernest Shonekan, head of Interim Government of 90 days, has remained taciturn. He could have saved us from Abacha and preserved M.K.O. Abiola. So shameful that the Nigerian military could not produce even one Brutus to put at bay the many psy­chopaths that have polluted our land­scape directly and indirectly with the blood of the innocent. At least the military has exposed itself: behind the façade of a stern-looking general is a coward anyway. In one moment of derangement by the now deceased scorpion, we saw, before him, officers at the height of their career weeping and gnashing their teeth: the coup was not on principle or for the general good but a moment of stupefaction foisted on mere mortals by no other one than the devil! And the Stone was for once moved, offering tissue paper of a handkerchief to his captives to wipe away their tears: you are right, only the devil could lead chocolate cream officers (Bernard Shaw’s) to war-front; were you to be led by God, you would be in the vanguard of my campaign of totalitarianism and life presidency, thereby securing a future for your­selves in my kingdom… Ah! Gen. Diya, the man who be­strode Ogun State like a Colossus. Civil servants trembled at the men­tion of that name between 1983 and 85. How easy it was to issue orders to bloody civilians in the cosiness of the Government House yet collapse under mock-fire in the battle-field! But then how did soldiers attain the rank of general in Nigeria? Planning coups and counter coups, treachery and criminality! It is sheer sadism, lack of shame and apprehension of what passes for professionalism for some generals to brandish Civil War experience as their curriculum vitae. The fact is, Biafra forces were peopled with volunteers for martyr­dom hurriedly trained by remnants of Eastern officers from July and September 1966 genocidal-pogroms. In a properly constituted army, those so-called generals should have been court-marshalled for allowing a ci­vilian army to stretch a mere ‘police action’ to a three-year combat of at­trition. Ah! Gen Gowon. When Ojuk­wu’s half-baked army unexpectedly crossed the frontiers to Benin and Ore before they ran out of steam, the general in the State House in Lagos reportedly ordered his plane to be made ready for escape! And when it was time to succeed his slain boss, Gen. Obasanjo allegedly retreated! O Nigerian generals! Of course, such tendentious rant­ings of General Ishaya Bamaiyi, as being a victim of political vendetta orchestrated by former President Olusegun Obasanjo because of his refusal to endorse the candidacy of the retired general for Aso Rock in 1999, can only take in the gullible, pa­tients of amnesia and those who lack a sense of history. A general swore like a trooper that he had nothing to do with the killer squad of the late butcher, General Sani Abacha, but allegedly suffered no compunction in luring his fellow generals, on behalf of the same psy­chopath, on to the slaughter slab of a coup scheme! Legal justice is not necessarily social justice. At least the circus show of an interminable murder trial has laid bare the craven nature of the so-called men of war. Behind the thundering and fire-spit­ting carapace of a former general is a spineless form. I had lived under the illusion that generals damn the consequences, including death! While the trial lasted, he did not even affect an air of stoicism. Rather, he caught a pathetic sight of a man paralysed with fear – always in the dumps, eye­ing the judge wistfully, fawning and jockeying for clemency! O Nigerian generals! Not that anyone wished the stinker and his comrades-in-crime were sur­rendered to the gallows. But at least life incarceration might be a condign atonement for their crying atrocities against unarmed Nigerians while they were draped in appurtenances of raw power.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Of course, the law of evidence in murder (attempted murder) trials weighs heavily against the prosecu­tion. The platitudinous phrase ‘prove beyond a reasonable doubt’ is usually a saving grace but sometimes an un­witting collaborator in crime – aiding and abetting criminality. We accept it is better for a judge to err on the side of caution in cases where life is the forfeit. It is better for a thousand criminals to go scot free than for an innocent soul to be made the sacri­ficial lamb. POLL It is regrettable being compatriots of sadists and spineless generals. Ni­gerians have no modicum of regard for those generals whose stock-in-trade were coup-making, perfidy and criminality. Watching them bark orders to civilians during their reign of terror, you mistook them for men of steel. And I pity an unfortunate nation that spawned these funks dis­sembling as men of valour. So, the nation could claim a page in the Guinness Book of Records for producing a record number of gen­erals that flagged, floundered and fainted under fire, real and imagined! Thank God Abacha did not stretch his aggressions to Bakassi. Rather than declare war against Cameroun and risk turning his army into Pris­oners of War in Yaounde, he chose to fight his war in the city, against un­armed Nigerians! Even the officers the shyster sent outside the shores of Nigeria against rag-tag armies had their minds in government houses or political appointments. Till date, no one has given us the number of Ni­gerian soldiers killed in Liberia and Sierra Leone. And they are getting the appointments, aren’t they? GEN­ERALising Nigeria in a democracy! By the time a state of emergency is declared in the remaining 34 states and 774 local governments, there will be no more generals for the jobs! I restate my call in The Guard­ian October 4, 2004 and ThisDay November 16, 2004 respectively: “All military officers that held political offices between 1966 and 1979 should be returned to their pre-1966 ranks. Yakubu Gowon, for instance, should henceforth be addressed as Lt. Col. (rtd). The same for Odumegwu Ojukwu. All officers that partook in political governance from 1983 to 1999 should revert to their pre-1983 ranks. Their service to the nation ended with the subversion of the Constitution of the nation… A situation where a sol­dier would seize power by force and return to lead the same country pass­es us for a nation and people without conscience and common sense” and “Since Nigeria was brought to her knees essentially by the military, no former military rulers or adminis­trators must hold elective office for at least half a century.” If Earnest Shonekan had had a whiff of military training during his college days, he would probably have checkmated Abacha. No single institution should monopolize the ca­pability to wield the weapons of force. Henceforth, all students of higher in­stitutions must undergo compulsory one solid year of rigorous military training. With such background, they will have the capability to de­fend their votes and, if need be, rise against arbitrariness and unconstitu­tionalities; the police will be forced to civilize – guide and protect protesters as done in other climes; a dictator like Abacha will not last a month in power; there will be mutual respect between citizens and members of the armed forces… Above all, the Nigeri­an President will willy-nilly respect the rule of law and tow the path of constitutionalism. …First published in 2006