Welcome to the Assisted Rep r o d u c t ive Technology series with Dr. Ken. Here, we discuss Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) as a means to tackling the problem of infertility. In the last release, we looked at what In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) really is, and clarified some myths surrounding the procedure. We established that IVF is one of the most efficient means to conception in this day and age. That said, today, we are moving to answer the question: Who needs IVF? I think it is right to define who needs a particular service and in this case IVF. Let me take you through memory lane with a scenario that will bring this into focus. In 1978, the first successful IVF in the world was done in the UK. It was the case of a woman whose fallopian tubes were blocked. She had eggs, and her husband had normal sperms. The condition of the blocked fallopian tube meant that the entry point for which the sperms could meet the egg to make fertilization possible has been tempered with. Therefore, conception for her became an impossible thing. Science went thinking, what can be done? Of course, an answer was found when a group of Physiologists and Gynecologists found a way to retrieve eggs from the woman and fertilized it in the lab with her husband’s sperms, thereafter transferring the embryo to the uterus – achieving implantation and pregnancy eventually. This was the first recorded successful IVF in history, and the child Loiuse Brown who is about 44 years old now and married, became the first IVF baby in the world. I met her in person in 2019 at the British House of Commons during a deliberation on the safety of Assisted Reproductive Technology. The fact is, certain medical or genetic conditions could be responsible for the inability to conceive spontaneously (the normal cycle). From the case of a blocked fallopian tubes as we saw above, to abnormalities in the womb and other reproductive organs of the woman, or the case of low or no sperms in the male partner as a result of certain disease conditions or developments. The IVF procedure serves as one of the most efficient means through which conception can occur in any of those cases. This could be done using the gametes of the couple, getting donor gametes, or even involving a surrogate as the case may be. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Parents who are carriers of certain genetic traits like the sickle cell, will need IVF as the only means to eliminate the possibility of having offspring with sickle-cell. This is through a kind of advanced procedure where relevant diagnosis are done on the embryos before transferring them to the uterus. POLL In the case of singlehood, or the mere desire to keep shape and not experience any of the bodily changes pregnancy and child bearing comes with; IVF might just be the only means to conception. In a nutshell, certain medical conditions as well as social reasons puts people on the row of those needing IVF as a means to conception. Are you having a hard time with conception as a couple? Do you or your spouse identify with any of the aforementioned medical conditions or organ abnormalities that makes conception a somewhat impossible thing? Then IVF could be just what you need. Thank you for staying with me today. I am always here to provide expert information on Assisted Reproductive Technology, and how this can help make your dream of a complete family a reality. Until next time, stay fine, and always remember that conception and child bearing is a possibility for everyone that so desires. Dr. Kenneth Egwuda is a consultant Obstetrician and Gynecologist with specialty in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). He has over 16 years of practice and experience. He trained in the UK, India, Bulgaria, Italy, and Germany. His Facility, ALPS Hospitals and Diagnostics, Jos, Nigeria, stands at the center stage of Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) in Nigeria. It holds the record of the oldest first-time delivery mum in Africa through IVF at the age of 63. For more, visit www.kennethegwuda.com.ng And follow on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter @ AskDocKen You can also subscribe to his YouTube channel @AskDocKen AskDocKen… Anything Infertility!