All arrangements have been put in place to experience a whole new wave of music with the highly anticipated rebrand and relaunch of Davido Music Worldwide (DMW). As the first home to the globally renowned superstar, Davido, DMW has been a trailblazer since its establishment in 2016, consistently delivering hits and managing successful operations. The first wave of talents to be signed at DMW, Mayorkun, Peruzzi and Dremo have all become certified superstars today. They found their big break at the label and are now doing well for themselves as independent establishments in the music industry. The label would later grow into an assembly of talented mates birthing signature numbers like Aza, Mind and Aje that dominated the music charts and rocked continental airwaves. It is no wonder that they bagged the award for best record label in consecutive years. Now, with a fresh new perspective and a bolder outlook, DMW is all set to introduce its second constitution, DMW 2.0. This revamped label promises to be bigger, better and more ferocious than ever before. The first unveiling of DMW 2.0 is the label’s brand-new identity emblem. Gone is the previous caricature of a young Davido spotting a king’s crown, replaced with a more powerful and daring visual enhancement that reflects the label’s newfound attitude. But that’s not all! DMW 2.0 is excited to announce the addition of two brand-new acts to its already impressive roster. Meet Morravey, a young Port Harcourt-bred singer/songwriter with a unique flair for blending Afro sounds using her quintessential vocals. And Logos Olori, a sensational Afrobeats vibe machine drawing musical inspiration from his Southwestern roots. These two talented artists are the industry’s latest revelations and are set to take the music scene by storm.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL More interesting folks is the fact that Morravey and Logos will be making their label debut on none other than Davido’s upcoming album, “TIMELESS,” set to release on March 31st, 2023. They will be joining an impressive list of ace musicians from around the world who are featured on the highly anticipated project. It’s an exciting time to be a fan of DMW, and we can’t wait to see what this new era brings. So, get ready to experience the next level of music with DMW 2.0 and its incredible lineup of artists. Stay tuned for more updates and get ready to be blown away by the industry’s latest revelations.