LAGOS  – A domestic staff, Joseph Ogbu has been sentenced to death by hanging for killing his employ­er, an 89-year-old grandmother, Ajoke and her daughter, Oreolu­wa, in their home in Lagos. The trial judge, Justice Modupe Nicole-Clay, sitting at the Lagos State High Court, Ikeja on Monday found the defendant guilty of a three-count charges of armed robbery and murder. The charges were preferred against him by the Lagos State Government. The defendant committed the offence on June 19, 2019 by killing one Adejoke John by strangulat­ing her to death and stabbing Oreoluwa to death. He pleaded not guilty when arraigned on October 22, 2019, to a three-count charge of armed robbery and murder, contrary to Sections 222 and 297 of Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. Ogbu, while armed with a knife, robbed Adejoke John of her Toyota Camry Saloon car, with Registration No. FST 104 CW, LG plasma TV, motorway handset, one Gionee handset, one Nokia phone, one i-Tel Phone and one power bank. The prosecutor said the inci­dent took place at 4, Ogunlana Drive, Surulere area of the state at 9:30 p.m.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Lagos State prosecuting counsel stated that the defendant killed Oreoluwa John by stab­bing her to death while armed with a knife, and robbed the deceased of her car, phones, and Plasma TV. POLL The judge held that the defen­dant confessed to the crime. She added, “He killed one Adejoke by strangling her, and one Oreoluwa by stabbing her to death. “I have considered the evi­dence of the security guard, an Okada man, one Yahya Ibrahim, the house help and a police In­spector. According to her, the convict admitted to living with them and he was the only witness of the incident. She stated that the defendant did not raise an objection to the admissibility of the confessional statement. “There’s no doubt that the de­fendant confessed to the crimes. According to the judge, the defendant could not give an ex­planation of what he was doing with all the stolen items he was found with as at about 2:00 a.m. on the date he was arrested. “The evidence is shown to the satisfaction of this court and the court has established guilt against the defendant. “He is hereby guilty as charged.” After convicting him, the judge told Joseph Ogbu, “I have to hear from you, you have been found guilty. The convict replied in Pidgin English, “The mama no die for my presence. I beg for mercy,” clasping his hand to his face. In his allocutus, the defence counsel, Mr. Moses Enema told the judge, “The defendant is a first time offender, a son to a young widow, largely dependent on this son. “In the course of the trial, my lord, the defendant was very re­morseful, it’s an indication that he is willing to turn a new leaf. We do pray the court to temper justice with mercy. Sentencing him to death for all three counts, Justice Nicole-Clay pronounced, “This court has found Joseph Ogbu guilty of these heinous crimes, you are hereby sentenced to death by hanging.”