***Commends Benedict Akika For Giving Back To Community IBADAN – Oyo State governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, has announced that his administration will award the project for the construction of the 8.3 kilometres Ojurin- Olorunda-Abaa Road in Lagelu Local Government Area of Ibadan before the expiration of the first term of his administration. The governor stated this on Thursday while commissioning the Olorunda-Abaa Divisional Police Station built by the Agbaakin of Olorunda-Abaa, Oloye Benedict Akika. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted the governor as explaining that the award of the contract will be in tandem with his administration’s commitment to continue working for the people of the state till end of his first term in the office. It will be recalled that the administration had earlier completed the first phase of the project on the Basorun-Idi Ape-Akobo-Ojurin axis as well as the General Gas Flyover. Speaking during the commissioning of the Police Station, the governor said: “Let me use this opportunity to say thank you for your support on my re-election. You really spoke loud and clear not only on Oyo State but also on Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “My message is very clear; you know security is one of our major pillars. So, this Division Police Station is in line with that security leg of the roadmap. One thing that is very important is that the builder is not holding any political office, he is just a friend of this government. I want to thank him for giving back to his community from the little he has gotten from government. POLL “When he insisted that I must show up here, I had to agree with him just to pass a message to all of us not to bury our talents. Always try to make impact out of any opportunity you have to do so. I believe that whenever they may want to tell the story of this community, they cannot do so without mentioning the name of Benedict Akika. So, I want to thank him for this gesture. “Let me also appreciate the Commissioner of Police and the officers and men of the Oyo State Police Command as well as other security agencies. You did well for the people of Oyo State during the election and I pray that this country and state will acknowledge your efforts.” Governor Makinde, who maintained that he was aware of the bad situation of the Ojurin-Olorunda Road, said the project will be awarded and the contractor will be mobilised to site in a few weeks. “On my way here, I observed the bad situation of the road. We have done the construction from Idi-Ape to Akobo Ojurin, and the next phase is the 8.3km, which will cover from Ojurin to here in Olorunda-Abaa. “The first term is yet to be over, as we will continue to work for our people for the remaining time left. We will award and mobilise the contractor for this project within the two months left and the project will also be lit up. “You requested for a vehicle and we will ensure we provide one for you immediately,” the governor added. In his remarks, the donor of Olorunda-Abaa Divisional Police Station, Oloye Akika thanked God for making him actualise his dream of building a police station for his community. He appreciated Governor Makinde for his support towards the remarkable project, adding that without the governor, the dream would not come through. He added that he built the station because he was after the security of the people in the community as well as to contribute to the governor’s efforts in the area of security. Similarly, the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State, CP Adebowale Williams, commended the donor, noting that his effort is tune with Governor Makinde’s body language, which is zero tolerance for crime. The CP added that the essence of the project is to bring the Police closer to the people and vice versa, saying: “So, I really want to appreciate those who initiated this and we are going to ensure that the officers that will be posted here will not disappoint, but rather work with the people.”