Oyo state Governor, Engr. ‘Seyi Makinde and his deputy, Barrister Bayo Lawal, have received their Certificates of Return from the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. Governor Makinde and his deputy who were accompanied by their wives, on Wednesday at the International Conference Center University of Ibadan, Ibadan, the Capital City Of Oyo state received their Certificates of Return from the State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Adeniran Abdulrahmon Tella. The development according to the state REC, is in line with section 72 (1) of the Electoral Act. In his acceptance speech, Makinde appreciated INEC for deepening the electoral process with the introduction of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) which according to him has further improved the credibility of elections in the country. While reaffirming his avowed commitment towards taking Oyo state to greater heights in terms of meeting the expectations of the electorates who overwhelmingly handed him another four-year mandate, Makinde assured that his administration will leave no stone unturned in ensuring Oyo state people get due value for their votes. Makinde emerged the winner of the just concluded governorship election having won in 31 out of the 33 local government areas of the state. Makinde scored 563,756 to defeat the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Teslim Folarin, who got 256,685 votes, and the Accord Party candidate, Adebayo Adelabu, with 38,357 votes.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Makinde is the second governor to win re-election in Oyo state after the late Abiola Ajimobi. He is a member of G-5 Governors headed by Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state. POLL The National Electoral Commissioner in charge of Oyo, Lagos, and Ekiti state, Mr. Sam Olumekun, in his keynote address said the people of Oyo state spoke very loudly at the polls. He expressed his joy at the Commission’s ability to surmount all the odds that preceded the just concluded general elections assuring that the electoral process can only continue to get better while being guided by extant and relevant laws in the conduct of elections in the country. The Speaker, of Oyo state House of Assembly, Rt Honourable Adebo Ogundoyin was unavoidably absent. The other 31 winners of the state assembly lawmakers were all presented their Certificates of Return by INEC. The ceremony also had in attendance members of PDP state executives and state cabinet members, Olubadan in Council, the Christain Association Of Nigeria, Chief Imam Of Ibadan, Chief Imam Abdulganiy Agbotomokekere, the Aare Musulumi of Yorubaland, Edo, and Delta, Alhaji Daud Makanjuola, former and present national assembly lawmakers.