LAGOS – According to Kevin Eze, Founder and African Food Network, the culinary industry in Africa is a vital part of the continent’s cultural heritage and economy. He said, “This amazing continent is home to diverse and unique cuisines that are becoming increasingly popular worldwide. Nigeria, with its rich culinary heritage and thriving food industry, has the potential to lead the way in supporting the growth of the African food economy. And like the popular saying “charity begins at home” Nigeria has to pave the way for other countries to take their culinary industry more serious by putting more resources to make ours boom and create a model worth imitating by other countries.” To achieve this, he said government must be involved and they should be held accountable to the promises made. “The Nigerian government is not prioritizing the culinary industry due to lots of challenges they face in tackling insecurity, corruption, and alleviating poverty among its citizens.” “While these major issues are being attended to, the government pays little or no attention to the culinary space which could generate good perpetual revenue for the country and boost culinary tourism which according to a report by the World Food Travel Association, represents 25% of all tourism expenditure in most developed countries and is expected to grow by 9% annually. “For African culinary industry to boom, Nigeria needs to take charge, lead the movement, and influence other African countries to take part in the change. As we already know, Nigeria is a very big country in Africa, with a population count of over 200 million people and the largest youth population in Africa: with a median age of 18.4 years. This means that there is a large potential workforce that can contribute to the culinary industry in the future if properly invested in. It is also the biggest economy in Africa.” “According to the World Bank, Nigeria’s GDP in 2020 was $448.12 billion which is more than double the size of the second-largest African economy, South Africa, which had a GDP of $283.92 billion in the same year. This data alone is enough to drive and further cement the narrative of Nigeria being the big brother of African nations because of her GDP and Population.” “The Nigerian government needs to invest in the culinary industry; this can be done by providing financial support, tax incentives, and infrastructure development to help small and medium scale businesses thrive. With the country’s general election about to take place and a new government or system set to emerge, I’ll implore the new government to show more support for the culinary through these other essential steps.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Financial support is key to the growth of the culinary industry, while privatization plays a huge role in developing the African economy due to the large influx of foreign investors, the culinary sector should not be left to the hands of private entities instead creating a partnership with the private sector to ensure that new business owners (chefs, restaurant owners, food startups etc) in the culinary industry have access to loans and grants to enable them function properly, also making available scholarships available to young individuals interested in the culinary sector to get the necessary education and qualification to build 4 & 5 star restaurants around the world. This should promote our culture and increase demand for our cuisines.” POLL He added, “Infrastructure development is critical for the growth of the culinary industry, and the Nigerian government can provide significant support in this area. The government can invest in creating infrastructure such as food parks, culinary schools, and food processing startups.” “In some developed countries, the government-created food processing parks have attracted investors and created job opportunities thus giving a significant boost to their economy.” “Similarly, the Nigerian government can cooperate within the federal, state, and local government level to provide support to existing food markets, such as the popular Onitsha, Balogun, Ariaria, and Dawanau food markets to improve infrastructure and create a conducive environment for businesses to thrive.” The Chief Executive Officer of African Food Network argued that, “Tax incentives are another effective way for the government to encourage investment and growth in the culinary industry. For example, the government can provide tax breaks for food businesses that employ and train young people, especially those who are under-privileged. The government can also provide tax incentives for businesses that use local ingredients and promote traditional African cuisine. Several countries such as Thailand, China, and Saudi Arabia have successfully implemented government support for the culinary industry, leading to significant economic growth. “Investing in Tourism would also help, The African culinary tourism industry has the potential to attract tourists and provide significant job opportunities. According to the World Tourism Organization, Africa received 67 million international tourist arrivals in 2018, which is expected to grow. The Nigerian government is investing in her tourism by creating an enabling environment that can help in promoting the continent’s culinary heritage and supporting the food industry, hence creating more job opportunities and contributing to the continent’s economic growth. “The Nigerian culture is the most populous amongst the black folks around the world with an increasing demand every day, with our local foods like fufu, jollof rice, and egusi taking the centre stage in global culinary conversations, the Nigerian government can take advantage of this and play a crucial role in preserving the continent’s culinary heritage by providing support to chefs and culinary experts who are dedicated to preserving traditional African cuisine. By promoting traditional African dishes and ingredients, the government can help preserve the continent’s unique culinary heritage and culture. several countries have successfully implemented this with their government support for the culinary industry, leading to significant economic growth. Here are some examples:Thailand: The Thai government has been actively promoting its culinary industry through various initiatives such as the “Thai Select” programme, which recognizes restaurants that serve authentic Thai cuisine. These efforts have led to an increase in the number of tourists visiting the country and a rise in the demand for Thai cuisine. Malaysia: The Malaysian government has created a network of food parks, culinary schools, and food incubators to promote the country’s food industry. These efforts have led to an increase in the number of job opportunities and an improvement in the quality of the country’s food products. Doing all this can boost Nigeria’s culinary industry and create a healthy environment for foreign investors, This can be done easily because Nigeria has already been a major destination for foreign investment in Africa: According to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Nigeria was the largest recipient of foreign direct investment (FDI) in Africa in 2020, with inflows of $2.6 billion. This suggests that foreign investors see Nigeria as a promising market for growth and investment, and this could be driven more into the culinary industry as well as the food. When there is a huge demand for finished food product and African cuisine, it automatically increases the demand for the raw materials and ingredients to make the food which most of them can only be sourced in designated African countries, whereas boosting the economy and creating jobs to fit into the agro-processing system. The African food economy has the potential for huge growth if these issues are been addressed meticulously, and the Nigerian government can play a significant role in supporting the continent’s culinary industry. By investing in her infrastructure development, providing tax incentives, and promoting traditional African cuisine, the government can create an environment that is conducive to the growth and development of the African food industry worthy of emulation by other African countries. The success of other developed countries that have implemented government support for their culinary industries is a testament to the potential impact of such support in Africa.