The gubernatorial candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in Ogun State, Ambassador Olufemi Ajadi Oguntoyinbo, has hailed the ruling of the elections petition tribunal sitting in Ogun state for granting the party’s request to inspect all Bi-modal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) machines and other sensitive materials used for the 2023 elections in the state over the omission of the party’s name on the ballot paper. The Ogun tribunal granted all the prayers of the NNPP in the motion ex-parte filed on Friday at the Isabo court in Abeokuta. It could be recalled that Governor Dapo Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had been declared the winner of the March 18 gubernatorial election held in Ogun state. But, the NNPP went to court to challenge the omission of its name on the ballot paper in Ogun state, noting that this act has disenfranchised the party members, loyalists, supporters and the masses from voting for the party during the guber and state assembly elections. The motion ex-parte was supported by an eight-paragraph affidavit deposed by the State chairman of the party, Olaposi Oginni. The NNPP had complained that INEC did not print the name of the party on the governorship ballot papers, as prescribed by the Electoral Act. The party asked the tribunal to allow it to make photocopies, scan and record all sensitive materials used by INEC in the March 18 governorship election, ahead of its petition.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ NNPP stated that it would seek the nullification of the governorship election in Ogun due to the omission of its name on the ballot papers. POLL Granting the prayers, the Chairman of the tribunal, justice Argum Ashom agreed with the NNPP on the prayers, “in that effect the reliefs are granted as prayed.” Speaking on this development on Tuesday in a statement personally signed by him, the gubernatorial candidate of the party in Ogun state, Oguntoyinbo commended the tribunal for granting the party’s prayers over the omission of the party’s name on the ballot during the gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections in the Ogun state on March 18, 2023. Oguntoyinbo disclosed that the party in Ogun state had earlier written a letter to INEC to ensure the inclusion of his party’s name on the ballot paper, but the INEC in its wisdom decided to rob the party of victory by refusing to correct the error, hence, the need to challenge it constitutionally by going to tribunal. He noted that omitting the name of the party on the ballot paper gave voters difficulties to find the party’s name on ballot papers affect voting drive was a ploy to rob him and the party of the victory in the just conducted gubernatorial and state assembly elections. Oguntoyinbo then called for the rerun of the election so that the party’s name will be properly inscribed on the ballot paper.