***Celebrates One Year In Office BENIN – Dr Salisu Umar, the Rector of Auchi Polytechnic, Auchi, Edo State has disclosed that the installation of optic fibre cable broadband across the campuses has enhanced efficient and uninterrupted Internet services in the institution. Umar disclosed this during an Interactive session with newsmen to mark his one-year stewardship as the rector of the polytechnic. Umar said that the installation of the broadband internet services around the campuses is to provide fast transmition of data to academics, staff and students. “This is in order to key into the competition and make in-roads as some of the best researchers, staff and students. “Provision of Internet is therefore crucial as part of the structure of an institution of higher learning campuses across the world, havenrealised that unreliable Internet connect remains a huge setback. “If you go around our polytechnic you will see the laying of optic fibre everywhere for broadband so that our lecturers and students will no longer suffer to go and buy data for their research .‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We want to make research just at our palm. Bring out your laptops anywhere you connect to the server,” Umar said. POLL Umar also said he had carried out numerous projects in the last one year with some completed and others at 80 per cent level. He highlighted some of the projects to include the construction of two lecture hall theatres, 40 staff offices in the School of Agricultural Science, 48 staff offices in Campus Two, the construction of boreholes and the Department of Architects. Others are the installation of solar power, construction of a link road from Campus One and Campus Three; another link road from campus two and campus three amongst others. The rector also disclosed that 64 programmes have been accredited in the school with 17 new programmes introduced in the institution within his one year in office. “Before I came I had my vision and mission and my vision is to make Auchi polytechnic a world-class institution which I have already started. ” I started it by giving Auchi Polytechnic the highest number of accreditation any polytechnic in Nigeria has ever acquired. ” I was able to give Auchi polytechnic 64 programmes to add to their carrying capacities as well as the resource for the programmes that have lost accreditation. “There are some of our programmes that have not been accredited for over three years and when I came I was able to get them accredited. “Our degree programmes were almost closing as I am talking to you today, I have gotten accreditation for all the degree programmes. “Introducing 17 new departments to any institution, no matter the size of that institution is not a joke and these 17 new programmes are actually the programmes that will upgrade any institution. “They are the newly introduced programmes in the world such as Welding and Fabrications, Mechatronics, Petroleum and Gas Processing, Computer Engineering, Website Design, Pharmaceutical Technology, Agric Crop Production, so on and so forth. “As I have said, I want to make Auchi Polytechnic a world-class institution within the next four years of my leaving office.