P/HARCOURT  – Supporters of the presidential candidate of the People’s Dem­ocratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, from Rivers State who relocated to Abuja have now been described as the biggest losers in the 2023 general election. The likes of the former Governor, Celestine Omehia, Senator Thompson Sekibo, Dr Abiye Sekibo and Senator Lee Maeba among many others were some of those whose can­didates failed to make the cut in the elections. The Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, who made this statement said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the State will defend the mandate that was given to its candidates in the 2023 general election. The governor noted that soon the various election tri­bunals will commence sitting where the mandate will be chal­lenged, but the PDP will stand in defence of its candidates to ensure that the mandate is not stolen. Wike said this when he spoke at a luncheon organised to celebrate the PDP candidates who won their elections and have been presented with their Certificates of Return by the In­dependent National Electoral Commission, INEC. Those honoured at the lun­cheon in Port Harcourt on Wednesday were the Gover­nor-elect, S Siminialayi Fubara, Deputy Governor-elect, Prof. Ngozi Odu, and other elected representatives of Rivers State to the National and Rivers State House of Assembly. Wike pointed to the fierce political battle that was experi­enced during the general elec­tion and that if not for God, the victory that PDP is celebrating today would have eluded it.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Rivers State governor told those who have been elect­ed to the National Assembly to support every course that promotes national unity, while placing the interest of the State paramount at all times. POLL He explained the impor­tance of working in tandem with the State on any course, whether it is suitable to them or not, but because it is expedi­ent in advancing the interest of the State. Wike pointed to some Riv­ers leaders who went to Abuja and betrayed the interest of the state. He said they have become the greatest losers and fallen out of relevance in the State.