ABUJA  – Minister of Environment, Mo­hammed Abdulahi, has heaped blames on massive deforestation in the country to powerful forces at the sub-national level most of whom could do anything to pro­tect loggers that produce charcoal for sale. The minister made the dis­closure at the 69th edition of the Inter-Ministerial Media Briefing organised by the Presidential Communications Team at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Thursday. According to him, each time the Federal Government tried to go after those behind the menace to save the environment, there was a push back at the subnational level on the ground that the trees belong to the states. Fielding questions on felling of trees for charcoal, the minis­ter said: “To have some level of control, apart from timber legal standard, we have what we call Na­tional Trust Fund (NATF), which is essentially to track in areas where there is so much pressure on our forests. “After tracking it, raise red flag and then engage those communi­ties and the state governments so that the solution can be brought and have a level of arrest of the continuous challenge to our forest. “What we did not tell you is that the activities of the people in the charcoal business with all due respect are being supported by a number of powerful people in the sub-national level. And if we try to do some level of enforcement, they will tell you, we own this territory, you are Federal Government and you cannot enforce your rule and policy on us. “So, that is part of the chal­lenge in terms of controlling these activities. But in spite of this, the task force is still there, going after some of them on ad-hoc basis, trying to find out who and who is involved, who licensed who. We are doing our best to curb the situation.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Earlier, the Director-General of Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria, Professor Adepoju Olu­sola, speaking on the Timber and Energy Standard, said, “No other administration has tackled this issue like the Buhari administra­tion. The challenge we are facing under deforestation and charcoal is engaging Nigerian Governors’ Fo­rum because of the Land Use Act. POLL “The Federal Government is just a policy provider and doesn’t have that control over state govern­ment land to work out a modality which Kaduna State government has keyed in properly. “It has invested some hectares of land to plant and we are work­ing with the local governments. So, we are projecting other states will follow suit.” Meanwhile, he said the Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari ad­ministration has so far planted five million trees as part of its target to plant 25 million trees by the year 2030 under its afforestation policy. On Charles Soludo, describing Anambra as the capital of erosion in the country and what the gov­ernment was doing to arrest the situation, Abdulahi said: “On Anambra being the erosion capi­tal of Nigeria, again some of these things boil down to the nature of our federal structure. “Part of the problem is that, initially, Federal Government used to intervene in states ero­sion matters under Ecological Fund. But the states insisted that they be given their share of the ecological funds. “So, since then, Mr. President being a democrat, gave directives that every FAAC meeting, deduc­tions are made and paid to states from Ecological Fund. But in spite of that, the Federal Government through the Ecological Fund office still intervenes in states to support erosion challenges in sev­eral states. “So as much as we want to in­tervene and correct some of these anomalies, we are also inhibited by funding issues. Again, that was the basis for which the Fed­eral Government created NEMA so that the issues of erosion are handled in every state. There are a huge gap in the management of erosion particularly in the South- East states of Anambra, Imo and Enugu. “So we are doing our best to support them but we are also call­ing on the states to live up to their responsibilities and utilise those funds they get from Ecological Fund effectively, this way we can support ourselves.” On the issue of national envi­ronmentalsanitationpolicy, hesaid: “Ours is to drive this policy and get the buyer in of stakeholders. Usual­ly, what we do when we have these policies drawn up, we have what we call the validation process where the state governments, ministry of environment and agencies in charge of sanitation to jointly go through the document and imple­ment the policy jointly. “With all due respect, state governors have politicised the process of sanitation exercise and programmes. While you find some states banning sanitation exercise and you find others instituting the exercises. So there are discordant tunes in this exercises. “But again, because of the na­ture of our arrangement, we can­not force it down the throat of state governments but in FCT we have level of control working with the Abuja Environmental Sanitation Agency particularly as it had to do with plastic pollution in Abuja and the activities of developers because they have been trying to encroach into the Jabi Lake. I’m glad to inform you that we have formed an alliance with the FCT and we are set to inspect through a joint taskforce to those areas and see what we can do to enforce sanitation.” Abdullahi also alleged that state governments compound the menace of flooding in their states by issuing certificates of occupancy for buildings without giving a thought to terrains and topographies. The minister said with litiga­tion issues over, President Buhari in the next couple of days will flag off the groundbreaking of the cen­ter of excellence for remediation and that of the power project and the hospital. He said with inhibition out of the way, the ministry is on course to deliver on President Buhari’s directives on Ogoni clean up.