The Department of State Services (DSS) on Wednesday said it has identified some key players in the plot for an Interim Government in Nigeria. In a statement by Peter Afunanya, the Public Relations Officer, DSS, the service said it considers the plot, being pursued by these entrenched interests, as not only an aberration but a mischievous way to set aside the constitution and undermine civil rule as well as plunge the country into an avoidable crisis. It said the illegality is totally unacceptable in a democracy and to the peace-loving Nigerians, noting that this is even more so that the machination is taking place after the peaceful conduct of the elections in most parts of the country. “The planners, in their many meetings, have weighed various options, which include, among others, to sponsor endless violent mass protests in major cities to warrant a declaration of a state of emergency. “Another is to obtain frivolous court injunctions to forestall the inauguration of new executive administrations and legislative houses at the federal and state levels. “The DSS supports the president and Commander-In-Chief in his avowed commitment to a hitch-free handover and will assiduously work in this direction. It also supports the Presidential Transition Council and such other related bodies in the states. “It will collaborate with them and sister security and law enforcement agencies to ensure seamless inaugurations come May 29, 2023.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Consequently, the service strongly warns those organising to thwart democracy in the country to retract from their devious schemes and orchestrations”, the statement noted. POLL Continuing, it said, “Stakeholders, notably judicial authorities, media and the civil society, are enjoined to be watchful and cautious to avoid being used as instruments to subvert peace and stability of the nation.” It said while its monitoring continues, it will not hesitate to take decisive and necessary legal steps against these misguided elements to frustrate their obnoxious intentions.