LAGOS  – AM Best, has affirmed the Finan­cial Strength Rating of B+ (Good) and the Long-Term Issuer Credit Rating of “bbb-” (Good) of AXA Mansard Insurance Plc. The outlook of these Credit Ratings is stable, according to the United States-based global cred­it rating agency, news publisher and data analytics provider for the insurance industry. According to the agency, the ratings reflect AXA Mansard’s balance sheet strength, which it assesses as strong. “The ratings also reflect rat­ing enhancement, in the form of lift, from AXA Mansard’s ultimate parent, AXA S.A”, the agency press statement stated. The statement continued; “AXA Mansard’s balance sheet strength is underpinned by risk-adjusted capitalisation at the strongest level, as measured by Best’s Capital Adequacy Ratio (BCAR). Capital consumption is primarily driven by asset risk, which incorporates the compa­ny’s substantial real estate invest­ments”. AM Best expects prospective operating performance to be supported by corrective under­writing measures in the health portfolio, as well as positive con­tributions from the company’s life book. AM Best affirms that AXA Mansard has a solid foothold in its domestic market where it ranks among the largest non-life companies, and it enjoys a lead­ing market position in the health segment. “With good long-term growth prospects, AXA Mansard is expected to further strengthen its competitive market position over the coming years” the state­ment explained.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Commenting on the rating, Ngozi Ola-Israel, the Chief Fi­nancial Officer said, “the affirma­tion of our ratings by an agency like AM Best lends credence to the significant improvement in our internal capital generation abilities with strong focus on continuously improving our un­derwriting performance through technical excellence.” POLL Also speaking about the rat­ings, Kunle Ahmed, Chief Ex­ecutive Officer, AXA Mansard furthered that the company is pleased that its continued effort to build a world class insurance company is yielding positive re­sults.