The West African Examinations Council (WAEC), Nigeria has announced the release of the result of the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for Private Candidates, 2023–First Series. Making the announcement on Friday, Mr Patrick Areghan, the Head of National Office, Nigeria recalled that the examination was conducted in Nigeria between Tuesday, January 31, 2023, and Friday, February 17, 2023. According to him, 8,738 candidates (representing a 16% increase, when compared with the 2022 entry figure) registered for the examination, while 8,348 candidates sat the examination at 262 centres spread across the nooks and crannies of the country. Areghan disclosed that 2,003 candidates representing 23.99% obtained credit and above in a minimum of five subjects, including English Language and Mathematics while 2,960 candidates representing 35.46% obtained credit and above in a minimum of five subjects (with or without English Language and/or Mathematics). Amongst the candidates that sat the examination, 27 candidates, with varying degrees of Special Needs, were registered for the examination. Out of this number, eight (8) were visually challenged, TWO (2) had impaired hearing and four (4) were Albinos. The HNO stated that the Council ensured that all the candidates with special needs were adequately provided for in the administration of the examination. Of the total 8,348 candidates that sat the examination, 4,161 were males while 4,187 were females, representing 49.84% and 50.16%, respectively.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Out of the total number of candidates that sat the examination, 8,253 candidates, representing 98.87% have their results fully processed and released while 95 candidates, representing 1.13% have a few of their subjects still being processed due to some errors on the part of the candidates. POLL Areghan, however, disclosed that efforts were being made by the Council to speedily complete the processing to enable all the affected candidates get their results fully processed and released, subsequently. He added that candidates who obtained credit and above in a minimum of five (5) subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, were  30.11% and  26.32% respectively. Thus, there is a marginal decrease of 2.33% in performance in this regard. “This analysis, however, cannot be compared with that of the WASSCE for School Candidates. Whereas the candidate in the WASSCE for School Candidates Examination is compelled to sit eight or nine subjects, the candidate in the WASSCE for Private Candidates Examination, though can register for eight or nine subjects, is not compelled to take all. He/she is free to sit, even one subject, depending on the deficiency he/she wants to remedy. For him/her, therefore, the examination is only a remedial one – a remedy for an existing deficiency. From the above, it will not be true or fair to say that the performance in this examination has dwindled. “The results of 413 candidates, representing 4.95% of the total number of candidates that sat the examination, are being withheld in connection with various reported cases of examination malpractice. The cases are being investigated and reports of the investigations will be presented to the appropriate Committee of the Council for determination in due course.  The Committee’s decisions will be communicated directly to the affected candidates, thereafter. “Candidates who sat the examination should visit www.waecdirect.org  to check their results. Candidates will also be required to apply for their certificates online, through the WAEC Certificate Request Portal (e-Certman) website: https://certrequest.waec.ng/. All candidates who sat the diet are hereby advised to check their results carefully and take necessary actions as required. “The West African Examinations Council (WAEC), Nigeria would like to congratulate all candidates who have worked hard and achieved great results. Our profound gratitude also goes to the various levels of government, Staff, Supervisors, Invigilators, Custodians, Examiners, and other Ad-hoc personnel who, despite all odds, availed the Council of their services in ensuring the successful conduct of the examination and marking of scripts. The results are a testament to their dedication and hard work. We wish all the candidates the best of luck in their future endeavours. “It is noteworthy that the results are being released barely 42 days after the end of the examination. “Once again, we assure all our stakeholders of our dedication and commitment to serving the Nigerian Child.”; Arehan comcluded. 