Everton’s accounts for the 2021-22 financial year were finally released today and they show losses totalling £44.7m, a £76m improvement on the previous year. The reporting period, which shows revenue of £181m, covers the timeframe for which the Premier League has flagged the club for being in breach of Profitability and Sustainability rules which allow for losses of £105m over a rolling three-year period. While losses after deductions were down from 2020-21, the club’s net debt increased last year to £141.7m, with the biggest outlay being on construction costs on the new Everton Stadium at Bramley-Moore Dock which topped £200m. Expenditure on the new ground and player acquisitions like those of Nathan Patterson from Rangers and Vitalii Mykolenko from Dynamo Kiev were offset by the sale of Lucas Digne to Aston Villa and Richarlison to Tottenham Hotspur, while high-earning players like Bernard and James Rodriguez were also moved on. £10.5m is attributed in the accounts to compensation to former manager Rafael Benitez and his staff following his dismissal in January 2022. Total commercial revenue from “sponsorship, advertising and other commercial activities” grew by £3.8m to £50.4m but broadcast revenue fell by around £31m, largely because the pandemic-impacted 2019-20 campaign bled into the previous reporting period and because the club finished six places lower in the Premier League than the season before. The club attribute £90m in crystallised losses and further unspecified “uncrystallised” losses (for example, unrealised revenue from player trading that was affected by the pandemic lockdown) to Covid-19.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Despite the substantial financial impact of several unexpected and unprecedented factors in recent seasons, the club remains in a secure financial position thanks to the continued support and commitment of our majority shareholder,” a club statement on the publication of the accounts read. POLL “In the post year-end period, the majority shareholder has provided a further £70m of financial support to the club.” Meanwhile, in his statement in the accounts, club Chairman Bill Kenwright expressed his disappointment with the Premier League’s decision to refer Everton to an independent commission for contravening financial rules. “I cannot comment ahead of that commission other than to say that the club is confident it remains compliant with all of the Premier League’s financial rules and regulations, and has always provided information to them in an open and transparent manner. “That the club has always acted in good faith simply intensifies the disappointment experienced at last week’s news, but as already stressed, we will robustly defend our position.” Kenwright also referenced his “pain” at not being able to attend Goodison Park in recent weeks due to the Board of Directors’ decision to stay away from home matches under advice from club security amid protests by fans towards the hierarchy. Though they were in attendance at the London Stadium and at Anfield for away matches in January and February, no members of the Board have watched a home match in person since the defeat to Brighton on 3rd January. “I may have been castigated by some fans for sharing my opinion, but I have enjoyed many [good?] times at Everton, and even though we have sadly been trophyless under my Chairmanship, it is with no fear of further criticism when I say two league games from last season 38 will stay with me forever. “Do I have to say more than that night against Crystal Palace? While the afternoon I stood alone in the stand at Leicester City after a monumental away, when listening to our outstanding traveling supporters, sing passionately and enthusiastically — for a full 20 minutes after the game had ended!! — was inspiring, humbling and genuinely moving. “Memories of occasions like these have made the recent instruction given to myself and my fellow board members not to attend Goodison Park all the more painful that has hurt deeply. “Looking forward, we know we have challenges to overcome the absolute priority is of course to secure our Premier League status for a 70th consecutive season and we can all play a part in helping to secure that. “As we proved in the run-in to last season, a unified football club is a stronger football club.” (SOURCE: ToffeeWeb)