MAKURDI  – The State Working Commit­tee (SWC) of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP) in Benue State has suspended the Exec­utive Committee of Igyorov Council Ward, Gboko Local Government Area (LGA) of the state for a period of one month. Recall that Executive Com­mittee of Igyorov Council Ward suspended the embattled former National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu. The SWC also advised the ward executives to hand over all documents of the party in their possession to the State Executive Committee (SEC), adding that they seize to act as officials in the offices they occu­pied prior to their suspension. The letter of suspension which was signed by 13 mem­bers of the SEC among them the party Chairman, Isaac Mfo and Secretary, Joseph Nyam, said the ward officials have been suspended for one month, pending when “sanity” would be restored. Among those that signed the document are Azua Ashongo, Vice Chairman, Zone A; James Mbakorlumun, Vice Chair­man, Zone B; Godwin Uwulo, Vice Chairman, Zone C; Moses Audu, Organizing Secretary and Bem Gbe, Treasurer of the party. Others are the PDP Legal Adviser in the state, Clement Mue; Publicity Secretary, Be­mgba Iortyom; Financial Sec­retary, Emmanuel Ogwuche; Auditor, Abraham Tamenor; Woman Leader, Abeje Egwa and the Youth Leader, Patrick Modom. Daily Independent learnt that the SWC of the PDP took the decision at an extraordi­nary meeting held at the par­ty’s secretariat in Makurdi on Thursday to resolve the crisis in Igyorov Council Ward.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In a statement signed by Be­mgba Iortyom, the State Public­ity Secretary of the party and issued to newsmen after the meeting, said the decision was taken after a careful review of activities of the week. POLL According to him, “The SWC deliberated on and re­viewed the recent activities and matters of the administration of the affairs of the party in Igyorov Council Ward, which have raised and aggravated tensions within the party in the area with possible threats of violence and break down of law and order.” The party subsequently said, “It is therefore, the resolu­tion of the SWC that pursuant to the powers conferred on it by section 59 (4) of the constitution of the Peoples Democratic Par­ty (PDP) as amended in 2017, and does order as follows: “That the Executive Com­mittee of the PDP in Igyorov Council Ward is hereby sus­pended for a period of one month pending when neces­sary action shall be taken to re­store sanity, harmony, law and order in the party in that area. “That the SWC shall during this period administer the af­fairs of the party in Igyorov Council Ward in the best in­terest of the party, discipline, growth and success. “That the Executive Com­mittee of the PDP in Igyorov Council Ward shall hand over all documents or other items in their possession belonging to the party to the State Exec­utive Committee of the party with immediate effect. “The Ward Executive Com­mittee, Igyorov Council Ward, Gboko Local Government Area, Benue State shall hence­forth cease to act in the offices, which they held prior to their suspension. “This action is taken to forestall possible breakdown of law and order in the PDP in Igyorov Council Ward”, the PDP spokesman stated.