ABUJA – The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), has said it usually conducts mock Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) to assess new innovations that would be used for the main examination. It said it was also to serve as a hands-on experience for candidates that would eventually sit for the Computer Based Test (CBT). Dr. Fabian Benjamin, Head, Public Affairs and Protocol, JAMB gave the explanation on Thursday, while monitoring the conduct of the 2023 Mock-UTME in selected centres in the FCT. The examination held in 725 centres across the country. Fabian revealed that as anticipated, the exercise witnessed some hitches in a few centres with some candidates unable to sit the examination. He assured that the affected candidates will be rescheduled to sit the examination at a date to be announced later at no cost to them. According to the JAMB spokesman, the Board would look at all issues thrown up by the mock exercise and act for a better and enhanced exercise.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He explained that the exercise, which was introduced over six years ago, has availed the Board a unique opportunity to trial innovations that have significantly improved on the Board’s ability to deliver world-class assessment exercise. POLL It would be recalled that before the conduct of the 2023 exercise, the Board had, in a statement, disclosed that it would be introducing some new measures that had never been used before and would want to use the opportunity of the mock exercise to assess their functionality. “The Board would want to use this opportunity to apologise to all candidates for any inconvenience they might have experienced on account of this. This is part of a development process aimed at enhancing the Board’s efforts at improving the quality, security and sanctity of its services and as well as using same to herald the next phase of its transformational agenda. “The exercise also gave the Board the rare opportunity of fine-tuning this process for better results. “The Board expresses its appreciation to the candidates and their parents for their understanding and pledges to ensure that the system for which their sacrifice is made is perfected. “The gains from the exercise cannot be quantified as the Board has taken note of the challenges thrown up and had, consequently, been better placed to deliver a seamless UTME exercise come April, 2023 in line with its projections. “The Board will continue to appeal to candidates and the general public for their understanding as it would not relent in its efforts to devise new and better ways of enhancing the quality of large-scale assessments in Nigeria,” Fabian stated.