ABUJA  – In a new scheme geared towards making civil service staff principal drivers of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), especially in the agricultural value chain, Federal Government through the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF), has flagged-off the Federal Public Service Entrepreneurship (FPSEP) Programme. It is also meant to pay greater attention to the welfare of the public servants in Nigeria. Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF), who flagged off the Programme on Monday in Abuja, said the FPSEP is a sub-initiative of one of the six pillars of the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan 2021 – 2025 (FCSSIP 25). Yemi-Esan,who was represented by Dr. Ngozi Onwudiwe, Permanent Secretary, Service Welfare Office, in the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, said the Programme creates window for those in Service to earn supplementary income to improve their quality of life, as well as enable those retiring to cope with life after Service while at the same time contributing to the development of the other sectors of the economy, and by implication, increase the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the country. The Programme, according to her, consists of two components namely, the Agripreneurship Start-up Scheme and Pre-Retirement Training and Business Start-up Scheme. She said: “The setting up of the Agripreneurship Start-up Scheme is premised on the provisions of Section 2(b) Part 1 of the fifth Schedule of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which permits Nigerian Public Servants to engage in farming while in Service. “Hence both serving and exiting Public Servants can participate in this Scheme. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “On the other hand, the Pre-Retirement Training and Business Start-up Scheme is tailored towards preparing Public Servants for life Post-Service by providing opportunities for them to acquire new skills for new career choices.” POLL She expressed hope that the knowledge that public servants would garner from the training would be plugged into the agriculture and other business ventures that would enable them to create multiple sources of income for self- sustenance while in service and after exiting the Service. According to her, “It is our dream to see our workforce well empowered, skillful and more productive, and contributing meaningfully to the development of Nigeria even to the point of not just being employed but employers of labour within the provisions of extant rules.” The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, therefore, tasked trainees to take advantage of the laudable programme and ensure they get maximum value for money invested by their respective organisations to develop their human capital. In his remarks, Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Mr. Gabriel Aduda, underscored the need for public servants to embark on personal development. Aduda charged them to add value to whatever they choose to do before or after retirement. He advised them to explore numerous opportunities in the agricultural value chain, urging them to venture into mini industry of producing, processing, packaging and marketing agricultural products. Also speaking, the Sole Administrator of the Public Service Institute of Nigeria, Dr. Abdul-Ganiyu Obatoyinbo, tasked public servants to fight against pre and post retirement anxiety through proper preparations for the future. Obatoyinbo stressed the need for civil servants to plan for life after retirement, adding tha FPSEP has provided a “life-changing opportunity” for Federal workers to explore. In his remarks, the Managing Director of Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Ali Hassan, assured the readiness of the Bank to provide credit facilities to the benefiting public servants who would venture into agricultural value chain. It would be recalled that 87 participants drawn from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation are the first batch of this Programme.