We have seen how fake news and hate speeches have impacted negatively on the substra­tum of the Nigeria’s social order; families are being put asunder while friends have become enemies and the various nationalities and religious groups fighting themselves due largely to the massive misinformation and outright lies told to the unsuspecting public about the just-concluded election. We have severally warned that unless something urgent is done to curb the mis­information menace, it might be too late as the creators and purveyors of the fake news that are indiscriminately laced with hatred and divisiveness that are intended to destroy the peace and harmony existing amongst the peoples of Nigeria. It is one of the foibles of mankind that people always think of themselves as bet­ter or superior to others who are outside of their immediate family, class, group or social orbits usually by basing their prej­udicial outlook on such mundane factors like race, religion, nationality, economy, politics and even gender. Envy, jealousy and inferiority complex have also been identified as some of the reasons why peo­ple routinely manifest covert and overt bitterness, hatred and ill will towards others and, sometimes, to their own close relatives and even siblings. The biblical account of Cain and Abel is a good example of how even blood brothers could develop negative sentiments against themselves, which could eventually lead to disastrous consequences. Hatred and prejudice are two character traits that fuel animosities and they are fundamentally at variance with the fact that all of us are creations of one God. Previously dominant but offensive and discriminatory theories of racial superi­ority have all been debunked as completely erroneous and scientifically inconsistent with human biology. In other words, dis­criminations, whether based on race, sex, sociology and ethnicity, are all factually baseless as it is the same blood that flows through our veins, no matter wherever we may find ourselves in the globe. Therefore, ideas of racial inequality and inter-ethnic subjugation are simply moral alibi for the economic, political and social exploita­tions of one group by another and they have nothing to do with the basic nature of our humanity. Unfortunately, human beings have over the ages embarked on self-destruc­tive wars and other wasteful conflicting engagements that were based largely on such misguided notions that one person or group is more than the other in terms of religious belief, economic capacity, political orientation and other material and immaterial considerations. Endemic intolerance. In the absence of deliberate normative interventions, be it legal or moral, it seems basic to our imperfect nature as humans that we will always wish others the very worst and such evil mindset has often manifested itself openly in the political, economic and social fields in the guise of self-interest or competition. It is out of the abundance of a man’s heart that the mouth speaks and we naturally express our innermost evil dispositions to other fellow humans by falsely speaking ill of them. We readily cast them in the worst of modes, thereby setting them up for un­deserved discrimination, humiliation, ha­rassment and even physical elimination.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Today in Nigeria, there is a trend that is manifesting itself nefariously, espe­cially in the cyber world, where people spend their time and intellect pumping into circulation malicious and misleading ideas about fellow citizens, calculated to undermine their dignity and humanity. In the unfortunate circumstance, rather than celebrating our right to free speech we are now lamenting the danger of hate speeches, an aggressive form of verbal or literary warfare. POLL In response to these unfortunate devel­opments that are aggressively undermin­ing the essence of human decency, common logic, truth and balance in contemporary conversation, several countries have been forced to enact legislative mechanisms for curbing the escalating phenomenon gen­erally described as “hate speech” because they wilfully cultivate negative opinions, misguided worldviews and prejudices that are based on completely false premises and propaganda dumped on unsuspecting con­sumers. They occur in places of worship, homes, offices and most insidiously, with­in the anonymity of the Web. The general position of libertarian constitutionalists is that humans, being rational animals, should be able to express their minds freely without let or hindrance unless such expressions veer into libelous, indecent and anti-social ends. So the right to freedom of expression has come to be listed amongst our fundamental human rights that no government can lightly deny us as free citizens. Taking a cue from the United States from where we copied the basic features of our constitution, we have also inserted into our document a clause that guaran­tees for every citizen the right to freedom of expression and of the Press (section 39). It is generally understood that free speech extends to being able to criticize the gov­ernment and other public officials without the fear of repression and other official harassments because such a right is nec­essary for the maintenance of a healthy and competitive democracy which in turn depends on a free market of ideas in which the citizens are exposed to all sides of any issue. Unfortunately, it has become the case that some Nigerians have misconstrued the reasons for the proclamation of the right to freedom expression to be an unbri­dled license to lie against other individu­als, plant fake news maligning them, make undeserving jest of them up to the point of instigating the various groups within the Nigeria’s variegated polity against each other. Most Internet community platforms such as WhatsApp groups and Facebook have become partisan denizens for the reckless manufacture and spread of vile ideas and hate messages, incestuous orgies of extreme views by faceless individuals. That certainly cannot be the original doc­trinal justifications for the elevation of free speech to a fundamental right because those hate speeches are designed for noth­ing but negative outcomes such that would ultimately undermine the nation’s social order by instigating and spreading hatred, panic and general instability. We shall be paving the highway to our collective perdition if nothing is done promptly to stop those evil communica­tions calculated to undermine the integ­rity and public standing of otherwise up­right and innocent individuals or groups because they are forms of verbal warfare – technically known as “fighting words”. The Rwanda genocide and the Holocaust, for example, were both heralded by reck­less and orchestrated hate speeches and negative propagandas. Even in the United States where the First Amendment right to free speech is a revered legal proposition, certain as­pects of hate speeches are already being legally proscribed especially if they are considered to have crossed the safe line from merely expressing ideas to that of intimidating actions propelled by hatred suggesting violence, i.e., posing a clear and present danger. Many other proactive countries have since enacted various forms of laws tar­geting hate speeches and fake news be­cause they are often intended to promote disagreements and frictions amongst par­ties, religious or social groups within the society; however, none of those laws have prescribed punishments beyond impris­onment or fines because the death pen­alty is obviously disproportionate to the mischief entailed in hate speeches. What is more, decent and enlightened members of society are not likely to be easily per­suaded by such outrageous lies and exag­gerative propagandas. The individual right to freedom of expression should never be misused to deliberately cause confusion amongst citizens or set the nation on the path of instability because the same Constitution that guarantees our rights of expression also provides that “Nothing in this section shall invalidate any law that is reasonably justifiable in a democratic society”. A reasonable law that can stem the flow of fake news and hate speeches would be a welcome development as no responsible society would allow such anarchic misin­formation process to continue unchecked.