*Dedicates Victory To Jesus, Alia, Tor Tiv, Others MAKURDI – High Chief, Moses Ayom has been elected the President of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) chapter of the Kunav Development Association (KUDA), an association of the Kunav extraction of the Tiv people of Vandeikya Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State. Ayom who emerged president, unopposed, in an election held last weekend also pledged to use his wealth of experience to better the lot of the Kunav nation as well as that of the Benue people. Speaking with newsmen in Makurdi on Friday, Ayom dedicated his victory “to Jesus Christ, Son of the Most High that recently appeared to me; the Benue State Governor-Elect, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia and the Tor Tiv, HRM, Orchivirigh Prof James Ayatse” among other first class traditional rulers in the state. Both Ayom and the Governor-Elect, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia are of the Kunav extraction. Ayom who is the leader of the Middle Belt agitation for presidency also promised he would use his wealth of experience as a major tool to bring development to the door step of his people and indeed Benue State as a whole. He pointed out that “I, in collaboration with my business partners, who form part of an international network will also bring innumerable skill acquisition programmes into Benue.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “One of my business consortiums, Cherry Wood, a furniture concern is already oiling its machines preparatory to move to Benue state within the first 100 days of the incoming administration, led by Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia, based on his transparency and accountability profile.” POLL However, High Chief Ayom, the Ozo Igbo Ndu 1 said he would first consult with “my brother, the Governor-Elect” after he has been sworn into office on areas of collaboration as well as initiatives on how to support the state in taking the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) back to their ancestral homes and their farm lands. While Ayom, a former presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) sued for peace among the people of the state, he stressed that development cannot thrive in an atmosphere of violence. Ayom however explained that he would roll out more plans on how he intends to support and partner the incoming government during his inaugural ceremony to be attended by the Tor Tiv; the Ter U Kunav and Tor Jechira who had predicted all that has taken place. Recall that shortly before he was elected the KUDA President, the Tor Tiv had caused all the first class traditional rulers in his domain to place their hands on Ayom and pour out the blessings of the Tiv nation upon him. At the occasion, the Tor Tiv had advised Chief Ayom to always stand on the truth wherever he found himself and most importantly, live and operate with the fear of God. End.