The Director of Media and Publicity Committee of Mutfwang/ Piyo Campaign Council in Plateau state, Pastor Yiljab Abraham has Condemned an article written on Social media attempting to denigrate the revered person and hallowed office of the President of the Court of Appeal, Honourable Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem. Abraham in his reaction made available to Daily Independent in Jos on Wednesday, said the writers, under the assumed name “@HillSpring- Plateau Patriot had alleged that this eminent daughter of Plateau and esteemed jurist of no mean repute is “already working tirelessly to forcefully and illegally retrieve from Hon. Barr. Caleb Mutfwang, Plateau State Governor-Elect, the mandate entrusted him by the majority of Plateau People. ‘”We hereby place it on record that this is not, and can never be the position or even shared sentiment of the Governor-elect of Plateau State, Barrister Caleb Mutfwang. According to Abraham, Mutfwang’s call to the Nigerian Bar as a Solicitor and Advocate of the Supreme Court in 1989 had set him on a distinguished career and budding legal practice that has spanned some 34 years. “So, Barr Mutfwang knows and appreciates the discipline and interconnectedness that are the hallmarks of the legal practice'”. Abraham said Plateau Governor Elect Mutfwang can never speak or authorize any disparaging publication against anyone, let alone a very senior and brilliant legal luminary of the stature of the Honourable Justice Dongban-Mensem – no matter how alluring the perceived benefits may be. “To do so will not only be professionally unethical, but it will also breach his core values as a man of faith, a family man, and his style of politics.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Abraham recalled that Barr Mutfwang had repeatedly conveyed to audiences within and outside Plateau by personal, physical speech and media engagements, that his emergence at the polls has entirely been due to two key factors, the finger of God and the will of the people of Plateau State. POLL He maintains that the Judiciary, security services, and INEC have reservoirs of immensely capable and impeccably credible Nigerians who can be depended upon to defend and uphold the cause of justice, fair play, equity, and the deepening of Nigeria’s democracy. Abraham said Mutfwang holds them, and many other Nigerian professionals in the highest regard. “Barr Mutfwang will never resort to or agree with name-calling, character assassination, and libelous publications as ways of enhancing his political career or retaining the mandate he currently holds which is both divine and a product of the trust of the people of Plateau State. “We suspect that this may be a deliberate attempt by those who lost out at the polls to paint Barr. Mutfwang in bad light before the judiciary in the hope of gaining favor for the needless petition they intend to file.” Abraham added that the spontaneous reactions right across Plateau State and even beyond the state’s borders are undeniable pointers to the popularity of this public trust in Mutfwang. He stressed that What the incoming Mutfwang Administration on the Plateau desires to see is a greater uplifting and better attention to accelerating the performance of the Judiciary as a whole which he saidcannot be compromised in any way, and for whatever motive.