ABAKALIKI – The Speaker of Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Right Honourable Francis Nwifuru, has been issued a certificate of return as the fourth elected civilian Governor of Ebonyi State Nwifuru contested on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Governor-elect appreciated INEC for a free and fair electoral process. He called on his opponents to eschew all differences and woke together with him for the peace and development of the State. He promised that his administration will run an all-inclusive government. He also promised that the people’s input will be sought before his administration takes critical decisions. Nwifụrụ further promised that the rule of law and separation of power will be entrenched and encouraged in his administration.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Meanwhile, supplementary elections will hold in five State House of Assembly constituencies and one Federal Constituency in Ebonyi State on 15th April. POLL The Independent National Electoral Commissioner (INEC), State Resident Electoral Commissioner, (REC), Pauline Onyeka stated that during the presentation of certificates of return to the Governor-elect, Francis Nwifuru, his running mate, Patricia Obila and state assembly members-elect. Mrs Onyeka noted that only 17 cases have their results announced and elections concluded out of 24. She said five constituencies have inconclusive results while two constituencies have the issue that two commission is resolving. “Only 17 members elect will receive their certificate out of 24 due to inconclusive. Two have issues to be corrected while elections were declared inconclusive in five state constituencies. She noted that the election for Ezza North/Ishielu federal constituency was also declared inconclusive. She noted that supplementary elections into the affected state constituencies will take place on 15th April. Highlights of the occasion were the presentation of the certificate to the Governor-elect, Deputy Governor-elect and House of Assembly members-elect.