ABUJA  – The Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) has invited Festus Keyamo (SAN), Director, Public Affairs of the Presi­dent-elect, to make clarification on his allegation that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar used the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to divert fund between 1999 and 2007. The CCB has formally confirmed receipt of the petition, which necessi­tated the extension of an invitation to Keyamo, who also doubles as Minister of State for Labour and Employment. Keyamo Chambers confirmed the invitation on Thursday in a statement signed by John Ainetor, Assistant Head of Chambers, in Lagos. “The Bureau has invited our client, Mr. Festus Keyamo, to come forward to adopt his peti­tion and to help it to secure the presence of the whistleblower, Mr. Michael Achimugu, to assist in the investigation. “Mr. Keyamo assures that the crusade for accountability in re­spect of this issue was not a cam­paign gimmick, as he promises to follow it through to a logical con­clusion, even after the victory of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu,” the chambers said. Recall that the Minister of State for Labour and Employ­ment, Festus Keyamo, submit­ted the petition against Atiku in the build-up to the just-concluded presidential poll. In the case filed at the Federal High Court, Abuja, by the Festus Keyamo Chamber, the plaintiff joined CCB, Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offenc­es Commission (ICPC), and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) as 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants, respectively, while Atiku is the first defendant.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ By the suit, Keyamo is alleging that on or about the 2nd of Decem­ber, 2022, a certain whistleblower known as Michael Achimugu went public and gave graphic accounts of certain events that transpired between him and the 1st defendant. POLL The plaintiff averred that the said Achimugu then made avail­able to the public a certified true copy of an affidavit to which he swore capturing those events. The plaintiff further averred in his statement of claim that he obtained the CTC of the said affidavit. The statement of claim sight­ed by Daily Independent has an alleged conversation between Achimugu and Atiku. Specifically, the plaintiff wants a declaration that the 1st defen­dant is under a legal obligation to make available to the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants, for the pur­pose of aiding their investigation, information available to him in respect of a certain bank account belonging to a company named Marine Float and other accounts of two undisclosed companies, which information he disclosed to a certain close aide of his called Michael Achimugu, as to how the said accounts were used as a ‘spe­cial purpose vehicles’ to secretly divert and misappropriate pub­lic funds between 1999 and 2007 when the 1st defendant served as vice president. Keyamo is also praying for a declaration that the 1st defendant is under a legal obligation to sub­mit himself to the CCB, ICPC and EFCC for thorough investigation in connection with information available to him in respect of a certain bank account belonging to a company named Marine Float and other accounts of two undisclosed companies. The plaintiff is seeking a dec­laration that the CCB, ICPC and EFCC are under a legal obliga­tion to invite and/or arrest, in­vestigate and (if found wanting) prosecute the 1st defendant in respect of information available to the 1st defendant in respect of a certain bank account belong­ing to a company named Marine Float and other accounts of two undisclosed companies. Among other reliefs, the APC spokesman wants “a man­datory order compelling the 1st defendant to make available information to the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants, for the purpose of aiding their investigation, as well as an order compelling the 1st defendant to submit himself to the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defen­dants for thorough investigation in connection with information available to him in respect of a certain bank account belonging to a company named Marine Float and other accounts of two undisclosed companies. “A mandatory order of com­pelling the 2nd, 3rd and 4th de­fendants to invite and/or arrest, investigate and (if found wanting) prosecute the 1st defendant in re­spect of information available to the 1st defendant in respect of a certain bank account belonging to a company named Marine Float and other accounts of two undisclosed companies, which information he disclosed to a certain close aide of his called Michael Achimugu, as to how the said accounts were used as ‘spe­cial purpose vehicles’ to secretly divert and misappropriate pub­lic funds between 1999 and 2007 when the 1st defendant served as vice president of Nigeria.