ABUJA  – The National Population Com­mission (NPC) has reiterated that the 2023 Population and Housing Census will not canvass questions on religion and reli­gious affiliations of respondents. A statement on Wednesday by Dr. Isiaka Yahaya, Director, Public Affairs in NPC, said the attention of the commission has been drawn to an audio tape going viral on the WhatsApp so­cial media platform across the country which stated that the religious affiliations of respon­dents will be canvassed in the 2023 Population and Housing Census. Yahaya said the audio tape calls on Muslims in Nigeria to see the purported canvass­ing of information on their religious affiliations as a tool to suppress their population figures, while advising the ad­herents of the Islamic faith to resist any attempt to divide the religion of Islam by refusing to answer any question on their religious affiliations. He said: “For the avoidance of doubt, the commission wishes to state unequivocally that the 2023 Population and Housing Census will not canvass questions on re­ligion and religious affiliations of respondents. “The decision to exclude re­ligion along with ethnicity from the census questionnaire was taken in due consideration of the sensitive nature of these issues within the Nigerian polity and the need to save the census data from needless controversies and attention. “A fact check on the origin of the purported message shows that it was first circulated in Ghana during its 2021 popula­tion census exercise through a WhatsApp message. “This negative message found its way into the Nigerian social media space in July 2022 when the commission conducted the trial census.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The re-circulation of the message in audio form as the commission sets to conduct the 2023 Population and Housing Census in May 2023 is an indi­cation that some elements are bent on drawing the 2023 Census into unnecessary controversies through propagation of false­hood and incitement of a section of the population to destabilise existing peaceful coexistence in the country. POLL “The commission carried out extensive consultation with data users and stakeholders in coming up with the questions to be canvassed in the next census. “The overarching goal of the questionnaire is to generate data that will facilitate sustainable de­velopment. “The questionnaire is robust and include demographic char­acteristics of respondents and other socio-economic character­istics but without any question whatsoever on religion and eth­nicity.” Yahaya, therefore, urged members of the public to disre­gard the rumour of question on religious affiliation contained in the audio tape in circulation and extend maximum cooperation to the enumerators for the sake of delivering a credible, reliable and acceptable 2023 Population and Housing Census data for nation­al development planning.