LAGOS – A Nigerian entrepreneur, Mr. Melody Okwuazu, has won the ‘Outstanding Entrepreneur Missionary Award’ at the United Kingdom Investors Summit 2023 held at the Parliament House of Lords in London. A statement by the media consultant to the entrepreneur, stated that the award was a celebration of Okwuazu’s entrepreneurial and philanthropic achievements in the areas of youth and start-ups mentorship, coaching, empowerment and grant disbursement spanning across Nigeria and Africa. According to the organisers of the summit, Okwuazu was honoured with the award for his numerous accomplishments this year, which includes mentoring over 5,000 persons, financed and supported over a hundred new businesses as well as offer of academic scholarships to about 20 persons. Aswathy Sahadevan, Lead Organiser of the United Kingdom Investors Summit 2023 said the organisers was proud of the works and impactful achievements of Okwuazu who he said was contributing in no small measure in developing and growing human capital, talents and business empowerment in Africa and the world at large. Okwuazu, who doubles as an awardee and guest speaker at the summit, spoke about stability and sustenance using talents and skills monetisation as veritable tools. He said: “Skills and special talents have given Nigeria and Nigerians an edge in the areas of technology, sports, music, general entertainment and more. Today, the world celebrates Victor Osimhen, the Nigerian footballer in Napoli, Burna Boy and Tiwa Savage are reckoned with in music globally, the name Silas Adekunle rings a bell in the robotics world all because of special talents. “This is why I have dedicated a larger part of my life discovering, horning and empowering talents across Africa. My strategy is quite different from handing out fish to the needy. I rather discover, coach and present empowerment grants to budding talents and start-up entrepreneurs in order to lead towards growth pathways.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ While introducing and presenting the award to the Nigerian entrepreneur, the organisers described Okwuazu as a personality who is making a huge difference in Africa and the world at large through his business and entrepreneurship coaching platforms.