At least six suspected thieves have been arrested in Abia State by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) over alleged possession of drums of crude oil.Parading the suspects on Monday at the state command headquarters, the State NSCDC commandant, Paul Igwebuike, condemned the activities of the suspects noting that 42 drums of crude oil were recovered from them. At least six suspected thieves have been arrested in Abia State by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) over alleged possession of drums of crude oil.Parading the suspects on Monday at the state command headquarters, the State NSCDC commandant, Paul Igwebuike, condemned the activities of the suspects noting that 42 drums of crude oil were recovered from them. He described dealers in illegal petroleum business as saboteurs to the nation’s economy. Addressing reporters, Igwebuike said the suspected criminals were apprehended at Gas Line by Iheoma Uratta in Aba. He pointed out that the arrest of the suspects was made possible through a tip-off from informants. The NSCDC commandant warned that criminal activities of any nature would not be allowed in Abia as he has come to sanitize the State of criminals, in line with the mandate of the Commandant-General of NSCDC, Dr Ahmed Abubakar Audi. Igwebuike commended his men for their gallantry in arresting the suspects and appealed to residents of the state to provide helpful information that will help security operatives to arrest suspected criminals in their area. The Abia NSCDC Commandant stressed that the six arrested suspects would be charged in court after a thorough investigation.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The suspects’ names and States of origin are revealed thus: Tochukwu Onwuzuruigbo (48 years) from Enugu State, Ezechi Emeka (41 years from Enugu State), Maduakolam Uzoije (25 years) from Uratta, Abia State and David Lazarus (24 years) from Anambra State. POLL Others were Chukwuebuka Onwuzuruigbo (18 years) from Enugu State and Abuchi Eze (35 years) from Enugu State. Also recovered from the suspects was a truck with registration number SSM 839XA, which was meant to load the illegal oil suspected to be crude oil.