Sunday Ezeobiora is the National President of the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN). He is also the Chairman/Managing Director of Sunchi Integrated Farms in Enugu. In this interview with SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, he speaks on what the poultry farmers are currently facing as a result of the cash crunch, the need for urgent intervention from the government to save the industry from total collapse, and the need to encourage investment in egg powdering business among other salient issues. Excerpts: You recently raised the alarm that the poultry industry is at the verge of total collapse; can you shed more light on this? At the moment, the poultry industry is on the verge of total collapse and extermination because of the negative and devastating consequences of the currency swap on the industry. The near absence of naira notes for Nigerians to make daily transactions has made businesses in the poultry industry more difficult. Eggs being daily produced by poultry farmers since the first week of February, 2023 till date have never been off- taken by 20 percent because of the near absence and lack of the naira notes to buy basic food items and other necessary proteins like eggs and chicken. What do you suggest can be done to prevent this imminent danger? We need the Federal Government’s urgent intervention. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ As an interim measure to control and save the industry from further losses, the government should mop up the eggs through the association for distribution to the most vulnerable old populations as part of the Social investment support to Nigerians. POLL They should encourage Armed Forces in various Peace keeping operations, the Nigerian Prisons, the Internally Displaced Persons and places, Primary Schools (School Feeding Programme) to be immediate offtakers of the eggs. Also we appeal to the Presidency to direct the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), the Directorate of Peace Keeping Operations of the Nigeria Armed Forces and the Social Investment Programme of the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management to work with the Association on how immediate reliefs can be extended to Poultry Farmers across the country to prevent the imminent collapse of the Poultry Industry. The government should make available direct grants and financial support to the industry through the Association in special packages to be worked out by the Government and the Association. Is your association doing anything to encourage and promote investment in the area of egg powder, which to some extent would have reduced these losses? We have been looking for a way to encourage people to go into egg powdering business but because it is capital intensive and I don’t see that return on investment as heavy as the capital that is required to take off, but now that we face this type of problem it is time for us to go and approach the federal government to see the level of intervention to come in, to set it up and hand it over to maybe the poultry association or maybe few individuals that can manage it, just to ameliorate the pains of the farmers. The level of loss that we are passing through now is terrible. For example the cost of producing a crate of egg is between N1700 and N2000 depending on the capacity of the farmer. If you have a huge number your production cost will go down and if you have few your production cost will go up. Since the first week of February that this started up till now the level of loss is terrible, unimaginable, there is a need for the government to come in, to assist farmers through the national office of PAN. The egg powdering machine needs a lot of expatriates, you have to partner with the maker of the machine and it requires a lot of things, and you can’t just go an pack eggs and start processing, you can’t process the egg where you use antibiotics to treat the birds, you will have to wait for two or three weeks after you have treated the birds to make sure that the antibiotic is no more on the birds before you process. You said it is capital intensive, how can the government come in? The government can partner with big players in the industry through the association. We have approached the government, if the government is ready to partner with some big shoes; I believe some people will invest their money. Someone just approached me a few days ago that she is interested in investing in egg powder business, she is in the South East, those are the kind of people the government can partner with; give them a grant if the person can pay 30 percent, then the government pays 70 percent. Apart from setting up the machinery, we also need the government to assist us in setting up large cooling storage. Another way to control the lifespan of an egg: if you put the egg under a controlled temperature, it will last for 60 days, but if you expose eggs, within 14 days it will spoil. In your house, put eggs in the fridge. You will see it will last for two months, but if you expose it, it will spoil within two weeks. The federal government can help by setting up a large cooling storage facility to be managed by private companies. They can build and hand it over to PAN, for each state, or even geopolitical zones. If I have a problem in Enugu, I can move my eggs to Anambra within 24 hours and store them there. So, that warehouse or storage facility is important to checkmate this kind of challenge. Let the government look into the pains of the masses. The naira redesign caused a lot of havoc to everybody in Nigeria; every business is dislocated so they should find a way to give palliative to those industries that are worst hit like PAN. Government should as fast as possible release billions to PAN for the poultry industry to survive, if not I doubt in the next one or two months farms will be shutting down. Does that mean big players in the industry cannot collaborate and start this? There are two that are coming up now, Lagos is setting up and Ogun state. Ogun state’s own is at the finishing stage now and they will be processing one million eggs daily, that is a large number that will reduce the glut. We hope that will help us to reduce the glut, but we need to replicate it in other states in order to keep the farmers in business. If we have it in four or five states for a start, it will be okay. We produce over 60million eggs daily in Nigeria. We have over 76 million commercial layers laying eggs daily, we also have breeders laying eggs daily, by the time you check 80 percent production of the layers, you get 61million excluding the parent stock. One of the major challenges of the sector has been the cost of feeding, what effort will your administration put in place to ease this challenge? We always partner with maize producers association, commodity markets, but the issue is, it is always a difficult thing to work it out. For instance when Nanono was the minister of agriculture I was one of the delegation that visited him and we complained about the problem we have in poultry. We seek permission to import maize to bring down the cost of production and he invited the commodity association and they said they have enough maize to supply that there is no need to import maize. The maize and soyabean constitute 75 to 80 percent of feed content, so the cost of feed are been dictated by commodity markets so the government should look at a way of opening up more by giving maybe big roots in the poultry industry to go and invest in the production of maize and the soyabean. From the report available, one can use cassava to augment energy which maize gives. Cassava can be produced in large quantities in the South East, South South and South West, so as to reduce the inclusiveness of maize inside the feed. What exactly does the industry need to be able to produce cheap and sufficient meat and eggs for Nigerians? Maize and soyabeans are what we need to bring the price down. During President Jonathan’s regime maize and soya was between N50, 000 and N80, 000, it is worse then when it hit N110, 000, we are shouting but today it is N245, 000 and soya is N350, 000, if we have it at a good price, the prices will come down automatically because feed mill industry are the most competitive industry in Nigeria, their profit margin is between two and five percent. In the feed industry, the highest profit you make per bag is five percent; that means you will be celebrating that you make five percent but, the normal profit is between one and three percent. So maize and soya are the determining factors. In the past, the spate of smuggling of poultry products into the country has been a major challenge, has anything changed? Nothing has changed. Government is the only one that can do something about it. We can only talk, so the government should seat up and not allow the frozen chickens to be coming in. Somebody should know that the poultry industry employs 25million people, so we should be encouraged, even if 10 percent go back to the labor market the government must feel it.