Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike on Tuesday continued with his mockery of the embattled national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Iyorchia Ayu to come to terms with the reality that his calamitous reign has come to an end. Wike said Ayu’s claim that only the National Executive Committee ( NEC) can suspend him is a pointer that he is suffering from delusion. Speaking at Bellmouth Junction, Degema Krakrama bridge, venue of the inauguration of the phase one of the Trans-Kalabari Road, governor Wike declared that Dr. Ayu cannot reap from a party, by presiding over its affairs, where he has not sown and secure any electoral victory for it. “AYU said nobody can suspend him but today, he has packed out from the national office. We have an acting chairman. I told him he will go whether you like it or not, he will go. Governor Wike explained, peradventure, Dr. Ayu is unfamiliar with the party’s constitution, that the court, sometimes in the past, struck out in its judgement section that bestowed powers on NEC only, to suspend national officers. “Those lawyers telling you that the ward has no power to suspend you, that it’s only National Executive Council (NEC),then you don’t understand what is happening. When you came, it was the ward that suspended ( Uche) Secondus, and you went and took office, is it not?” “So, is it now that you know that it is only NEC that can suspend you? Let me tell you, since they’ve not told you, the court has struck off that section of our constitution that says it’s only NEC that can suspend (chairman).  PDP did not even appeal the judgement.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “So, forget it, you are  gone. You are wasting your time. We are ready for the battle. I am not from Benue , but I have interest and that interest is that Ayu must go.” POLL Governor Wike pointed out that Ayu’s suspension by his ward executive shows that he is not a formidable force and respected political leader who commands loyal followers. “Look at it, a national chairman, your own ward will be suspending you. Does it not tell you that you are not on ground? Your own ward will be suspending you and you go to television to say only NEC can suspend you.  Stay, wait for NEC, but then know that you’re gone.” The Rivers State governor noted that sadly too Dr. Ayu could not secure winning votes for his preferred candidate in the February 25th presidential election. This, governor Wike stated, is in addition to electoral failure that greeted Dr. Ayu because he lost his unit, ward, local government and the state to the opposition party. “Ayu, the man you are supported for president you didn’t give him the vote, he lost. We supported a southern president and we won in our States for equity, justice and fairness. “A man who lost his unit, a man who lost his ward, a man who lost his local government, a man who lost his State and he is coming to preside over us who won our units, won our wards, won our local governments , won our state, something must be wrong.” Governor Wike also told Dr. Ayu: “You cannot reap where you never sowed. If all of us have lost our States, what will you be chairing. “You want to use Rivers State to be chairman, we are not party to that. Go and bring your own local government. Here (in Rivers), we won 32 over 32 seats for House of Assembly, Ayu, how many did you win? Here, we won the 3 seats for senate too, Ayu, how many did you win? We won 11 out of the 13 seats for House of representatives, Ayu, how many did you win?” Commenting on the Trans-Kalabari Road project, governor Wike dismissed sceptics who had assumed he won’t complete the project.  According to him, despite the kidnap of Lubrik Construction Company staff for five months in a bid to disrupt the project, he pressed on and ensured its completion in his tenure. Governor Wike commended Kalabari people for supporting the PDP and delivering winning votes in the three local government areas for Sir Siminalayi Fubara to emerge the governor-elect.