WARRI  – Olorogun Vincent Oghener­uemu Oyibode, the deputy na­tional president of the youth wing of Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), has felicitated with the Delta State governor-elect, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, on his victory at the polls, thank­ing Delta youths for heeding his pre-election calls to vote for the Delta State House of Assembly speaker for a better Delta State. He also felicitated with all the governors-elect on the PDP plat­form from the Niger Delta region and the whole of the south-south, emphasizing that the PDP was the best platform to actualize the greater Nigerian vision. Addressing newsmen during the victory celebration party at his Oghior Town of Udu Local Government Area of Delta State, Olorogun Oyibode who is also DESOPADEC Commissioner for Udu, Ughelli South, Uvwie and Urhobos of Warri described the victory of the PDP candidate at the polls as well deserved, noting that with the huge investment of the state governor, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa, in the youths, there was the need to reciprocate his goodwill with votes at the polls, stressing that he was glad the people did not dis­appoint during the gubernatorial election. He described Oborevwori as a divine project and a man destined for the top, stressing that it was ig­norant that could cause anybody to contend with a man like Obor­evwori who carries huge grace to do exploits in the political arena. Oyibode also commended the good-spirited men, women and youths of Oghior Community for voting PDP 5/5 in all the elections, stressing that Oghior was about the only community in Udu, be­sides Obubu Community, with a clean slate of total victory for PDP in all the elections, thanking his foot-soldiers for believing in his leadership to deliver for the party. He charged party leaders and faithful to be wary of their utter­ances and conduct so as not to fur­ther divide the party since the end of one election is the beginning of another. ‘’I have read many disturbing allegations, attacks and avoidable diatribe on party members over alleged misconduct during the polls. Such behaviors are not nec­essary. Now that the elections are over, the healing process must be­gin. God in heaven is the ultimate giver of all good things and it is not by scheming and destroying others that one can grow political­ly. What belongs to you will get to you even in the presence of your enemies within the party.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒