***Screens 300 Cervical, Prostate Cancer Patients LOKOJA – No fewer than one million people in Kogi state benefited from the cancer awareness and prevention information strategies organised by Dove-Haven Foundation (DHF) in partnership with Aspire Coronation (ACT) Foundation. Already over 300 people have been screened for cervical and prostrate Cancer while 20 health personnel have been trained on cervical cancer screening in the state. The Foundation has also concluded plans to build a comprehensive cancer treatment centre in Kogi State and extend the good works to cover most rural areas of Nigeria. The Executive Director, Dr. Ekundayo Samuel, DHF who spoke on the development on Friday disclosed that areas covered so far include Yagba East and Yagba West Local Government Areas, adding that it also provided linkage to about 15 people on cancer-related services in tertiary hospitals. “These visions and many more are large enough to accommodate any worthwhile contribution of individuals, cooperate bodies and the Federal or State governments around Nigeria”. He added. “To create cancer awareness and education programs, DHF has set out to reach age groups to vocalize this, through outreach in colleges, town hall seminars, radio broadcasts and interviews, and social media outreaches.” He said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He also disclosed that the Kogi project was derived from Dove-Haven Foundation’s operational and administrative policy document, volunteers’ handbook, and had gone further to draw a well-structured five-year strategic plan document with yearly strategic goals. POLL Dr. Ekundayo said that “strengthened by her core value of love, passion, equity, promptness, integrity, innovation and partnership, DHF has not only been active in Kogi State but has also taken its cancer awareness campaigns to other States like Lagos, Osun and Oyo including some recent screening exercises and cancer threat-reducing seminars in two populous religious centres, in Osogbo, the Osun State capital. “These activities have increased the reach of the Dove-Haven Foundation to more than a population six (6) million.” He noted. The Executive Director, DHF also disclosed that the Foundation has also secured some grants that aided free screening exercises and payment of health workers’ stipends thereby improving the outputs of the Dove-Haven Foundation. The ACT Foundation grant has allowed DHF to reach over 1 million people with cancer awareness and prevention strategies information, screened over 300 people for cervical and prostate cancer and trained twenty (20) health personnel from primary health centres on cervical screening. ” The cancer awareness and education lecture organised by DHF was grace by top dignitaries such as Professor Eyitayo Lambo, Former Minister of Health; Dr Zakari Usman, Hon. Commissioner for Health, Kogi State; Dr Al-hassan Umar Adamu, President, Nigerian Cancer Society; Osayi Alile, Chief Executive Officer, ACT Foundation; HRM Oba Moses Babatunde Etombi, The Agbana of Isanlu, and Chairman, Yagba East Traditional Council; Also present was HRH Oba Ayodele Irukera Ajaamoto II, The Elegbe of Egbe and Chairman, Yagba West Traditional Council; Hon. Abdulrazak Ijagbemi Asiru, Executive Chairman, Yagba East LGA; Hon. Chief Pius G. Kolawole, Executive Chairman, Yagba West LGA; Dr Grace O. Ogoke, Consultant Obstetrician/Gynaecologist, Federal Medical Center, Lokoja; Prof. Oyeronke A. Odunola, Director of Research, Cancer Research and Molecular Biology Laboratories, Department of Biochemistry, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan; and Dr. Ayorinde Folasire, Consultant Radiation and Clinical Oncologist, University College Hospital, Ibadan