LAGOS – Huawei has announced its ‘Non Stop Banking’ initiative for Africa’s banking industry Unveiled at the Huawei Intelligent Finance Summit for Africa 2023, the initiative calls for hand-in-hand collaboration between the ICT and banking industries and facilitate a digital future of ‘non-stop’ services, ‘non-stop’ development, and ‘non-stop’ innovation. Leo Chen, President of Huawei Sub-Saharan Africa, speaking at the Huawei Intelligent Finance Summit for Africa 2023 In a keynote speech announcing the initiative, Leo Chen, president of Huawei Sub-Saharan Africa Region spoke about why going digital has become such a major imperative for the banking industry. Not only does it make it easier for banks to broaden their customer base, he said, it also saves operational costs, allows them to develop new products, and deepen the customer relationship, thus generating revenues for banks. In Africa, he added, there’s an even greater imperative for banks to embrace digitization, as it allows for greater financial inclusion. While Chen lauded the innovative work done by many African banks in embracing digitization, he pointed out that all players in the industry need to go further if they’re to embrace the ‘non-stop’ approach that will characterise the future of banking. Huawei has already served more than 2500 financial customers in over 60 countries and regions, including 50 of the world’s top 100 banks. Numerous Huawei technologies, Chen said, are helpful on this front. Over the years, it has provided the foundation and backbone for the digitalization of the banking industry in Africa by supporting the construction of the continent’s ICT infrastructure and digital connectivity in rural areas. Its extensive focus on research and development (R&D), meanwhile, means that it’s well-poised to help the industry shape its future too. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ From a technical perspective, he pointed to Huawei’s strength in storage and data communication, which enable ‘multi-domain collaboration’ solutions for banks. For example, its ‘storage and optical connection coage, fibre optic networks, IP networks ordination (SOCC)’ solutions can reduce system switchover time from two minutes to two seconds after a network breakdown, ensuring zero transaction interruptions. POLL The multilayer ransomware protection (MRP) technology, meanwhile, can provide 6-layer protections, from storage, to network, to applications and other layers. It enables a reliable and secure ‘end-to-end’ protection to the whole system. Finally, Huawei’s intelligent network O&M solutions enable faults to be detected in one minute, diagnosed in three minutes, and rectified in five minutes. Huawei Cloud, the world’s fastest-growing major cloud service provider, can additionally support the hybrid multi-cloud service required by banks. Huawei’s digital energy solutions, meanwhile, can help to provide an uninterrupted and green power supply for the banking sector. This effectively addresses power deficit issues and supports ‘non-stop’ banking. That kind of technological innovation will be important because, as Jason Cao, CEO of Huawei Global Digital Finance pointed out, financial services are becoming mobile and intelligent at a blistering pace. “The financial industry should pay acute attention to users and their demands, embracing changes,” he said.