LAGOS – Nigeria LNG (NLNG) Limited has been commended for being a reliable partner in the sustainable development of the country’s healthcare system, as NLNG begins another round of commissioning of its multi-billion-naira Hospital Support Programme (NLNG HSP) in four states. The Federal Government applauded NLNG Monday, during the commissioning of an Obstetrics and Gynaecology Ward at Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Lagos, being part of Phase 1 projects in its multi-billion-naira NLNG HSP which would cover three other States – Kano, Bayelsa and Cross River states. A statement signed by Yemi Adeyemi, Acting Manager, Corporate Communication and Public Affairs confirmed that the commissioning of an Obstetrics and Gynaecology Ward LUTH will be immediately followed by the commissioning of other projects in three states. These include an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at Niger Delta University Teaching Hospital (NDUTH), Yenagoa; an Occupational Therapy and Neuromodulation Rehabilitation Centre at Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH), Kano; and a Neurosurgical and Stroke Centre at the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH), Calabar. The commissioning of projects began in 2022 with the opening of a maternity centre at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH), Gwagwalada and a new Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH). These teaching hospitals were selected in the first phase. The programme targets 12 hospitals in total from the six geographical zones in the country. The NLNG Hospital Support Programme (HSP) is NLNG’s national Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative which aims to boost the healthcare delivery system in 12 Federal University Teaching Hospitals cutting across the six geopolitical zones in the country. The programme started in 2022. At the LUTH commissioning on Monday, Dr. Philip Mshelbila, NLNG’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, represented by Mr. Andy Odeh, General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, said the goal of the project was to support the provision of quality medical care for Nigerians through the improvement of tertiary healthcare delivery system in the country, with attendant impacts on medical research and retention of in-country medical expertise.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said the Company has helped in reshaping the country’s health sector for a better and more responsive system on the road to making it a destination for world-class healthcare delivery. He called on LUTH’s management to ensure that the facilities were put to practical use for patients and training purposes. POLL In his remarks, Dr Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Health, who was represented by Honourable Ekumankama Joseph Nkama, Minister of State for Health, stated that NLNG has proven to be a reliable partner in the sustainable development of the healthcare system in the country. “This project has complimented the efforts of the Federal Government in improving the quality of healthcare in LUTH. The project is the renovation and equipping of the 120-bed Obstetrics & Gynaecology Ward at the Block C section of the hospital. It is important to note that Block C was built about 60 years ago and has not undergone any major renovation since then. The Federal Government and the Ministry of Health are grateful to NLNG for this wonderful gesture. We are also mindful of the Company’s other efforts in supporting infrastructure renewal in all sectors, particularly the health sector,” he said. The newly commissioned LUTH project entailed the complete renovation and upgrade of the Obstetrics & Gynaecology (Ward C) Block, a four-storey building, and the provision of 120 beds to serve the prenatal and postnatal services. Other facilities include a waiting room, nurses stations, private wards, consulting rooms, radiation room, and doctors and nurses call rooms, among other facilities. At NDUTH, Yenagoa, NLNG will commission a one-storey new Intensive Care Unit (ICU) building which features a six-bed Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and four-bed Renal Dialysis Unit, which are connected to the existing operating theatre. In Kano, at AKTH, a two-winged Occupational Therapy and Neuromodulation Rehabilitation Centre bungalow were constructed with facilities such as a female ward, children’s ward, nurses’ station, and ward round room. The therapy wing consists of an EEG room, RTMS room, ECT room, patient waiting room, recovery room, physiotherapy hall and other features. At UCTH, Calabar, the project is an 18-bed Neurosurgical and Stroke Centre, which includes nine-bed male and nine-bed female wards, an operating theatre, three consulting offices, a pharmacy, two sleep-in rooms, nursing and recovery rooms and other associated facilities. These commissioning events wrap up the implementation of Phase 1 projects. In February 2023, NLNG commenced Phase 2 with the signing of Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH), Port Harcourt, for the equipping of the Haemodialysis Centre; the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital (UUTH), Uyo, for the renovation and equipping of an accident and emergency unit and theatre; and Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH), Jos for the construction and equipping of a twin theatre suite. NLNG is an incorporated Joint Venture owned by the Federal Government of Nigeria, represented by Nigerian National Petroleum Company (49 percent), Shell Gas B.V. (25.6 percent), TotalEnergies Gaz & Electricite Holdings (15 percent), and Eni International N.A. N. V. S.àr.l (10.4 percent). It Dr. Abubakar Jimoh, Director of Public Affairs of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) was in the team of childhood friends who presented a congratulatory card to Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima on weekend in Abuja. Also, among the team was Dr. Salma Anas, a public health specialist and former commissioner for health with the Borno State Government; Dr. Jerry Cunningham, an American Agriculturist and Dr. Safiya Musa, a former staff of First Bank. Others who joined Dr. Jimoh in the courtesy visit to the Vice President-elect, Shettima were ACP Zakari Biu and Hajiya Maimuna Aliyu, former Executive Director of Aso Savings Bank among other dignitaries.