P/HARCOURT – There is atmosphere of anger and despair by residents of Joinkrama community in Ahoada West local government area of Rivers State who have expressed worries over the level of environmental degradation, poverty, and neglect in the area, despite having 48 oil wells, operated by multinational oil companies. Joinkrama is a host community to Adibawa Oilfield, operated by Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC, of Nigeria Limited. The community is ravaged by poverty, environmental degradation and neglect, with available roads, cut off by flood and erosion. Some residents, who spoke on this development, lamented that Orashi River, which serves as their major source of water, is highly polluted with crude. Azaga Ovie-Oniso Kelvin, a member of the community, said: “Our Rivers are highly polluted and the river crosses from one community to another. The roofing sheets are all brownish. What we want is the oil company operating here to mitigate the effects of their operations in the community. “We have written letters to Shell, Agip and others, including their local contractors but unfortunately, they do not listen. They only listen to violence and because we are peaceful people, they keep taking us for granted,” he said. Another resident, Mrs. Avigien Ubileoniso Goodwill, said poverty is clearly written on the faces of Joinkrama residents.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The 2022 flood really dealt with us, our crops were all destroyed and we all were rendered homeless. The oil companies are not helping matters, even the access road is completely broken. POLL “The oil company should repair our only access road because the road is very important. Our graduates have been reduced to peasant farmers because there is no employment. There are no benefits at all from the oil company, we are still drinking from Orashi River.” Environmentalist and Director of HOMEF, Dr. Nnimmo Bassey, described Joinkrama as a geographical laboratory for the study of environmental problems, ranging from flood, gas flaring and oil spills.