ABEOKUTA – Governor Dapo Abiodun and his deputy, Engr Noimot Salako-Oyedele, Thursday, received their Certificates of Return from the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. During the event at the Ogun State heqdquarters in Magbon, Abeokuta, the Ogun State calital, Pro Adekunle Ajayi, the INEC National Commissioner for Ogun, Osun and Ondo States presented the Certificates of returns to the Governor and his deputy. Abiodun had been declared winner of the keenly contested March 18 governorship election with 276, 298 votes to defeat his closest rival Oladipupo Adebutu, of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, who scored 262, 383 votes. The State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Niyi Ijalaye, also presented the Certificate of returns to 25 House of Assembly members-elect. This is with the exception of Ifo I State Constituted which is pending due to the scheduled rerun election in one of the polling units. Speaking during the presentation, Prof Ajayi lauded the peaceful conduct of the poll in the state saying that the use of new technologies such as BVAS and IRev for the first time enhanced the credibility of the electoral process. According to him, the introduction of technology gave credibility the 2023 general elections.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL He revealed that the general elections might have come and gone but the commission had taken to its kitty the invaluable lessons which would definitely come handy to improve on the subsequent elections. Prof Ajayi explained that the presentation of certificates was statutory according to section 72 of the Constitution which mandated INEC to issue certificate of return within 14 days to winners of elections it conducted. Charging the governor and other recipients of the certificates to remain committed to serving humanity with their respective positions, Ajayi said that INEC would remain impartial, independently working round the clock to deliver credible and acceptable elections in Nigeria. Making his short remarks at the occasion, Governor Abiodun lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for providing enabling environment for credible elections as well as INEC for working day and night to ensure the success of the last poll. Gov Abiodun equally thanked the security agencies as well as the people of the state for the coming out to perform their duty and most importantly for deeming it fit to return him for another term. The governor promised to use the privilege of being elected for another term to continue to pursue programmes and policies that would make life much more abundant for the people. He urged those who contested the seat with him to join hands with him in building a more prosperous Ogun State. Dignitaries at the occasion included the former Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon Dimeji Bankole, Sen Adegbenga Kaka, APC State Chairman, Chief Yemi Sanusi, among others.