LAGOS – The Labour Party Deputy Gubernatorial Candidate for Lagos State, Princess Abiodun Oyefusi has lent her voice to the strategies for recognising and responding to psychological abuse from an intimate partner. She gave her stance at the Conference organised by Warien Rose Foundation on Monday in Lagos. The Nigerian Politician said insincerity, over-friendliness and exhibition of grandiose displays of attention during the courting phase of the relationship are signs to take note of. She noted that persons who withhold affection, attention, love, sex, money or children and those who speak disrespectfully about their partner, to their partner or in front of others should be watched out for. The Founder of SoulLifter Foundation explained that persons who put their partner down through humor or is overly critical and isolate their partner by sabotaging their support systems should be avoided. “In recognising Psychological abuse from an intimate partner, persons who seem insincere or overly friendly and persons who exhibit grandiose displays of attention during the courting phase of the relationship should be disregarded. “A person who withholds affection, attention, love, sex, money or children and someone who speaks disrespectfully about their partner, to their partner or in front of others should be jettisoned.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Persons who put their partner down through humor or are overly critical and someone who isolates their partner by sabotaging their support systems must be avoided by a means.” She said POLL Meanwhile, Oyefusi urged partners to take care of themselves emotionally, physically, mentally, and spiritually while responding to psychological abuse and at the same time do what it takes to calm things down rather than arguing and escalating. Pincess Abiodun said they should not defend themselves because it doesn’t work and makes them look guilty. She also advised that they should not share their feelings in the hope that the abuser will finally understand. “In responding to psychological abuse from an intimate partner, do what you need to take care of yourself emotionally, physically, mentally, and spiritually. “You should not defend themselves because it doesn’t work and makes them look guilty. “Another thing is that you should not share your feelings in the hope that the abuser will finally understand.” She said.