ISEGHE AJAYI Attaining financial independence is not child’s play because it entails financial wisdom, focus, and determination. If you really desire financial peace of mind, you must allow your money to work for you by investing it prudently. Depending on a single source of income may certainly not give you that financial freedom that you are craving. Also, the unfavourable state of the economy will not allow you to make headway in your financial life particularly if you stockpile all your money in a savings account. There is no way your money will multiply in a savings account, no matter the amount, due to the poor interest rates banks offer and also inflation, a killer of our resources will devalue it the more. But then, it is crucial to have a savings account for emergencies but it is better to invest your money wisely and allow it to grow such that the multiplier effect can guarantee you financial stability. Do you know that money is a tool and if properly planned can help you to accomplish your goals for it to materialise, you need to have your money to begin to work for you, not you working for it? No wonder, there is a huge difference between the rich and the poor because the rich permit their money to work for them by earning good interest and everyone else pays the interest while the poor man prefers to continue to work for his money without thinking of how to put it to use. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The under-listed strategy if followed religiously will help you see the need to allow your money to work for you POLL Have A Spending Plan The most vital way to change the way you handle your money is to have a budget as it will help you to have a grip on your money. Besides, budgeting helps you to keep track of your money as you assign each Naira to a category. With this, you are able to control where your money goes to and what it does, so as to reach your financial set goals. Mind you, your budget is the greatest tool you have next to your income to build wealth for it gives you control over your finances and allows you to make financial decisions at the start of each month. Work Within Your Budget Debt is often an impediment which limits the choices you can make as well as other opportunities. If you really desire to be truly financially independent, you need to get out of debt. One way of doing such is to try as much as possible to work within your budget and avoid unnecessary spending. But then, if you have a lot of debt, and clearing it seemed to be a big burden, you can start with the smaller ones, thereafter; work on tackling the bigger ones with the additional money that you have. As you pay off more debt and then apply that money to the subsequent debt, you will begin to form a drive, and you will be astonished at how hastily you can get out of debt. Multiply Your Money Once you have settled your debts, you need to start saving aggressively since you have financially set goals to achieve. With that enthusiasm to reach financial stability, there will be a point when the money you earn will be more than what you receive in a month. For this to occur, you need to set aside a certain portion each month in a dedicated account so as not to tamper with it. As soon as you have a six-month emergency fund saved, then you can commence investing your money, which is the most effective way to grow your wealth. Expand Your Financial Horizon It will do you great good to expand your investments as putting all your eggs in one basket could be disastrous. As you begin to invest, it is significant to remember to diversify your portfolio. For example, do not have all your money invested in just one business to avoid financial regrets. Consider other businesses such as real estate, where you can generate more income. Check Your Spending Habits It is important you check your spending habits if you desire to have financial success. It’s imperative to research first before you buy an item to get cheap bargains, by avoiding unnecessary spending, which if not controlled can result in impulse buying, thereby, making savings quite difficult. Making your money work for you is about creating an equilibrium between savings and investments which is made possible by using financial tools such as the budget, as well as watching your spending habits to make the best use of your savings. Investing in good projects to create more income, is a perfect way of making money work for you. Develop Streams of Passive Income Passive income is the term commonly used to define any money earned with little or no effort. Once you have set up passive income streams, you can earn your money while you sleep. But, creating any streams of passive income entails investment upfront whether of your time or money, but can lead to colossal remunerations later. Common techniques of passive income include real estate investments or silent partnerships in businesses. Become A Quiet Partner In A New Business Starting your own business can be a dangerous move particularly if you do not have absolute knowledge about the business. But, if everything turns out well, it can definitely pay off. Another way to obtain the profits of a successful new startup without the stress of getting a company off the ground is to become a silent partner who invests capital but does not participate in the day-to-day operations of the business. Being a silent partner in a business has its pros and cons such that you may not have any say in the operations of the company or decisions made by active employees. What you are entitled to is a cut or share of any profit the business makes. However, if the company sinks, you will certainly lose your investment. Patronise Banks With Higher Interest Rates One way of building your money is saving with a bank that offers high-interest rates for money deposited, implying that the savings generated will be marginally higher from this bank, especially when compared to what would have been given in a normal savings account. Get A Financial Advisor As a new investor, it is advisable to seek a financial advisor who will help you to evaluate and determine if existing investments are viable towards your financial set goals. Selecting the right advisor is essential for the success of any financial projections as a new investor.