JOS – The Generation Next Campaign Council has described as an uncharitable and wicked, recent attack on the person of the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Monica Dongban Mensen. Spokesman of the campaign council Shittu Bamaiyi, in a statement in Jos, which was made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, stated that it is quite unfortunate that PDP out of desperation and fear could come out to begin to blackmail and intimidate a revered and reputable jurist just to safe its face. Shittu alleged that the PDP has gone to the extent of using gutter and uncouth language against the Court of Appeal President for just no reason, but to score a cheap political point. He pointed out that no decent people, especially those from Plateau could allow such an illustrious daughter of the state who through dint of hard work, meritoriously earned the office of the President Court of Appeal to be ridiculed no matter the circumstances. Shittu remarked that it is not surprising for the PDP to accuse Justice Dongban and governor Simon Lalong of imaginary interference and manipulation of the election tribunals since the party’s stock in trade, is malicious propaganda, character assassination and blackmail. He questioned why the PDP should be living in fear if it truly won the governorship election in the state. He pointed out that it is the guilty that is always afraid, even if it’s a shadow.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Shittu described as an afterthought and a damage control effort by the Caleb Mutfwang Campaign Council dissociating itself from the sponsored and orchestrated campaign of calumny against the person of Honourable Justice Dongban. POLL Spokesman Generation Next added that the APC and its governorship candidate, Dr Nentawe Yilwatda, hold the judiciary in high esteem and would resist any attempt to denigrate or ridicule it since it serves as one of the bastions of democracy. Shittu warned the PDP to desist from further causing unnecessary tension and anxiety in the state, more so when the people are aware of what truly transpired during the governorship election. Meanwhile, the Spokesman of Caleb Mutfwang/ Piyo campaign Organization Pastor Yiljab Abraham said Plateau Governor-elect, Barrister Mutfwang, holds the Court of Appeal President Justice Monica Dongban in high esteem as a well-respected daughter of Plateau. Abraham said the PDP on the Plateau nor its supporters have done anything to run down the reputation of Justice Monica Dongban, saying rather, they see the President of the Court Of Appeal as an Ambassador of Plateau at the third tier of government the Judiciary.