ABEOKUTA  – Governor Dapo Abiodun and his deputy, Noimot Sala­ko-Oyedele, Thursday, received their Certificates of Return from the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. During the event at the Ogun State headquarters in Magbon, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, Prof Adekun­le Ajayi, the INEC National Commissioner for Ogun, Osun and Ondo states presented the certificates of returns to the governor and his deputy. Abiodun had been declared winner of the keenly contest­ed March 18 governorship election with 276, 298 votes to defeat his closest rival Oladip­upo Adebutu, of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, who scored 262, 383 votes. The State Resident Elector­al Commissioner, Niyi Ijalaye, also presented the Certificate of returns to 25 House of As­sembly members-elect. This is with the exception of Ifo I State Constituted which is pending due to the scheduled rerun election in one of the polling units. Speaking during the pre­sentation, Prof Ajayi lauded the peaceful conduct of the poll in the state saying that the use of new technologies such as BVAS and IRev for the first time enhanced the cred­ibility of the electoral process. According to him, the in­troduction of technology gave credibility to the 2023 general elections.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He revealed that the general elections might have come and gone but the commission had taken to its kitty the invaluable lessons which would definitely come handy to improve on the subsequent elections. POLL Prof Ajayi explained that the presentation of certificates was statutory according to section 72 of the Constitution which mandated INEC to issue certificates of return within 14 days to winners of elections it conducted. Charging the governor and other recipients of the certifi­cates to remain committed to serving humanity with their respective positions, Ajayi said that INEC would remain impartial, independently work­ing round the clock to deliver credible and acceptable elec­tions in Nigeria. Making his short remarks at the occasion, Governor Abio­dun lauded President Muham­madu Buhari for providing an enabling environment for cred­ible elections as well as INEC for working day and night to ensure the success of the last poll. Gov Abiodun equally thanked the security agencies as well as the people of the state for coming out to perform their duty and most importantly for deeming it fit to return him for another term.