ABAKALIKI  – Ebonyi South Senato­rial Candidate of the Labour Party in the just concluded gen­eral elections, Linus Okorie, has said that the outgoing Governor of Ebonyi State, Engr David Umahi, was not qualified to occupy the office of the President of the Senate. In a statement issued in Abakaliki, on Monday, Mr Okorie noted that Umahi’s intention for the Senate Pres­idency was not only incon­gruous, deceptive and a cari­cature, but definitely dead on arrival. He added that Umahi had craftily drafted Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike into the project, stressing that no Senator-elect or politician will accord any seriousness to the ambition. “We note with amusement Umahi’s backdoor craftiness in drafting Nyesom Wike, gover­nor of Rivers State, to perhaps help him on the soon to be still­birth ambition; the same man he once called “a thief with no intellectual content.” “This same Wike that Uma­hi then described as one who was “packing money that is public funds, not intellectual material, but just packing public funds”. Matter of fact, no Senator-elect, political group or platform of worth will accord any seriousness to this over ambition, save as a material for after-hours political comedy,” Okorie said. He noted that though he supports the call by Umahi for the South East to produce the 10th Senate President, but reminded Umahi that his declaration as Ebonyi South Senator-elect was temporary. Okorie added that he re­mained resolute to reclaim his mandate from the Election Petition Tribunal.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He further emphasized that Umahi had no legislative experience to warrant decla­ration of any intention to head such a sensitive position. POLL He said: “Umahi who is temporarily parading with my mandate, which he stole on February 25, 2023 through a nebulous alliance with a dis­credited Professor who served as the Returning Officer of the Ebonyi South Senatorial election, was also reported to have declared his interest to run for the exalted office of the President of the Senate. This is an ambition that is not only incongruous, deceptive and a caricature; but definite­ly dead on arrival”. “First, Umahi has no man­date with which to pursue his imaginary ambition, as I am resolute in reclaiming my le­gitimate mandate at the elec­tion tribunal; the process of which is ongoing.”