The House of Representatives on Wednesday stepped down a motion to name the National Assembly Library Building in Honour and Commemoration of Femi Gbajabiamila Speaker of the 9th National Assembly. The motion is titled, “Need to Name the National Assembly Library Building in Honor and Commemoration of Femi Gbajabiamila Speaker of the 9th National Assembly.” The move followed the adoption of a motion by Hon. Gaza Jonathan Gbefwi (PDP-Nasarawa). The motion was stepped down by Hon. Idris Wase, Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives who presided over the plenary, he said the motion is stepped down due to Hon. Gaza’s absence from the plenary and would be looked into when he is around. The motion noted that research is crucial to legislative business because it provides essential information for lawmakers to make decisions and understand the complexities of issues addressed and evaluate the potential impacts of legislation. He expressed in the motion stepped down that one of the critical components of the legislative process is the Legislative Library which plays a central role in quality legislation as it provides access to sources of information such as books, journals, reports, and databases that are essential for legislators to work effectively and efficiently as seen in renowned Libraries such as the Library of the US Congress, British Parliament, and others. Hon. Gaza noted that the Speaker of the 9th Assembly, Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila whose vision is to place the National Assembly on the world map created the Committee on Legislative Library Research and Documentation, a first in History, with the mandate to establish a world-class Legislative Library, Museum, and Archive to deepen legislative knowledge as well as preserve legislative history for posterity.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He stressed that the Speaker saw the urgent need for the National Assembly, as the Apex Legislative body in Nigeria, to have a functional legislative library for optimum performance of the federal legislators, necessitated the expedient construction and completion of the NASS Library which remains one of his cardinal goals for the 9th Assembly and has remained resolute in actualizing the vision within the life span of the 9th Assembly. POLL According to him, the 9th National Assembly under the leadership of the Speaker has frantically and tirelessly made efforts to put in place the necessary structure for the smooth running and operations of the National Assembly library through the establishment of the NASS Library Trust Fund Bill that has been signed into law by the President. “Cognizant that there is no better way to immortalize the doggedness of such a visionary leader otherthan to name the library after the Speaker, Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila. Gaza told that such an outstanding achievement and legacy should not go unrecognized in the 9thlegislative history. The lawmakers in the stepped-down motion mandated the Clerk to the National Assembly to name the National Assembly Library building after Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as it’s the practice in developed climes.