As stakeholders continue to lament the dangers of fake and malicious news, the United States Foreign Mission in Abuja has called on Journalists in Nigeria to fact-check sources and other information before putting them out for public consumption. The Mission also urged content creators and media practitioners to guard against been used to further self-serving political interests that may harm society, individuals, groups and others. Adnan Siddiqi, Counselor for Public Affairs at the United States Embassy in Nigeria, made the call at a 2-Day capacity building workshop for about 30 Journalists and Content Creators organized by Mythos Lab and Activating Positive Peace in conjunction of the US Foreign Mission in Nigeria, in Abuja. He revealed that the workshop became necessary to mitigate dangers posed by misinformation, disinformation and malinformation, insisting that the US sees freedom of the press around the world as an important tool for democracy; as he added that the American government encourages “accurate information out there. We believe that it is a competition of ideas. Some people are very aggressive in the way that they promote their ideas. And some people and some outlets are willing to mislead the public to get advantage. And so this is we are trying to prevent through this workshop”. At the train-the trainer practical interface, with the title “identifying, investigating and reporting misinformation”, Priyank Mathur, former US counter-terrorism officer and CEO Mythos Lab, disclosed various fact-checking techniques, and online packages available to verify web content. The 2-Day event also featured video authentication and image analysis to promote public trust in the media and protect public good.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Some participants at the event expressed satisfaction at the exercise, describing it as a timely intervention against the dangers of fake news. POLL John Edoh, a participant, said, “The Training on Countering Misinformation was awesome, educative, interesting, and fantastic… With the knowledge and experience gained from the training, we would be able to impacting others”. “The training has been of immense benefit to me as a journalist and content writer. The skills and knowledge I have gained from the training will enable me to effectively counter the spread of misinformation and fake news in my line of work. I am now better equipped to identify and verify information, as well as to critically evaluate sources. I appreciate the effort and time put into organizing this training. The sessions were well-structured and facilitated by knowledgeable and experienced professionals. The resources provided during the training are also very useful and I will continue to refer to them in my work”, Aminu Adamu Ahmed. Participants were issued certificates of completion at the end of the exercise.