LAGOS  – Senator Ademola Adeleke of Osun State has asked former Governor Adeg­boyega Oyetola to join hands with him to build Osun State, saying they have no other state. The governor, however, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) has the right to go to the Supreme Court if it wishes to appeal the judgment of the Ap­peal Court. Adeleke, while speaking on Arise TV on Monday, said he called Oyetola after the Appeal Court judgment and up till now he has not responded. He said, “I am still expecting him to call and congratulate me. I believe that we can exchange notes. My hands are waiting to embrace him. It is democracy. If I have an opportunity to meet him, I will tell him, my big broth­er, let us come together to move Osun forward.” Speaking on why the PDP won almost all Osun House of Assembly seats at the March 18 election, he said, “The love my people have for me was affirmed on July 16th 2022 when they came out to vote for me. In my 100 days in office I did so much for the people. They believe in me and so they came out on March 18 to vote for the Peo­ple’s Democratic Party (PDP), and so the House of Assembly members are majority PDP. “My 100 days in office has proved to people that I can work, it is not just dancing because that is my hobby, but I also work. He added, “I like my people to be happy. When they are happy, I am happy. I blocked the leakage; that is where we saved money to pay arrears of salaries that the previous government owed, and I kept to my promises.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I called the contractor from the previous government and I gave him two months to work on the bad roads where my people die every day. The road has been completed. POLL Speaking about the debt posi­tion of Osun State, Adeleke said that when he came into office the debt was N402 billion. “We have just come into gov­ernment barely four months and we have set up committees to look at the planned reforms that we have in different sectors, like in health, education etcet­era. We are giving free medical treatment to Osun people from one local government to anoth­er. He debunked claims by the APC that he received N90 bil­lion but noted that he wouldn’t be able to give off heart the real debt position of Osun State as of today but that as at the time they came on board, they met a N402 billion debt. “When I came in I called in all the Obas (traditional rulers) to show them where we were about the debt of Osun State. We have a lot of issues. I have moved on because my people love me. All my campaign promises I have kept within 100 days,” he said.