inDrive, a global mobility and urban services platform headquartered in California, USA, has announced the scaling up of its operation in Nigeria as it expands to Abuja after proving the efficiency of its business model in Lagos. A distinctive feature of the ride-hailing service is that the passenger is the first to set his budget for the trip, while drivers can accept this offer or respond with their own price. According to the company’s management, the expansion is part of a strategic move aimed at increasing the availability and accessibility of ride-hailing services to more Nigerians by offering them a fair, safe, and convenient means of transportation. With operations in over 700 cities across 47 nations, Abuja becomes the second city in Nigeria after Lagos, where the company operates, reflecting the company’s commitment to providing innovative solutions to people worldwide. Timothy Oladimeji, inDrive Business Development Representative in Nigeria, while speaking on the bold move, explained that the expansion has become necessary in light of the growing demand for ride-hailing transportation that is more flexible, convenient, and cost-friendly. “We are thrilled to announce the expansion of ride-hailing services to Abuja, Nigeria. With the increasing demand for safe, reliable, and affordable transportation in the region, we are confident that inDrive will provide unparalleled service to our riders. “Our expansion to Abuja reflects our commitment to delivering innovative and fair solutions that address the transportation needs of our customers.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We look forward to serving the people of Abuja and building strong partnerships within the local community,” Oladimeji said. POLL Speaking further, he noted that the platform’s expansion in Africa aims at helping passengers’ access ride-hailing services at a fair price while also contributing to the growth of the gig economy in the region by providing work opportunities for the unemployed. He stated that the company is incredibly proud to offer a solution that places equal importance on the needs of passengers and drivers, all in the bid to transform the way individuals commute. Commenting on the app’s distinctive features, he explained that the app allows passengers to determine the pricing of their ride, and drivers can accept the proposed price, counter with a different offer, or ignore it entirely. “There are no fines or fees for drivers who decline an offer, and both parties agree upon the final price. inDrive operates transparently with a maximum service charge of 10% excluding VAT, and during the initial phase of expansion to Abuja, there will be no service fee. There is also the convenience of agreeing to ride fares beforehand, without the unnecessary need for negotiation after the trip ends, and without surge pricing or rush hour fees.