*As Obi Explains He’s Not Bent On Becoming President *Say He Was Only After Due Process To Produce A Legitimate Leader Labour Party has assured legislatures elected on its platform that it’ll not coarse them to toll the party’s line. It also disclosed that the LP has no premeditated mandate for its elected legislatures, adding that it was only interested in good governance for the country. In the same vein, the party’s presidential candidate in the just concluded 2023 elections, Peter Obi, has urged Senators and House of Representatives members elected on the party’s platform to go about their roles as Lawmakers as freely as possible. He said that his goal was after a better Nigeria, as he assured them that contrary to insinuations in certain quarters, he was not bent on becoming the president of Nigeria. According to one of the Senators-elect who took part in the meeting (but who insisted on being anonymous), Obi said that he was only interested in a due process that would produce a legitimate leader for the country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Obi said this when he met on Tuesday with the new Senators and members of the House of Representatives elected under the LP umbrella. POLL The meeting was on the heels of a recent remark credited to the spokesperson for the Peter Obi-Datti Presidential Campaign Council, Kenneth Okonkwo, who said that the N25million being charged by the party as the nomination fee for gubernatorial aspirants was exorbitant and would not stand. Following the meeting, the Labour Party leadership reviewed the governorship nomination fee to N15 million. Okonkwo had also in his speech stressed that “The party’s constitution frowns at any action that will constitute a hindrance to the participation of any Nigerian in governance at any level”. He added that “After due consultation with all the relevant stakeholders in the party, and taking into consideration the overwhelming interest of Nigerians in our party, and the necessity to birth a new Nigeria, and in view of the prevailing high cost of things in Nigeria, which the incompetent APC ruling party has foisted on all Nigerians, the Labour Party, as a listening party, has taken note of the suggestions of Nigerians that a party of the working class Nigerians should settle for a nomination fee of not more than N15m for the post of a governor. In line with our avowed disposition to carry Nigerians along in what we do, the Party has decided to review the cost of nomination forms downwards for all positions taking into consideration the suggested amount of N15m for the post of Governor. We must move together to salvage our country from incompetent and dishonest leadership of the old order”.