In Anambra state there were palpable fears that Peter Obi who is the LP presidential candidate and a former governor of the state whose party prevailed during the 25 February elections was accused of plotting to impeach the incumbent governor Prof Chukwuma Soludo by ensuring that candidates of his LP win majority of the house of Assembly seats than Soludo’s APGA. But that did not happen as results from lReV also indicated that APGA may sweep most of the state’s house of assembly seats. So,governor Soludo appears not to be under the threat of being impeached by LP as had been feared if Obidients were to dominate Anambra state house of assembly. Somehow, APGA may once again be ruling the roost in the east as it had been doing since the party was founded at the dawn of the new political era in 1999 by Chief Odumegu Ojukwu,the late Biafran war leader before NPN and later PDP took over before lmo and Ebonyi states which have currently fallen under the control of the ruling APC by virtue of a controversial Supreme Court ruling in favor of Chief Hope Uzodimma as governor of lmo and by defection of the governor of Ebonyi state,Mr Dave Umahi. The narrative in Edo state is not in any shape or form distinct from what has unfolded in Anambra state. The 25 February Presidential and National Assembly victory of Obi-Dients in Edo state and particularly the successful clinching of the senatorial seat by Comrade Adams Oshiomole who is also an ex governor of the state and one time benefactor of the current governor,Mr Godwin Obaseki,had also sent shivers down the spines of the incumbent. The trepidation was owed to the anticipated consequences of the APC producing the majority of members of the house of assembly which could have been leveraged to impeach him. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Again,going by the current results uploaded into lReV,the threat seem to have been neutralized by the resurgence of PDP during the 18 March subnational elections in Edo state. POLL The results so far released indicate that the ruling party in the state performed far much better than it did during 25 February presidential and NASS elections which was swept by Obi-Dients leaving the PDP that ruled in the state in the lurch. Currently more than sufficient PDP lawmakers appear to have been elected during the 18 March exercise. The disruptive, but positive impact that the Obi-Dients made during the 25 February elections had encouraged me to wonder whether the power of incumbency had been dealt a deadly blow such that it had receded. But that line of thought has turned out to be a hasty presumption about the power of incumbency and the assumption that Obi-Dients are giant killers. The new reality is that the power of incumbency has become even more potent and lethal factor in the political of Nigerian as state apparatus and resources in terms of the use or abuse of security agencies and financial power to self perpetuate by second term governors or outgoing governors imposing surrogates have become more rife. As such,survival of the fittest is currently the rule rather than the exception, just as might is right is the new mantra by Nigerian political actors relying more on self help than depending on rule of law. In fact the rule of law as we used to know it has been either altered or completely thrown to the dogs. And jungle tactics that had receded has bounced back more furiously with anarchy reigning supreme in Nigerian political arena. Of the 28 state governorship positions in contention, all the ones seeking re-elections succeeded except in Zamfara state where the incumbent governor Bello Mutawele could not win his re-election bid and in Adamawa where incumbent PDP governor Ahmadu Fintiri is locked in a deadlock with APC’s senator Aisha Dahiru also known as Binani. Those trying to replace themselves with surrogates largely succeeded except in kano state where NNPP is replacing the incumbent APC governor Umaru Ganduje and in Sokoto state where APC candidate is succeeding the PDP governor, Aminu Tambuwal also in Benue state where Samuel Ortom of PDP did not succeed in replacing himself with a surrogate as well as in Abia state where incumbent governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu failed to get his surrogate to take over from him because the LP candidate, Dr Alex Otti triumphed in the polls. Without pretense,all hand gloves were literally taken off by political animals and bare knuckle fights ensued after INEC Chairman,Prof Mahmood Yakubu,unfazed by the complaints of party agents about the non reliance on data from BVAS in the collation of election results for the presidential and National Assembly race,advised those that disagreed with the election results of the 25 February elections that he called on 1st March in favor of the ruling APC to go to court. Since politicians have no confidence in the courts, more so because they are the ones that have been compromising the judicial system,they have been engaging in self help with catastrophic consequences on the polity as evidenced by the twenty one (21) and perhaps thirty (30) fatalities recorded as fall outs of the elections. As l had predicted in my last piece: “INEC Chairman’s Failure To Keep Promises, A Treat Or Trick?” politicians that were bruised after the conduct of the 25 February elections fought back like wounded lions during the 18 March elections exercise. It is generally agreed by a broad spectrum of Nigerians that the 25 February exercise was initially smoothly organized with BVAS accreditation. But it degenerated into a fiasco when the input of voters data into BVAS was not uploaded into IReV as promised by INEC. Instead, results written on Form EC8A mutilated and correction fluid ridden,were relied upon by lNEC for calling the results. That was to the consternation of politicians who thereafter vowed to take their proverbial pound of flesh by unleashing terror on the electorate during the second balloting at the sub national level. Unscrupulous political actors practically returned to their old ways of brigandage -ballot box snatching and stuffing, hijacking of forms for writing results and kidnapping of INEC officials and compelling them to write and announce results under duress simply because they did not want to be fooled by INEC twice. And it is rather unfortunate that while Nigerians that got killed and maimed have been crushed,political parties and their candidates have only been bruised by the outcome of 25 February elections. That is why they got brutal during the 28 March exercise leaving in their trail the tragic death of Nigerians who are no more alive,while the individual political patrons and parties that some of the dead were fighting for are alive and savoring their stolen mandates procured violently. l am of the conviction that the chairman of the electoral body, INEC on hindsight must have realized by now that he could have handled better the situation that led to loss of faith in the sanctity of the BVAS by a critical mass of Nigerians reflected by the low turn out of voters during the 28 March round of balloting. But as the saying goes,the hand of time can not be taken back as the outcome of 25 February elections is undeniably the trigger for the return of politics in Nigeria to the dark ages of the rule of the jungle. How can such horrific political violence be happening in Nigeria in 2023 when we all thought that the era of bloody politics had been consigned to the dustbin of history after the 2011 orgy of political violence that consumed innocent youths ? After ex president Goodluck Jonathan prevented a repeat of such experience in 2015 following his loss of the presidency to the opposition APC during which he famously stated that his political interest is not worth the blood of Nigerians,political office contestations in our clime had become less fractious due largely to introduction of technology. Sadly,political violence is likely to be the legacy that INEC under the current leadership of Prof Yakubu as the chairman,but also the rank and file of the organization which has resurrected the ghost of violence and foisted it on our country. How can one defend a situation where politicians are saying that if the maker of the law is the master breaker of the same law,who can counsel them not to take the laws into their hands as they have done during 18 March elections? As we all know,the verdict above is dominating the news and as we all also very well know,current news is history in motion. So, lNEC chairman and his board members/ national commissioners are writing their history right now and it is a very unsavory and unpalatable one. Over all what election 2023 has laid bare is that not enough critical thinking went into organizing the event which is supposed to be so epochal and consequential that it should not have been treated with such levity. For instance,the election is setting our country back by about N355 billion naira that was appropriated for INEC to conduct the election. That is just the direct cost of tax payers money allocated to lNEC. When the down time of locking down the country on election days twice are factored in,the cost burden on an economy which is tottering on the brinks of collapse would be much more higher. And we all know our country is groaning under the crushing weight of an Olympian size debt in excess of N77 trillion. As such , an expenditure of over N355 just to conduct an election can be said to be profligacy on steroid. Frankly,the folly of staking such a colossal sum on conducting elections is comparable to the ruinous policy of channeling a whopping N6 trillion naira into subsidizing petrol pump price in the 2022 budget of the federal government. If the authorities had been more prudent, they would not have done a yeoman’s job of conducting the elections in a period of two (2) days with three weeks in between. They could have been more pragmatic and prudent by holding all the elections in only one day. It is a position that some members of civil society organizations have also been pointing out. Clearly, there is no reason the election exercise could not have been conducted in one day only so that the cost-both financially and human catastrophe-could have been halved or significantly less. What is wrong with voters being given five (5) ballot papers to thump print in one fell swoop instead of thump printing three (3) for national elections in one day and two (2) ballots on another day? Why spread the elections between national and sub national levels at colossal financial cost and logistical nightmare instead of consolidating the balloting for the five (5) elective offices into one single event ? If all the elections were held on the same day ,there could have truly been a political rebirth in Nigeria because those who depend on rigging would have been swept off as the 25 February polls was fairly well organized leveraging technology via the BVAS. Basically, it is only the collation of the results without relying on data from BIVAS , particularly the presidential ballot that has cast a dark shadow on the contest. Apparently, the INEC board of commissioners were not engaging in critical thinking or being mindful of the precarious financial situation of our country hence they were not cost conscious. Similarly, the presidency and NASS that should have interrogated the rationale for the recommendations by INEC board were perhaps acting in unison by concurring with each other instead of engaging in scrutiny of each other’s decisions which is part of the principle of checks and balances that constitute the bulwark of democracy. Staggering the elections into two events enabled the political actors that had been shocked by the power of BVAS during the first round of balloting, to regroup for the second round with brutality in order to self perpetuate by unleashing mayhem on the electorate while destroying or seizing election materials. Imagine if the surplus funds that was applied in the conduct of the staggered 2023 election were invested in boosting education through student loans that would raise the number of skilled workforce for improved national productivity levels and migration of the surplus into the diaspora to boost inflow of income from Nigerians in the diaspora in the manner that india and the Philippines currently benefit. The saved funds could also provide housing for all that would generate employment for those in the construction industry and also boost national productivity as well as develop alternative sources of electricity power supply such as relying more on solar power and wind energy by taking advantage of the abundance of sunlight in our country through investments in solar panels production which is no longer as complex as rocket science. These are productive as opposed to consumption activities which conducting elections is actually all about. A significant harm inflicted on our country by election 2023 is that it has made our country suffer an avoidable jeopardy. The unvarnished truth is that the opportunity costs of the policies and programs of government that could have helped our country develop into a socioeconomic and political powerhouse in Africa and indeed the world which is huge has been lost. It is disheartening that our country that has the potential to progress from third (3rd) world to first world like it’s former peer Singapore did a couple of decades ago has remained in socioeconomic and political stagnation. The expected leap frogging is yet to happen simply because of the loss of the humongous sums of scarce financial resources such as the one pumped into the conduct of the 2023 elections and also the incredulous sums appropriated as petrol subsidy in the past eight (8) years which by some estimate is in excess of fifteen (15) billion United States (US) dollars. There is no doubt that a sizable chunk of the N355 billion allocated to INEC was applied in the acquisition of the BVAS and other technological devices that were touted as the magic pill that would cure all the electoral ills in our country. Obviously,the promoters of BVAS information technology driven election process must have forgotten that for technology to work,human input is required. In a country where impunity is the norm rather than the exception,and those who breach the rules or the laws of the land often go unpunished so long as they have the right connections, the integrity of BVAS was bound to be compromised by those seeking political power by hook or crook.