The Governorship Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in the just concluded 2023 governorship election in Ebonyi State, Dr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, has debunked the insinuation that he has back out of the legal challenge which he filed against the Governorship Elections at the State Governorship Tribunal, sitting in Abakaliki. A statement signed by his Media Adviser, Chief Abia Onyike, on Tuesday, described the rumor as a blatant falsehood and should be disregarded. Onyike urged the public to ignore the lies and falsehood and continue to support Dr Odii and all the PDP Candidates involved in this legal challenge, at the tribunal. The statement reads: “The attention of the Ebonyi State PDP Governorship Candidate in the 2023 Elections, Dr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii has been drawn to a fake News story being circulated by some faceless writers who used his name to issue a fabricated press statement, making the rounds in the Social Media. “The Social Media urchins falsely announced that Dr. Odii has decided to back out of the legal challenge which he filed against the rigged Governorship Elections at the State Governorship Tribunal, sitting in Abakaliki. “Moreover, the hack writers claimed that Dr Odii had congratulated his APC opponent in the Governorship election. This is blatant falsehood as nothing of such ever took place. “We hereby seize this opportunity to assure the teeming members of our great party, PDP and our massive supporters and great people of Ebonyi State that there is no truth whatsoever in the trending fake News.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We urge them to ignore the lies and falsehood and continue to support Dr Odii and all our Candidates who are involved in this legal challenge, aimed at retrieving all our stolen mandates and restoring the fundamental rights of Ebonyi citizens to chose leaders of their choice under a democratic system of government. POLL “Dr. Odii is resolute in his commitment to ensure that justice is done and cannot betray the great confidence reposed and vested in him by the good people of Ebonyi State.We can assure you that with God on our side, sooner than later, we shall all have course to rejoice.” Recall that Mr Odii placed second behind the APC governorship candidate and Speaker of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Right Honourable Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru, in the governorship election.END//