ABUJA – The Federal Government through the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation(HCSF), has reiterated that it would continue to do its best in ensuring that the welfare of workers is given the desired attention. Yemi-Esan, stated this at the opening ceremony of the 2022 Separate and Joint Meetings of the National Public Service Negotiating Councils at Goshen Event Centre, Auta Balefi, Nasarawa State. While highlighting the theme of the event, “Fostering Partnership between Government and Trade Unions for Effective Governance,” the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation emphasised the need for workers to work in synergy, leading to a harmonious relationship between the Labour Unions and Government to promote efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of services. She added that consistent interactions between both parties would promote and maintain cordial relationship between employer and employees in the Public Service as well as further enhance sustained industrial peace and harmony in the workplace. Yemi-Esan, who was represented by the Chairman of the Councils and Permanent Secretary, Service Welfare Office (SWO) in the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr. Ngozi Onwudiwe, said Public Service is instrumental to the formulation and implementation of policies, programmes and projects of Government for the socio-economic development of human and material resources. She stressed that the Federal Government has shown commitment and support in the reforms of the Federal Civil Service by approving the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan 2021 – 2025 (FCSSIP 25). It would be recalled that the FCSSIP 25 is intended to redefine and reposition the Public Service to enable it respond effectively to the dynamics of the time in creating a conducive work environment for efficient service delivery in the 21st Century.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Accordingly, the sixth pillar of (FCSSIP) 25 is targeted at improving staff welfare, with a prioritised initiative for enhancing value proposition of civil servants. POLL The Head of Service explained further that some of the welfare initiatives by the OHCSF include the Federal Public Service Entrepreneurship Programme (FPSEP), which was recently launched in Abuja, as it is expected to increase the streams of income for serving and exiting public servants. The programme was developed, according to her, out of the need to pay greater attention to the welfare of public servants, as it also creates windows of opportunity for those in service to earn supplementary income to improve their quality of life and enable those retiring to cope with life after service. As part of the Federal Government welfare services, she said: “The Federal Civil Service Bus Scheme was launched on 21st June, 2022 with the intention to ease transportation challenges of Civil Servants. “The goal of the scheme is to provide affordable and convenient transportation for workers to and from their work places, thereby improving productivity. “OHCSF also introduced the ‘Awards and Recognition Scheme’ to appreciate hardworking civil servants, who distinguished themselves in their duties in order to boost their morale for greater output. “In the year 2022 Awards and Recognition Ceremony, 40 civil servants, whose performances were outstanding, received cash prizes of N500, 000.00 each and a star prize of an SUV was won by one of the 10 most outstanding officers, through a competitive raffle draw.” She therefore, called on all civil servants at the Federal and State levels to continuously collaborate and embrace the tenets of integrity, merit, performance and transparency in the conduct of government business in consonance with the ethics of the service. Earlier, the Governor of Nasarawa State, Engr. Abdullahi Sule, who was represented by the Acting Head of the Civil Service, Nasarawa State, Mrs. Abigail Waya, commended the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation for her transformation agenda on the civil service. She expressed satisfaction with the reform programmes of the Federal Government, through the OHCSF, adding that Nigerian workers deserved the best. In his remarks, the President, Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council (JNPSNC), Trade Union Side (TUS), Comrade Benjamin Anthony, urged Government to take an urgent step in addressing the situation of the country and improve on the electronic monetary transaction system in Nigeria, as well as look at the various Bank charges on transfer and other sundry transactions. He also lamented that most of the decisions taken at the previous meetings have not been implemented because those decisions are scrutinised by the whims and caprices of the National Council on Establishment (NCE). He added that it will be ideal for the JNPSNC (TUS) to be included as a member of NCE.