The Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, on Tuesday restated the readiness of his administration to collaborate with the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to improve security in the state. Speaking in Government House when he received the Air Officer Commanding, Mobility Command of the Nigerian Air force, Yenagoa, Air Vice Marshall Ebimobo Ebiowei, Diri said that security was top on the agenda of his administration and would be glad to work with the NAF to make the state more secure. He lauded the force for its contributions to the peace of the state and urged the officers and men not to relent. The governor acknowledged that crime cannot be totally eradicated in any society but that working with the Air Force and other security agencies has helped to reduce crime and criminality in Bayelsa. He recalled the support of the NAF during the 2022 floods, saying the government was appreciative of its effort to ameliorate the suffering of the people even though they were also affected. Diri also lauded the security agency for its role in ensuring peaceful elections in the state and urged the personnel to remain apolitical while discharging their duties. He said, “For us, our agenda here is prosperity, peace and justice. Wherever there is injustice, whatever peace that is prevailing is temporary. So we must work on ensuring that there is justice.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As I always say, there is no state where you can totally eliminate crime and criminality. Our desire is to bring it down to the lowest ebb. POLL “Today, Bayelsa remains of the most peaceful states in Nigeria. We have worked closely with the security agencies and that has helped to reduce crime.” Earlier, Air Vice Marshal Ebimobo Ebiowei said the visit was to formally introduce himself to the governor following his appointment as the Air Officer Commanding the Mobility Command in the state and to seek areas of partnership with the government. He pledged his readiness and that of his men to cooperate with the state government to sustain the peace and security in the state. He recalled that he was one of the pioneer officers when the command was established in 2011 and that his posting back to the state as the 15th AOC was a homecoming for him.