P/HARCOURT – The Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, has re-affirmed the commitment of the Commission to complete all on-going projects in the Niger Delta region, including those in Harry’s Town, Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State. Speaking after inspecting the 6-kilometre Obuama Internal Roads, the NDDC Managing Director, Dr Samuel Ogbuku, assured that the Commission would continue to deliver quality projects for the benefit of the people of the Niger Delta region. The NDDC Chief Executive Officer, who was accompanied by the Executive Director Projects Mr. Charles Ogunmola and other Directors of the Commission, assured that the NDDC would complete all the on-going projects in the community to positively impact on the lives of the people. Ogbuku, who later paid a courtesy visit to former leader of the Niger Delta Peoples Volunteer Force, Alhaji Alabo Asari Dokubo, said that it was only proper to visit the activist, whose mother hails from Obuama, noting: “You cannot just go for project inspection and leave from the site.” He said that NDDC was eager to complete all the projects in the community, stating: “We will look at all the issues raised by the community to ensure that the projects are completed for the benefit of the people. Every community in the region deserves to benefit from NDDC project. “I had to personally come to inspect the projects here, given my deep and special ties to the people. I could not leave the inspection to the NDDC Project Monitoring and Supervision Department.” Responding, Asari Dokubo pledged to assist the Governing Board of the NDDC to stabilize to enable it work effectively for the people of the Niger Delta region.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to the former militant leader, “I am very humbled by this visit. It is not every time that an NDDC MD will come with his entourage. We have known most of the MDs but he is the only one who has come to see me, I am grateful. I am not going to ask for anything from him, because the community is saturated with NDDC projects that are stalled. POLL “I think if my brother will assist in completing these projects, we are satisfied. We are not going to ask for more. The chiefs have already told him, these projects were there before but were stalled and for various reasons. Now, we pray that by the grace of God they will be completed”, Asari expressed optimism.