This piece published in 2014, is sourced from Archives Siaka Momoh. If Nigeria can take a bold step and move swiftly into production of 50 percent cassava flour bread, the country will make a saving of over N315bn annually, said Nigeria’s Minister of Agriculture, Akinwunmi Adesina. At the moment, Nigeria imports wheat worth N635 billion (about $4.2bn) annually, hurting its foreign exchange earnings and worsening the rate of unemployment. The inclusion of 50 percent cassava flour in bread production will change this as it will cut imports of wheat by half. Presenting bread loaves baked by researchers from IITA to the Federal Executive Council on Wednesday, Adesina urged Nigerians to embrace the consumption of bread with cassava flour content. According to him, “Apart from Nigeria saving N315 billion, it will also create jobs and encourage farmers to produce more.” In 2002, Nigeria adopted policy compelling flour millers to implement 10 per cent cassava flour into wheat flour. The policy backed by improved varieties from IITA raised cassava production by 10 million tons between 2002 and 2008, making the country the largest producer of cassava. Under the new transformation agenda, Nigeria plans to double its current cassava production from 37 million tons. The Critical areas the government is focusing on are value addition to make production demand driven and the improvement of yield among others. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Nteranya Sanginga, IITA Director General, in an address to Nigeria’s Cassava Transformation team on Thursday, says the inclusion of cassava flour in bread is a sure way of stimulating the demand for cassava. POLL The cassava bread baked by researchers from IITA is patronized by staff and visitors to the institute. Consumers love it and a survey carried out recently recorded positive perception on the product. Rich in carbohydrates, cassava is a staple to more than 600 million people in the developing world. With over 38 million tons of harvested fresh cassava roots per year, Nigeria is by far the largest cassava-producing country in the world. Estimates are that between seven and eight million Nigerian farming families grow the tuber. Cassava is an important staple food for both rural and urban populations in Nigeria, as well as many other nations in Africa. Nigeria’s cassava production is a third more than production in Brazil and almost double the production of Indonesia and Thailand. Cassava production in other African countries, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, Madagascar, Mozambique, Tanzania and Uganda appears small in comparison to Nigeria’s substantial output. In sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), cassava is mainly a subsistence crop grown for food by small-scale farmers who sell the surplus. It grows well in poor soils with limited labor requirements. It also provides food security during conflicts when the invader cannot easily destroy or remove the crop, since it conveniently grows underground. Cassava is usually intercropped with vegetables, plantation crops (such as coconut, oil palm, and coffee), yam, sweet potato, melon, maize, rice, groundnut, or other legumes. Apart from food, cassava is very versatile and its derivatives and starch are applicable in many types of products such as foods, confectionery, sweeteners, glues, plywood, textiles, paper, biodegradable products, monosodium glutamate, and drugs. Cassava chips and pellets are used in animal feed and alcohol production. Food Concepts Plc, one of Nigeria’s leading organisations within the food sector, as well as owner/operator of the popular Butterfield Bakery, one of the largest bakeries in Nigeria today, is partnering and supporting the Ministry of Agriculture in its cassava bread initiative “the Nigerian Loaf”. In a meeting held with the Honourable Minister of Agriculture, on Friday 23rd December 2011, the company agreed to work with the IITA (International Institute of Tropical Agriculture), the Cassava Transformation Team and the Ministry of Agriculture on the development and implementation of the Nigerian Loaf. Food Concepts Plc believes that the production of cassava bread presents a huge opportunity to boost the Nigerian economy. The organization is committing its resources to partner with the Ministry to develop and adopt a commercially viable process to produce the Nigerian Loaf.