JOY ANIGBOGU The 2023 general elections has brought a lot of changes into the political space with so many new developments, where hitherto unpopular political parties gained more grounds and even floored the very main political parties during elections. Analysts believe that the development is good for the nation’s democracy, but the issue of political parties openly endorsing candidates of other political parties while they are still members of their parties is another dimension to the new introduction to Nigeria’s political lexicon. After the general elections political parties, especially the two major parties, decided to slam the big hammer on some of their members who they suspected or caught taking part in anti-party activities. The Senator Iyorchia Ayu, the national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was on Sunday suspended by his Igyorov ward in Gboko Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State over anti-party activities, stressing that his action took a serious toll on the party during the general elections. Recall that a few days ago, the National Working Committee (NWC) of PDP led by Ayu dragged the Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom before the disciplinary committee, while suspending former governors of Ekiti and Katsina, Ayodele Fayose and Ibrahim Shema and three others. Ayu’s suspension on Sunday followed a vote of no confidence passed on him by his ward. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The resolution of the Igyorov council ward after their meeting, was read by its secretary, Mr Banger Dooyum. POLL “The PDP Executive Committee of Igyorov council ward of Gboko LGA in Benue State has passed a vote of no confidence on the PDP National Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and suspended him from the party”. “Ayu was involved in anti-party activities causing the PDP to lose at his ward and Local Government Area along with his allies who also didn’t vote at the governorship election.” The national chairman was also accused of not paying his annual dues as enshrined by the party’s constitution. The letter reads: “We reviewed the conduct of the presidential and National Assembly elections as well as the governorship and State Houses of Assembly Elections held on the 25th of March, 2023 and 18th March, 2023 respectively. “We observed with utmost dismay that. Dr. Iyorchia Ayu who is the National Chairman of the PDP worked against the success of the party in Igyorov council ward. “It is on record that he has also failed to pay his Annual Subscription Fees as provided under Section 8 Subsection 9 of the constitution of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 2017 (As Amended). “Further investigation also revealed that, he did not vote during the governorship and State Assembly Elections held on 18th of March, 2023, “It was also discovered that most of his closest allies worked for the opposition party, the All Progressive Congress (APC) and hence, the abysmal performance of the PDP in Igyorov Ward. “In view of the foregoing, we hereby pass a vote of no confidence on Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and suspend him as a member of our party with immediate effect. The suspension letter signed by the ward chairman, Kashi Philip, the deputy chairman, Ortese Helen and 15 others, was addressed to the state chairman of PDP. Again, the Former Secretary of Government of Federation (SGF), Senator Pius Anyim along with the former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, former governor of Enugu State, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, and others were also suspended by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party for anti-party activities. Anyim in a twist, lashed at the NWC, saying that they should rather hide their faces in shame for leading the party to abysmal failure in the 2023 general elections, than looking for ‘soft targets’ to suspend. The former President of the Senate was suspended by the NWC of the PDP, on Thursday, over alleged anti-party activities. In a press statement on Friday, Ayim noted that the NWC should busy itself with how to move the party forward, rather than further dividing it. The statement read, “The action of the NWC is, to say the least, disappointing. I thought the concern of the NWC now would be how to undertake a thorough self-examination on why they performed so poorly in the 2023 general elections rather than seek to further divide the party by shifting blame. “It smacks of arrogance for the NWC to put up a bold face instead of showing remorse and being sober for leading the e party to such colossal loss in the 2023 general elections, thereby dashing the hopes and expectations of party members and indeed Nigerians. “It is clear that arising from the leadership style of the NWC, many members, intentionally and proudly, worked against the party, including members of the NWC. Therefore, it is a display of innate cowardice for the NWC to choose soft targets to suspend and fear those who daily demonise the party. “It is difficult to explain why the NWC is in a hurry to suspend leaders of the party without recourse to fair hearing, without which their action is null and void. “In the case of Ebonyi State, the NWC imposed a candidate from the sitting Governor’s zone, contrary to the zoning formular of the state. Every effort to let the NWC see reasons fell on deaf ears. On the day the party’s presidential rally was held in Ebonyi State, I told Dr. Ayu I was boycotting the rally because I cannot support the candidate they imposed on Ebonyi State. Dr. Ayu did nothing. He did not care even as I did not attend the Ebonyi rally. The NWC may wish to know that I am proud to have supported the APC Gubernatorial candidate to win the election because that conforms to the equitable formular In no Ebonyi State. It is therefore my expectation that the NWC should reverse itself in the interest of the party.“ Anyim said that he was proud to have supported the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Ebonyi State, Right Honourable Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru against the PDP’s candidate, Dr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii. He said rather than NWC of the PDP undertaking a thorough self-examination on why they performed so poorly in the 2023 elections, they were seeking further ways to divide the party. The Benue State chapter of the PDP passed a vote of confidence on Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State as and urged the leadership of the party at the national level to rescind its decision, referring Ortom to the party’s disciplinary committee over alleged anti-party activities. Ortom is one of the G-5 PDP governors, who refused to support the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. But the Benue PDP, in a statement on Sunday by its Publicity Secretary, Bemgba Iortyom, said it couldn’t understand why the PDP National Working Committee would single only Ortom out for disciplinary action among the G-5 governors. It said rather than punish Ortom, the PDP should focus on reconciliation of aggrieved members, following the losses suffered by the party during the general elections. Iortyom said, “The party feels strongly that in fulfilling its duty as a state chapter, it must remind the NWC of the implications of its current action against Governor Ortom and others. “Firstly, the action runs in contempt of a subsisting court injunction restraining the PDP at all levels from taking any punitive action against the Benue State Governor pending the determination of a substantive suit, which is pending before a court of competent jurisdiction on the matter. “Secondly, going by the mood within PDP ranks in Benue, it is the expectation that the emphasis now will be on mending bonds of unity and internal cohesion which were badly damaged in the build-up to and during the 2023 elections leading to the huge losses recorded by the party at the polls against an evidently weaker opposition. On its part, the ruling party, All Progressive Congress (APC), Kogi State chapter has suspended the party’s National Officer over alleged anti-party activities The party approved the suspension of its national official Murtala Yakubu, by the executive members of his Ajaka Ward 1 of the party in Igalamela/Odolu Local Government Area of the state. Yakubu, who is the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, was suspended by the Ajaka Ward 1 executives via a letter dated March 20, 2023 over alleged anti-party activities, insubordination, gross misconduct, unguarded statement, running parallel party structure and encouraging factions in the party. Affirming the decision of the Ajaka Ward 1 party executives, the State leadership of the APC in a statement signed by the State Secretary, Hon. Joshua Emmanuel, said, consequently, Yakubu has been barred from participating in all party activities. The statement, titled, “Approval and implication of the suspension of Hon. Muritala Yakubu (Ajaka) by the APC”, reads in part, “The Kogi State Executive Committee (SEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) received a Notice of Suspension of Hon. Muritala Yakubu (Ajaka) from the IGALAMELA/ODOLU Local Government Area Executive Committee which acted on the basis of his suspension by the Ajaka Ward 1 Ward Executive Committee. “The Kogi State Executive Committee of the APC, having perused the facts as alleged and established both the veracity and the gravity of the anti-party activities made out against him, has approved the disciplinary action that is the suspension, meted to him by the appropriate organs below. “For the avoidance of any doubt, we reiterate that the Ajaka Ward 1 Executive Committee and the Igalamela-Odolu Local Government Area Executive Committee of the party acted in accordance with Article 21 and other relevant provisions of the APC Constitution in the entire circumstances of this matter, and we uphold the same. “In view of the foregoing, we hereby wish to notify the Zonal and National Executive Committees of our party as well as the general public that consequent upon his suspension, Hon. Muritala Yakubu is now barred from participating in all party activities.