MAKURDI – Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has said that despite the provocation, intimidation and irregularities that characterized the 2023 National Assembly election in the state, he has decided to withdraw his case from the election tribunal against Titus Zam of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Shortly after the election, Governor Ortom had headed to the tribunal to challenge the election results that declared, a former Special Adviser for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in his administration, Titus Zam, winner of the election. Governor Ortom who disclosed this after a meeting with stakeholders of Benue North-West senatorial district at Government House, Makurdi on Tuesday explained that he took the decision to withdraw his case in the interest of peace and without prejudice to other suits filed by other candidates of the party in the state. While he stated that he remains grateful to God and the people of the state who have given him the opportunity to serve, he stated that although there were cases of malpractices including non-transmission of results electronically during the election he has decided to put the issue behind him and forge ahead. According to him, “It is with a heart full of gratitude to God that I address you today following the recently concluded elections. You are all aware that the National Assembly elections were conducted on the 25th of February, 2023 and results were declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) “As a key political player in Benue State whose career has spanned over 40 years, the grace of God has taken me to key positions at the local, state and national levels. “I rose to become a local government Chairman, state secretary, state Deputy Chairman and National Auditor of PDP; Minister of the Federal Republic and now I am a two-term Governor.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I will forever remain grateful to Almighty God and the people of Benue State. God’s mercy and blessings have indeed enabled me to attain these heights. POLL “I must commend the resilience of Benue people who went out to vote during the elections despite the glaring provocation and intimidation by the Federal might. I particularly thank the PDP in the state for its support. “It has been an honour to serve the people of Benue State as Governor. Within this period, I have executed the mandate given to me by God almighty through the Benue people and I will always be available and ready to carry out God’s mandate as He directs me. “In the course of serving the state, I have always ensured equity, fairness, justice and the rule of law. “Though there was glaring evidence of malpractices including non-transmission of results electronically during the conduct of the Benue North West Senatorial election, I have taken the decision to withdraw my case from the tribunal. “As the Bible says in John 3:27 “A man can receive nothing, except it is given to him from heaven. “Let me add that the decision to withdraw my case from the court is in the interest of peace and without prejudice to the suits filed by other candidates of our party, PDP.” Governor Ortom also assured that “As a leader of PDP, I will continue to support the party in collaboration with other leaders to enable it to bounce back from the mistakes and drawbacks that are affecting it at the moment. “Let me reassure the people of Benue State that as Governor, I will continue to provide selfless service in all sectors of development till the end of my tenure on May 29, 2023. “For those, I might have offended in this journey of serving the state and our country, I seek their forgiveness, as I also forgive those who have offended me,” he stated.