The former Chairman of Ijumu Local Government Council of Kogi State, Hon. Fehinti Dada, has warned the state Commissioner for Information and Communication, Kingsley Fanwo, against inciting the Senator representing Kogi West, Smart Adeyemi against the State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello. Hon. Dada in a statement made available to Newsmen in Lokoja on Wednesday, while reacting to a Social Media Post by the Commissioner, allegedly casting aspersions on the personality of the Senator. The former Council Boss said, “my attention has been drawn to a post about the Commissioner of Information and Communication, Kingsley Fanwo casting aspersions on the personality of the Kogi West Senator.” He wondered what the Commissioner intend to gain from the post that he described as “eyes service to please his paymaster, pleading with the Governor to beware of enemies within trying to feed fat from mischief. According to him, the Senator has high regard for the Governor and his administration, saying he will not take any move to disrespect the Integrity of the Kogi West Federal Lawmaker. He averred that Fanwo lacks Integrity and fear of God as he was one of the first people that called Senator Adeyemi to contest for the next Governorship election. Hon. Dada further alleged that he has discreet evidence to prove the conversation of the Commissioner, when Fanwo confided in Senator Smart that the people of Kogi West must be firm as it is clear that Governor Yahaya Bello is scheming to hand over to another Ebira man to fulfill his 16:16 Agenda as he personally enjoined Senator Adeyemi to run for Governorship election.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He advised the Governor to be mindful of his enemies within like Fanwo who lacked the integrity to hold a Public office. POLL The Ex-Chairman added that the course of power shift being projected by the Senator was in the interest of equity, fairness, and justice that Smart Adeyemi stands for. He insisted that the majority of the good people of Kogi west are resolute on producing the next Governor of the state irrespective of what an insignificant few may be doing to thwart his efforts.