The Lagos State Govern­ment, through the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with eTranzact, a foremost Fin­tech Company, to curb unreg­ulated development, manage setbacks and open spaces and improve beautification of the environment in Lagos State. The MoU will strength­en the partnership between Lagos State Planning and Environmental Monitoring Authority (LASPEMA) and eTranzact, to sanitise and regulate activities of setbacks and Incidental Open Spaces (IOS) and ensure physical or­derliness in Lagos State. With its MoU with the Min­istry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, eTran­zact, will deploy an integrated technology solution for data collection, management, and digitization of revenue collec­tion processes from the infor­mal business players operating on the setbacks and Incidental Open Spaces (IOS) in Lagos State to regulate setbacks/IOS and enhance the State Internal­ly Generated Revenue. The MoU was signed by the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Ur­ban Development, Omotayo Bamgbose-Martins, who was represented by Special Adviser to Governor Baba­jide Sanwo-Olu on e-GIS and Planning Matters, Dr. Olajide Babatunde and Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Oluwole Sotire, who signed on behalf of the government and the Managing Director of eTranzact, Mr. Niyi Tolu­walope and Group Head, Legal of eTranzact, Eme Godwin, who signed for the Fintech company. Speaking during the sign­ing of the MoU held at the State Secretariat in Alausa, Ikeja, Dr. Babatunde said the initiative was a public-private partnership that would yield a good result, hence the need to take care of the environment. He said the MoU is for ac­countability and in the inter­est of the general public in La­gos State, as well as improving the IGR of Lagos State. Also speaking, the Man­aging Director of eTransact, Niyi Toluwalope, said his organization is partnering with Lagos State govern­ment for social development, noting that the project would develop solutions on data, enumeration, reordering set­backs, putting incidental open spaces in an orderly manner, among other benefits.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “eTranzact is a premier technology solutions company in Nigeria. Today we are partnering with the Lagos State Government and LASPE­MA for the enumeration and data management of the oc­cupants of the setbacks and incidental open spaces within the City. We are licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to provide this service. POLL “The Lagos State govern­ment has taken this laudable initiative to identify the set­backs, enumerate the people on these setbacks, do the necessary data capture, and manage the entire setback infrastructure in the State so that it is structured; following the proper model for setbacks, improves beautification, im­proves transparency within the environment and ensures that our critical urban infra­structure is well laid out prop­erly to ensure Lagos functions as a major critical landmark with global recognition.”