MINNA – Niger State Judicial Service Commission (NJSC) has dismissed from service the Magistrate Court Judge in Salka, Magama Local Government Area, Alhaji Mohammed Bako Iya for gross misconduct and abuse of Judicial powers.  Also, two Shariah Court Judges; Abdullahi Nasiru and Mohammed Baba Enagi, serving in Minna the state capital and Badeggi Local Government Area respectively have been demoted by one Grade Level (GL) for a related offence. Secretary Niger State Judicial Service Commission, Abdulrahman Ahmed Garafini disclosed this while briefing journalists on the latest efforts being made to bring sanity to the judicial arm of government in the state. “Two Sharia Court judges, His Hon. Abdullahi Nasiru the Sharia Judge of Kotun Bola Minna and his colleague in Badeggi, Mohammed Baba Enagi have been demoted for misconduct and abuse of office”. As part of rectifications, upgrading and reintegration into the state judicial system, the NJSC Secretary told journalists in Minna on Wednesday that, Nasiru and Enagi are to serve tutelage for one year in other courts.  These were part of decisions of the Commission taken at its 136th meeting which took place on the 21st of March, 2023 after considerations of recommendations by committees set up to investigate the petitions against the two judges.  Out of the seven petitions, the NSJC Secretary said three were against the dismissed, Mohammed Bako Iya, adding however that on the course of investigations, two were sufficiently proved by the petitioners.  “According to the findings of the committee, the allegations in the petition including; undue interferences, obstruction of justice and abuse of judicial powers against His Worship Mohammed Bako (the Respondent) were sufficiently proved by the petitioner”. “The respondent His Worship Mohammed Bako unequivocally admitted the allegations”, Garafini said adding that the report and recommendations of the Justice Mohammed Mohammed-led committee also indicted Mohammed Bako for jettisoning his call as a judicial officer by representing and shielding a suspect, Saba Idris from arrest by police and the court. Bako was also indicted in a second petition alleging that he used the powers of his office to intimidate and collected the sum of, N400, 000 from Fulani herders whose cattle he claimed destroyed his beans farm  The committee also discovered that Mohammed Bako was a judge in his own case and used the instruments of his office to facilitate a gainfully benefitted for his personal interests and private affairs against the provisions of the NSJC order.  He said, “The NJSC approved the recommendations of the committee dismissing; Mohammed Bako Iya while also demoting Sharia Court judges, His Hon. Abdullahi Nasiru and Mohammed Baba Enagi for misconduct and abuse of office with immediate effect”.