P/HARCOURT  – Governor Nyesom Wike of Riv­ers State on Wednesday said he is not afraid of any visit from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) when he leaves office, saying there is noth­ing to hide. He noted that the numerous projects that he embarked upon in the state are evidences of how resources of the state have been used. This is as Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, the embattled former National Chairman of the Peoples Demo­cratic Party (PDP), is sliding into deeper trouble as the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, raises a question over how more than N12 billion amassed from last congresses was utilised by his leadership. Governor Wike, however, de­clared his belief in a strong lead­ership for the PDP which cannot be actualised with Dr. Iyorchia Ayu still in the saddle. The governor maintained that under Dr. Ayu, PDP became weak, lacking that kind of lead­ership that should make it a strong political force to reckon with because embattled national chairman was busy with person­al gains he could grab. Governor Wike made the ac­cusation when he spoke at the Rumuigbo Civic Centre, venue of the commissioning of Rumuig­bo Internal Roads in Obio-Ak­por Local Government Area on Wednesday. The governor said he cannot support Dr. Ayu, who instead of providing strong national leader­ship to the PDP, was busy build­ing private university in Benue State from the money realised from the party’s congresses.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I believe that we should have a strong leadership. I can’t sup­port people whose interest is only to amass money. POLL “I can’t support people where we did congresses and raised about N12.5 billion and within two months, that money was gone. And somebody has stayed in office for one year, he is building univer­sity, I won’t support such.” Governor Wike explained that it is because of such unproduc­tive leadership style to the party that he is supporting the removal of Dr. Ayu from office. “That is why I am in support that (he) must leave office if we want PDP to be strengthened. I owe no apology to anybody. I said it before, this is the final fight we will fight and we are going to win this fight.” Commenting on the internal roads project, Governor Wike said in December 2022 when it was flagged-off, he promised that it will be completed and inaugu­rated by him, which has been fulfilled. Governor Wike told them that he feels satisfied to have per­formed well in office and declared in good authority that he served Rivers people creditably without also disappointing or embarrass­ing his kinsmen. He assured of inaugurating more projects until the midnight of May 28, 2023, without any proj­ect already ongoing abandoned. Inaugurating the project, Gov­ernor Bala Mohammed of Bau­chi State commended Governor Wike for achieving more projects for Rivers people. He attributed this not entirely to too much money at the disposal of Gover­nor Wike, but his commitment to providing better living condition for Rivers people. Mohammed also acknowl­edged the political sagacity of Governor Wike demonstrated in ensuring PDP in the state won the governorship, all state Assembly and three senatorial seats, and delivering votes that contributed to his preferred southern president. Providing description of the project, Rivers State Commis­sioner for Works, Dr. George -Kel­ly Dakorinima Alabo, said the roads are scattered in 17 streets of different sizes. According to him, they mea­sure 8.5 kilometres in length, and were delivered within 5 months without disruption from the host community. In his welcome address, Chairman of Obio-Akpor Lo­cal Government Area, George Ariolu, noted the internal roads being inaugurated in Rumuigbo as evidence of the urban renewal programme of the Wike’s admin­istration. He thanked Governor Wike for being a rare politician, who has sustained delivery of proj­ects that have impacted the lives of Rivers people positively.