OGHARA – Twenty-one(21) students have graduated from the maiden edition of the Naval Officers’ Wives Association (NOWA)Skills Acquisition Centre, Oghara chapter. The graduation ceremony which took place at the barracks of the Nigerian Navy Logistics Command, Oghara, Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta attracted was colourful. In her remark, Hajiya Nana Gambo, Special Guest of Honor and National President of NOWA, said that the cardinal objective of the Association was to maximize the potentials of the people through entrepreneurial skills. The NOWA President who was represented by Mrs. Juwaira Garuba noted that investment in vocational skills was vital to addressing the unemployment rates and it’s attendant consequences in the society. While underscoring the importance of skills acquisition, Hajiya Gambo said that vocational training could not be wished away particularly at a time that unemployment was becoming a global issue. Hajiya Gambo who is the wife of the Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo observed that the impact of unemployment was prevalent among youths particularly the female folks. According to Hajiya Gambo, “I will like to thank Almighty Allah for making this day a reality as NOWA strive to empower women to be more productive and self-reliant through creation of income-earning opportunities for attainment of sustainable livelihood. No doubt, the prevalence of unemployment to an extent breeds insecurity including trafficking among other vices.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She added, “undeniably, one of the ways to ameliorate this challenge is to invest in entrepreneurship programmes that will maximize potentials through skills acquisition for self-reliance.” POLL Hajiya Gambo disclosed that the Association would continue to strive in ensuring the empowerment of youths, orphans and widows within its resources for self-reliance and sustenance. She thanked the NOWA Zonal Coordinator, Oghara chapter, Mrs. Rhoda Olotu, the Flag Officer Commanding (FOC), Logistics Command, Rear Admiral Olumuyiwa Olotu for ensuring the seamless running of the Skills Acquisition Centre. The NOWA leader also thanked the graduating students as well as the facilitators and Instructors for working assiduously towards achieving the Association’s objectives. Earlier, in her address of welcome, Mrs. Olotu, Zonal Coordinator, Oghara Chapter and wife of Rear Adm. Olotu said that the Skills Acquisition Centre was established in 2021. She added that the Centre had recorded remarkable progress in terms of staffing, equipment and training programmes. The Zonal Coordinator attributed the successes recorded to the commitment of her predecessor, Mrs. Loveleen Lassa, wife of the immediate past Flag Officer Commanding of the Command, Rear Admiral Siliranda Lassa. Accordng to Mrs. Olotu, “the 21 graduands have undergone intensive skills acquisition within the past few months. The training commenced with the 21 students having an even spread across the skills provided by the Centre. Some of the programmes include Fashion designing, Catering services amongst others. Priorities and sponsorships were given to applicants within Oghara being the host community.” Mrs. Olotu added, “this is to encourage more youths within our immediate environment to participate in the programmes provided by the Centre and to became seasoned entrepreneursto support their livelihoods.” She disclosed that the programme was now opened to all Nigerians adding that the skills acquired in the Centre would help equip and provide a viable advantage to the students in the nation’s competitive economy. She expressed her appreciation to the NOWA President, immediate past Zonal Coordinator, Mrs Lassa, members of the NOWA, the CSOs, Ratings and others who have contributed in no small measures to the success of the programme. One of the graduands, Mrs Hassan Maryam who learnt fashion designing thanked NOWA and the Nigerian Navy for the privilege to learn skills. Maryam who is also a lawyer said that she would combined both professions to better her life and those around her. Highlights of the ceremony was the presentation of certificates to the graduating students as well as awards to some deserving graduands. In attendance were: representatives from the academia, Police, Navy, traditional chiefs from Oghara Kingdom and among others.