CHIBUIKE CHUKWU From controlling more than two-third of states in Nigeria from inception of the present republic in 1999 to having just about ten states and quite a few number of seats at the National Assembly after the 2023 general elections, there is no gainsaying the fact that the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has taken a plunge for the worse in Nigerian democratic setting that may see it reel abysmally in that region for a long time. This is a party that once boasted prior the 2015 elections that ushered the present administration that it would govern Nigeria for at least fifty years but they failed to learn from history before the last election this year, failing to even mount serious opposition to the All Progressives Congress (APC) since the latter came to power in 2015. The APC, in 2015, rode to power on the strength of a sustained opposition to the PDP, deploying all forms of tactics, including propaganda and lies garnished with unverified evidences and Nigerians, then desirous of change, bought into those propaganda and carried out instant referendum on the then ruling party, leading to the defeat of former President Goodluck Jonathan, whose administration was widely viewed from the lenses of corrupt practices. However, while the present ruling government has failed to march promises with actions, regrettably going down as one of the worst (if not the worst) Nigerians have ever seen, PDP also failed to mount serious opposition to the Muhammadu Buhari-led government, but instead, some key members of the party like Femi Fani-Kayode jumped ship to a side where his bread will understandably be buttered in keeping with the reference made about him by former President Olusegun Obasanjo that Femi goes to where there is food. But one thing the PDP failed to take advantage of to launch back to power was the failure of the President Buhari-led government. But they have been busy with one internal wrangling or the other. Since losing power, PDP has been bedeviled by crises but one issue now stands out which could permanently plunge the party into the abyss. The Iyorchai Ayu and Atiku Abubakar factors. The national chairman of the party and its presidential candidate might inadvertently have eroded any little relevance left of the PDP as their factors have virtually taken the PDP into bear extinction by violating internal arrangements that had earlier guided activities at the PDP. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Ayu is battling with suspension issues and it got to a head when a High Court sitting in Makurdi, on Monday, urged the embattled chairman to stop parading himself as the PDP national chair. It all started when his ward executives suspended him. POLL While Ayu has put up a defence that as the national chairman of the party, only the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party could suspend him according to the PDP constitution, analysts have seen the hand of Esau and the voice of Jacob in the whole saga, with some people, drawing inferences from the threat made by Wike that the battles had just begun, pointing accusing fingers in the direction of the Rivers State governor and Samuel Ortom, Ayu’s Governor, both of whom haven’t hidden their position against the embattled national chairman of the party. Obviously those (whether Wike of Ortom or anyone) plotting his removal could have initiated that suspension from his ward, on the basis of which they approached the court for his removal since he has been suspended. They understood that aspect of the party’s constitution that only the NEC could remove him, hence they plotted for him to be suspended before striking the last blow through the court. Truly, the travails of Ayu have further polarised the already crisis-ridden party that has failed to stay out of trouble since losing the presidency to the APC in 2015. But it is self-inflicted through the party’s chairman and the presidential candidate. Obviously, through Ayu and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, PDP violated the internal zoning arrangement and that is the crux of the matter befalling the once ruling party. PDP has now lost in the north and lost in the south and the last thing the national chairman could have thought of was not to start expelling or suspending people, announcing such influential members like Ayo Fayose, Nnamani and others as Anyim Pius Anyim as victims. This is because tempers are still high over the failure of the party to respect certain arrangements, leading to the emergence of the G5 governors who worked against the PDP at the last election. Atiku has never been a loyal party man and has severally shown intolerance in the PDP. By now, he would have likely and expectedly make his move back to Dubai like he does in every election year, leaving the entire party structure to struggle for another four years; leaving Ayu to fight his battle alone and perhaps leaving another Nyesom Wike to come in as he did four years ago to galvanise the party and hold it forth for another election year. Like or hate him, Wike stood and deployed both leadership and resources to hold PDP after the party lost the election four years ago until the present setting when Atiku came back to distort the zoning arrangement. It was Atiku’s ambition that crushed the PDP. It was not the turn of the North to rule Nigeria after Buhari’s eight years in the saddle. Even the North never wanted to rule Nigeria further for the sake of national unity as exemplified by the avalanche of support the governors from the region gave to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. It will be recalled that Ayu frustrated zoning in the party that has been known to zone its ticket; he practically handed the ticket to Atiku. Also recall that Ayu praised Aminu Tambuwal, the Sokoto State governor, as the hero of the 2023 PDP convention because the latter collapsed the structure to Atiku and stepped down on the eve of the voting proper. While doing that, Tambuwal failed to put the party first before region and religion, not minding that he was triggering off a time bomb. The party failed to have a retrospect on what led to their failures all these years. As quoted in the media then, in the PDP convention in 2019 in Port Harcourt, a call reportedly came from Minna to Wike to say that “we want Atiku”. Wike told that person on phone that he wanted and would stand by Tambuwal. Sadly, the same Tambuwal stabbed Wike at the back at the 2023 convention by stepping down for Atiku even when the party should have zoned the ticket to the south. Thus he stepped down for a fellow northerner, Muslim and Hausa-speaking candidate, in defiance of the zoning arrangement that made it the turn of the south. The party failed to look at where they are coming from and what led to their defeat in 2015. It will be recalled that after the PDP lost the 2015 election, the party set up a committee to look into why they failed. The committee was headed by Ike Ekweremadu. Among other recommendations, the committee specifically pointed to the fact that they lost the presidency because they violated the zoning arrangement by allowing Goodluck Jonathan to run. So in 2019, they realised their mistakes and collectively agreed to allow the North to have its turn. Thus, in 2019, the entire ambition of the south stood down for the North, leading to the southern delegates lining behind their preferred candidates from the North and at last Atiku emerged with an understanding that in 2023, it will be the turn of the south, more so this position was even made more open and strong after a northerner, Buhari, was elected and re-elected president. After winning the ticket in 2019, he made a pledge which was published in some newspapers that he would do only one term and hand over to the south, on the basis of which so many pan southern bodies like Ohaneze, Afenifere, PANDEF and others like Middle Belt Forum stood by him. Arguments could be adduced that despite that support in 2019, Atiku didn’t win the election, but he sustained the party’s strongholds like the south east and the south south ahead of the recently concluded elections where PDP surrendered the once untouchable regions and all thanks to the insensitivity of Atiku and Ayu who were bent on distorting internal arrangements. This is one party that has enjoyed unalloyed support from the south, particularly the South South and the South East. Suffice to say that PDP came into the 2023 election with insensitivity, betrayal and nonchalance towards the south and obviously there was no way they could have won the election. Sadly, ahead of the 2023 election, Atiku was in Dubai when the southern governors met in Asaba to affirm their position, agreeing that power must return to the south in 2023. He never perhaps gave a hoot about the arrangement and also never thought that with a southern presidential candidate, PDP could mount a serious challenge for Aso Villa. That is why they felt Peter Obi might not muster enough political influence to eat deep into that hitherto stronghold. It is obvious that Atiku never envisaged Obi coming that far. He forgot that PDP has steady votes in the South East and the same people that have ensured and sustained PDP’s South East and South South votes all came out to endorse Peter Obi. If there is anything, PDP would have preserved their most trusted base (south east and south south) by adhering to the zoning arrangement but the ambition of Atiku and the recalcitrance of Ayu put paid to the party in the two main regions of which it will be difficult for them to rise again. 