According to Catalunya Radio, a deal for Lionel Messi might be on the cards for Barcelona. The Catalan club’s president Joan Laporta will meet with the Argentine wizard’s father, Jorge, in the next few days. And the duo will attempt to hash out the details of a possible agreement. Lionel Messi is one of the most well-known names in footballing history. The 35-year-old rose to prominence during his long and illustrious stint with Barcelona. He joined the Blaugrana from boyhood club Newell’s Old Boys before rapidly progressing through the ranks at La Masia. He subsequently became the most vital cog in Barcelona’s first team for well over a decade. The Argentine international has an eye-watering record of 672 goals and 303 assists in 778 outings for Barcelona. But Messi’s stint with Barcelona ended in July 2021 when his contract expired. With the Blaugrana unable to hand him a new deal, he had no choice but to leave before joining Paris Saint-Germain. But the veteran attacker has endured a topsy-turvy ride at Parc des Princes. Messi’s tally of 29 goals and 32 assists in 66 appearances for PSG is decent. But he has not risen to the occasion as much as he did for Barcelona. Meanwhile, Messi’s reluctance to sign a new contract has also left a bitter taste in the mouths of PSG fans. Widespread reports in December pointed to Messi’s desire to sign a new contract with PSG. But talks between the two parties have not concluded as well as either entity would have liked. And that has raised the possibility of Barcelona re-signing him in the summer transfer window. Joan Laporta has been outspoken about bringing the 35-year-old back to Spotify Camp Nou. And recent reports have suggested the Argentine international is keen on rejoining Barcelona. A reunion might be on the cards, with Barcelona scheduling a meeting with Messi’s father, Jorge. The two parties will meet each other in the coming days, possibly to hash out the details of a potential deal. And it will be interesting to see if Laporta can convince Messi to end his stint with PSG and return to Barcelona.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒