***Says Stakeholders Are Beacon Of Hope For Nigeria’s survival MINNA – Vice President-elect, Sen. Kashim Shetima yesterday sneaked into Minna in what many believe is part of efforts to consolidate on the outcome of the February 25th Presidential and National Assembly election being challenged in the Court by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour Party (LP) Presidential candidates respectively, Alhaji Atiku Abubarkar and Mr. Peter Obi. Speaking to journalists shortly after visiting the former Presidents; Generals Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) and Abdulsalami Abubarkar in their Minna hilltop residence, the Shetima said the two elder statesmen as key stakeholders who have a lot to offer to humanity and Nigerians in particular especially on issues that affects them directly. “Stakeholders are beacon of hope and will continue to tap from their wealth of experience. They have a lot to offer the nation and humanity, and the next administration will continue to tap from their wealth of experience”.  The Vice President-elect and his entourage who was led on the visit to the two former Nigerian leaders by Governor Abubakar Sani Bello said, “We will continue to reach out to them for their advices, inputs and perspectives on issues confronting us as a nation”. On what Niger State should expect from the federal government in the next administration, Shetima who assured Nigerlites of a new lease of life said, “There is no cause for alarm as the challenges of the state will be adequately addressed”. While commending the out-going administration in the state for ensuring that there is relative peace amongst the diverse ethnic nationalities in the state, Shetima described peaceful co-existence as an essential ingredient without which no meaningful development can thrive. The Vice President-elect also paid homage to the Emir of Minna, Dr. Umar Farouq Bahago where prayers were also offered for the peace of the remaining electioneering processes and as well for the success of Tinunbu/Shetima ticket.