LAGOS  – Despite the growing uncertainty in its operating environment pro­moted by socio-economic and po­litical threats, insurance industry through resilience is still finding its feet in operational indicators, pooling over N726 billion gross premium income as of fourth quarter of 2022. This indication shows that the sector is matching faster to hit the N1 trillion mark by June when the sector will via the Nige­rian Insurers Association (NIA) officially announce the 2022 pre­mium income for the industry. With a trillion naira in income generation, it is believed that the industry’s contribution to gross domestic product (GDP) would move from the lingering less than one percent to about three percent, a development that would also impact on the level of insurance penetration at the same ratio, according to the Mar­ket Development and Restructur­ing Initiative’s (MDRI) growth document. According to the National In­surance Commission (NAICOM) bulletin on the performance of the sector in the fourth quarter of last year, “The gross premium income generated as at the fourth quarter of 2022 stood at N726.2 billion, representing a growth proportion of over 36.3 percent, quarter on quarter and indeed, about 17.8 percent year on year.” NAICOM in its report stated: “This is a remarkable situation compared to the real growth (3.5%) of gross domestic product (GDP) over the same period”, adding that the success story “is attributable to consistent regula­tory measures being carried out by the commission.” GPI By Class During the period under re­view, the comparative market drivers during the quarter, in­dicate a sustained relevance of Life Insurance business in the industry compared to any single class in the non-life segment of the market.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Non-Life business as in the prior periods, continued its dom­inance, contributing about 57.4 percent relative to the share of the Life business of 42.6 percent, keeping about same position in prior period. POLL The report noted that the pro­portional significance of Life in the industry sustained a positive course in recent times reflective of the consumer’s confidence and awareness. In-depth analysis of the Non- Life segment of market shows oil & gas business sustaining its market share dominance at 30.25 percent, increasing by two points to 2.4 percent compared to the pre­vious quarter. While Fire Insurance came a distant second with 22.2 percent maintaining same pattern of con­tribution to the gross premium pool of the market. Motor Insur­ance did 14.9 percent. Followed by Marine & Aviation at 12.2 percent; General Accident 11.1 percent and miscellaneous, 9.5 percent in that order. Life business, driven by Indi­vidual Life portfolio pooled 38.6 percent even as its relative con­tribution fell by about 2.6 percent compared to third quarter’s 41.6 percent. In a contrasting path to the previous quarter, group life followed by 34.5 percent, while annuity business contributed 26.9 percent to gross premium income during the period. Distribution of Gross Premi­um Income – Non-Life: In the re­port, the actual percentage share of various classes remains the same to a large extent, relative to the respective contributions recorded in the previous period. For the segment of life insur­ance business, further insight shows that individual life which contributed a large chunk of all premiums generated is the driv­ing force behind the growth in the life segment closely followed by the group life portion of that corner of the market with sig­nificant improvement recorded from 27 percent in the prior peri­od to 38.6 percent in the current. Motor business adds 15 per­cent; Fire, 22 percent; General business, 11 percent; Marine, 12 percent; Oil and Gas, 30 percent and miscellaneous, 10 percent. Premium Retention Capacity In the phase of operational challenges posed in domestic and global economies, the indus­try continues to post inspiring numbers in business retention, reflective of the market resilience and increasing capacity. In the pe­riod under review, industry wide average retention ratio stood at about seventy-one percent (71.3%), although, slightly a point lower than it held in the previous quarter and four points lower in comparison to same period (YoY). Persistently, the Life business retained about the same point of 93.3 percent from its prior position of 93.8 percent in quarter three. In the Non-Life segment which also took a similar pattern, Motor In­surance continued its lead as the highest retaining portfolio with a retention ratio of about 93.5 percent, also a point higher than its standing in the prior quarter. Oil & gas recorded the least at about thirty-six percent (35.9%). The oil and gas portfolio, accord­ing to NAICOM, lamentably re­mained a challenging angle in the market owing to its nature of enormous capital and profession­al requirements. The report consequently not­ed that the retention performance in the current period sustained its prior position when compared to the third quarter as evidenced by the overall Non-Life business ratio of 55 percent, slipping from about fifty-seven percent (56.6%) held in the prior period. Analogy observed that Insur­ance premium retention of the market remains robust, above average and healthy except in the oil & gas business for the Non-Life part of the industry. The same, it was stressed, is also true for the Life Insurance business during the period under review. Insurance Claims Component The Insurance claims report­ed during the fourth quarter stood at N318.2 billion representing a 31.2 percent growth. NAICOM notes that possible attainment of the feat was as a result of growing awareness and market expansion as well as consumers’ confidence in the industry in recent times. In a similar pattern, the net claims paid were reported at N244.3 billion, growing at about eighteen percent (17.9%) quarter on quarter (QoQ) during the same period. Insights into the Non-life segment shows that Motor Insur­ance led with regards to claims settlement vis a vis gross claims reported at 92.3 percent signify­ing a nine points improvement as against its prior position. Fire Insurance was the least at about forty-six percent (46.3%), as it is described as the only class below average proportion. All other portfolios of General Ac­cident Insurance (80.7%), Oil & Gas (51.6%), Marine & Aviation (74.4%), miscellaneous Insuranc­es (86.1%) recorded a proportion above the average, of paid claims against gross claims reported.