ABUJA  – The real reason why the former Imo State governor and Deputy Speaker of the House of Repre­sentatives, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, quit the Peoples Democratic Par­ty’s (PDP) Imo State governorship race has been revealed. Revealing this on Wednesday, a pressure group in the PDP, un­der the aegis of PDP Action 2023, identified unfair and unjust treat­ment meted out to Ihedioha by the leadership of the party as the real reason he abruptly quit the forth­coming party’s primaries for Imo State. The PDP Action 2023, in a statement by its Chairman, Hon. (Dr.) Rufus Omeire, blamed the suspended National Chairman of the party, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, as the main culprit in the attempt to deny Imo State of a potentially good governor. The group, which noted with sadness that Ayu turned a blind eye to all protestations for a fair process, added that Ihedioha ap­parently decided not to dignify the skewed process with his par­ticipation. It stressed that the shocking an­nouncement by Ihedioha that he has opted out of the race has left Imo PDP and indeed the people of Imo State despondent and helpless. The group, however, contended that the only fair thing for PDP to do, at this stage, is to open the pro­cess for another credible candidate to join the race in Imo State. The group cautioned that if this is not done, Ayu would have succeeded in killing Imo PDP the way he has put PDP national on life support.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The PDP Action 2023 stated that it is shocking that as the National Secretary, Senator Samuel Anyan­wu, who was himself “screened” as an aspirant, later on signed the clearance certificate of the “successful” aspirants including himself. POLL The group maintained that Senator Anyanwu has a moral and legal duty to resign his office as national secretary to avoid a severe conflict of interest, saying that such is the only way to assure of a level playing field for all con­testants. In its statement, the PDP Ac­tion 2023 said, “In the first place, Rt. Hon. Ihedioha, who had been a dedicated member of PDP since 1999, was unfairly and unjustly treated by the leadership of the party. “The National Secretary of the party, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, had indicated interest in vying for the governorship primaries as he is entitled to, as an indigene of Imo State. However, as a sitting national secretary, it is only proper that he should not supervise the primaries for which he is a contestant. “It is shocking that as the Na­tional Secretary, Senator Anyanwu was himself ‘screened’ as an aspi­rant and later on signed the clear­ance certificate of the ‘successful’ aspirants including himself. “Ihedioha, we understand, complained to political leaders about this grave violation of this elementary principle of natural justice that a man should not be a judge in his own case, to no avail. “Indeed, allowing Sen. Any­anwu to supervise his election primaries cannot stand legal or moral scrutiny by any fair-mind­ed person. “The provisions of section 47 (5) of the constitution of the Peoples Democratic Party (as amended), says that: In the case of resignation for the purpose of vying for an elec­tive office, which shall be effective within the period stipulated in the guidelines issued for such elective office by National Executive Com­mittee of the party, or the State Executive Committee in respect of Local Government elections.” The group further said: “This is a mandatory provision. The party is required to stipulate in its guide­lines, the period of resignation of any national officer seeking elec­tive office. “The party under the watch of Dr. Iyorchia Ayu refused to do so in order to confer undue advantage to any national officer of the party, to sit tight in office and preside over primaries for which they maybe candidates.”