Salihu Moh Lukman, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) has pushed for the leadership of the incoming 10th National Assembly to be zoned to the South South geopolitical region, citing their overwhelming support for the APC in the concluded general election. Lukman in a proposal he made to the APC leadership, reasoned that the South East geopolitical zone should drop in the pecking order for the NASS leadership because of their voting pattern in the last election. It is noted that ranking senators like Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, both from South East zone, have indicated their interest to run for the nation’s third top job. Ordinarily, he said the leadership structure should have followed the 1999 pattern when President Olusegun Obasanjo emerged from the South West, Atiku Abubakar (Northeast) and South East produced the Senate President because of their overwhelming support for the Peoples Democratic Party. He said that if the proposal sells through,the much the Southeast geopolitical zone should expect in the unfolding dispensation will be the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. Lukman challenged the APC National Chairman , Abdullahi Adamu to act quickly to halt what he said is an unregulated contest of NASS leadership positions , with keen focus on the country’s diversity, noting with sadness that a laid back attitude led to rebellion during the 8th Assembly. He noted that with contentious Moslem-Moslem ticket still burning in the polity, there is greater need for the party to move fast to ensure that another Moslem candidate does not emerge to lead of the National Assembly. He said the development would not augur well in the era irrationality growing across the country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In this wise, he said all aspirations for the NASS leadership should halt, especially in the Northwest, to allow the party lead the way, bearing issues of national cohesion and sensitivities in mind. POLL “This public appeal has become necessary given the flood of aspirants for leadership of the 10th National Assembly, which if left to continue unregulated could throw up unexpected people in the leadership of the 10th National Assembly. Should that be allowed to happen may result in producing the undesirable consequences of destroying the electoral viability of APC in future elections. As a ruling party, mandated to provide political leadership to the country for the next four years, everything must be done to sustain the confidence of Nigerians. “As a concerned party member and leader, I make this appeal conscious of where we are coming from. We have proven to Nigerians that nothing is impossible in Nigerian politics. We have successfully consummated the first and only merger of opposition parties in the political history of the country. We are the first party to successfully defeat a ruling party. It is therefore not impossible to be the party that can facilitate the emergence of Nigeria as a strongly united country. For that to happen, we need to douse the current ethnic and religious tension in the country. “Dousing ethnic and religious tension in the country will require sacrifices on the part of all of us both as leaders and members of APC. Without going into the details of the sacrifices required, we certainly would need to invoke the powers of superior organs of the party where all proposals could be tabled, debated and decisions taken, which should be binding on everyone, including elected representatives in the National Assembly. Perhaps, we need to acknowledge that the critical issue before us as a party today is decision about zoning formula for offices in the National Assembly and in the Asiwaju Tinubu-led government. “Partly, because of the ineffectiveness of the party’s National Secretariat, no proposal is on the table for consideration of any organ of the party. Instead, we have many fake proposals circulating with hardly any attempt to initiate alternative proposals for debate within the constitutional structures of APC. It may however interest all of us that the configuration of the leadership that will be assuming office on May 29, 2023 is about the same with that of 1999.” Recall that in 1999, we had former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar respectively from South-West and North-East. Taking bearing from that, we had Senate President from the South-East and Deputy Senate President from North-Central. Recall that also we had the National Chairman of the ruling party from North-Central. “In the House of Representatives, we had a Speaker from North-West and Deputy Speaker from South-South. Other positions in the leadership of the National Assembly were distributed accordingly to other zones. Given the challenge of neutralising religious tension in the country, this would appear to be advantageous. For instance, if Senate President is to come form South-East, he would certainly be a Christian. The only problem is the experience of 1999 – 2003, which highlight problems of instability with the South-East holding the position of Senate President. Also, as at 1999, the South-East strongly voted for the PDP to emerge as the ruling party. The same could not be said today. “Perhaps, to avoid that, and to compensate the South-South, which gave more votes to the APC, including winning the Governorship election in Cross River and majority members of the Edo State House of Assembly, consideration can be given for the South-South to produce the Senate President. If that is to be considered, then the position of Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives should be given to the South-East. All these are issues to be debated, around which a decision would have to be taken one way or the other. Once there is a decision, it will be binding on everyone. “So far, we only have individual aspirations for leadership positions in the 10th National Assembly. Most of the aspirations hardly recognise the challenges of national cohesion. Unfortunately, most of those aspiring for positions of leadership in the 10th National Assembly appear to be disrespectful to structures of the party and their membership, including the NWC. Hardly do they show any interest to consult the NWC as an organ or its members individually. Somehow, there is also the demeaning perception that aspiring leaders could always acquire (however defined) the support of party organs. This must be remedied. “For instance, I have people from North-West declaring to contest for the position of Senate President without the courtesy of consulting any of us from North-West in NWC. As much as I respect every elected National Assembly member from North-West, I will appeal to those aspiring for the position of Senate President to step down their aspiration in the overall interest of national cohesion and to ensure that in line with our commitment as leaders of the North-West to support the administration of Asiwaju Tinubu to assume office in May 29, 2023 with a good support base from Nigerians across every section and irrespective of ethnic and religious divide.”