AKURE – An Ondo State High Court sitting in Akure has ordered the Ondo State Gov­ernment and State Security Network Agency, otherwise known as Amotekun Corps, to pay as damages, a sum of N30 million to an amputee commer­cial motorcyclist, Olusegun Oluwarotimi, over the illegal shooting. The court ruled that the 36-year-old motorcyclist was illegally shot by the security operatives. Handing down his judge­ment on Wednesday, Justice O.M. Adejumo said the illegal shooting was in violation of the right to dignity of the ap­plicant. He said the shooting that led to the amputation of one of the applicant’s legs was outright victimisation and dehumani­sation. Justice Adejumo said the N30 mission is for exemplary and general damages to the applicant in order to cater for his physical and emotional injuries. According to the judge, “The illegal shooting at Arar­omi Street on August 9, 2021, in Akure by the Amotekun was a violation of the applicant’s human rights. “The court hereby orders the respondents to jointly pay the sum of N20 million to the applicant as general damages and N10 million as exemplary damages.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ However, the applicant’s at­torney, Mr. Tope Temokun, had prayed to the court to compel the respondents to tender an apology to his client on a nota­ble national daily, but this was struck out by the judge. POLL After the sitting, the attor­ney to the applicant told news­men that his client was helpless and hopeless while seeking re­dress. He commended the court for the judgement, saying it’s an en­couragement and inspiration to fight for the downtrodden and the helpless in society. He appreciated the cre­ation of Amotekun Corps, which he said was for the benefit of the society at large but added the citizens must be its watchdog to ensure the establishment does not derail from its objective. Temokun, however, ex­pressed hope that the respon­dents would honour the Court’s order. He said, “As we leave this place this afternoon, our let­ter will get to Mr. Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and he will comply with that judgement. “He is not a lawless gover­nor. He will comply. And I be­lieve that no government will use public funds to appeal a case in favour of a victim ren­dered disabled. It is their right but this government will not do it because it is the duty of the government to protect him, my client. “He has been rendered dis­abled but his children will go back to school when the court’s order is obeyed because they had stopped going to school since.” Commenting on the judge­ment, the victim, Oluwarotimi, appreciated the court for the verdict, saying, “I thank the court and my lawyer, who has stood firmly with me. I am now an amputee with a wife and two children. It has been tough since the incident occurred but I thank God that I’m favoured at last. “I pray that the government and the Amotekun will obey appropriately as ordered by the court.”