ABUJA – Former Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Solomon Arase, who assumed duties as Chair­man of the Police Service Commission (PSC) following his swearing in by Presi­dent Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday, said he will tackle issues that are likely to increase the tendencies of policemen to be corrupt. Arase, whose swearing in ceremony at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, coincided with the inauguration of five members of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), promised to prioritise the welfare of officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force. The event preceded the Fed­eral Executive Council (FEC) meeting also chaired by President Buhari. The former IGP also promised to address the issue of corruption and the recurring differences be­tween the IGP and the PSC. Arase took over as Chairman of the PSC following the resigna­tion of another former Inspec­tor-General of Police, Musiliu Smith, who was reported to have been advised by the PSC board to resign in September 2022. Arase, 65, who retired in 2016, was the 18th indigenous Inspec­tor-General of Police (between April 2015 and June 2016) and has served in various capacities, including as head of the Crimi­nal Intelligence and Investiga­tion Bureau, the foremost intel­ligence-gathering unit of the Nigeria police. Buhari also swore in five per­sons as members of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB).‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ They are Murtala A. Kan­kia from Katsina to represent North-West; Zephaniah Ishaku Bulus from Nasarawa to repre­sent North-Central, and Farouq Umar from Yobe State to repre­sent North-East. POLL Others are Abdulsalam Taofiq Olawale from Ondo State to rep­resent South-West, and Prof. Ju­waria Badamasiuyi from Kogi State to represent North-Central. Former Chief of General Staff, Lt. Gen. Oladipo Diya, was also honoured by FEC with a min­ute silence. Diya, who served as the Chief of General Staff to the late Head of State, General Sani Abacha, died on Sunday, March 26, 2023, at the age of 79. He was the military governor of Ogun State from January 1984 to August 1985. Speaking with State House correspondents on the welfare of policemen, Arase said, “How are you ensuring that when they retire, they have a decent house to go to? How are you taking care of their children? Can we organise scholarship schemes for them? “Can we ensure that when we deploy them, they have the nec­essary work equipment? When you respect people who work for you…even your dogs, when they see you, they will wag their tails. So we must take the interest of the Nigeria police officers into consideration. And we’ll douse the issue of corruption. Also, members of the public should not corrupt them”. Arase said, “We’ll ensure that we continue to put out our local and international expertise at their disposal. “We will be strong in training in various areas especially alter­native dispute resolution. “I’ll ensure that they start having confidence in themselves. With more training, the trust gap between members of the public and the police will be bridged. That is what I want to do. That members of the public will col­laborate with the police force; see them as part of the larger society. “Every policeman was a civil­ian and will return to civilian life after retirement as I have since I retired some seven years ago. “The benefits that are deriv­able from good conduct as a police officer, they will continue to reap it when they retire. So that is what I will emphasise”. On specific steps he would take to improve the relationship between the commission and the police, he said, “If you look at the calibre of people you have in the commission, then you also look at the professional skills of the police management team, there is no way that there won’t be oc­casional issues. “What I think we should do is that each of the parties should not learn to take everything. There must be negotiation, empathy and respect for each of our roles. “I will expect that the commis­sion allows the IGP to exercise his operational control over the police. And that the IGP himself will respect the constitutional powers of the Police Service Com­mission. So, there must be mutu­al respect between both parties. I don’t foresee any crisis at all.”