PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU On March 18, Enugu people came out in their numbers to vote for their preferred governorship candidates across different political parties in Enugu state. The battle for the successor of Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi was fierce between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour Party (LP). The Labour Party which became popular due to the antecedent of its presidential candidate, Peter Obi, vowed to unseat PDP which has ruled the state for 24 years having produced governors from 1999 till date. The game which played out during the presidential and National Assembly elections in the state where the Obedient Tsunami gave Labour Party victory as the party won the presidential election, but the situation changed during the governorship election held on March 18, as LP gubernatorial candidate Chijioke Edeoga lost to Peter Mbah of the PDP who was declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as Mbah won in nine Local Government Areas (LGAs) while Edeoga won in eight LGAs. The election witnessed allegations of rigging, manipulations and voter suppression as well as cases of politicians inciting ethnic divisions. Zoning Arrangement The zoning arrangement played out in the election as all the political parties zoned their governorship tickets to Enugu East. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Political analysts believed that the crisis and tension which erupted during the election was a battle between the people of Nkanu and Nsukka. POLL Peter Mbah of the PDP hails from Owo, Nkanu East LGA while Edeoga of LP hails from Isi-Uzo LGA, which is also part of Nkanu East but analysts believed that Nkanu people are yet to fully accept Isi-Uzo as Nkanu because they have strong ties with Nsukka people as the LGA was created from Nsukka zone. Protests: Protests erupted on Monday following the suspension of collation of the result by INEC as LP and PDP alleged rigging and over voting in Nkanu East and Nsukka. The PDP said it was not satisfied with the number of votes secured by the Labour Party in Nsukka LGA. The Labour Party also rejected the number of votes that the PDP got in Nkanu East LGA and called for its cancellation on account of alleged irregularities. The two parties wrote petitions which prompted INEC headquarters to intervene and suspended the coalition in order to review the election result. But the PDP and LP supporters occupied road leading to the State INEC headquarters for three days protesting and calling on INEC to declare their candidates winner of the election The protesters who later turned the protests into carnival, mounted canopies with life bands and slaughtered cows, entertaining themselves. They disagreed with INEC on its decision to suspend the announcement of the final results. The PDP supporters accused the Commission of adopting a different rule from the one it used during the national coalition of presidential election results, where it ignored complaints from the agents of opposition parties. The Spokesman of the protesters and ex-member of the House of Representatives, Hon. USA Igwesi, accused INEC of usurping the duties of the Election Petition by withholding the governorship election result. On his part, coordinator of the presidential campaign of the LP Prince Emeka Mamah, called on INEC to cancel Enugu East election over alleged over voting and declare LP gubernatorial candidate, Chijioke Edeoga winner. The protests which lasted for three days were peaceful but generated tension in the state as the people keenly waited for the announcement of the result. After three days of protest, INEC reconvened and declared Peter Mbah of the PDP, winner and governor-elect of Enugu State. Announcing the result, the returning officer, Professor Maduebibisi Ofo said, “Having satisfied the requirement of the law, Peter Mbah of the PDP declared the winner of the election and returned elected. Before the announcement, Prof. Ofo said the Commission received petitions about Nkanu and Nsukka LGAs and was sent to the National headquarters Abuja for review adding, after the review, I was given order from the National headquarters to declare the result,” he said Enugu Residents Reaction On the part of the residents of Enugu State, Oge Okechukwu, a resident expressed satisfaction with the outcome of the election and charged the governor-elect to do what is right and revive the state to its known standard. ”We are looking forward to Peter Mbah to do the needful by reviving the state. For the past eight years nothing has been happening in Enugu State. No work has been done in Enugu. So he should bring the youths on board and retire the good cargo.” Also, Kelechi Igwe called on the governor-elect to continue to prioritise the welfare of the people as he did during the campaigning period. He expressed confidence that the new leadership of Enugu will bring positive change in the state. Jude Eze who faulted the process of the election called on the new administration to reconcile with all aggrieved parties so that the people of the state can enjoy peace and development. The LP Meanwhile the LP governorship candidate, Edeoga has vowed to retrieve his mandate by heading to court. He alleged that his mandate was stolen by PDP. “I want to thank the good people of Enugu State who were involved in this political process to see that the will of our people is determined electorally. The will of our people was made manifest in the few elections that have happened. “We are going to explore all options that are available, we are not going to rule anything out in the legal process. The result as announced by INEC is not in consonance with the votes cast. We have multiple evidence of clear illegalities that are not in line with the electoral laws. “One can say clearly that this outcome is not in consonance with the wishes and aspirations of the people of Enugu State, their democratic intentions. It is a matter that the people are not happy about; it is a matter that has raised disquiet in Enugu State because it is a clear abortion of their democratic intentions and people have become worried and agitated. Tempers are rising but we have done everything possible, we have called our leaders and supporters to remain calm and resolute. “We are certain that this electoral mess which was orchestrated by a few persons within INEC, both in Enugu and Abuja, will be addressed. We have resolved as a party, as a people, to follow the due process of law to retrieve the mandate. Enugu people have expressed their disquiet. “We want to urge our people in Enugu State to remain calm and peaceful, prayerful. Keep faith in God knowing that truth, justice shall prevail,” he said The PDP The governor elect, Mba has reassured the people of the state that his administration would not discriminate against any section of the state “There won’t be any division between Nsukka and Nkanu or any other section. Those who attempted to create division among the people of the state failed woefully. He said “Like every electoral process, the journey of the last few months was intense and the last three days was even fiercer. Enugu was literally at a standstill, waiting for justice to take its course. There was restiveness in our youths and apprehension in the minds of the entire Ndi Enugu. The fear was that there could be miscarriage of justice. On the streets of Enugu, you could feel the palpable air of an overheated polity brought by the prolonged, tortuous road to justice of the last 72 hours. “Let me salute the dogged resolve of the people of Enugu State. I must particularly single out the patriotic men and women who, inside rain and skin-pelting sunshine, chose to occupy the INEC office in the last 72 hours. Their resolute resolve pointed at one single cause, that they are in a hurry for Enugu to connect with all the lofty goals that our administration is bringing to bear in our dear state. “Let me restate that ours will not be a government of any section of Enugu State. It is your government. Under our administration, there can never be division between Nsukka and Nkanu or any other section of the state. We are all brothers and sisters. Those who attempted to create a wedge between us failed woefully. We were massively voted by every section of the state. Those who wanted to smack our heads together had an ulterior motive and it was to create perpetual fussing and fighting between us. We resisted their machination and today, we are coming together stronger. “Let me pledge once again, that I will serve you and dedicate every of the 1,460 days that make up this initial tenure of office to serving you. I will remember the coarse road you travailed to get us here. In reply, we will speak resoundingly with policies of the government that will give you comfort and rest of mind. “As I told you during the campaign, the administration we will run will bring joy to your hearts. We will make you remember March 18, 2023 with a toothy smile. In infrastructure, health, tourism, education and development of our state in general. We will run a government that you can be proud of. We are in a hurry to dualise the Abakpa, Ugwuogo Nike-Nsukka road, build a monorail from Enugu to Nsukka, Udi, Awgu and construct a ring road to connect all the 17 LGAs of Enugu State,” he said.