ABAKALIKI – A civil society organization in Nigeria, Peace For Free Initiative, has said recent condemnations and uncertainties in our polity arising from the outcome of the 2023 general elections if not contained might lead to unfortunate disruptions and truncation of Nigeria’s democratic process. Founder of the organization, Mr Chris Oge Kalu, stated this while addressing participants during the 3rd edition of the Peace For Free Lecture series held at the Akanu Ibiam International Conference Centre, Abakaliki, on Tuesday. According to Mr Kalu, our duty as law-abiding and progressive citizens is to remain faithful and committed to the democratic process as it develops so that the gains of democracy can be realized. “There’s no doubt that this year’s elections, so far have generated a lot of public attention, particularly from Nigerian youths who are remarkably increasing their political participation in our collective struggle for good governance, unlike other times in the past. “This is more so because elections provide the opportunity for people to elect their preferred leaders in a fair, peaceful and credible process. “However, elections being an important part of democracy, which in itself is a process involving human and technological elements not absolutely immune from errors. Like all processes, democracy needs to be allowed to grow, and to develop to maturity for most of the population to enjoy the promises and gains thereof. “Recent condemnations and uncertainties in our polity if not contained might lead to unfortunate disruptions and truncation of our democratic process. It is therefore our duty as law-abiding and progressive citizens to remain faithful and committed to the democratic process as it develops so the gains of democracy can be realized.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “But this cannot be without an atmosphere of peace and unity in the country.In every situation of conflict, there are always a few people working for peace and the Peace for Free initiative is committed to the ideal of fostering peace across Nigeria. POLL “This is why we are spreading the gospel of peace through this new national advocacy just project being launched today here in Abakaliki the Ebonyi state capital, where we are hosting our 3rd Peace for Free Lecture Series with the theme: Sustainable Peace Beyond Elections,” Mr Kalu said. Speaking on the import of the event, Mr Kalu said Peace For Free Lecture Series is a crucial national event designed for all Nigerians, young and old, to strengthen “our faith in democracy and its promises at this point in our democratic journey.” Mr Kalu further added, “Conversations, Free speech and free assemblies remain the progressive part of the democratization process.I agree with the words of Thomas Jefferson in that letter that education and free discussions are both critical to eliminating bigotry and building enthusiasm. And like Jefferson, we also choose that our lot will always be the follies of enthusiasm and free discussions, not of bigotry. “It is therefore our hope that the discussions held here will provide the basis for renewed national enthusiasm, understanding and faith in Nigeria and in the future of our hard–earned democracy, which is only in its infancy compared to many other advanced democracies in the world. We are, therefore, soliciting for our collective commitment to unconditional Peace in Nigeria now and beyond.” The guest lecturer, Professor Anthony Igyuve, advocated for a society that is inclusive and built on social justice, even as he called on the youths to shun actions that could lead to a breach of the peace or post elections violence in Nigeria.