ABUJA  – The Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari has approved N59.7 billion for oil producing communities in Rivers State. The Minister of Environment, Mohammed Abdullahi, revealed this to State House correspondents at the end of this week’s meeting. He explained that the ministry obtained approval of N41.4 billion for the construction of a centre of excellence which would be used for environmental restoration in the Kana Local Government Area of Rivers State and another approval for the construction of a specialist hospital in the sum of N18.3 billion for the people of Ogo­ni to a total sum of N59.7 billion. “I presented two memos, one was for the award of a contract for the construction of a centre of excellence for environmental restoration in Kana Local Govern­ment Area of Rivers State in the sum of N41, 472, 263, 848.60 with a completion period of 24 months.” He said the centre is to facili­tate an efficient and cost-effective approach to contamination man­agement and environmental resto­ration as well as provide training on environmental remediation. “The centre will contain an ad­min block, auditorium; research building as well as male and female dormitories, library and clinic, among others”. FG To Station Internet Facility At Airports, Markets With N24.2bn‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Meanwhile, the FEC meeting also on Wednesday approved the sum of N24.2 billion for the provision of internet facilities at 20 airports, some institutions of learning and markets across the country. POLL Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pan­tami, made the disclosure while briefing State House correspon­dents on some of the memos that was deliberated upon at the FEC meeting. According to Pantami, the Ni­gerian Communications Commis­sion (NCC) is expected to facilitate the operations of internet at the designated airports and institu­tions. He said: “The Federal Exec­utive Council has approved two memos for the Nigerian Commu­nications Commission (NCC), a parastatal under the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy. In these memos, certain intervention projects are going to be implemented by the NCC. “Internet will be provided in 20 selected airports in Nigeria and higher institutions of learning as well as some markets to support micro, small and medium enter­prises. A contract was awarded for the provision of broadband in some selected airports. Twenty of them are going to be covered in the first phase of the project. “You have three airports in each geo-political zone. In South- West you have two in Lagos State, one in Ondo State; South-East you have Imo, Anambra and Enugu states will benefit; Rivers and Akwa-Ibom states for South- South; North-West has the Federal Capital Territory and Kwara state; Kano, Sokoto and Kebbi states will benefit from the North-West while Borno, Adamawa and Gombe states will benefit from the North- East region.” He revealed that internet broadband will be provided for free for use by passengers at the designated airports, noting that a sustainability model has been de­veloped for effective maintenance of the facilities. Pantami also revealed that 43 tertiary institutions would be linked to the internet facili­ty too. “Some of them are universi­ties, some polytechnics and the price for the contract which cov­ers the airports and institutions of learning is N18.95 billion. The second approval was for the pro­vision of broadband to some se­lected markets. At the cost of N5.25 billion and the total for both mem­os is N24.20 billion and the project is going to be implemented by the Nigerian Communications Com­mission (NCC),” the Minister of Communications stressed.