Dangote Industries Limited (DIL) has formally listed its N300 billion Series 1 and 2 bonds issued under the Dangote In­dustries Funding Plc during a grand listing ceremony at both the FMDQ and the Nigeria Ex­change Limited (NGX) in Lagos. Olakunle Alake, Group Man­aging Director of Dangote In­dustries Limited, told investors during the listing ceremony that the bonds were primarily for part-financing the Group’s 650,000bpd refinery project. He explained that the deci­sion of the company to issue bonds to raise the required capital for part-financing the re­finery project was to encourage the participation of Nigerians in the financing of the project. He noted that the bonds re­main the largest aggregate local currency bond issuance within a calendar year by any corpo­rate organisation in the history of the capital markets. Mr. Alake noted that follow­ing a very rigorous internal assessment, the management concluded that tapping the local capital markets was inevitable, considering the sheer scale of the project being developed, as well as the existing market volatility. He said that while the Dan­gote Group is not new at raising funds in the local capital mar­kets, being a first-time issuer at the holding company level presented a fresh challenge for the company. However, the challenge was one the management was will­ing to embrace to ensure the desired outcome was achieved, he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to him: “Today, we are delighted to have suc­cessfully completed the largest aggregate local currency bond issuance by a corporate in the Nigerian capital markets with­in a calendar year. The proceeds from the Series 1 and 2 bond issuances were dedicated to part-financing the Dangote Pe­troleum Refinery Project which is the initiative by the Group to establish an Integrated Petro­chemical Complex, and the largest Single Train Petroleum Refinery in the World.” POLL Alake recalled that the DIL recorded another first through the N187 billion series 1 bonds (under the N300 billion pro­gramme), being the largest cor­porate bond ever issued in the history of the Nigerian capital markets and the management was pleased to have set the remarkable milestones, show­casing the depth, resilience and liquidity of the domestic capital markets, whilst reflecting the strong credit quality of the is­suer, despite the current global market volatility. He said: “The bonds issu­ances were well received by the market and recorded par­ticipation from a wide range of investors including domestic pension funds, asset managers, insurance companies, and high net-worth investors. “Indeed, the reception of the market was buoyed by the stra­tegic importance of the project and its expected impact on the Nigerian economy. Overall, we strongly believe the success of the Series 1 and 2 bond issu­ances further demonstrates in­vestor confidence in our credit story and the appreciation of the work done by the Group across several key sectors that are crucial to the development of Nigeria and the continent at large.” Alake pointed out that his company was not new in the business of listing securities on NGX. “We are therefore conversant with all the listing requirements and promise to be prompt and up to date in that regard. We count on the cooper­ation and support of NGX and the stockbrokers to meet this important investors’ objective.” The DIL Group Managing Director assured that the com­pany would remain resolute in the Nigerian and African story and continue to demonstrate commitment, as one of the foremost pan-African conglom­erates, through investments in projects and initiatives that di­rectly improve the quality of lives of Nigerians. “Indeed, these are very exciting times for us as a busi­ness, and so we would contin­ue to welcome opportunities to work with stakeholders in the domestic capital markets towards accelerating the eco­nomic activities across Africa, whilst maximizing stakeholder returns.” Also speaking at the event, the lead Issuing House for se­ries 1 of the bonds and the Chief Executive Officer of Standard Chartered Capital & Advisory Nigeria Limited, Mrs. Yemisi Deji-Bejide, expressed appre­ciation of her organisation to the management of the DIL for reposing so much confidence in Standard Chartered by entrust­ing it with the responsibility. She said: “Every time we gather at FMDQ for the listing ceremony of an issuance by the Dangote Group, it is always a record milestone. Early in 2022, we issued a bond for Dangote Cement which was the largest corporate bond issuance at the time, and little did we know that a few months down the line, the Group will comfortably break that record.” Mrs. Deji-Bejide described the success of the transaction as a strong testament to the fact that investors strongly believe in Dangote Group’s credit story and are willing to continue to support the growth of the business. Also, she said it demonstrated the depth of the Nigerian capital markets and resilience, despite all the vola­tility in the global markets and the macro headwinds. “Lastly and most important­ly, investors are keen to support impactful infrastructure proj­ects in Nigeria, as the proceeds of the bond are being used to fund the largest single train refinery in the world”, Mrs. De­ji-Bejide added. Meanwhile, at the Nigeria Exchange Limited where the symbolic gong ceremony was held to commemorate the list­ing, the Group Managing Direc­tor for DIL, Mr. Alake, who was represented by the DIL Group Chief Finance Officer, Mallam Mustapha Ibrahim, thanked the investor community for their support for the transaction as well as our various advisors and stakeholders. He also commended the Ni­geria Exchange Limited (NGX) for its unwavering support throughout this entire process of issuing and listing the bonds as well as their continued com­mitment towards deepening the Nigerian capital markets.