…thanks Udu people for the mandate WARRI – The member-elect for the Udu constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Barrister Collins Ovie Egbetamah has assured the Udu people of quality representation, thanking them for the huge confidence reposed in him in the generous votes he got during the March 18 Governorship and House of Assembly elections. He stated this shortly after receiving his certificate of returns as the duly elected member from the Independent National Electoral Commission office in Asaba on Tuesday. Addressing newsmen after receiving the Certificate, Barr. Collins Ovie Egbetamah assured Udu constituents of his quest to deliver quality representation that would prioritize the interests of Udu above personal aggrandizement. Speaking further, he appreciated all Udu people irrespective of political party affiliation for finding him worthy of their trust, votes and support during the election. “I’m elated to be among those being issued a certificate of return today as an elected member of the Delta State House of Assembly. I give God all the glory for our victory at the poll. This mandate was freely given to us by the Udu people to consolidate the gains of democracy. I’m assuring our people once again that I will do my best to deliver quality representation that will benefit Udu. “I sincerely appreciate everyone who came out on March 18th to vote for me and our party, the APC. I thank our party leaders, led by the Chairman in Udu, Hon. David Rheriobore, members of our campaign organization, led by Sir S.K. Panama as Chairman, leaders of the various Communities in Udu, party faithful and my teeming supporters, for their continued support and prayers.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ‘’I sincerely appreciate the Union of Udu Communities, led by the President General of Udu, High Chief Godwin Notoma, for brokering peace during the electioneering period. This Certificate issued to me this 29th day of March, 2023, is dedicated to all the good people of Udu, irrespective of political party affiliations,” he stated. POLL Some party leaders who accompanied Hon. Collins Ovie Egbetamah to Asaba for the collection of his Certificate of return, include; the Federal Commissioner representing Delta State in the Public Complaints Commission (PCC) and two-term member of the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon. Harvest Igben, Hon. Ochuko Imirhe, Campaign DG, Chief Ejiro Apepe, the central working Committee Chairman of the campaign Council, Hon. Michael Ibada, Spokesman of the campaigns, Comrade Ese Ogboru, amongst others.