ABUJA  – The problem of the suspended nation­al chairman of the Peoples Democrat­ic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorchia Ayu, was further compounded on Thurs­day, as the party’s leadership reversed the suspension of former governors of Katsina State, Ibrahim Shema; Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, and for­mer President of the Senate, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, barely 48 hours Umar Damagum took over in acting capacity as the national chairman of the party. Others whose suspension was lift­ed are Prof. Dennis Ityavyar (Benue State) and Dr. Aslam Aliyu (Zamfara State). The party also reversed the referral of the governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, to the National Disciplinary Committee. This was the first decision of the National Working Com­mittee (NWC) under Dama­gum, who took over the affairs of PDP in acting capacity. It would be recalled that Ayu was suspended by a High Court sitting in Makurdi, Benue State, on Monday, fol­lowing his suspension by his Igyorov Ward in Gboko Local Government Area of Benue State. Following the decision of the court, the NWC appointed Damagum, who was the Depu­ty National Chairman (North). PDP, in a statement on Thursday by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, said that its decision to reverse the suspension of its members was sequel to extensive dis­cussion of the recent develop­ments in the party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The party said: “The NWC recognised the imperative­ness of a total reconciliation among party leaders and crit­ical stakeholders for a more cohesive party in the overall interest of our teeming mem­bers and Nigerians in general. POLL “Consequent upon the above, the NWC reverses the referral of the governor of Benue State, His Excellency, Dr. Samuel Ortom, to the Na­tional Disciplinary Commit­tee. “The NWC in the same vein reverses the suspension of the following members of our great party: H.E Ibrahim Shema (Katsina State), Ayo­dele Fayose (Ekiti State), Sen. Pius Anyim (Ebonyi State), Prof. Dennis Ityavyar (Benue State) and Dr. Aslam Aliyu (Zamfara State). “This decision is without prejudice to the powers of the NWC to take necessary disciplinary action against any member of the party at any time pursuant to the pro­visions of the constitution of the PDP (as amended in 2017). “The NWC charges all leaders, critical stakeholders and teeming members of our party across the country to be guided by the provisions of the PDP constitution (as amended in 2017) as well as the new spir­it and necessity of reconcilia­tion, unity and harmony in our party at this critical time. “The PDP must remain fo­cused as we continue to take every necessary action to re­cover the stolen mandate free­ly given by Nigerians to our party and presidential candi­date, Atiku Abubakar, on Sat­urday, February 25, 2023, at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal.”