***As CBN Governor, Emefiele Hailed For Resolution Of Cash Scarcity ABUJA – The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has been urged to investigate suspicious bank deposits across the country during the Naira change policy. This is even as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Godwin Emefiele, has been commended for the timely manner in which he was able to resolve the scarcity of cash in the country. Commending the CBN Governor, the House of Representatives member-elect for Ideato North/South Federal Constituency of Imo State, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere said that Emefiele has always displayed that all the policies of the apex bank under his leadership are pro-people and the naira redesign policy is not an exception. Ugochinyere, who is also the spokesman of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), gave the commendation in a statement made available to journalists on Friday in Abuja. Ugochinyere, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said it was important for the CBN Governor and members of his team to be commended for rising to the occasion and bringing succour to Nigerians. He said: “We are all witnesses to what Nigerians went through during the period of cash scarcity in the country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is therefore important to commend the CBN Governor and members of his team for working round the clock to bring succour to Nigerians. POLL “Dr Emefiele has always displayed that all the policies of the apex bank under his leadership are pro-people and the naira redesign policy is not an exception, notwistanding the scarcity that followed it. “Nigerians will in no distant future realise that the CBN and its Governor mean well for the country on the policy . “I am also using this medium to call on the EFCC and other anti-corruption agencies to begin to investigate suspicious bank deposits across the country with a view to identifying those behind them, the sources of those huge deposits and bringing them to book if their origin can’t be traced. “I urge Nigerians to continue to have faith in the CBN and its leadership to continue to introduce fiscal policies that will benefit the nation.”