Senator Ali Ndume representing Borno South at the red chamber of the National Assembly has, while speaking on Arise TV said that he supports the the South-East be given opportunity to produce the next Senate President, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Orji Uzo Kalu is rooting to become the next Senate President, what are your thoughts about that? I agree with him that the South-East should be given a shot. Everybody should be allowed to be given a chance after all it is a game of number, and all of us that are elected are eminently qualified to take a decision in the interest of the country. Orji Kalu is our chief whip right now. He has been in the senate twice. He was a member of the House of Representatives. But what I don’t agree with in this struggle is for anybody to make it a right. It should be a privilege to all of us. In exercising that privilege there must be some considerations. If you look at the ranking of the senators in terms of seniority, I am second to Ahmed Lawan. He has been in the National Assembly since 1999. I joined the National Assembly in 2003, I was the minority leader. I was at one time the senate majority leader. I contested for Deputy Senate President, and I also contested for the Senate President in the 9th Senate. What I feel should really be the guide is fairness to all and above all the person that should preside over the senate should have all that it takes, the pedigree, the capacity and the interest of Nigeria that is putting Nigeria interest and Nigerians first. Are you supporting that the South- East should be given the president of the Senate in the 10th Senate? This time the issue of tribe and religion has been hyped so much that is what I really don’t agree with. At one time the president of this country was a Christian, Senate President was a Christian, the Deputy Senate President was a Christian, the Speaker of the House was a Christian, and everything went well, but those were the days when emphasis was not placed so much on tribe and religion. We cannot ignore that now, especially in the last election. It affected our political stability, and this is politics is all about interest, but fairness, justice and equity should not be ignored. These are the things I really want my colleagues to consider in choosing, besides, we need to stand for what is right, and our Nigeria first. But if you start talking of your tribe and your religion, then you are missing it. I did not agree with God to create and put me in the North, what if one man comes now and brings evidence and says that I am from the South-East, what will I do? I think that what really needs to be done is to allow all the 109 Senators and that is what we are doing now, we are talking to ourselves to see who the best is. You will be returning for the sixth time in the senate, are you also interested in being the Senate President? If my colleagues say “Ali Ndume you should be the Senate President, who am I to say no” What, I am saying is that if you are taking something for yourself you should also have the interest of others. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Afenifere is supporting the candidate of the Labour Party to go to court and reclaim the mandate, what are your thoughts about that? POLL For me, Nigerians have decided. Bola Tiniubu won that election and that is the result that we have. Anybody that is saying otherwise should prove his case and that is why the courts are there. While people are claiming that they have won the election, they have not shown how they won the election and where? I know for example in my constituency, we have nine local governments, I think the Labour Party is almost not here but one interesting thing that happened in one of my polling units is that the Labour Party won there, even though the votes were less than 100, but that is not to say that Peter Obi won. The case is still in court. The coordinator of the Labour Party is from my local government, he is my friend. He didn’t win there, maybe in other places. We had one gubernatorial candidate from Abia State, he is my very good friend, he is now the Governor-elect. People are saying that they hope that the mistake of 2015 doesn’t repeat when the president-elect then did not show interest in who becomes the Senate President, do you think that the President-elect should show interest in who becomes the Senate president at the 10th Senate? To me we have already put that aside. Remember that the President-elect was not the party’s candidate. The party endorsed Ahmed Lawan. What makes it different is that senators who have been elected know what they want. They know what is good for them. Senators should be allowed to choose who becomes the Senate President but because of equity and justice should be considered otherwise I should be the first person to throw my hat into the ring because besides Ahmed Lawan, I am the most senior. Orji and others are my colleagues but in ranking I am senior to them. The party asked us to hold on because it wants to look at other things. We will listen to the party and if it dies the right thing we would go by it In the last election we had so much turnover of over 60 percent members of the National Assembly, what is the implication for our democracy? The major problem that we have is that the politics that we are playing have derailed so to say.