…As Russia-Ukraine Grain Deal remains unfavourable to Africa, writes SIAKA MOMOH Nigerians may not enjoy cheap bread soon as the Russia-Ukraine conflict continues to rage. This notion is predicated on the geo-politics the Russia-Ukraine Grain Deal is roped in. According to informed industry report, since the signing of the deal, around 9.5 million tonnes of grain products have left Ukraine by sea. More than 100 ships have sailed from Ukraine, with 47 percent of the grain shipments going to Turkey and Asian countries, 36 percent going to the EU, and 17 percent to Africa. Food Prices Says the Kennan Institute report: “Immediately after the agreement went into effect, food prices fell by 7.90 percent since March 2022. After hitting an all-time high immediately after Russia’s invasion in February, world wheat prices dropped by 14.5 percent and cereal prices dropped by 11.5 percent. Prices for those grains are still higher than they were in 2021, but the deal certainly eased pressure on the market. So, in terms of stabilizing markets, the deal has proved to be effective. “However, the agreement was not designed to save conflict-affected communities around the world, which for the most part continue to suffer critical food shortages. Particularly, Russia has constantly criticized the agreement, alleging that the grain is not reaching countries that need it the most. The Grain deal is the initiative on the Safe Transportation of Grain and Foodstuffs from Ukrainian ports, also called the Black Sea Grain Initiative. It is an agreement between Russia and Ukraine made with Turkey and the United Nations (UN) during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Prices of bread POLL Prices of bread have shot up since the Russia-Ukraine conflict began. Prices have gone up between 40 and 100 per cent depending on the ranking of the bakery. Bread loaf that sold for N450/N500 now sells for N700 and N1000. Loaf that sells for N350 now sells for N600. N100/N200 loaves sell for same amount but at reduced size/ weight. And according to Carnegie Politika report, “After several weeks of complaining and wavering, Russia has agreed once again to extend the grain deal with Ukraine, though only for sixty days, instead of another 120- day extension that was due to come into force automatically when the current term ended on March 18. As talks continue on allowing another 120-day extension, Moscow says that the West is not meeting its obligations under the deal, though it is making the claim less loudly and insistently than ahead of the previous extension last October. “Russia already threatened to tear up the grain deal on the eve of the previous extension last fall, citing a Ukrainian drone attack on a Russian naval base in Sevastopol, which it claimed targeted ships involved in the deal. Putin demanded written security guarantees for naval and civilian vessels operating in the vicinity of the green corridor, but in the end had to settle for verbal assurances from Turkey.” For Kennan Institute, which claims that the opinion expressed in the report in question here is the author’s, “The most obvious goal is food security. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine caused a surge in global food prices, dealing a heavy blow to countries already at risk of food insecurity.” It explains: “Indeed, contrary to popular perception, the majority of grain exports that were shipped out of Ukrainian Black Sea ports didn`t go to the poorest and most needed countries but rather to Europe and Turkey.” Cassava Bread Akinwunmi Adesina, erstwhile Nigeria’s Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development who is currently AfDB president, reminds us of our cassava bread scheme of over 10 years ago. Nigeria had plan to introduce 10/20 per cent cassava flour into the production of bread. Industry sources say if the scheme had succeeded, we would have saved N422 Achieving 20 per cent cassava flour inclusion in Nigerian bread is going to be a tall order, writes SIAKA MOMOH. This piece, published in 2014, is sourced from Archives Siaka Momoh. Government wants ‘cassava bread’ for Nigeria – bread loaf made of 80 per cent wheat flour and 20 per cent cassava flour. It is a beautiful idea from government, a welcome one since it is coming with job creation, foreign exchange savings, blossoming GDP, more money for our farmers and related value chain stakeholders, etc. Let us recap and get the picture clearer. The story: If Nigeria can take a bold step and move swiftly into production of 50 percent cassava flour bread, the country will make a saving of over N315 billion annually, said Nigeria’s Minister of Agriculture, Akinwunmi Adesina. At the moment, Nigeria imports wheat worth N635 billion (about $4.2bn) annually, hurting its foreign exchange earnings and worsening the rate of unemployment. The inclusion of 50 percent cassava flour in bread production will change this as it will cut imports of wheat by half. Presenting bread loaves baked by researchers from IITA to the Federal Executive Council, Adesina urged Nigerians to embrace the consumption of bread with cassava flour content. According to him, “Apart from Nigeria saving N315 billion, it will also create jobs and encourage farmers to produce more.” In 2002, Nigeria adopted policy compelling flour millers to implement 10 per cent cassava flour into wheat flour. Under the new transformation agenda, Nigeria plans to double its current cassava production from 37 million tons. The Critical areas the government is focusing on are value addition to make production demand driven and the improvement of yield among others. With over 37 million tons of harvested fresh cassava roots per year, Nigeria is by far the largest cassava-producing country in the world. Estimates are that between seven and eight million Nigerian farming families grow the tuber… Along the line, the Federal Government fixed 20 per cent cassava flour inclusion in bread production (and other confectioneries) for flour millers. That is the background story in brief. Government has since made good efforts to make the policy workable. Trainings of bakers have been done and some are still going on, going by reports on the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development activities in the media. Some equipment for the production High Quality Cassava Flour(HQCF) have been made available for use, corporate bakers like UTC, Food Concepts and Leventis were co-opted into flagging off the production of cassava bread (and they produced and supplied to big retailer); Shoprite outlets confirmed selling cassava bread. Sad story But our investigation has proved that achieving 20 per cent cassava flour inclusion in Nigerian bread is going to be a tall order. It is achievable but it is not going to be as quickly as we think. Right now, Food Concepts is not producing the bread. The company’s distributors spoken to say the company stopped producing it long ago. Contacts at the company’s plant in Oregun are evasive. The Minister of Agriculture once said it is not easy changing taste overnight. He cited our children’s passionate love for pasta range of foods. But he is not giving up. The success of the project, going by information available is hinged, largely, on the adequate availability of HQCF. Government made good plans for this. The plan is not one that can quickly be executed. This is perhaps why the general complaint now is that the high quality cassava flour needed for a composite of wheat flour and cassava flour in not available in required quantity. We will want to believe a lot still need to be done in respect of the provision of HQCF machines that are meant to be in the states. Take a look at the government plan as announced by Akinwunmi Adesina at a parley with bakers and make your judgment: First we will work with the Bakeries and HQCF industry to develop a commercially viable process for producing Nigerian Bread. Steps have already been taken and, with our partners from Thai farms who have already developed a process with leading food science companies to attain a 30 percent blend, which is a critical first step to attaining a 40 percent blend. Second, we will work with the Bakery industry to provide appropriate incentives for them to make the necessary investment to modify their process and supply chains. An initial incentive announced by Mr. President is a 12 percent point reduction in the corporate tax rate of bakeries that are producing Nigerian Bread within the next 18 months. In addition we are actively consulting with the industry to identify further incentives that will ensure a rapid adoption of Nigerian Bread. Third we will work to ensure adequate supply of HQCF to the industry. This will be done in a three step process. 1) The establishment of 12 HQCF processing plants with an installed capacity of 120ton/day, made up of two 60ton/day production lines, via a Private Public Partnership (PPP). Key activities will involve: a. A feasibility study that makes the business case for the viability of HQCF plants established in specific locations of Nigeria spread over the SW, SS, SE, NC, NW and NE regions of the country is currently being conducted by Accenture and Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) and will be completed January 8 (he meant January 2013)… The feasibility study will be submitted by January 10 to two potential financiers: the China and Thailand EXIM banks, for a loan to fund the manufacture, shipment, and installation of the plants within 8-10 months… b. The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) will be the guarantor for loans to build the HQCF plants and also pay any required deposit. Successful applicants will sign an agreement with FMARD that includes a scheme of out grower farmers 2) Establishment of supply chains of fresh cassava roots for the 12 HQCF processing plants through establishment of out grower farmers and access to inputs, finance, and tractors, and rural road infrastructure upgrade… a. The out grower farmers’ institutions will be organized into out grower associations, by ADP extension agents and FMARD consultants, for the bulk purchase of agro-inputs, access to finance under NIRSAL, and to tractors, via loans from the farm mechanization intervention of FMARD. In addition, out grower associations will be the focal point for development of farmer capacity for improved production, scheduling of harvesting, and transport arrangements for delivery to the HQCF factory. b. Establishment of fair pricing mechanisms with assistance from FMARD consultants to set prices for fresh roots between out grower associations and HQCF plants for sustainable production of fresh roots and HQCF. c. Rehabilitation of feeder rural roads by State government. A condition for establishment of an HQCF plant in a State is the signing of an MOU by State government to rehabilitate feeder roads leading from out grower farms to HQCF factories, etc. etc. A herculean task, isn’t it? The question is: How much of this plan has been executed given the bureaucracy in government business? This is perhaps why only a few bakers are currently involved in the production of ‘Cassava Bread’. Alhaji Lateef Oguntoyinbo former National Vice- Chairman and Lagos State Chairman of the Association of Masters Bakers and Caterers Association of Nigeria said a few who were trained are baking it. Tope Ige, Chairman/CEO of Ibukun Foods Limited, who runs a bakery in Satellite Town, Lagos said bakers once held a meeting with flour millers who said “we cannot even meet 5 per cent cassava flour inclusion”. He said there is currently no adequate supply of flour to flour millers and added “out of 10 trailers of cassava flour supplied to a flour miller only one will be found suitable”. Flour millers, generally do not think Nigeria is ripe the project. Speaking an annual Customers’ Forum of Honeywell Flour Mills Plc, in Lagos, the company’s recently retired Executive Vice Chairman, Mr. Babatunde Odunayo, lamented that despite the good intention of government to use cassava as a springboard for rural development and urban decongestion, its unavailability and lack of technology by local milers to process the volume required would frustrate the effort. And only recently, in an interview with this writer, he advised that Nigeria should continue to import wheat until it can produce enough cassava flour to meet its project need.