Ekiti Young Professionals has canvassed for the emergence of the former Speaker, Ekiti State  House of Assembly and member representing Ekiti South Federal Constituency II to lead the 10th National Assembly as Deputy Speaker. The Publicity Secretary of the group, Adojutelegan Joshua while addressing  journalists in Ado-Ekiti described Bamisile  as a committed partyman who had paid his dues over years. According to him, Bamisile’s tenure as the speaker of the Ekiti state 3rd assembly was the most vibrant legislature the state ever had since its creation, going by the divergent political activism and ideologies of the equal 13-13 membership of The Assembly from PDP and then AC. The group therefore urged the All Progressives Congress(APC) stakeholders to rally round Bamisile and ensure his emergence as the Deputy Speaker. “Re-elected from Ekiti South Federal Constituency 2, we confirm that Rt. (Hon) Richard Olufemi Bamisile (BAFEM) is a good team player, dependable, with native intelligence of the contemporary Ekiti politics with a thorough understanding of the political dynamics of the country as well as much efforts to address the socio-cultural, political and economic issues of the nation. “We strongly advocate for the emergence of Hon Olufemi Bamisile as Deputy Speaker of the 10th National Assembly. We make bold to say that Hon Bamisile possess the requisite Competence, Capacity, and Character to provide the needed stability for the House. “As a former Speaker of the House of Assembly and a returning member of the House of Reps. Hon Richard Olufemi Bamisile is experienced and imbued with a great level of emotional intelligence needed to provide leadership and stability for the House of Representatives.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Although he represents Ekiti south constituency 2 in the 9th assembly, his position as the Chairman House committee on Federal Roads Maintenance Agency(FERMA) brought a lot of dividends of democracy to Ekiti state, South-western states  and Nigeria at large while he never failed in the mandate of fixing Nigerian roads despite poor funding. POLL “BAFEM has never limited his philanthropy gesture to the people of the state alone, he empowered widows, graded rural roads, organised free Jamb forms and free coaching classes, supported the citizens during the Covid 19 pandemic, got employment for 42 youth at the Federal level, while he appointed 35 senior special Assistants as part of his mentoring program. “Our belief is that the legislature must be led by men of character, impeccable antecedents and unbroken experience in managing Human Resources at a very high level. We urge the leadership of the All Progressive Congress and all members-elect for the 10th Assembly to rally round Hon Bamisile and support his emergence as Deputy Speaker.” He explained that Ekiti Young Professionals is  a group of non-partisan and upwardly mobile men and women, home-based and in the diaspora, who are making exploits in various chosen careers, well informed and concerned with the well-being and shared prosperity of Ekiti state and Nigeria as a whole.