Re-elected Ogun State Governor, Omooba Dapo Abiodun, has assured the villagers along the 13.1km Mosa juncture-Ijana Alapako Oni in Obafemi Owode local government area of Ogun State of durable jobs on the roads. Besides, the Governor, on Wednesday, said the commencement of the road under the direct supervision of the Rural Access And Agricultural Marketing Project (RAAMP) would lead to job creation and bring about development along the corridors of the road. The Governor, who spoke at the handing over of the Contractor, Messrs Springview Concept Nig. Ltd to the Baales and Chiefs was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Rural Development, Mr. Adetayo Adewale, who said the government prioritised the road because of the abundant farm produce being cultivated along the corridors. “Our Governor has graciously approved the commencement of this road as a demonstration/pilot project under the RAAMP because of the abundance of farm produce in this axis. “I can allay the fears of our Baales about the quality of the job we shall deliver here. It cannot be different from the durable job this government is known for in the past four years thereabout,” the PS stated as the Project Coordinator, Engr. Muritala Adekunle introduced the Contractor, Messrs. Springview Concept Nig. Ltd. Engr. Adekunle stressed the need for the communities along the corridors to “have a buy-in of the project as your own by seeing the staff of the construction firm as your sons and daughters.” Villages making up the 13.1km road are Ijana, Alapako-Oni, Oyebola, Olosun Abudu, Olosun Momoh, Olosun Adegbesan, Layanran, Mosafejo and Owojo.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Responding to the unveiling of the Contractor on behalf of the communities, the Baale of Olosun Adegbesan, Chief Joseph Adisa, appreciated the Governor, describing him as “a keeper of his words.” POLL He pleaded with the Contractor and the RAAMP to do “a job that will stand the test of time, not the one that will be washing off as the Contractor is leaving the site.” Speaking, the Baale of Oyebola commended the government for bringing development to their area just as he assured the contractors of cooperation “anytime you need us.” Meanwhile, the contractor has assured the villagers of collaborative relationships during the project, including job opportunities for the youths of the area within available space.