LOKOJA – Professor Dauda Tanko of the Federal University, Lokoja, has task the federal Government to rejig and implement the Wildlife/Biodiversity Policy to boost the economy. He stressed the need for the federal government to review the policy strategies adopted to achieve conservation of natural resources for sustainable economic development and other goals in Nigeria. Tanko, a Professor of Wildlife Conservation and Ecology, Federal University Lokoja, Kogi State,North Central Nigeria, made the call while delivering the 11th Inaugural Lecture of the university. The lecture with the theme: ” Biodiversity Conservation for Sustainable Economic Development In A Post-COVID-19 Era: Dress It And Keep It, For This Is The Whole Duty Of Man.” The erudite academics said that the call became necessary because:” It is clear that the policy strategies adopted to achieve conservation of natural resources development and other goals have failed.” He also stressed the need for a workable policy in such sub-section of the economy to check hunger which is ravaging the land and poverty fast overtaking the country, as Nigeria is leading the world poverty secretariat as its headquarters. The Professor also expressed concern that insecurity remained the order of the day ravaging the lives of the innocent seasons and making conservation activities almost impossible.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Further to this, the rural areas and the rural economy remain under developed and lacking in every facility necessary to improve the welfare and well-being of the rural dwellers,” the lecturers, whose immediate and extended family members witnessed the occasion added. POLL He suggested that government and the policy makers should partner with the local communities, noting that “there are useful things they know about the ecosystem that others do not.” According to the academic, since most communities in the country are deeply and profoundly knowledgeable about their ecosystems, which can be exploited for national economic development, ” we must tap from knowledge to make progress.” He expressed optimism that, if made use of, suggestions would help Nigeria to attain self-reliant economy and facilitate the achievement of the biodiversity conservation goals for its sustainable economic development. In his address of welcome,the Vice Chancellor of the university,Professor Akinwumi Olayemi, said that the Inaugural lectures being organized by the institution had reflected in quality of collaboration between the university other universities as well as other organisations in the country. “Collaboration has been the driving force in increasing competence and promoting our academic culture, leading to the 11th inaugural lecture,” he said. The Vice Chancellor, who noted that he had touched all the areas of his 10-point agenda in the first two years of his administration, expressed commitment to maintain the pace and meet all expectations. Highlights of the occasion include presentation of awards of plaque by the post Graduate students of the department and the university management. Born in 1970 and the last of the six children of Tanko Moroko Sankey and Mrs Zandika Maria Tanko,both of blessed memory in Kaduna state, Professor Tanko is a graduate of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna state.