LAGOS  – BIC, one of the global leaders in stationery, lighters, and shavers has recently announced its fourth quarter and full-year 2022 results with outstanding performance in e-commerce in developing markets, particularly in the Middle East and Africa. The company in a statement stated that it has achieved robust growth and outstanding performances in 2022 with a net sales growth of +13.8%, and double-digit growth in all three divisions and across all key markets globally. “This accomplishment is driven by BIC’s focus on consumer-centricity, innovative product manufacturing, and sustainable development. It is driven by the Horizon Plan – a strategy launched in 2020 to grow the overall business, strengthen company offerings, and expand into new categories and consumer occasions. “The African market played a prominent role in the company’s global performance, as BIC recorded a monumental increase in its net sales with double-digit growth in the continent. “This was driven by the company’s multifaceted efforts to drive sales in Africa through e-commerce, investments in sustainability initiatives, as well as the impact of a robust back-to-school season in the region, consolidating BIC’s position as a leader in the African business landscape”. Gonzalve Bich, the CEO of BIC, while commenting on this landmark achievement, said: “Driven by our Horizon strategic plan, growing net sales, and high-single to double-digits growth in all divisions, we executed another year of outstanding top-line performance and achieved our Free Cash Flow target. “We also achieved good market share gains in key regions and a continuous flow of premium product innovations, demonstrating our ability to maintain commercial excellence despite strong inflation and recessionary pressures. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This momentum strengthens our position and relevance as a valued consumer brand. Moreover, we made tremendous progress toward our sustainability goals throughout 2022, primarily in eco-friendly consumer packaging and recycled plastics usage in our products. POLL “I am confident that, in 2023, we will remain resilient, with growing Net Sales of 5% to 7% at constant currencies, while increasing our margin, as we pursue our long-term goals for accelerated profitable growth.” Bich noted that continued focus on growing digital commerce through exceptional content and an enhanced omnichannel experience increased online sales by 10.2% in 2022, with double digit growth in all regions and divisions. Core e-commerce sales were driven by the Omni retailer channel (close to +30% growth) and Developing Markets, with outstanding performance in the Middle East and Africa.