Chief Camilus Amajuoyi, President, International Market Association Electronics (IMAE), Ojo, Lagos, has joined some Nigerians calling on the All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the president of the 10th Senate to the South-East zone. Speaking in an interview, Amajuoyi said Osita Izunaso should be the most preferred senator from that zone to lead the upper chamber of the National Assembly, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Why are you people clamouring for the president of the 10th Senate to come from the South-East? “Well, the clamour is not only germane, it is also weighty. The call is not just in the interest of the country, it is also based on national unity. Nigeria was founded on a tripod of North, East and West. As I speak, the president elect is from the West, the Vice president elect is from the North, so equity, justice, fairness and good conscience demand that the president of the 10th Senate should come from the East for balance. You can agree with me that there is tension in the land. Most people believe that Nigeria has never been this divided. One of the reasons for this is because of the lopsidedness in the constitution of political offices. Some people are aggrieved that they were left behind in appointments into political offices and this has led to different kinds of agitations. But I feel that if there will be equity, justice and fairness in the sharing of political offices, it would help to calm the nerves of those making demands or agitating for one thing or the other. What do you think that the Senate President would do for the south-east since it is not an executive position? One important thing that I know that zoning the president of the 10th Senate to the south-east would do is that, it will help in dousing the tension in the country. It will help to begin the healing process that we need in the country. It is a fact that without justice, there cannot be peace and without peace, there cannot be development. You can also agree with me that for some years now, Nigeria has been at a standstill. Nothing is moving. In fact, what we are doing in Nigeria is motion without movement or if you like, one step forward and four steps backward. The reason is because there is no peace and since there is no peace, there cannot be development. Mind you another name for democracy is development. But go around the country and check the rate of development after 24 years of uninterrupted democracy. You would be highly disappointed. Why are you rooting for Osita Izunaso for that office? The reason I am rooting for Osita Izunaso to become the president of the 10th Senate is because he is eminently qualified for the position. Senator Izunaso is a ranking senator. He is a good and loyal party man. He proved his leadership capacity when he was the National Organizing Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a team player, a humble and very compassionate human being. Furthermore, he is from Imo State which is the first APC controlled state in the south-east. When he was in the Senate between 2007 and 2011, he made a lot of impact both on the floor of the chamber and at the committee levels, which earned him a lot of awards both locally and internationally. Senator Izunaso is also not a controversial figure. I feel that this is the kind of person that we need to lead the 10th Senate.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒