Osita Okechukwu, Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON) and founding member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in this interview on Arise TV speaks about the general elections, ethnic profiling, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Do you think that the election conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) under the leadership of Mahmood Yakubu is free and fair? To a certain extent yes. We had an improvement in our electoral process where it was driven by technology and in that tech, where all those circled at the polling units were accredited and recorded by the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) because in all ramifications there were about seven governors who wanted to return to the senate, their usual abode for retirement and they were defeated roundly in their various states. I think that this is a major feat. There is the case of our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu being defeated in Lagos State by Peter Obi of Labour Party. We cannot write it off. The President was defeated in Katsina State, and when you give an analysis of the election, it is not good to give a zero. It is a mix bag. Yes, there were flaws, but at the same time, Nigeria has advanced. I keep telling people that democracy is not a revolution, it has grown in a revolutionary space throughout the history of democracy. What you have not achieved today, you try to make amends and move to the next level. When we took off in 1999, the stronger groups of political parties depended on voters’ register. If in a polling unit, 10 people out of 50, came out to vote, they would add up the next 40 to themselves or allocate it. I think that era of allocation has gone, and that is what I have come to appreciate. Yes there are flaws, but at the same time it is not good to use a black brush and dye the entire process, I will not be part of that. There were two different groups of protesters in Abuja, one around the unity fountain and another one went to the headquarters of INEC. One of the groups quarreled over monetary entitlements. They quarreled against the people who procured their services, and didn’t pay them. According to them, they came to Abuja in about 100 buses, if political parties would say that INEC did well and that Nigerians should congratulate the President-elect, are Nigerians going to be forced to congratulate the President-elect? We defined electioneering both post and pre as a festival of democracy. The campaign is a festival of democracy and in all festivities you will find a lot of drummers beating different tunes and dancing different steps. I think that this should be regarded as one of them because we are in a democracy governed by the rule of law, and the law has specified the sequence of when political parties will do their primaries, present their candidates and give a time table for the elections. At the end of the elections, results were declared and if you are dissatisfied with the result of the election, you will head to the tribunal. Those are the processes and luckily for the Nigerian state, when Bola Tinubu was declared the President-elect, the major contenders, His Excellency Peter Obi and His Excellency Atiku Abubakar, went to the tribunal. I think that is noble and gratifying. The next stage will be the outcome, when they finish at the first instance, which is governed by the Court of Appeal, the presidential election tribunal. Going by the rule of law they also have the right to go to the Supreme Court if they are not satisfied with the judgment, and if the judgment is upturned at that level, the APC will go back to the drawing board and we will tell our lawyers, please head to the Supreme Court, the last arbiter. These are the provisions, so anybody talking of Interim Government, is living on assumption, governed by impunity. Anybody renting any crowd is also helping to distribute wealth. Apparently I don’t see any serious mechanic who will leave his workshop to join them or the barber in his barbing shop, the teacher or civil servant who will join them. That is what we are saying, that we must do all we can to get a lot of people out of unemployment in one way or the other because unemployment breeds such. You said that there were flaws in the election, let us talk about them, because we had ethnic profiling in Lagos State, there was violence, some people were cut with machetes, and others were forced at gunpoints to vote for parties against their choice, international media, observers condemned that election, is that what you call flaws? Let me cast your mind back, I am a student of adversity politically. In 2003, we were rigged out. Why did I say that we were rigged out? We had the majority votes cast. The least that they could have done for President Buhari in 2003, 2007 and 2011 was a rerun. We moved on. We shouldn’t forget that we have a perseverance spirit and resilience. We went to three presidential elections and won in the fourth round. As I said, democracy is revolutionary and in all these stages, we cannot forget how INEC and the officials there, insisted on the amendments of the electoral process. We cannot forget Yar Aduah of the blessed memory, who as a President said that the electoral process that brought him to power was fraud. He went ahead to institute the Uwais panel. Our election in 2023 by any comparison is better than that of 2007. I was one of the agents for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2007 presidential election. In Abuja, at the airport road, my brother Prof. Maurice Iwu, we had not finished collation, I think four states were left, he walked down to the media platform with papers in his hands and announced the results and disappeared. That cannot happen today. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ But that was what happened in the 2023 presidential election because election results were not completed on the IReV before the announcement of presidential results and parties raised objections but they were not listened to. If you say that cannot happen today, exactly what Iwu did then also happened this year because…….. POLL I don’t know if you went through the petitions of Peter Obi and Atiku Abubakar. If you had gone through that you would know that it is not the same. I mentioned the BVAS machine, in Maurice Iwu time there was no data in place. Today, no matter how you look at it, we are at the base line. All the voters in the 176,000 electoral polling units were accredited and they were in the database. If it were at the Maurice time, I don’t think that Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi would proceed to the tribunal. I didn’t say that we have gotten to the best. We haven’t gotten to the best but at least, today we have advanced. I said that democracy is evolutionary. Some politicians, at least one member of your party has been reported to the International Criminal Court for promoting hate speech, engaging in aggressive behavior during the general elections. Another one was threatened with a visa ban by the UK authority, and one member of your party has been reported online and should be banned from going to any civlised country for their roles during the elections, what are your thoughts on that? What they did is condemnable because for somebody like myself, I lived 35 years in the North, 29 years in the South-East and five years in the South-west. Will I start condemning a Northerner? Will I tomorrow castigate the Yoruba people? I cannot fall into that kind of premise, which is why we keep on saying that as we advance in our democracy we should make it possible for anybody to become a citizen of the part of the country he finds himself. It is condemnable. Instead of telling people what our government has achieved, we have done a lot in infrastructure, agriculture, we have paid teachers’ salaries, we cannot be written off. The only thing is that some of our people don’t know what we have achieved, rather they resorted to primordial sentiments. I cannot support that. Two days ago, Obama went to Ghana and we were crying foul, today Camara Harris went to Ghana again. I cannot encourage rascality. These people are the spokespersons for the President-elect of the country, and your party’s candidate in the presidential election, people are speculating of it is the same view that would be used to rule this country, like the words of Fani Kayode, calling the British envoy, small bald headed, unlettered man………. The President-elect that I know from 1989, those comments wouldn’t reflect his views. Did you ask, why the Northern governors of APC wrote a letter to Mr. President on June 4th before the primaries, and said that we would go South in the national interest. They jettisoned their presidential ambitions. At the end of the day, it landed on Asiwaju’s table. Why did they vote for Asiwaju? It was because of his compassion. He has assisted people everywhere. If you know my friend, Fani-Kayode, he came from PDP. Some of these people transferred to APC. I don’t think that his statements reflect Asiwaju’s views.