LAGOS – Anti-corruption stakeholders in the country have rated President Muhammadu Buhari very low in its fight against corruption in almost eight years of his administration. The stakeholders stated this at an anti-corruption stakeholder’s summit, organized by the Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre) in Lagos where they unanimously said that President Buhari has not performed up to expectation in his fight against corruption. Sulaiman Arigbabu, Executive Secretary of HEDA while speaking at the summit said that it’s been almost eight years of Buhari’s promise to fight corruption that he came in with a lot of promises to tackle corruption, but having assess almost eight years of his fight against corruption, the verdict is not looking good. “We do acknowledge the fact that there were some good efforts, there were some gains in terms of some laws and some activities of the anti-corruption agencies like the EFCC, however we have seen a lot of interference. “We have seen a lot of things that show that there is no sincerity in the fight against corruption. As a matter of fact, the fight against corruption has been undermined by the executive itself. “The verdicts are not looking good, by the time President Muhammadu Buhari leaves office, not too much would have been achieved in the fight against corruption,” he said. Suraju Olanrewaju, Chairman HEDA while speaking virtually said as this government is winding down, HEDA decided to call this stakeholders meeting of not only CSOs but of all anti-corruption agencies like the EFCC, ICPC, CCB, the Nigeria Police among several others to have their own assessment of the activities of President Buhari’s regime in terms of his achievements so far in the fight against corruption.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL “It is one of his promises that he is going to fight corruption and we must acknowledge the fact that we have made some progress in terms of policies and laws, he has made and signed in terms of some of the activities of some of the law enforcement agencies. Adeola Soetan, National Coordinator, Democracy Vanguard while speaking commended HEDA for its consistent fight against corruption, stating that in Nigeria politics is a legitimate crime, that fight against corruption is a big issue. “When you take politics as a legitimate crime, don’t expect crime not to be a big business. He said that the anti-corruption fight of this administration has failed totally, that President Buhari is a man that came in and everybody was thinking that corruption will be tackled majorly, but not much is achieved. Inibehe Effiong, a legal practitioner said that Nigeria has a commendable legal regime which if properly managed and implemented is supposed to stem the tide of corruption. “We have several legislation that has been put in place, the problem however is the political will to implement this laws, for the last eight years have been lacking and in relation to the politicians it is very obvious that there is no willingness, no honesty in fight against corruption from the perception that the president had given when he came in. “It would have been better if he did not make the promise, he told us he is going to reduce corruption, cut cost of governance among others. Buhari has promised to fight corruption but he has made the matter worse,” he said. Other speakers at the summit include; Richard Akinola, Executive Director, Centre for Free Speech organization, Wale Adeoye, Executive Director of Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER), among others. Some of the CSOs in the program include; Renaissance Group, Youth for Change Initiative, Space Against Corruption and Injustice, Progressive Volunteers, War Against Child, Sexual and Physical Abuse (WACSPA Foundation), Nigerian Human Rights Community (NHRC), Echoes of Women in Africa, Ideal Society, Civil Society Coalition for Mandate and Centre for Human and Socio-Economic Rights (CHSR) among others.