As protest of women continues unabated in Nasarawa State over governorship election results that was held on Saturday 18 March 2023, the concern women who were drawn from various political parties and religious groups across the 13 local government areas of Nasarawa State, have vowed to continue their protest untill justice prevail. Mrs Stella Oboshi who made their position known during a press conference jheld at the PDP’s secretariat in Lafia, the State capital said the woman will continue to dress naked untill justice prevail. The aggrieved women who carried leaves in their hands and dressed halfnaked have been protesting over one week now, alleging that the result of the governorship election declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in favour of All Progressives Congress APC in the state was a stolen mandate. “According Mrs. Stella,” We are not happy with the conduct and outcome of INEC’s declaration of the of the 2023 gubernatorial elections in our state,” she lamented. She continued: “We were greeted with a shocker that kept all of us wondering over what just happened. The announcement of governor Andullahi Sule as the winner of that election come to us with surprise, shock and as daylight robbery.” Narrated the rationale behind their protest, the PDP woman leader said they were protesting against political injustice that is done in Nasarawa State, adding that women known the brunt and burden of child bearing and upbringing which is left in the hands of women. Mrs. Oboshi, alleged that the PDP governorship candidate, Mr David Ubugadu won the election out rightly with about 70 % of the local government areas, including the local government of the seating governor and that of his deputy, Dr. Emmanuel Akabe.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She, however expressed worry over the cancellation of Ashige ward in Lafia LGA, noted that the total of accredited Voters that voted for Chiroma ward in the house of assembly were 15,000, claiming that the total accredited Voters that voted in the same gubernatorial election were escalated to 51,000. POLL She further alleged that the total number of voters that voted in Gayam ward in the house of assembly election was 8,000 while in the gubernatorial election had 30,000 respectively. According to her, they were protesting naked because women are forced to remove their clothes while in the farm and raped by herders in broad daylight. “We are protesting naked because women cannot continue on the injustice system of our state where only a privileged few and their children are catered for while our children are left on the streets without education and jobs. In our cultures, we all know when an elderly mother goes naked and seeks God’s intervention on the land, it comes to pass. The nakedness of our mothers, widows, and every woman will never go in vien,” she incarnated.