LAGOS  – The Lagos High Court in Ikeja will on Thursday commence the trial of four officials of Chrisland School limited over the death of a 12-year-old student, Whitney Omodesola Adeniran, who died during an event organised by the school. On the 9th of February 2023, Whitney Omodesola Adeniran a student of Chrisland High School, Ikeja aged 12 years, slumped during the Inter-house Sports or­ganised by the School at the Agege Sports Stadium and was subse­quently rushed to Agege Central Hospital, Agege, Lagos, where she was confirmed “brought in dead” (BID) by the doctor on duty. The case was referred to the Nigerian Police Force which car­ried out a thorough investigation with the help of other agencies. The file was subsequently for­warded to the DPP’s Office on Monday 20th March 2023, for re­view of the duplicate case file. On the 23rd of March 2023, the DPP issued his Legal Advice and came to the conclusion that a prima facie case of Involuntary Manslaughter and Reckless and Negligent Acts had been estab­lished against the school, some members of staff and one of the vendors. Already, the State has filed a two-count charge against four of­ficials of the school for the offenc­es of Involuntary Manslaughter and Reckless and Negligent Acts contrary to Sections 224 & 251 of the Criminal Law, C17, Vol.3, Laws of Lagos State, 2015. Those to be arraigned before Justice Oyindamola Ogala, of the High Court of Lagos State, Ikeja Division, Ademoye Ade­wale, Kuku Fatai, Mrs. Belinda Amao, Nwatu Ugochi Victoria, and Chrisland School Limited. While the legal team of the Lagos state will be led by the Di­rector of Public Prosecution, Dr. Femi Martins, the defendants have constituted a formidable legal defence team including a renowned lawyer, Chief Bolaji Ayorinde SAN, Mr. Yele Delano SAN, Chief Richard Ahonaruog­ho SAN, and Mr. Kayode Enitan SAN, leading other counsel.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Being a court of record, Jus­tice Ogala will be searching for answers whether Whitney’s death was a result of an existing medical condition or whether she was electrocuted at the Agege Sta­dium where Chrisland students had gone for their Inter-House Sports. POLL Furthermore, the court will be looking at whether there was any negligence on the part of the defendants even though the own­ers of the stadium had not been charged in court. The case has attracted issues of safety in public places and the general public including the parents of children of Chrisland School who had agitated for the opening of the school are all look­ing forward to the outcome of the matter which begins on Thursday, March 30, 2023. Sad by the unfortunate inci­dent, Chrisland School had in a statement expressed sorrow over the demise of their adorable student. The management said it was heartbroken and distressed, as Whitney was one of its Day students who opted not to par­ticipate in the inter-house sports match past for reasons “we were not very sure of.