***As Experts Advocate Hands-on Training For Industry Players LAGOS – The 7th International Construction Building Materials and Technologies Exhibition/Ceramics, Bathroom and Kitchen Wares Expo is scheduled to take place from Tuesday 6th- Thursday 8th June, 2023 at the prestigious Landmark Centre, Victoria Island Lagos. According to Chief Executive Officer of Elan Expo Lagos, Jude Chima, who made the remark during a briefing of the 7th International Build Expo/4th Ceramica West Africa Exhibition in Lagos, noted that 140 brands, 480 business to business, and 140 exhibitors will be in attendance. He said, “The Build Expo is an annual event that brings together professionals in the construction industry, including Architects, Builders, Engineers, and Suppliers. “This year’s Expo promises to be bigger and better than ever before, with an estimated attendance of about 3,800 people drawn from 19 countries. “We expect 140 Brands, 480 business to business, and 140 Exhibitors in attendance, all drawn from countries like Ghana, Japan, and many others, to showcase the latest products and services in the Construction Industry. According to Chima, one of the highlights of this year’s Expo is the hands-on training, which will provide participants with the benefits of learning skills such as laser aligner for block setting, use of laser aligners and laser measures, use of robotic power tools, use of electronic painting machine, use of spray gum for paintings, solar panel installations, assembling of furniture, and smart electrification. He added, “This training will be delivered by professionals with extensive experience in the construction industry, giving participants the opportunity to learn from the best. “In addition to the “Hands on” Training on the above skills, the Build Expo will provide participants with valuable insights on the application and installation of Robotics and  Artificial Intelligence (AI) at homes, sustainable building practices, innovative materials and techniques, and the latest trends in architecture and design. These insights will be delivered through a range of workshops, seminars, and talks. “The Expo will also feature a networking event where attendees can meet and connect with other professionals in the industry. This is a great opportunity to make new connections and expand your business network. Chima further said, “The networking event will be held in a relaxed and friendly atmosphere, enabling attendees to make lasting connections that will benefit their careers and businesses. “Furthermore, we are excited to announce that the 7th International Build Expo is also partnering with some professional bodies and top-notch media companies to publicize all brands available, using their brand logo on all platforms including the website, and also provide accurate, ethical, and informative content as it regards the construction industry and to connect with potential investors. “Our supporters include the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Nigerian institution of Civil engineers, Nigerian institution of Builders, Nigerian Society of Quantity Surveyors, Honey Treat Academy, and Engineering Resource. “In conclusion, the 7th international Build Expo promises to be a fantastic event for anyone interested in the construction industry. The theme for this year’s event is “The role of Professionals, artisans, and Government Institutions in creating a smart, resilient, Mega-city,” which reflects our commitment to promoting best practices in the industry and you will agree with me that our nation Nigeria currently needs some of these expertise at this time,” he said.