As part of efforts to tackle the high unemployment in the country, the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), on Thursday in Asaba, Delta State, distributed empowerment tools as loans to graduate trainees of the Environmental Beautification Training Scheme (EBTS) under its Special Public Works (SPW) Programme. In a keynote address at the occasion, Mallam Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo, the Director-General of NDE, said the decision to distribute tools to the trainees who completed the programme in such skill sets as Hard Landscaping, Soft Landscaping and Plaster of Paris (POP) for three months is yet another manifestation of the Federal Government’s concern for the unemployed. A total of 26 trainees in Delta State, who he said are now proficient in their chosen skills, were provided with equipment and tools to practise their newly acquired professional skills through the NDE. According to him, this is in addition to 962 trainees of the Environmental Beautification Training Scheme (EBTS) at 26 beneficiaries per state and the FCT Abuja that graduated and who have already been empowered through the disbursement of basic working equipment and tools nationwide. According to Fikpo, who was represented by the Director of the South-South Zonal Office, S. D. Apakasa, “the Special Public Works (SPW) is one of the four core programmes of the NDE. Others include; Rural Employment Promotion (REP), Small Scale Enterprises (SSE) and Vocational Skills Development (VSD). “The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has always carried out its activities with renewed vigour and commitment to its mandate which is primarily value-reorientation, reduction of unemployment and poverty within the limits of its resources,” he added. The achievements of the NDE in the various programmes nationwide, he continued, “is an eloquent testimony that the efforts of the Federal Government are yielding satisfactory results. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL “Let me emphasise that the NDE, in giving out this empowerment/resettlement loan equipment and tools together with cash components, expects it to be used judiciously. “It is also expected that the beneficiaries should be able to pay back the loan within the repayment period to enable others who are still in training as well as those who have graduated to benefit.” Speaking earlier in his welcome address, Mr. Onyeogo Sylvanus, the Delta State NDE coordinator said the EBTS is one of the most important schemes of the SPW programme, because of its significant role in the “quest to win the war against unemployment in Nigeria. “We are all aware that the government alone cannot provide jobs for all unemployed persons in the country. However, it is pertinent to note that providing the enabling environment for the unemployed to acquire vocational and entrepreneurial skills to create a pool of entrepreneurs and become employers of labour is the only way to solve the unemployment problem in Nigeria. The disbursement of basic working equipment and tools, he stressed, “is paramount as it will help the trainees to prove the efficacy of the skills acquired, thereby making them to be self-employed and invariably employers of labour.” It “will go a long way in adding value to the lives of the participants since they have been fully involved in income-generating activities by practising the acquired skills,” he added. The event was also attended by State’s Commissioner for Environment, Chief Godspower O. Asiuwhu, as well as NDE board members, Collins Mukoro and Mr. Andrew Egunome. Dr Andrew Egunoma a board member of the Directorate, during his goodwill message advised the beneficiaries to ensure the tools disbursed are well maintained because there are some people out there into the Hard landscaping that can’t afford the tools and end up renting them.