….As He Pleads For Forgiveness The pan Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has expressed concern over the upsurge in terrorism following the completion of the 2023 general elections, and challenged President Muhammadu Buhari who has recently asked Nigerians forgiveness to tackle the menace. The organisation has in a press statement on Tuesday through its National Publicity Secretary, Comrade Jare Ajayi, Afenifere stated that the series of attacks on defenceless people and the subversion of economic activities in various parts of the country give Nigerians concern especially as Buhari moves towards the handing over of power on May 29, 2023. According to Afenifere, having observed the kidnapping and banditry that ebbed during the general elections in February and March this year resumed shortly after the conclusion of the elections in March, we call on the authorities to ensure that the situation is quickly brought under control. “Instances of kidnapping, killings and other forms of banditry were cited in Osun, Ekiti, Ondo, Ogun, Niger, Edo, Ebonyi, Nasarawa, Kaduna, Zamfara States and a host of others. The organisation regretted that apart from kidnapping people on highways, bandits now have the effrontery to go and abduct people from their homes as happened to one Adebukola in Ondo State, to a former deputy governor of Nasarawa State, Prof Onje Gye-Wado, to the driver of the incumbent Nasarawa State deputy governor, to one Muhammadu Jibril in Ago Igbira, Osun State and to over 100 students of Federal Government College, Yauri, Kebbi State, who were abducted from their hostels, to mention a few.”  Afenifere recalled that the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, while speaking in Katsina this April, stated that the federal government will soon be deploying electronic digital technology to ensure a 24/7 inch by inch surveillance of the 4,500 kilometers borderline from the eastern part to the western part including the coastlines of the country. The pan Yoruba organisation wondered why the government of President Buhari is just thinking of taking such a step when it is about one month for it to go, stressing that the fate of those in the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) is still hanging in the balance. “With the plea by President Buhari for those he might have hurt to pardon him, it would have been much better if the president had listened to various advice and pleas being made to him over the years regarding the unfriendly, if not retrogressive, steps his administration had taken.  “The maxim has it that ‘to err is human, to forgive is divine.’ Without deceiving ourselves, the Nigerian government under the outgoing President certainly ‘hurt’ a lot of people (to use his own word).  “Some of them are no longer alive. Some who are alive have wounds that can hardly ever heal, both physical and psycho-social wounds. Because the Almighty created many humans to have large hearts, many whom the President had hurt may forgive him. That is for those who are alive. But then, what about thousands who have died as a result of avoidable acts that can easily be traced to the government such as non-provision of security and welfare as clearly enshrined in the Constitution?” Afenifere submitted that many people may be inclined to forgive Mr. President and change their notions of him if, within the remaining 33 days he has left in the office, he can bring dramatic changes in policies that are making lives difficult for Nigerians.