Oyo State governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, declared on Sunday that he had fulfilled all agreements he entered into with the coalescing political parties that aided his election in 2019. The governor said that a lot of those who accused him of breaching the agreement reached with the parties who went into a coalition with him in 2019 did not have their facts. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that Makinde while addressing a gathering of family, and political associates of former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chief Micheal Adeniyi Koleosho, who celebrated his 85th birthday, at his residence in Bolajoko Estate, General Gas Area, Akobo, Ibadan, said that he had fulfilled all agreements he entered into leading to the 2019 election. He said that a lot of people who wanted to make the 2019 coalition agreement an issue in the buildup to 2023 election had no knowledge of the issues, adding that in the end, the will of God triumphed. He said: “The impression I want to correct is that there are people that were not there when we were making the agreement but went on air before the last election and started saying Makinde did not honour the agreement.” The governor described the former SSG, as one of the best politicians that the state has ever produced. The statement further quoted the governor as saying that Chief Koleosho is one of his role models and that he has been following in his footsteps in politics.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Governor Makinde, who hailed the octogenarian’s support for his administration since he became governor in 2019, noted that Koleosho was one of the leaders who facilitated a coalition of political parties that supported him and that he was glad that he has fulfilled his promises to all the parties. POLL The governor also declared at the occasion that the resuscitation of the Technical College, Saki is one of his programmes under Omituntun 2.0, as according to him, the institution would promote vocational education. The governor equally presented the gift of a brand new Toyota Landcruiser Jeep to the celebrant, praying to God to grant him more years and good health. The governor said: “I celebrate with our Baba, Chief Michael Adeniyi Koleosho, on this occasion of his 85th birthday. “If you are looking for my mentor, I can tell you that it is Baba. He has been my confidant and guide. After the election ended, we both sat down to talk about how to set agenda for Omituntun 2.0 to bring good governance to our people. “Baba has demonstrated to us that in any position we find ourselves, it is temporary and what is important is what we can contribute to the progress of our state and country. “At any point that he felt an issue should not face a particular direction, Baba would call me to talk about it and we would get back on track. “Baba told me the things I needed to do and not do. Several times, he told me he was no longer into active politics but in support of Seyi Makinde. So, when some people come to meet Baba to talk about politics that does not dovetail into my issue, he does not give any respect to such deliberation.” In his remarks, Chief Koleosho gave glory and adoration to God for attaining the age of 85, even as he called for peaceful co-existence among politicians in the state. He charged politicians in the state to shun politics of bitterness and think of what they can do for the state. While commending the leadership qualities of Governor Makinde, the octogenarian affirmed his unalloyed support for the state governor. Earlier in his sermon, Pastor Dr. Oluseyi Afolabi, who read from Psalm 103:1-5, admonished the celebrant to continue serving God and to avoid errors of the last minutes as he grows older. Dignitaries on the entourage of the governor included former Deputy Governor of the state and PDP Deputy National Chairman (South), Amb. Taofeek Arapaja; former Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu; the Head of Service, Alhaja Ololade Agboola, Commissioners and other political functionaries.