SYLVESTER ENOGHASE Energy transition in developing countries will require an unprecedented transformation of the power sector infrastructure, with scaling up of energy efficiency and renewable energy as well as a phasing down of coal-fired power generation. The new framework for this energy transition proposed by the recent International Monetary Fund (IMF)/World Bank meetings, titled: “Scaling Up to Phase Down”, serves as a roadmap to identify financing challenges and develop a comprehensive financing approach. The reports indicated that without the means to fund an energy transition and network infrastructure, developing countries often pay more for electricity; they cannot access energy efficiency or renewable energy projects, and are locked into fossil fuel projects with high and volatile costs. In essence, they face a triple penalty for their energy transition that becomes a poverty trap. According to the report, World Bank Group estimates that low- and middle-income countries host 89 percent of the approximately $1 trillion in global coal-fired power generation at risk of being stranded. David Malpass, the World Bank Group President, said: “To fund a just power transition will require much higher capital flows than are being mobilised today in order to meet the growth needed in lower carbon electricity production. “Accelerating the energy transition toward lower carbon sources while providing reliable access to electricity for businesses and people will require verifiable emission reduction financing, close partnership with the private sector, and significantly higher funding, especially concessional resources” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The World Bank Group is supporting reforms to strengthen the energy sector and business environment, investments in new capacity and energy efficiency, grid upgrades to absorb intermittent renewables, and funding and technical support to address the social challenges of the transition.” POLL He added: “Scaling Up to Phase Down” sets out the challenges facing developing countries seeking to transition their power sectors, in order to identify pathways to address these issues. “Three key barriers prevent developing countries from accelerating their energy transition. First, renewable energy projects entail prohibitively high upfront capital costs, and many countries lock themselves into costly and high carbon energy choices with inefficient energy subsidies. Second, developing countries face a high cost of capital that distorts their investment choices away from renewables. And third, weak energy sector fundamentals—especially institutional capacities—hinder the scaling of the transition.” Malpass noted that the framework distils the energy transition into a “virtuous cycle” of six steps that are foundational for overcoming barriers to renewable energy. “The cycle starts with government leadership, which is translated to a supportive regulatory environment, increasingly capable institutions, and instruments to minimise risks, followed by transparent and competitive project allocation, which can deliver renewable energy that serves urgent needs, including energy security, energy affordability, and jobs,” he said. Guangzhe Chen, World Bank Vice President for Infrastructure, said: “Widespread energy transformation in developing countries requires continuous, strategic engagement and far more coordination among governments, investors, and partners than exists presently. “The World Bank can play a vital role in getting the virtuous cycle started through supporting  governments with low-cost and concessional climate finance for transition preparation, utility and network strengthening, and funding affordable clean energy investments. The ‘Scaling Up to Phase Down’ approach also offers solutions for the politically and financially complex challenge of phasing out coal-fired power. Deeper planning can help mitigate stranded asset risks. Refinancing of coal plant liabilities can move retirement dates forward. Workers and communities that base their livelihoods on the coal economy must be ensured a just transition. Concessional support is needed to help countries capture more of the global benefits associated with coal phase down as a global public good. It would be recalled that the road is long and winding, but the facts show that global efforts are being made to improve the environment and the planet, with visible results. For the first time in Europe, for instance, more electricity is being produced from renewable sources than from fossil fuels, with Portugal occupying the 3rd position, an important stepping stone towards a more sustainable future. On which countries top the world ranking for renewable energy production, using electricity renewable energy sources is becoming a reality. Data from 2021 shows that almost 30% of the electricity consumed on the planet comes from renewable sources. This data was collected by consulting company Enerdata, which annually publishes a report on energy production and consumption worldwide and its environmental impact. The same report shows the largest producer of “clean” energy is Norway, where 99% of the energy produced comes from renewable sources. New Zealand, with 80.9% of renewable energy, surpassed Brazil (which fell one position compared to 2020 and currently ranks third with 78.4%) and takes second place. Portugal ranks 7th, having risen one position compared to 2020, with 65.5% of the energy generated from renewable sources. On why the move to renewable energy, one of the main reasons for this transition is the much lower carbon emission associated with renewable energy when compared to non-renewable. These emissions are the main culprits of climate change, leading to rising sea levels and atmosphere temperatures, and loss of biodiversity. The use of non-renewable energy sources harms the future of our planet. In response, ambitious environmental policies have been launched in the European Union, USA, China, India, Japan, and Australia. Decreasing technology costs in recent years has led to increased demand for renewable energy production. That is why developing countries alongside advanced economies can improve their production capabilities. On what are the most used renewable energy sources, wind and sun (sources of wind and solar power, respectively) are the fastest growing renewable energy sources. Data from the International Energy Agency’s Annual Report points to a 17% increase in wind energy, and to an 18% growth in solar energy in 2021 compared to the previous year. By 2021, energy production from renewable sources in Europe is 40.9%. In China, about 26% of the energy generated is renewable, and in the USA, India and Japan it’s about 17%. The road is long and winding, but the facts show that global efforts are being made to improve the environment and the planet, with visible results. For the first time in Europe, more electricity is being produced from renewable sources than from fossil fuels, with Portugal occupying the 3rd position, an important stepping stone towards a more sustainable future.