Atiku Bagudu, Governor of Kebbi State and Chairman of the Progressive Governors has said that elections are not a perfect means for recruiting leaders, given their many flaws and challenges. He, however, accepted that since the Nigerian State has adopted it in it constitution as the best available option, citizens would have no choice but to follow the prescription while refining it as the need arises. Speaking Wednesday morning shortly after a meeting of the Progressives Governors Forum held at Kebbi State Governors Lodge, the PGF Chairman said any other option canvassed by anybody is unconstitutional, treasonous and condemnable. While recognizing that elections are never perfect, he maintained having been adopted by the country as the best choice, aggrieved persons should consider the wider interest and follow the judicial option. He explained that acrimony and bickering has been the hallmarks of elections even in the so-called advance democracies, the USA. Bagudu said the meeting reviewed the performance of the party in the general election and its readiness for the forthcoming supplementary election. His words:“Progressive Govs Forum met this evening and reviewed our performance in the general elections and preparations for supplementary elections and also reviewed development within the polity and particularly, a few days ago we issued a statement condemning the treasonable call for interim government and that Nigeria’s democracy has prospered and that we are a beacon of light in Africa and in other countries.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We have seen elections that have been contested even in what you may call advanced democracy, USA, Bush v AlGore, Hillary Clinton and Trump, Trump and Biden, it has been, disagreement, bickering, acrimony but the system says those who are disenchanted should pursue the judicial option. POLL “And it has been the same in Nigeria, all the elections since Shehu Shagari has been disputed by one participant or the other and we take it that Nigerians are wiser and that Nigerians should consider the wider interest believing that democracy has won. “For those calling for Interim government, let them even define what they mean. We had election, somebody has been declared winner and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has been declared president elect. And he has declared his intentions to work with everybody, he has asked for support of everyone. And that’s what we want . “Elections are never perfect tool for recruiting leaders but that is the best so far and we have adopted it and tested it and we have achieved under it . ” So those who are calling for Interim Government or any means of changing leaders outside the constitution and against what the law provides are not doing so in the interest of the country. Infact it is treasonable and condemnable”. On the leadership of the 10th national assembly, the Kebbi State governor said the NASS has its independent system, noting however that most Senators elect and Reps-elect under the party are coming with vast experience that they can bring to bear to consolidate achievement of the party and strengthening the polity.