KANO – Outgoing Governor of Kano state, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on Monday appointed the former Chairman, Independent Electoral Commission INEC, as Chancellor of the state owned Sa’adatu Rimi University of Education, Kumbotso. Similarly, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje also approved the appointment of Oba Dr. Senator Moshood Olalekan Ishola Balogun Aliiwo as the Pro-Chancellor/Chairman of the Governing Council of the new University. The development was sequel to the receipt of operational license from the National Universities Commission (NUC), which recognized the institution as the 61st state university and 222nd university in the Nigerian university system. A statement by Malam Muhammad Garba, the state Commissioner for Information and Internal Affairs that was made available to INDEPENDENT in Kano on Monday revealed that other member of the council include, Dr. Muhammad Adamu Kwankwaso, Hajiya Zulaiha U M Ahmed, Dr. Ibrahim Yakubu Wunti, Dr. Halima Muhammad and Alhaji Sabi’u Bako. He said the appointment is in accordance with Part III Section 22 of the Sa’adatu Rimi University of Education Kumbotso Law which states that “there shall be a council which shall be the governing body of the university”, while Sections 1, 2 and 3 of the second schedule of the law provides that “the visitor, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje shall appoint the Chancellor, Pro chancellor/Chairma of the council and external members of the council.” Malam Garba added that in line with Sections 3(2) of the second schedule, the Pro Chancellor and External council members shall hold office for a period of 4 years, renewable for second and final tenure of another four years. Meanwhile, in accordance with Section 5 and Second Schedule of the University Law, the council has given approval for the appointment of principal officers by the visitor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, who will govern the operation of the university.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said the appointees are Prof. Isa Yahaya Bunkure, Provost Sa’adatu Rimi College of Education (SRCOE), Kumbotso, Vice Chancellor, Sa’adatu Rimi University of Education; Dr. Kabiru Ahmad Gwarzo, Deputy Provost (Academics) SRCOE, Kumbotso, Deputy Vice Chancellor; Dr. Miswaru Bello, Deputy Provost (Administration), SRCOE, Kumbotso, Deputy Vice Chancellor; Saminu Bello Zubairu, Registrar, SRCOE, Kumbotso, Registrar; Ibrahim Muhammad Yahaya, Bursar, SRCOE, Kumbotso, Bursar and Mabruka Abubakar Abba, College Librarian, SRCOE, Librarian. POLL The commissioner stated that while the appointment of the Vice Chancellor, Registrar, Bursar and Librarian are for a period of five years, the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academic), the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Administration) have a tenure of two years each.