SYLVESTER ENOGHASE The hardship faced by Nigerians with the scarcity and drastic hike in the price of PMS across the country have caused lasting harm to the nation’s economy, damaging growth, productivity, and investment. Specifically, it left deep and long-lasting scars which, without swift and bold policy action, could restrain growth into the future. But, to overcome the current challenges, the President of Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), Comrade (Engr.) Festus Osifo, has stated that “Functional local refineries will not only increase the nation’s revenue base, they will also provide more job opportunities for our youths as well as end the uncertainties in subsidy regimes and product importation.” Osifo, while addressing the recent National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the Association in Abuja, empathises with Nigerians on the hardship currently faced as a result of government policy on deregulation of the downstream sector He, however, called on the Federal Government to ensure functional local refineries for the nation’s economy to overcome the ongoing Subsidy Regimes. He said: “While maintaining our support for the full deregulation of the sector and acknowledging the significant milestones achieved in this regard, we counsel that efforts be made to increase the pace of the current refineries rehabilitation and get them back on stream in no time” According to him, “the national leadership of PENGASSAN has been following up with our members in NNPC Trading Limited who are responsible for assigning the products to marketers and our teaming members from NMDPRA in various depots and terminals across the country that are responsible for issuing cargo clearance, tracking compliance, route inspection, metering calibration/maintenance, accurate delivery to trucks, record keeping, etc. on the need to carry out their functions expeditiously. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We have called on the management of NMDPRA to compel all marketers and retailers to make the products available at approved prices. POLL “They should immediately mobilise all their staff in various locations across the country to track compliance, and anyone found wanting, should have their license immediately revoked. We will keep close tab on this. “Our Association re-states the commitments to continue its advocacy on the need to fix the Nation’s refineries and with the inclusion of PENGASSAN in the Steering Committee as set up by Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC); it shall continue the agitation for the rehabilitation of the four Refineries through engagement with other relevant stakeholders”. On anti-labour management in oil and gas, he said: We have observed with total dismay the in the sector to allow workers who have indicated interest to join the Association do so. The companies identified as notorious in this anti-worker posture and modern-day slavery from our investigations include; Bridgesite Nigeria Limited, Ofadri Nigeria Limited, Enasco Energy, Belema Oil Producing Limited, Daiik Enginering Limited, And Seplat Petroleum Development Company. “We will intensify effort and use the entire arsenal within our rights to make them to do the needful as it is within our right to do so”. On the state of the nation, the labour leader noted that the 2023 general election has been concluded with winners announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), but a lot of irregularities and violence marked the exercise in different parts of the country. “This was ascertained by several credible and local observers. The major flaw was the use of BVAS in uploading results into IRev “Nigerians hailed the introduction of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) and the Result Viewing Portal (IReV) as the game changer! Despite all the sacrifices made by ordinary Nigerians to go out and wait in long queues to obtain their PVCs, strenuously cast their votes and the billions of taxpayers’ money budgeted for the conduct of this election, INEC failed in meeting the expectations of Nigerians. “This failure on the part of INEC to upload results from polling units to IReV portal, climaxed an election that was challenged by late arrival of INEC personnel and materials in some areas, by-pass of BVAS in some cases, suppression of results and outright voters’ intimidation and coercion in many instances. “Despite the shortcomings, we hereby appeal to all those aggrieved by the election outcome to follow the provision of the law in seeking redress. The various tribunals must be charged to deliver justice to the satisfaction of all well-meaning Nigerians as they are the last hope of the teeming masses of the country,” he said. The labour leader, who argued that one of the hallmarks of democratic principles is obedience to the rules of law, however, said there are some ugly developments in this regard that point to the country’s leadership as practicing a dictatorial tendency, which was the hallmark of past military regimes and dark ages. “For any democracy to thrive, respect for the law and human rights, as well as adherence to institutions established to shape the country are key. Flagrant disregard for any of these often weakens democratic tenets. “Surprisingly, it is same individuals who have sworn oath to discharge their duties to the best of their ability, but are now confidently disobeying the constitution, and disregarding the order of the courts thereby making a mockery of us all. “Equally sad were cases of selective interpretation and implementation of Courts judgments which we also see as retrogressive and undemocratic. “Consequently, as this administration prepares to wind-down, we advise that all judicial pronouncements and judgments should be addressed or cleared before the incoming regime resumes. “We demand that the head of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), IGP and the Attorney General of the Federation should obey the court’s pronouncements issued against them or be ready to be committed to the correctional center as no one individual or entity should be above the law”. On the Standard of living, the PENGASSAN President stated that most Nigerian citizens have been living pathetic. “Poverty and crime are rampant on the back of unemployment of more than 60 percent of those that are able and willing to work. Despite promises by successive governments, the country remains in darkness due to a lack of power thereby stifling the growth and investment that are so badly needed to create jobs and lift people out of poverty. “Recall that Nigeria started its journey of independence about th same time as countries like Malaysia, South Korea, and Singapore, to name a few. All these countries have long overtaken us despite our oil wealth and joined the league of industrialized countries. “The high cost of living and other economic issues have combined to worsen the current situation, leading to an increase in the country’s poverty index. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, 133 million Nigerians are multi-dimensionally poor out of over 200 million citizens. “This is against the fact that the country is endowed with human and natural resources. The failure of the previous and the current leaders to manage the resources of the state has resulted in the failure in governance. “One would be correct if said that the past 63 years have been the story of leadership that has failed its people and the nation is tending towards a failed state. “Our hospitals are dangerously unequipped, with doctors armed only with stethoscopes and drips while the rest of the world is racing ahead with modern technology. “We challenge the new government to do things differently by caring and valuing the lives of the citizens. We are recommending that key ministries should be headed by professionals and experts as political party loyalty or membership should not be a yardstick for ministerial and institutional appointments”. On currency swap controversies, he said: While the recent currency redesigning may be well-intentioned, especially against vote-buying at the just-concluded general elections. “Planners and handlers miscalculated the overarching effect on the masses, and ran afoul of the common good of the masses of the country. “The unnecessary anguish, compounded misery, frustration, protests, arson, and general instigation of anarchy should have been avoided where all key actors – the presidency, the Central Bank, commercial banks and other financial institutions were more discretionary. “Nigerians have been betrayed by the banking system which has been unable to pay them their money on demand. “They have also been failed by the Federal Government which unilaterally decided to change the three highest denominations of the currency, fixed dates for the change, and is utterly incapable either to deliver on its promises or protect the populace from financial strangulation. We sympathize with Nigerians for the avoidable pains. “Therefore, PENGASSAN demands that CBN should flood the banks and ATMs with more Naira notes to ease off the sufferings of Nigerians”.