Several youths of Bayelsa State on Wednesday carried out a solidarity walk in support of the second-term bid of Governor Douye Diri and his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, in Yenagoa, the state capital. Wearing different branded T-shirts and face caps embossed with the images of Diri and Ewhrudjakpo, and chanting solidarity songs, the youths numbering over 4,000 commenced the 15-kilometer walk from the Etegwe-Edepie roundabout and terminated at the Peace Park, opposite the Government House, where they all gathered. Diri had on April 12 emerged as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at its primary election held in Yenagoa to contest for second tenure at the November 11, 2023 governorship polls. He was the only aspirant for the party’s ticket during the exercise. At the event, many youths who defected from the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) publicly dumped the party’s symbol of broom and were officially received by the state secretary of the PDP, Gesiye Isowo, who handed them over to the governor. The governor’s Special Adviser on Political Matters, Collins Cocodia, said the youths were delighted with the skills and empowerment schemes of the administration and decided to stage the solidarity walk as a demonstration of their appreciation to him. “They are of the firm belief that you (Governor Diri) are doing well and also taking good care of them. Just yesterday, you empowered a lot of them. And they felt that this morning they will have a walk to say ‘a very big thank you’ to you. They have felt the positive sides of the Prosperity Government and they are very comfortable. They are of the firm belief that for one good turn, you deserve another one,”he said. Addressing the youths, Diri said that his administration had a covenant with the youths of Bayelsa to take development to all parts of the state while entrenching peace and unity, and implementing programmes for the prosperity of the people.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL He said his government would continue to ensure that the state was economically viable and youths were no longer drug peddlers and gunrunners used by desperate politicians to achieve their selfish agenda. The governor said,”We have a covenant with you. Our covenant with you is to develop Bayelsa in terms of infrastructure, human capacity building; and that has to do with our youths and women. And you know we have started this long ago since we assumed office. “We will continue to do that and our people will be economically viable; our youths will not be drug peddlers; our youths will not be gunrunners; our youths can compete with any youth outside Bayelsa State. Our youths are very brilliant youths, we will develop their skills in skills acquisition. So anybody who is bringing you (youths) back to Egypt when you have left Egypt, tell them that you are not going back to Egypt. Forward ever, backward never. “We want to build a road to Brass, we want to build a road to Akassa. We want to build a road to Agge, we want to see light in Agge. We want to see our youths attend skills acquisition (programmes); we want to see our youths attending technical colleges. Those dark days are over in Bayelsa and I’m happy that youths are organising this.” He welcomed the PDP returnees back him and assured them that all their privileges would be restored as they had become part and parcel of the political family. While urging the youths to preach peace and unity at all times, and jealousy guard Bayelsa against violence and brigandage, Diri stressed that “none of you here is worth my blood.” The governor thanked them for the show of support and solidarity, saying the event was like an ambush by the youths as he and his deputy neither had any hint nor any form of discussions about it.