ASABA – Warri Wolves Fc and Delta Queens of Asaba have been crowned Champions of the 2023 Delta State Football Association, (DFA) Cup finals. In the women’s final, 2022 National Aiteo Cup Finalist, Delta Queens of Asaba thrashed Royal Queens of Warri 3-0 to prove their superiority in state contest after their unbeaten run record in the just concluded regular season of the Nigeria Women Football League Premiership (NWFL). The women league highest goal scorer, Mercy Omokwo lone goal and Cynthia Mega brace goal made up all time Delta women’s FA Cup Champions victorious after all three goals came in the second half. Coach of Delta Queens, Tosan Bob Blankson in an interview said that he has been able to meet up three of his set target and he can now focus on the big one, the Super Six Competition coming up shortly to determine the overall champions of the National Women Football League (NWFL). Accordng to the Coach, ‘we have won the regular league season (Group A) of the NWFL Premiership and qualified for the Super Six tournament and now champions of the DFA Cup, all in one week. Our target now, is to win the Super Six Competition in the month of May, we shall keep working hard to achieve our target”. In the men’s final match, Warri Wolves Football Club defeated hard fighting 2022 finalist Osevan Football Club of Kwale 2-0 to win the title. The two sides opened the encounter in a hurry to undo each other, but it was Warri Wolves who drew the first blood‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Izuchukwu Christian broke the deadlock in the 43rd minutes with a fast strike after Wolves failed to convert begging chances. POLL Malik Jabbar compounded the woes for Osevan Football Club in the 54th minutes from a corner kick that resulted to a rebound after a good effort by the goal keeper. It was Wolves third triumph in recent times and they have qualified to represent Delta State at 2023 National Federations Cup Tournament. In an interview, Coach Jolomi Atune of Warri Wolves, commended his boys for the feat achieved, but said the focus now is on the Nigeria National league ( NNL) and the Aiteo Cup Competition. High point of the colourful ceremony held at the Stephen Keshi stadium in Asaba, was the presentation of Medals, trophies and other awards to the winners by the Delta State Sports Commission boss Tonobok Okowa and Chief Solomon Ogba, Vice chairman Nigeria Olympic Committee.