UYO  – The Commissioner for Works and Fire Service, Akwa Ibom State, Prof Eno Ibanga has been decorated Honourary Special Marshall by the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC). The Corp Marshal of FRSC, Abuja, CM Boboye Oyeyemi carried out the exercise at the headquarters of the Akwa Ibom State Ministry of Works and Fire Service in Uyo at the weekend. Represented by the Porthar­court Zonal Commander of the Corps, ACM Owoade Jonathan, the FRSC Boss said the special honour was in recognition of the Works Commissioner’s per­sonal contributions to the state Command. He said the honour was also in recognition of Prof Ibanga’s commitment to supervising the building of good roads across the state. A development he said, has aided safety of road users in Akwa Ibom State. Oyeyemi who described Akwa Ibom as one of safest states and most pleasurable state to drive in, by long distant drivers in Nigeria, said the news of Pro­fessor Eno Ibanga’s support to the Akwa Ibom State command of the Corps is pleasing to the head­quarters of FRSC. In his words, “Akwa Ibom State is one of the safest states in this country and for long dis­tance drivers, immediately you enter Akwa Ibom, the ride be­comes very pleasurable because of good roads and near absence of portholes on the highways’ ‘. Speaking further, Oyeyemi said that road safety is a shared responsibility of all citizens, and thanked the Works Commission­er for playing his own role.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Responding shortly after be­ing decorated, Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Works and Fire Service, Prof Eno Ibanga dedicated the honour to his boss, Governor Udom Emmanuel. POLL Prof Ibanga said Governor Udom Emmanuel, since assump­tion of office in 2015 has ensured safety and serenity in Akwa Ibom State. A development he said has ensured safety of road users, and made the state a destination of choice in the country. “The real beauty of a state or city is safety. That is why I ded­icate this honour to Governor Udom Emmanuel. Since our Governor assumed office in 2015, the safety and serenity of Akwa Ibom State has always topped his agenda. Akwa Ibom State is cur­rently retaining the batch as the cleanest state in Nigeria for the third year, and the safety of this state in the committee of states in the country is what has made us the destination of choice in Nigeria of today”. He said The former Akwa Ibom Uni­versity Vice Chancellor hinted that the current state govern­ment has constructed hundreds of roads, and will soon commis­sion about twenty new roads to enhance hitch free movement across the state. The Commissioner however shared in the sentiments of the road safety officials who noted that the encroachment of major roads and highways across the state by traders, is inimical to the safety of road users. He hinted that the state government at the last state executive council meet­ing had taken a drastic decision to permanently relocate traders from the highways.