Barely eight months before the Kogi State governorship election scheduled for November this year, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders have said that the party at the national is undermining PDP chances of winning the State governorship election. The stakeholders raised alarm over the alleged manipulation of the delegates’ list for the primary election. The stakeholders, who protested against the alleged manipulation while addressing newsmen in Abuja, threatened to work against the party during the governorship election if the right is not done. They insisted that the presidential candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar is behind what’s happening in the state party, Inspite of his denial on Tuesday. The Kogi PDP stakeholders, led by a former Chairman of Olamaboro local government area in the state, Farouk Adejoh, claimed that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP was influencing the process to facilitate the emergence of Dino Melaye, the campaign spokesman of Atiku during the Presidential election. He said: “Our major opponent in the election is our party itself, the people in this national Secretariat and some leaders of the party who are notorious for peddling interests. “We were very happy that our flagbearer, has responded to allegations and criticisms that he is behind those manipulations. He has said that he’s not involved with the manipulations and that he has no preferred candidates in Kogi state governorship race but he must go beyond those words.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We know that Sen. Abdul Ningi is his boy. We shall not agree that Abdul Ningi will come to Kogi state and run away with result sheets and begin to write strange names as delegates. If he doesn’t know then we are telling him that the person responsible is Abdul Ningi and Ningi is his boy. POLL “Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as our flag bearer is the leader of the party today. Atiku Abubakar should call Abdul Ningi or anyone to order today for the right thing to be done. “All we are asking for is that Atiku Abubakar should in the name of God, go beyond denial and ensure that not one single name among delegates is changed. The names allocated to Dino is 185. That is the known ones. If you want to give it to Dino, then don’t sell the forms. “We are calling on Atiku, we have heard his denial but we don’t believe him. As a party leader, he has influence over this secretariat. “This is what pushed Peter Obi out of PDP and this cost us so much in this election. If Peter Obi were in PDP, whether he was running mate or not, we would not have lost Eastern Nigeria, which was naturally our catchment area. “They did a delegate election and this Secretariat changed the names of delegate list of Anambra state, and Peter Obi faces with disgrace in that election, because strange people were brought into the list in Anambra state, Peter Obi left the PDP and today we are at the mercy of the court and INEC. “If you go and manipulate the Congress list, so that you can award easy victory to one of the candidates, what do you intend to do with the tickets. “When you manipulate crudely in such a primitive manner, what do you intend to do with the tickets. Who will come and work for you when you didn’t win the primarys. “Possibly there could be an agreement between them with some people that they don’t want PDP to win our state, that could be the only reason. The person they are going to give the tick will use the tick and be trading and collecting money from people.” The stakeholders further begged the party leadership to stop pushing people out of the party. They said: “We are begging this national secretariat that push Peter Obi out of PDP that this time around, they should not push people out of PDP. We have stayed constant in PDP. The person they are trying to manipulate this ticket for has ran away from our party several times. He keeps going and coming. Some of us have been here and we don’t have any other party to go to. “We have come to cry out that you should help us tell the world that even before the contest in Kogi starts, the PDP is undermining its own fortune in our state. It is our party that is about to defeat our party in our state, not even the APC, by manipulating the delegates list . “We now believe that even if we go for primaries, they will try to manipulate the process so that their preferred candidate will emerge. Everybody knows this candidate. It is very disheartening. The preferred candidate of the leadership of this party happens to be one man called Daniel Melaye alias Dino, who was the mascot of the PCC. “I heard the entire list from my local government has been changed. One man called Bature just sit down and changed everything. “The NOS we are told, has changed our list because he has a friend whom they were together in the National Assembly. The person wrote a list and gave it to him. The one we brought from the list, DSS was there, Police was there, INEC was there and they signed the result. But that result has been changed at the national secretariat.” But Melaye, in a swift reaction, said that the allegations are imaginary and far from the truth. He said that the protesters became frustrated after they had sought to manipulate the ward congress and failed, adding that “the accusation that Atiku is trying to manipulate the results in my favour is also far from the truth.”