Few days after the Imo State Council of Elders formalised and adopted the State Charter of Eq­uity for rotation of power among the three Senatorial zones, a cross section of society has lauded the move. Among those applauding the action of the elders are labour leaders, traders, civil society or­ganisations and students, who have backed the Imo Charter of Equity “unanimously adopted” by the Imo State Council of El­ders to clear the way for smooth transfer and rotation of the office of governor among the three Sen­atorial zones of Okigwe, Orlu and Owerri. Also, they have okayed the re-election bid of Governor Hope Uzodimma, who they said has done so well to deserve re­election. Chairman of the Elders Council, Eze Cletus Illomuanya, presented a copy of the Charter to Governor Uzodinma last week, describing it as “a panacea to ran­cour and heat usually associated with the quest for the governor­ship seat of Imo State.” The Council disclosed that the Charter has programmed power swing such that having completed a second term in 2028, Uzodimma would hand over to a successor from Owerri Zone, while Okigwe Zone takes over after eight years. The three Senatorial Districts in Imo are unevenly distributed. Okigwe consists of just six Lo­cal Governments Areas, Owerri Nine LGAs, while Orlu has 12 and therefore has an unfair advantage of winning the governorship.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ But under the Charter, Ow­erri and Okigwe zones, too, can produce the governor with un­precedented ease. Some labour leaders are already applauding the Charter, insisting it suits the realities in Imo and must not be disturbed. POLL “Quite alright, I believe in the Charter of Equity, but the Char­ter of Equity does not replace a performing governor,” said Nzen­wata Francis Iheanacho, former Chairman, Joint Health Sector Unions, JOHESU. “It is always good for power to rotate but it has to be properly ar­ranged. So that Charter of equity cannot displace the person there now who is performing very well. After his second tenure, another zone can take it up,” he added. Richard Eze, State President Nigeria Union of Local Govern­ment Employees (NULGE), Imo State, stated: “[On] the issue of Charter of Equity, we are also in support that after his (Uzodim­ma’s) eight years, by the Grace of God, the power should shift to Owerri Zone, and when Owerri Zone takes care of their eight years, it should also go down to Okigwe Zone. “When it rotates that way, it will stop what we call bickerings and acrimony. It will also reduce the cost of campaigning so that every zone where the governor­ship is zoned will go in and get their best. So, that is why, on behalf of local government em­ployees in Imo State, we are also supporting this Charter of equity endorsed by the Imo Elders Coun­cil. We are also endorsing it on our own.” For Ifeanyi Nwanguma, Chairman NUJ, Imo State Coun­cil, the Charter of equity is in order, “but the governor is doing very well. So it is wrong to change a good player in the middle of the game. Let him complete his sec­ond term, then the power shifts to the Owerri Zone as stated by the Imo Elders Council. So I think they should encourage him to have a second term. Then the power will go to Owerri Zone, after Owerri, it will come to Oki­gwe.”