Archbishop John Adebayo Alagbala Osa-Oni is the Prelate and Archbishop of the Vineyard Christian Churches Inc., with other networks of Churches scattered around the world. He is presently the Vice President, South West Zone, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN). His ministry, Vineyard Christian Church, recently celebrated its 35 years of missionary and evangelical work in and outside Nigeria. He took time off to speak with EJIKEME OMENAZU on his life in ministry. Excerpt: How did your journey into the ministry start and the challenges so far? I got saved on February 13, 1972. Then, the moment you are saved, the zeal, hunger and boldness to witness the gospel to others comes on you and before you know it, you are on the field witnessing about Jesus Christ and the kingdom of God. There and then, I got involved in village evangelism. We went to many rural areas, like Iseyin, Shaki and some interior places in Edo for evangelism. As students, anytime we had a little break, we were on the move. It was very fantastic and adventurous. To me, giving my life to Christ is the best thing that has ever happened to me in life. This was because I won’t know where I would have been, if Jesus Christ had not saved me. Salvation had been the primary drive of my life into the ministry. How was your journey into the ministry? The call of God in my life was confirmed by Pa S.G. Elton in 1985. Then, I just came back from abroad after running away from the country to about five different countries to see where I can live. But, God spoke to me and said, He did not send me to those countries, then I returned back to Nigeria. It was after my return, I met Pa Elton and since then, God has been good to me. In 1985, Pa S. G Elton reconnected me to the man I had always loved and appreciated, the late Archbishop (Prof.) Benson Idahosa, who had been there for me till now. For me, though, he was late, but he lives on. I still listen to his messages. Anytime I do that, it sends fresh wrinkles and a pulse into my system, refreshes and keeps me strong. That is why ministry of media is fantastic and a lifetime thing. After my encounter with Pa Elton in Ilesha, I came back to Lagos. Before my arrival in Lagos, my friend and pastor, Rev. Dr. Tunde Joda, had come to my house at Papa Ajao in Mushin area where I lived and dropped a note. In the note, he invited me to come and join him as one of his Associate Pastors. I don’t know how God spoke to him, but he was my prayer partner on campus at the University of Lagos. He was the man that God used to strengthen me to pray and to read, and for that, I cannot forget Dr. Tunde Joda who I finally worked with. It was on January 1, 1986 that I quit my secular job and went into full-time ministry. Since then, it has been a journey of no return. There were many ups and downs, the roads were tough and the journey has not been easy, but God has always been there. When you pass through one hustle and it is like the challenges are over, before you move to another level there is a bridge ahead that you must cross. I have taken life as progressive, the journey of life is a journey of mindset and so you keep moving. No man lacks strength, everyone has strength, what every man lacks is will, the will power to do whatever they want to do. No one lacks strength and strength is always available everywhere; the means to act is the missing link. In February 1987, I heard the voice of the Lord to leave Dr. Joda and Christ Chapel International Church (CCIC). It was not easy to quit. After quitting, I stayed at home for about a year plus. But for a while, I was going to friends’ churches to preach, some invited me, including Baptist Churches where I had friends as priests. In April 1988, a year and about two months after I had been staying at home, Vineyard Christian Ministry was born. Meanwhile, one good thing when I was staying at home was that I came across the contact of a pastor in Dallas, Dr. Tilton. He was one of the powerful ministers in Dallas. So, I decided to make a request and wrote him a letter to order his tapes and books. He shipped a carton of his books and tapes to me. When my wife goes to work, I will remain alone in the house and be eating the stuff shipped to me. My wife was then working as a Management Accountant for John Holt. She had been an Accountant and a Chartered Accountant since 1982. She is from the family of Oshinubi in Ijebu, a blessed family with a good background. In summary, I am an epitome of God’s grace and my life is all about God. Sometimes, I look back and see where I was coming from. Who do I know or connected with, except God and He had been fantastic to me? There is nothing you want to be or achieve in life that He will not make it happen, if you learn to trust and depend on Him. I cannot do, but to always thank God for my life. How did you start Vineyard Christian Ministry? April 3, 1988, Vineyard Gospel Church was established by inspiration and leadership of God with the vision to raise people of destiny, faith and prosperity and recently we celebrated her 35 years of existence. In 1988, when we started, we were using an uncompleted building at No, 16, Owo Street, off Layi Oyekanmi Street, Mushin. Then, when we started, I could not afford a candlestick and I will be the only one praying. But, today, God has been good. We have been privileged to raise men and women, some have come and gone, but God has never left. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Compare your zeal as a young convert to what is obtained today among young converts? POLL For me, the zeal is still there, I am even more on fire. With what I have seen so far, I know that I have enjoyed the grace of God. But, my best is yet to come and I am going to live up to old age, according to the word of God. I have the assurance that long life is my portion. There are still many things to do, many grounds to cover with much land still need to be discovered. There is no need for comparison, because it is generations apart. What is applicable and obtainable then is not the same as today. It was not the same experience, exposure and encounter. But, that does not stop the zeal neither quenched the fire. There is no one that is pure and perfect; we are all raw materials in making. We should leave everybody at the level of their growth, life is in phases, not in sizes. Was there any time you felt like giving up in the ministry? There has never been a time I want to give up. But, we have gone through some challenges as a ministry. For instance there was a time we came down from 3,000 plus to less than 200. The people left. At a point, we secured this place with the assistance of the now President-elect, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, while he just came in as Lagos State governor. He went on the television and radio to declare that based on information available to him, the land at Osolo Way belonged to Vineyard Church and Bishop Osa-Oni, therefore, it was released to them. God used him magnanimously to release this land to us and no sooner, we got the Certificate of Occupancy (C of O). Also, thank God for others God used to assist in securing this place. When the people left, God stood by us and how this place was built, was only by God. He used people within and outside the church and the country, including non-Christians to support this building. To me, it is the Lord’s doing and it is marvelous in our sight, this is why I open the door to any Christian body that wants to make use of it for their programmes. How can you describe your exciting and challenging moment in the ministry? I am always excited. For over 35 years now, any time I wake up in the morning, I don’t speak to anyone until I declare Psalm 118: 23, ‘This is the day that the Lord has made, I will rejoice and be glad in it’. I don’t even respond to my wife’s greetings in the morning if she greets me, until I do that. I am passionate and principled about it. That is where the excitement begins. Whether I have money or not, I am excited and money does not dictate my joy. When you understand that God is overwhelming God, He provides what you cannot afford, you will always be excited and never complain. God has been so good to me in many ways. When I got married it was another level of challenge. My wife and I had never had sex before marriage and I promised her that a month after our wedding, she would get pregnant, but that did not happen until five years after our wedding. The worst ridicule and shame any pastor can go through is when you minister and bless others and it happens in their lives and not so in your life and family. During this period, it was excruciating pain and not easy at all. The same womb they diagnosed to have multiple fibroid and could not bring forth a child, was the same womb that brought forth four biological children, two boys and two girls without going through surgery. Before then, we had started adopting some children. They are doing fine and we give them the very best care we can. Today, we are grateful, fulfilled, satisfied and rejoicing but the best is yet to come.