JOS – Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong has inaugurated 13-Man Central Planning Committee for the Handing Over and Swearing-in of the incoming Government which will take over from his Rescue Administration on 29th May 2023. While performing the ceremony at the Victoria Gowon Hall, new Government House Little Rayfield Jos, the Governor assured that he will hand over to his successor in a seamless and rancour-free manner. While thanking the citizens of Plateau State for their active participation in the political process and conducting themselves responsibly, the Governor said the Central Planning Committee whose membership is drawn from the out-going Rescue Administration is expected to be joined by members to be nominated from the incoming Government to work out details of programmes for the Handing and Taking Over of the affairs of the State in an orderly, smooth and coordinated manner. He said “the Committee is expected to work painstakingly, cooperatively and in one accord for the success of the transition programme. As always, the work of the Committee should result in the staging of a transition programme that will be one of the best in the country. This will in effect give the incoming Government an opportunity to start on the right footing and with fewer challenges. The SGS is further directed to liaise with the Governor-elect to nominate members from his side to join the committee to carry out the assignment”. The Governor also directed the Secretary to the Government of the State to ensure that all MDAs give total support to the Committee in ensuring that it carries out the task before it. He urged the Committee members to work together without allowing personal or political sentiments to becloud their sense of judgment and contributions during the exercise. The Governor appealed to the citizens to continue to be law abiding and shun all acts that will cause a breach of peace. “We should all realise that the elections are over and the business of governance is about to end for the Rescue Administration and to commence for the incoming government. Therefore, there is no need for over-heating the polity with political statements, unsubstantiated speculations, insinuations and rhetoric that appear to cast aspersions on the Government, civil servants and other appointees”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Lalong also warned politicians to refrain from going about making bogus claims that are misleading and capable of creating tension in the State. POLL He assured that at the right time, his administration shall put its record on the table for posterity to judge because it has nothing to hide. “May I also use this opportunity to remind all civil servants and appointees that we have up till the 29th of May 2023 to complete our mandate as stipulated by our constitution. As such, we shall not tolerate any act of sabotage, disregard to directives and flagrant violation of government guidelines and regulations. Anyone found to be involved in such acts will not be spared and should blame himself for whatever consequences that might follow,” he warned civil servants and appointees. Chairman of the Committee and Secretary to the Government of the State Prof. Danladi Abok Atu assured that the Committee will work hard together with the nominees from the incoming Government to carry out the assignment to the best of their ability. The Committee is headed by members Professor Danladi Atu Secretary to the state government with 12 others as members of the transition committee.