YENAGOA – Several youths of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, on Friday, embarked on a solidarity walk in Yenagoa to celebrate the victory of the President-elect and Vice President-elect, Bola Tinubu and Kashim Shettima, at the February 25 presidential election. Led by the state APC youth leader, Preye Agama and his counterparts from the 105 wards and eight local government areas of the state, they chanted solidarity songs while stating that the emergence of Tinubu and Shettima meant a new dawn for the country. The youths started the solidarity walk from the Etegwe-Edepie roundabout and stopped at the state party secretary around the Baybridge Junction in Kpansia axis of the state capital, where they were received by the party’s state chairman, Dennis Otiotio, and other party chieftains. According to Agama, the exercise was a deliberate show of appreciation by the youths of Bayelsa State for the electoral victory of Tinubu, describing the presidential and and National Assembly balloting as most transparent and credible. He said that despite the dissenting voices from some opposition candidates, the polls were the best the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had conducted in recent times. Agama said, “Our solidarity walk is to celebrate the personnel of security agencies, INEC and other stakeholders that participated in the elections. This is the best elections handled by the INEC. The outcome showed high level of transparency.” Also speaking, a chieftain of the APC, Jude Tabai, expressed gratitude to a former militant leader in the Niger Delta, Asari Dokubo, for supporting the Bayelsa youths to carry out the solidarity walk and described him as “a pyramid of the Niger Delta.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In his remarks, the state APC chairman, Dennis Otiotio, commended the youths for coming out in their numbers for the solidarity walk and urged the party’s youth wing to work together in unity to ensure victory in the forthcoming November 11 governorship election in the state. POLL He noted that though the APC lost the presidential election in the state, the party was working towards defeating second-term seeking Governor Douye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party at the next election. Otiotio said, “In the next (governorship) election, the APC will be ready to defeat Governor Douye Diri for rigging us out. You are aware that in past elections, in all local government areas, the PDP rigged the elections. We would have won about 14 seats of the State House of Assembly. In places we were winning, they came with the police, the Nigerian military and rigged us out. “We are happy that President Buhari has concluded his good works successfully and he will surely hand over to President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. “When Tinubu came to Bayelsa during the last campaigns, he told the traditional rulers that he had conquered the Atlantic Ocean and he will replicate it in Bayelsa by conquering the flood affecting the state. He will surely do it.”