Among the five cities enlisted to host the World Table Tennis, WTT Contender in 2023, the city of Lagos, Nigeria is the next on the calendar to play host to top table tennis players across the world. Since January when it started, the WTT Contender had been played in South Africa, India, Thailand and Jordan.In May, the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) World Table Tennis Championship Finals would be held in Durban from 20 to 28. While, in June, it will be the turn of Lagos, one of the cities that has been synonymous with hosting major table tennis tournaments having staged several continental and world title championships in the last 10 years. In preparation for the event, the Local Organising Committee (LOC) has named Dr Kweku Tandoh as the Event Director for the $75,000 prize money tournament taking place from June 12 to 18 at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Hall of Teslim Balogun Stadium. Apart from the prize money, players will be aiming for points for their Paris 2024 Olympic Games qualification. Apart from Tunis in Tunisia which had hosted two editions of the WTT Contender, and Durban in South Africa, Lagos will be the third African city to host the WTT Series. WTT is the ITTF’s commercial arm launched in 2020, and the chair of its Board Liu Guoliang is excited about the new cities staging WTT events.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “World Table Tennis’s future shines ever brighter in 2023, further demonstrating the global influence of this sport we love.” POLL “I hope more cities around the world, especially those beyond the traditional powerhouses, will play host to WTT events, experience the charm of table tennis through that and ultimately attract more people to participate in the sport. This has always been our most fundamental goal,” Liu said. ITTF Group chief executive Steve Dainton is encouraged about the sport’s prospects for 2023. “The first two years of World Table Tennis provided a learning experience, and more importantly a launchpad for the future growth that begins now. “As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to recede, the calendar for World Table Tennis will continue to grow.“Providing a worldwide, cutting-edge experience is the goal of World Table Tennis, and this year will show just how much we can deliver,” he said. The WTT Series features Contender and Star Contender events, Champions events for the best 32 men’s and women’s singles players and Grand Smashes, concluding with the end-of-season Cup Finals.Go.