IBADAN – Oyo North senatorial candidate of Accord, Hon. Shina Abiola Peller, has declared that the par­ty decided to go into coalition with Governor Seyi Makinde of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) due to the poor perfor­mance of Accord during the last presidential and national assembly elections. Peller made the disclosure while speaking at a stakehold­ers’ meeting of the party on Saturday in Ibadan, the state capital. The lawmaker, who cur­rently represents Iseyin/ Itesi­waju/Iwajowa/Kajola federal constituency, explained that he and other Accord chieftains in the state decided to form the coalition after the presidential and national assembly elections due to the failure of the party to win either senate or House of Representatives seats. He added that he told the gubernatorial candidate of the party, Adebayo Adelabu, that there was no way the party (Accord) can win the guberna­torial election when it failed to win either the senate or House of Representatives seats. He insisted that this was what prompted him and other chieftains of the party to form coalition with Makinde of PDP. He added that the state stake­holders’ meeting became nec­essary in order to chart a way forward for the progress of the party. Peller, while speaking fur­ther, maintained that tradition­al rulers from Oke Ogun zone called on all politicians in the region to work for the progress of the state and particularly the zone.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He added that it was after the meeting with the tradi­tional rulers that he and other chieftains of the party decided to form coalition with Makinde because of his (Makinde) giant strides in Oke-Ogun in the area of infrastructural development. POLL According to him, “I told our gubernatorial, Chief Adebayo Adelabu that there is no way we can win the election. I cannot take my people to this kind of election. The election that we don’t have a senator or House of Representatives seat and the gubernatorial candidate lost in his polling unit, can we still con­tinue with such election. “I told Adelabu to remem­ber the interest of the party members. We thank God many things have happened. We thank God that we still have life today. “The reason for this meeting is to chart a way forward. We want whatever we say here to get to wards and local govern­ment. People don’t vote for the party again but the people. “A governor is a governor over everyone. We need to put our heads together. We are here to appraise our performance. Why we supported Makinde. We formed a coalition and sup­ported Governor SeyiMakinde for his re-election. “We have been clamouring for university for the past 70 years in Oke Ogun, he gave us a campus of LAUTECH in Iseyin. “The roads from Ibadan- Ise­yin, Ogbomoso- Iseyin- Oyo-Is­eyin, all these are for the de­velopment of Oke Ogun. The traditional rulers called all the political parties to decide what we can do for the benefit of the state in general after the presi­dential and national assembly elections. “We thank God that we sup­ported him. He is a good per­son. We will not regret it. He has promised a government of inclusiveness. That is why we have to come together and talk to ourselves. What has happened has happened. Don’t fight anyone, accept them. Let our meetings continue.”