Wole Shadare and Gboyega Adeoye, two Nigerian journalists are set to launch aviation book in Lagos. A joint statement by the duo stated that the book titled: ‘Nigeria’s Aviation: Unsung Heroes and Heroines,’ would be presented to the public on Tuesday, May 9, 2023. The statement hinted that the book is a documentary of the history of Nigeria’s aviation development with a spotlight on notable icons who have grown the sector to its current remarkable height. The authors said that the book was conceived about a year ago, as a response to the low morale of government and Nigerian institutions towards honouring dedication and discipline by some Nigerians in building a strong aviation sector in Nigeria over the years. The authors said that the book is remarkable in three materials particular. The statement said: “First, it is a clear departure from both the general and conventional pattern of prosaic accounts found in virtually all publications in the industry. “Secondly, in our search for heroes and heroines, the book unwittingly achieves some historical rendition that has remained outside the mental horizon of authors existing before us. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We tried our best to leave the reader with up-to-date knowledge of the history of our aviation development and most importantly, listed some Heroes and Heroines, their place and roles.” POLL The writers noted that the book tried as it could to give the reader a clear and concise insight of milestones in the annals of aviation and how its heroes and heroines squared up with some challenges they faced, navigating through the turbulent skies of the nation’s aviation Sector. The ten-chapter book details very significant heroes and heroines from 1958 to date. From Nigeria Airways in the early beginning, to Captains Bob Hayes, Dele Ore, and Bara All-well Brown, down the line. From Dr. Harold Demuren through Captains Muhtar Usman and Musa Nuhu, Akin Olateru, Chike Ogeah, Femi Adefope, Dr. Folasade Odutola, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, HRM Femi Ogunleye, Dr. Wale Babalakin, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi and many others; the book, the authors added provides a prism for a clear peer into aviation regulation in Nigeria. Also, the book x-rays aviation agencies such as the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet), to the new Nigerian Safety Investigation Bureau (NSIB); providing the reader some grounding in the roles of government Agencies in aviation administration. The authors, in full consciousness of the critical roles of private investment in aviation services, also did not miss out on the Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc (SAHCO) and Mrs. Nkechi Onyenso as well as other Nigerians who have achieved global heights of reckoning, like; Dr. Bernard Olumuyiwa Aliu, Ms. Iyabo Sosina and Funke Adeyemi.