The plan by Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, to demolish some structures occupied by aviation agencies at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, is pitching him against aviation unions, OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. While Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation has reiterated that there is no going back on his plan to demolish some structures occupied by the sector’s agencies in Lagos despite less than two months to the end of this administration, the unions in the sector on the other hand are ready for endless battle, which would prevent the government from going ahead with its plan. Apart from the airports concession exercise and national carrier project of the government, which are in various courts for interpretation and restriction, the unions have also approached the court to stop the government from demolishing the aviation agencies offices at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. Though, Sirika said the planned demolition of the office spaces occupied by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), would pave the way for a more ambitious plan: aerotropolis project, the unions, like many of the other stakeholders were not convinced about the government’s plan. An aerotropolis is a city or urban area centred around an airport. This idea was first mooted in Nigeria by Miss Stella Oduah, the Minister of Aviation between 2011 to January, 2014. But, after she was unceremoniously removed from office for alleged fraud, implementation of the policy slowed down. Already, some of the agencies relocated to Abuja in 2020 by Sirika don’t have passable office spaces for their staff.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ For instance, NAMA is now a tenant of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines, and Agriculture (NACCIMA) in Abuja, FAAN also operating from a rented apartment, while the Nigerian Safety Investigation Bureau (NSIB) and NCAA’s offices are grossly inadequate for their staff. POLL Sirika at a forum in Lagos last November said there was no going back on the aerotropolis project to ensure Nigeria delivered state-of-the-art facilities. According to him, facilities like shopping malls, befitting car parks, and other support amenities as we have them in other parts of the world be established on the massive land space. He insisted that the country could not shortchange itself on the global move to deliver world-class air transport infrastructure as “it has been done in other developed countries such as the United Arab Emirates, and America, amongst others. “If I have my way, those structures from the local airport to Bristow will be demolished tomorrow and pave the way for the emergence of a befitting airport city,” he had said. But, immediately after the government unveiled its plan, the unions; National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Air Transport Services Senior Staff of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) and the Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), expressed dissatisfaction with the government. The unions immediately held a congress to draw up support from their members in the affected agencies. After the congress, the three unions issued the Federal Government seven days ultimatum to reverse itself. The leadership of the unions accused the government of obliterating transparency in the entire exercise. According to them, the government was yet to address the labour issues as agreed during the conception of most of the projects of the government and cautioned investors from investing their resources in any of the government’s projects. Despite the ultimatum and the threat from the unions, the government was adamant to see its project through as the minister reiterated at the 10th stakeholders’ forum in Abuja about two weeks ago that the plan would go ahead as scheduled. Speaking after its congress held at the Freedom Square of FAAN last week, Comrade Frances Akinjole, the General Secretary of ATSSSAN, insisted there was no rationale for the planned demolition of the FAAN office and others in Lagos. According to him, the present administration had barely two months to exit office, yet demolition of aviation agencies topped its priority list. Akinjole further described the planned action of the minister as unwarranted, warning that the unions and their members would not be taken unawares by the government’s plans. Akinjole, however, said that the unions were not against the planned demolition of the agency’s annex office in Lagos, but said the government must ensure the payment of the staff’s relocation allowances and other benefits accrued to them. He also declared that the unions would protest every avenue by some people in government to convert government properties to their personal claims. The union leader lamented that almost three years after the first batch of some workers in some of the agencies were relocated out of Lagos to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, their relocation allowances were yet to be paid, adding that most of the agencies, including FAAN had no office complexes in Abuja. Besides, he mentioned that the space at the headquarters of the former Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), now Nigerian Safety Investigation Bureau (NSIB), which was demolished for the expansion of the new international terminal at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos terminal, was still empty a year after the exercise, decrying that most of its staff lacked office accommodation in Abuja. He declared that the unions in collaboration with their members nationwide would continue to reject any attempt to demolish the buildings in Lagos and the relocation of the workers in contravention to the Labour Act of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Akinjole further observed that over 75 per cent of aviation activities happen in Lagos and wondered how the agencies would operate without office complexes in the state. He said: “They want to demolish in public interest, but they will now be the beneficiaries of these properties. This is our common patrimony. We will fight this out. We all know the challenges the staff of the other agencies that were relocated to Abuja are facing. “For instance, the staff of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) that are in Abuja don’t have offices of their own, while those in AIB (NSIB) were told to be working from home here in Lagos. FAAN does not have its own office in Abuja, yet they want to push everyone to where there is no accommodation for staff.” Also, Mrs. Safiya Araga of the Nigerian Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), accused the minister of maltreating the aviation workers since he assumed office about eight years ago. Araga purported that despite the “gigantic policies” the government had for the industry; none was achieved in the past eight years. She insisted that there must be adequate provisions for the workers before they are relocated outside their present offices, while insisting that the agencies’ offices would not be allowed to be demolished by the government. She also called on the incoming government to take a serious look at the activities of the present government in the sector in the past eight years, alleging that the sector had been stagnant for almost a decade. “We had gigantic policies that never came to fruition in the last eight years. The NAMA case is a terrible one. Till date, NAMA uses a rented apartment in Abuja. For the past eight years, we have not been encouraged by this government. What does the Labour Act say about relocation? The workers need to wake up, defend their work-life and their families. We should all be on standby. A people united can never be defeated,” she said. Also, General Secretary of Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), Comrade Abdulrazaq Saidu, described the action of the minister in the past eight years as illegal. According to him, the failure of the minister to constitute Board of Directors in the various agencies contravened the Acts setting up the agencies and the directive of the presidency. He declared that the unions would challenge the attempt of the minister in the court of law. Stakeholder’s View Commenting on the issue, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President, Aviation Safety Round Table Initiative (ASRTI), said the government was right to relocate any of its offices and workers to anywhere within the country. Olowo, however, said that before the relocation of the workers and the demolition of the structures, the government should adequately provide for the staff who would be affected by the exercise. He also queried if aerotropolise was part of the Lagos’s airport master plan, hoping that the next government would be willing to continue with the policy. Olowo said: “I do hope there is provision for the place where the people are moving to. If the aerotropolis has been approved in short and long terms, I have no objection, but there should be provision for the staff moving to other places to accommodate their functions. If it falls into the master plan, government is a continuum. “Whichever government that takes over will continue from this government stopped, but I will be mad if a new government comes and abandon the project, which means it is not in the master plan, then that will be a suicide for the sector.”