LAFIA – Mr Mandy Abuluya, the founder of Nacabs Polytechnic, Akwanga, Nasarawa State, Friday warned students against cultism and exams malpractice as the institution matriculated 600 students for the 2022/2023 academic session. He stated this in Akwanga during the 11th matriculation ceremony of the institution. Abuluya, who is the President of the school, said that cultism, examination malpractice and other social vices had affected the lives and education of many students negatively, hence the need for the students to shun them at all times. He said,” Our institution has a zero tolerance policy towards cultism, and we will not hesitate to take disciplinary action against any student found engaging in such activities. ” I want to start by congratulating the newly matriculated students on taking this important step in their education journey. ” By taking the oath, you have committed to the principle of integrity, hard work and discipline. ” We expect you to be good ambassadors of this institution and to contribute positively to society, ” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Abuluya, who is also the President, Eggon Cultural and Development Association ( ECDA) Worldwide congratulated the new students and wished them well. POLL He assured of the institution’s continous commitment to provide quality education to the students. He said that he decided to offer scholarships to thousands of students to enable them to have access to education. Also speaking, the Rector of the Polytechnic, Prof. Donald Adigidzi urged the new students to focus on their education and shun any form of social vices. ” Nacabs Polytechnic, Akwanga, we are dedicated to maintaining high standards of academic excellence. ” And we are constantly striving to take our education to new heights in line with our motto of ” Technology for Emancipation” he said. The rector while congratulating the new students, urged them to obey the school rules in their interest and for the overall development of the education sector. Administering the oath of matriculation on the students, Mr Usman Ogah, the Registrar of the Institution, urged the new students to abide by the oath taken in order to excel in their academic pursuits. The registrar also urged the students to remain peaceful and tolerate one another at all times. Responding, Mr John Monday a new student, who spoke on behalf of others, promised to abide by the rules and regulations as good ambassadors of the school.