AWKA  – The Igbo socio-cultural or­ganisation, Ohanaeze Ndig­bo, has expressed grief over the death of former gover­nor of Anambra State, Dr. Chinwoke Clement Mbadi­nuju. Its acting President Gen­eral, Chief Damian Okeke Ogene, in a statement de­scribed the demised former governor as a good man. According to him, “Mba­dinuju played his own role in the socioeconomic devel­opment of the state. “Well, death is a due ev­erybody must pay and you don’t know when. It is sad that Mbadinuju is dead, but I must say that he was a good man and he did a lot for the socioeconomic development of Anambra State. “We pray God to give him eternal rest and we console his family members to bear the loss with fortitude”, he concluded. Similarly, the governor of Anambra State, Prof. Chuk­wuma Charles Soludo, has commiserated with the fam­ily of Chinwoke Mbadinuju (Odera), who passed on earli­er on Tuesday, April 11, 2023 at the age of 78. A statement signed by his Press Secretary, Chris­tian Aburime Soludo, said he learnt of the demise of Mbadinuju as announced by his son, Cheta Chinwoke Mbadinuju, Esq, on behalf of the family.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to him, the late Mbadinuju was the former governor of Anambra State from May 1999 to 29 May, 2023. He was elected governor on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). POLL Governor Soludo, who had consoled the family, also sympathised with Uli community in Ihiala Coun­cil Area as well as the entire people of Anambra State for the loss. He noted that the late ‘Odera’ will be fondly re­membered for passing a law that created the Anambra Vigilante Services, establish­ing Anambra State Universi­ty, Uli, among other legacy projects. Governor Soludo asked the family to ensure his good legacies are sustained while praying that the Almighty God grant his soul eternal rest. The death of the former governor of Anambra State, Mbadinuju, was announced by Cheta Chinwoke Mbadi­nuju on behalf of the family in a statement titled: ‘Notifi­cation of the Transition of Dr. Chinwoke Mbadinuju (Odera)’. Part of the statement read: “With heavy hearts but utmost gratitude to God for a life well spent, we announce the passing of our father, grandfather, uncle, friend and associate, Dr. Chinwoke Mbadinuju, a former gover­nor of Anambra State and elder statesman. “Odera as he was fondly called, passed peacefully at the age of 78 years in the morning of April 11, 2023 at the National Hospital Abu­ja after a brief illness, sur­rounded by his family and loved ones. “At this trying time, we pray for God’s grace and mercy upon him and those left behind to mourn him. His funeral arrangements will be announced in due course by the family”.