BAUCHI – Following the expulsion of Alhaji Sirajo Dada, the National Ex-Offico of the APC representing Bauchi state from the membership of the Executive Council of the APC in Gamawa Local government, Sirajo Dada has debunked the allegation of anti-party activities leveled against him by Gamawa local government EXCO of the party, saying that are baseless, unfounded and unsubstantiated. Recall that the Gamawa LGA EXCO of the APC on Saturday, announced his expulsion from the party for it described as anti-party activities during the 2023 General elections in the area. Reacting to the development vide phone conversation with Journalists from Abuja, he said that he did not do anything wrong, describing his expulsion by the Gamawa Exco council of the party as ineffective and efforts in futility. “How they said that I have been expelled from the party, they don’t have such powers, more so I have not done anything wrong to deserve such a humiliation. That action cannot hold.” “It is a lie that I engaged in any form of anti-party activities, how will I do that when I came all out to ensure that the APC won the elections? I am from Gamawa ward and the APC won in my PU and even in the ward, I delivered for the APC as expected.” “If there is anyone who has evidence of my anti-party activities, he should bring it up, challenge me with it and I will defend myself anytime anywhere,” he said He denied ever being invited by the EXCO for anything since the end of the general elections and therefore surprised to hear that he was invited for any form of defence.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Reacting to the allegations that he withheld the campaign funds allocated to the LGA, he said that,”Nobody gave me any campaign funds for the LGA, if anyone has any proof of such, let him or her make it public.” POLL “Don’t forget that the APC won the House of Representatives and state house of Assembly seats, can that be done if I had engaged in anti-party activities.” “I am a bona fide, card-carrying member of the APC, nobody can chase me out of the party. I don’t have anything to hide. I am waiting for them” Sirajo Dada concluded