EJIKEME OMENAZU The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has expressed utter dismay at the recent social media advert by FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, makers of Peak Milk, which used the crucifixion of Jesus Christ as a metaphor to promote its product on Good Friday. CAN, through a statement by its General Secretary, Barrister Joseph Daramola, described the advert to be insensitive, offensive, and totally unacceptable. It said: “Good Friday is a solemn day for Christians all over the world, a day we commemorate the death of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, who was crucified on the cross for our sins. It is not a day to be used for crass commercial purposes. “FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc’s action is not only disrespectful to the Christian faith, but also an affront to the millions of Christians in Nigeria and beyond. “We are deeply disappointed that a company of such repute would stoop so low to exploit the religious sentiments of its customers for profit. “We are considering sanctions against FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, including a boycott of their products by our members and all well-meaning Nigerians who share our concerns.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We call on the company to issue an unreserved apology to the Christian community and withdraw the offensive advert immediately.” POLL CAN recalled a similar incident in the past when Sterling Bank Plc., used a crucifixion imagery to promote its product. It stressed: “We condemned it then, and we condemn it now. We, therefore, urge all companies and organisations to be mindful of the religious and cultural sensitivities of their customers when promoting their products. “We will not tolerate any attempt to trivialise or disrespect our faith. Be warned!” However, immediately after CAN’s statement on the issue, FrieslandCampina WAMCO sent an apology letter to the association. Acknowledging the apology, CAC in a follow-up statement commended the company for taking responsibility and issuing a public apology following the controversial Good Friday social media post that was deemed disrespectful to the Christian faith. CAN stated: “We acknowledge the prompt response and sincerity of FrieslandCampina WAMCO in recognising the insensitivity of their social media post and taking necessary steps to make amends. “As Christians, we believe in forgiveness, and we accept the apology of the company. “We call on other organisations and individuals to learn from this incident and be mindful of their actions and statements, especially in matters concerning religion and spirituality. “We urge all Nigerians to embrace tolerance, respect, and peaceful coexistence, regardless of our diverse religious beliefs. “As we continue to celebrate the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, we pray for God’s grace and mercy to continually guide us and strengthen us in our daily endeavours. “Once again, we appreciate the gesture of FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, and we hope that this incident will foster a more cordial and respectful relationship between the company and the Christian community.”