Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), on Saturday said that Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State does not deserve a second term as the governor of the state because he has failed woefully to opt for constructive dialogues with all the restive youths in the state. HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Com­rade Emmanuel Onwubiko, condemned the gruesome kill­ing of five policemen at the Ok­pala Junction in the Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo State on Friday. The group said that Uzodim­ma must set up reconciliation commission by offering apolo­gies to the families of all those killed, including security opera­tives and civilians. HURIWA also said the gov­ernor must pay compensations to the victims of the numerous attacks on security agents and civilians in the state. On Friday, gunmen attacked policemen from Abo Mbaise police division when they went to eat at an eatery. Reports said that while three policemen were shot dead at the scene, two others escaped to a nearby shop, but the criminal elements raced to the shop and killed them and equal­ly killed a couple who owned the shop they ran into. The assail­ants also carted away five rifles of the policemen. HURIWA’s Onwubiko said, “HURIWA condemns in strong terms the killings of the five po­licemen on Friday in Imo state and the serial murders of Imo youths. “We condemn the intransi­gence of Gov Hope Uzodimma to opt for constructive dialogues with all the restive youths of Imo State. We call on the gover­nor to step down from being on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress for a second term in or­der to save Imo from continuous killings.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Gov Uzodimma, if he means well for the state, should an­nounce that he won’t be running in the November governorship poll, then set up reconciliation commission by offering apolo­gies to families of all those killed including security operatives and civilians. POLL “He should also pay compen­sations where possible, offer am­nesty and open avenue for peace building through withdrawal and submission of arms by sun­dry armed groups. But, the rec­onciliation must be sincere and pragmatic.”