LAGOS – The Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, has commended the Simba Group, one of the leading two and three-wheeler mobility-solutions provider in Nigeria, for the success of its Queen Riders programme which has contributed to women’s empowerment and gender equity in the country. Tallen, who made the declaration during the 2023 International Women’s Day celebration organised by Access Bank, recently in Lagos, said the programmed has successfully enriched the lives and livelihoods of hundreds of women across different parts of the country. It would be recalled that the Simba Group initiated its collaboration with the Ministry in 2020, which has since supported and encouraged the company’s efforts to enhance opportunities for underrepresented women to participate in the Nigerian commercial transport industry. It has since received the Ministry’s Product Recognition Award “in recognition of the laudable initiatives to improve the wellbeing and livelihood of Nigerian Women and Vulnerable Groups”. The Minister praised the company for its efforts in supporting women via the program, noting that they are in line with the government’s vision of empowering women across the country. The Queen Riders Programme provides training to women on vehicle riding and repairs, mentorship, and access to financing. The programme, which is built on four pillars of Opportunity, Development, Empowerment, and Independence, has successfully enriched the lives and livelihoods of hundreds of women across different parts of the country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Chief Vinay Grover, Simba Group Managing Director, expressed gratitude for the Minister’s recognition and promised to continue to do more to support women’s empowerment, gender equity, and financial freedom POLL He said: “We are honored to have received such positive feedback from the Hon. Minister. The Queen Riders program was established to support and empower under-represented women and we are grateful to the Minister and the Ministry of Women’s Affairs for its guidance and encouragement. Furthermore, we understand the role the private sector plays in empowering women and will continue to drive forward these important initiatives.”