Notable groups in Ikirun, a prominent town in Osun State, have called on the Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke to ensure there is peace in the town not minding the campaign of calumny by faceless people in and outside the town. The groups, Adeleke Solidarity Movement, Ikirun Elders and Youths, The Youths Of Ikirun and The Ikirun Council of Mothers, in a petition by their legal representative, Dapo Ogunwusi Esq, said they are hopeful that the governor will do the will of the people. The group said, “First accept our sincere congratulations on the giant and unprecedented strides taken by your administration in bringing life and development back to Osun State. Posterity wi…[4:45 PM, 4/10/2023] +234 816 122 4084: ​Gov Emmanuel Sets to Commission MRO, Declares Leaving A Better A’IbomIdongesit Ashameri, Uyo Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State says he is set to Commission the Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO,) facility a true foreign exchange earner at the Victor Attah International Airport. He has also announced an intention to commission the longest taxiway in the nation before leaving office next month. In an Easter broadcast message made available to newsmen in Uyo on Monday, Governor Emmanuel expressed deepest gratitude to Akwa ibomites for entrusting him with the huge task of working to extend and deepen the growth and development across the length and crannies of this State. He assured that he will be leaving Akwa Ibom better than he met her, and in the capable, tested and steady hands of the Governor-Elect, Pastor Umo Eno, who, “I believe will further carry the torch of peace, development, growth and unity of our dear people”. He said‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Listing some of his achievements, he said ;​”In the two remaining months, we hope to commission the 6-lane Airport Road expansion, the 23 kilometre Eket-Etinan Road, with three bridges, the 29 kilometre Uyo-Etinan Road, the Anua-Mbak-Adiadia Ishiet Road, the Ikot Ekpo-Mkpaeto road which links Etim Ekpo with Ika Local Governments respectively among others. POLL “We have also constructed several internal roads in Oron, in Eket, in Ikot Ekpene senatorial district and in Uyo Metropolis, which are too numerous to mention here. “The effect of Ibom Air, today has made our State the destination of choice for most Nigerians and others across the world. It has generated thousands of employment for our people, it has moved our State to the apex of tourism, and improved our ease of doing business index. It can only get better and it would, in the coming years. Akwa Ibom is rising and we should all be proud. “It has been a hugely impactful experience, one that tested our capacity and preparedness to fulfill our campaign promises. ​But because we came prepared with a well-defined Blueprint anchored on the need to expand the frontiers of development through rapid industrialization, the provision of soft and hard infrastructure, and a new vista of growth predicated on our initial Five-Point Agenda, later expanded into the Eight-Point Completion Agenda, we have been able to rise (dakkada) to the call of the moment, and change the narratives and enlarge the chapters of the Book of our development. “As I get ready to take a bow in the next month, I am eminently proud and assured that I will be leaving this State better than I met her, and in the capable, tested and steady hands of the Governor-Elect, Pastor Umo Eno, who, I believe will further carry the torch of peace, development, growth and unity of our dear people. He used the opportunity to again thank Akwa Ibom people for the peaceful manner they trooped out during the last Gubernatorial and State House of Assembly elections to exercise their Constitutional franchise. “From all accounts, including those of the Foreign Observers, the election was peaceful, free, credible and a profound and wholesome expression of the collective will and desire of you, my dear people. “You voted for the continuation of all that we have started and achieved in the last almost eight years. You voted for the furtherance of peace, for growth, for development and for our unity”. “​Let me end this speech by again calling for unity and love amongst our people. We may have disagreements on political front, we may have pursued growth and development through different political prisms, but we must resist the impulse of letting politics create unbridgeable schism and chasm of alienation amongst us as kindred. “​Our Founding Fathers who banded together and established Ibibio State College in Ikot Ekpene may not have agreed totally on their political leanings, but they knew that our kindred spirit can never be broken through the ephemeral or temporary impulses of political affiliations”. He said