LAGOS – In a bid to strengthen Nigeria’s financial ecosystem, Access Bank has partnered with AfriGOpay, a financial services business affiliated with the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS) to launch the first Nigerian national domestic card designed to meet the needs of the Nigerian payment industry. The scheme championed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Nigerian Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) will provide innovative solutions to users of financial services in Nigeria, Africa, and across the global markets. Victor Etuokwu, Deputy Managing Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank, while speaking on the partnership, said: “It is with excitement that we announce that Access Bank, Nigeria’s largest retail bank with over 60million customers is the first financial institution in Nigeria to successfully issue the first live card of the Nigeria’s National card scheme- AfriGO. The launch of AfriGO is another milestone in the development of a vibrant and rapidly expanding payments industry. Consumers demand value in real time, not just transactions. With AfriGO, we can provide valuable card benefits, robust loyalty rewards, and a compelling incentive to utilize electronic payments rather than cash. The AfriGO Card has additional benefits because it is designed to facilitate the growth of Nigeria’s payment ecosystem, thereby supporting more tailored payment services. It will strengthen payment security, expand financial participation, guarantee data sovereignty, eliminate FX dependency, and provide Nigerians with several other benefits. Cardholders will enjoy increased affordability and more flexible payment options”, Victor concluded. Speaking on the product launch, Robert Giles, Senior Retail Advisor, Access Bank said, “The National card scheme operates locally, and it is tailored to the specific needs of the country. We have also recorded successful purchases on POS and ATMs which began on March 14, 2023. Domestic ownership of a local card scheme eliminates demand on foreign exchange and reduces cost of transacting. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒