LAGOS – Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Avi­ation, has reiterated the plan to de­molish more office complexes at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. Sirika specifically said that struc­tures of Dominion Hangar and Ever­green Apple Nigeria Hangar, which are estimated to be over $300 million would be demolished in the next few weeks. This is as the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN)  over the weekend took delivery of the remaining eight out of the 10 Volkan Lion 6×6 fire fighting vehicles worth about N12 billion at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. ­ Speaking at the commis­sioning of the eight fire ten­der vehicles, weekend, at the Lagos airport, Sirika said that there was no going back in the demolition of the two office complexes and other buildings obstructing the expansion of apron wing of the new inter­national terminal, which was commissioned on March 22, 2022 by President Muhamma­du Buhari. Sirika had in March last year demolished the office com­plex of the former Accident In­vestigation Bureau (AIB), now Nigerian Safety Investigation Bureau (NSIB), for obstructing the apron expansion of the new terminal. The landed property and fa­cilities at the AIB complex was said to worth about N5 billion before the demolition exercise took place. However, despite the demoli­tion of the building, other office complexes within the same vi­cinity were not demolished as their owners sued the Federal Government for its attempt to pull down their structures.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The company claimed that their structures at the present sites have valid papers and ap­provals from the constituted authorities. POLL Sirika said that the terminal in Lagos had been open to use and has barely reached its full capacity due to its inability to expand. He said that the existence of the two buildings, which are close to the new terminal, prevented the expansion of the facility as required. He said: “We are not operat­ing Lagos airport at full capac­ity. We have some obstructions that will be removed within the next one or two weeks to expand the apron so that Lagos will have full use 100 percent. “We are going to demolish Dominion Hangar and Ever­green Apple Nigeria Hangars to make way for the new apron and that would be in a few weeks.” Speaking on the fire ten­ders, Sirika explained that the absence of fire cover at any aerodrome or its inadequacy was enough to either shutdown or downgrade such an airport. He recalled that the absence of effective fire tenders at the Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA), Omegwa, was responsible for the accident of Sosoliso Airline of December 10, 2005 in which students of Loyola Jesuit College and other passengers perished. Sirika took delivery of the remaining eight of 10 Volkan Lion 6×6 fire fighting vehicles delivered to FAAN Aeronauti­cal Rescue and Fire Fighting Services (ARFFS). The equipment delivered, it was learnt, worth about N12 billion. According to him, the im­portance of this safety equip­ment could not be over-em­phasised, maintaining that the facility was key to safe, secure and efficient takeoff and land­ing of the entire sector. He said: “To non-aviators and onlookers, you see fire­fighting equipment, but the im­portance and relevance is not brought onto focus, especially for people watching from afar whose only concern is to board aircraft and use air conditioned terminals. “Well for us, that is import­ant too, but most important is to keep you safe. You all re­member our children that left Abuja for Port Harcourt in the Sosoliso crash? We couldn’t save those children because even though the plane landed, crashed, they were still alive, but the airport did not have ad­equate fire cover to save those ones and parents were seeing their children burning alive. The same children they sent to school. That is so sad.” He explained that for 15 years, there were no fire ten­der supplied to FAAN, stressing that the agency had been can­nibalising two or three of the equipment to put one into use. He insisted that without the fire tenders, airports could be shut down or downgraded. Also speaking at the event, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Man­aging Director, FAAN, said the 10 super-structure, ultra-mod­ern major firefighting vehicles were to be deployed to MMA La­gos, Abuja and Kano airports. Yadudu explained that FAAN was also processing ad­ditional vehicles for Port-Har­court and Enugu airports. Giving a breakdown of the capabilities of the equipment, Yadudu pointed out that each vehicle carries about 14,000 litres of water, 1,700 litres of foam and 250kg powder capac­ity, adding that it also monitors the discharge rate of between 6,000ltr to 10,000ltr per minute, while acceleration rate is from 0 to 80km/hr in 30 seconds. He added: “The truck can discharge while in motion and is equipped with under chassis nozzles to tackle running fuel fire. These vehicles would be deployed to MMA Lagos, NAIA Abuja and MAKIA Kano while we are also processing for ad­ditional vehicles for Port-Har­court and Enugu. “In addition to the acquisi­tion of the major firefighting vehicles, we have procured eight new water tankers for continuous agent applications and more will still come. Ad­ditional 11 ambulances were also procured to replace the obsolete ones that were bought in 1996. For the first time, the fire chiefs have their response commanders’ vehicles, the two new Prado jeeps were deployed to MMA and NAIA, respective­ly. More will also be procured in due course.”