LAGOS – Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Thursday reiterated the commitment of his administration towards providing infrastructure and ensuring ease of doing business for financial institutions and other investors in the state. The governor gave the assurance when top management staff of three banks, the United Bank for Africa Plc, Ecobank Nigeria Plc, and Optimus Bank paid him a courtesy visit at the Lagos State House, Marina. The governor, who received the management staff of United Bank for Africa Plc led by the Group Managing Director, Oliver Alawuba and the management staff of Ecobank Group led by their Managing Director,Mobolaji Lawal and Optimus Bank team, led by the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ademola Odeyemi, said the state will continue to provide infrastructure for economic development. Governor Sanwo-Olu, while receiving the management staff of the United Bank of Africa, said: ‘’We are still running our first term, about 39 more days to go, we can still do a lot in 39 days. We still have projects to commission, we have infrastructure to hand over to the people, we still have schools to hand over and we still have all of our promises that are still validly attainable within this first regime for us to still give to our people. ‘’We do not have any idle time, after the elections we have several things that we are doing and continue to do what we have to do. What that taught us is that really, we need to do more work given the confidence and expectations of the people in Lagos. ‘’We want to thank you for identifying with us and acknowledging all of our modest achievements, our intervention during the global pandemic, all of the security issues and economic challenges that we had at that time and now, we are all able to navigate through and we all came out stronger, better. We are doing all we are doing to ensure the state is well positioned and put at the level it can continue to receive businesses and remain home to big corporations and organisations like yourself.” He also charged the financial institution on Corporate Social Responsibilities to the host communities, saying the government needs strategic partnership with corporate organisations to complement the efforts of the government.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Governor Sanwo-Olu also applauded the bank for partnering with the state government in the area of infrastructure development and financing. POLL ‘’We see your organisation as a government as positive partners in progress, the least we can do is to continue to deepen that relationship, create a good environment where your business can grow and our citizens will feel the impact of those growth. Earlier, the Group Managing Director of United Bank for Africa, Oliver Alawuba, congratulated the governor on his re-election as the governor of the state, saying the governor’s re-election was well deserved. He lauded the governor for piloting the affairs of the state creditably during his first term in office and for creating an enabling environment for business to thrive in the state.