Marathon enthusiasts from within and outside the Federal Capital Territory daily throng The Pavilion, the venue of the ongoing Abuja International Marathon Expo to collect their running kits in readiness for the first international marathon in Abuja and the Federal Capital Territory. The Expo began last Friday and registered runners from neighbouring states like Kogi State, Niger State, Nasarrawa State, Kaduna State and others were at the Expo venue The Pavilion to collect their kits. Members of the diplomatic community were not left out as residents in the seat of power FCT and other parts of Nigeria want to be part of the race. Grace Bassey a marathon enthusiast who came all the way from Suleja to collect her kits said she has never missed an opportunity to be part of history, “History will be made on April 29, 2023, when the first international marathon will take place in FCT, I have never missed an opportunity to be part of history that was why I come here early to collect my kits, I don’t want to hear stories that the kits have finished. I will be running the 10km with my friends,” she expressed. A diplomat from one of the European countries who does not want his name in print said,” Running is part and parcel of my life; I have done races around the world where I have served. It will be great to experience a marathon in Abuja. “Abuja is a beautiful city with an excellent road network; an international marathon will showcase the city to the world”. Abuja International Marathon the first in FCT is slated for April 29, 2023. The race is in three categories 5km Student Run, the 10km Family Run, and the 42.195 Full Marathon. POLL The race will start at the City Gate and finish at Eagles Square. The best entertainers in the country will entertain runners and spectators at the Finish Point. According to Race Director Olukayode Thomas, “Registration is free, it will close April 28, 2023, the last day of the Expo”.GoCop’s Death in Osun: Lawyer Demands Release of SSS Operatives To Police For More Investigation Following the recommendation of a coroner inquest that probed the death of a policeman, Rauf Fawale in Osun State, an Osogbo-based legal practitioner, Mr Abdulfatai Abdulsalam, has demanded the release of three operatives of the State Security Services for further investigation. The lawyer in a petition to the National Human Right Commission, copies of which he sent to Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke, State Commissioner of Police and the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone XI headquarters, Osogbo, on Sunday, said the coroner that probed the circumstances surrounding Fawale’s death suspected the three SSS operatives of involving in the attack on the policeman. He recalled that on March 7, 2022, the immediate past Governor of Osun State, Isiaka Oyetola, made an order for a coroner inquest to unearth the cause of the death of Fawale which occurred on January 23, 2021. He further said between March 23 and October 24, 2022, the coroner, Dr Olusegun Ayilara conducted sittings and recommended that there should be a proper investigation of the events that resulted in Fawale’s death. He also said the coroner in his recommendations, directed that the three SSS operatives involved should be released to the police for further investigation. The lawyer, however, said that since the coroner concluded his probe in October 2022, the SSS has refused to comply with the order, and declined the release of the operatives mentioned for further probe. The petition, quoting the order of the coroner further read in parts, “that the Nigeria Police which is the primary investigating authority in a crime shall reopen the case and invite all necessary parties for holistic investigation of the case. “The Department of State Security shall release the trio to the police for proper investigation. The report of the investigation of the police shall be submitted to the office of the learned DPP of Osun State for a decision to be made on whether to charge and/or who to charge to the appropriate court and in strict accordance with the provision of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, Osun State, 2018. ”It further read, “It is astonishing to note that, to this moment, the Department of State Service (DSS). Osun State Command has not complied with the above verdict of CORONER INQUEST by releasing the three officers involved to the police for proper investigation. “We attach to this letter, the complete Judgement of the Coroner’s Court of Osun state delivered in October 2022 by Dr Olusegun A Ayilara, Chief Magistrate Gd I (Corona) and consider this letter as a legal service of the judgement of the Director of Security Service. “It is on this note we demand for the Department of State Security of Service (DSS) to release the officers involved to the police for proper investigation as recommended in the verdict of the CORONA INQUEST. This request (at the moment ) deserve urgent positive reaction because the verdict of CORONA was delivered since October 2022.”Thanks sir