LAGOS – The Kingdom Missions Outreach (KMO) Inc, a Nigerian-based international missionary outfit, will relaunch its Barnabas Missionary Fellowship (BMF) today. Apostle Dr. Success Kanayo Uchime, KMO’s President and Coordinating Missionary, who disclosed this to Sunday Independent, described the Barnabas Missionary Fellowship (BMF), as a faith-based ministry arm of the missionary outfit. He stated that the event will take place today (Sunday, April 2, 2023) at Christ Image Church, 2 Afikpo Street, Behind Access Bank, off Ogoja Road, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. Dr. Uchime recalled that the BMF was inaugurated at the KMO’s headquarters in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State two years ago, but could not move according to expectation, hence the plan for its relaunch. He stressed: “The BMF is dedicated towards the encouragement of serving missionaries. It was set up by the dictates of the Holy Spirit for the sole purpose of providing fellowship for the Lord’s soldiers who are serving in the frontiers. “Barnabas Fellowship is a missionary movement, not an organisation; and it is set to ignite the fire of revival for missions in our land! It’s a forum where missionaries encourage, exalt, and uplift one another in the spirit of networking. “Our Lord Jesus Christ is working, and we want to work along with Him in ensuring that we take the church back to the Apostolic Age: where missions and evangelism was the major emphasis of the church. They never underplay missions – reaching the unreached, but lifting it to its highest pedestal.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It’s a pity what is happening today in the church our Master left behind; it seems that other irrelevant projects have taken over from soul-winning. We are no longer hungry and thirsty for soul-winning again, and the trend has to change. POLL “The church need to start planning on the great harvest of souls as pointed out by our Lord Jesus Christ in John 4:35. The fields are really ripe for harvest, and the church need not procrastinate any long. “This is the time for the church to throw in the sickle and commence the great harvest of souls just as our Lord admonished in the Scriptures: “But when the grain ripens, immediately he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come” (Mark 4:29). “Missions must occupy its highest place in the agenda of the church. Our agenda needs to align with God’s agenda for the world He created. “Missions surely is God’s agenda and heartbeat, and as such, the church needs to go back to its first love – winning of soul for the Kingdom. “It’s therefore in our plan to kick-start the mission revolution in Ebonyi State, and gradually it will snowball to the entire southeast then to Nigeria at large. “We know that the good Lord is at work in Ebonyi State, the need therefore for us to key into that plan of God. He told His church to ‘Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptising them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit’ (Matthew 28:19). “How far this command has been obeyed by the church is of a very serious concern to God. It’s the great commission from the Great God. “We trust God for the growth of missions in Southeast, even as we are convinced that the Lord has great plans for the region. “So find time out to be with us on Sunday, April 2, 2023 at Christ Image Church, 2 Afikpo Street, Behind Access Bank, off Ogoja Road, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State for this great event. Please pray along with us! “Please be reminded that BMF normal fellowship days will be the first Sunday of every month at the same venue and time. Remain blessed in the Lord of Missions.”