PORT HARCOURT – The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Rivers State chapter has hit back at the former senator, Dino Melaye warning him that his reliance on the presidential candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar, to win the PDP ticket for the Kogi state governorship election, will be a failed project. The party said that the vocal former senator does not possess the needed qualities to win the Kogi state governorship election for the PDP, noting that Dino has no audacity to talk about the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike who has endeared millions of Nigerians and Rivers people to himself through his sterling performance in the state. PDP’s Director of Publicity of the Campaign Council, Ogbonna Nwuke, on Wednesday, recalled that Dino cried like a baby in 2022 when T.J. Yusuf in alliance with Governor Wike beat him to clinch the PDP’s ticket for Kogi West Senatorial ticket. Nwuke’s reaction followed Dino’s tirade against Governor Wike, who on Tuesday said the former Senator lacked the capacity to win Kogi for PDP. Nwuke, a former member of the House of Representatives, said: “Dino isn’t man enough to talk to Governor Nyesom Wike. Yusuf allied with Wike and beat Dino black and blue when they vied for the Senatorial ticket of the PDP in Kogi. “How can a man who could not win his senatorial district aspire to lead a state? I think this may be what Governor Wike was alluding to. Dino is a wet doll, who thought and still thinks that riding on the back of Atiku would give him the key to the Kogi State Government House”, Nwuke said. According to the veteran Journalist, even if Dino succeeded in taking over the leadership of the state, which he likened to a camel passing through the eye of a needle, he would never be in the mould of the capacity and performing governor that Wike had become.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Getting the PDP ticket is one thing, winning the election is another. Dino will find out later how things work. He will find out as the saying goes that ‘khaki no be leather’. POLL “Even if Dino were to see daylight, he will never be the kind of Governor that Wike has become. Dino is so fake that one of his pursuits when turns governor, would be to use Kogi money to increase his stock of shoes, cars and wristwatches. “There is a brand of Camry that car dealers call ‘big for nothing’. I have always wondered why the vehicle is big for nothing. Somehow, Dino’s mien, behavior and appearance explain why certain persons and objects are described as big for nothing. “Dino is simply big for nothing. His quest to be governor of Kogi is dead on arrival. Both the blind and the one who was once blind can see it. It does not matter what Melaye says about Wike or how he says it. He thrashes. To the trash can of history will he return. History will remember Wike kindly. I cannot say that for Dino”, Nwuke concluded.