*Say He Fits It All ABUJA – A group, All Progressives Congress (APC) Integrity Group, has carpeted some aspirants for the Senate President of the 10th National Assembly, as it expressed sadness at what it described as the character of persons jostling for the position of the Senate President. The group in a statement in Abuja, lamented that some of the individuals and groups eyeing the post are “without demonstrable competence”, and “will want to take Nigerians for a ride again by asking to be made the President of the Senate”. Signed by the group’s National Coordinator, Malam Dawu Mohammed, and Secretary, Comrade Chisom Nwakanma, respectively, the statement added that while it is the right of such aspirants “to aspire for such seats, but it is evidently true also that what the country needs in four to eight years from now is robust leadership in all tiers and arms of government”. Its reaction it said is to ensure that the governing APC puts its best foot forward by picking the right candidate from the Southeast zone, a region it explained should be given the opportunity to produce the country’s number three most important citizen. According to it, Senator Izunaso fits it all, “as a lawmaker he has distinguished himself in legislative and leadership experience more than any other member of the Red Chamber from the Southeast. It also raised concerns over issues of national unity, noting that with the president going to the Southwest, and vice president coming from the northeast, it was fair and just for the Senate President to emerge from the Southeast. This is as it maintained that “Senator Izunaso has remained committed to the APC against his personal safety, especially when loyalty to the APC in the Southeast makes a person a ready target for the politically intolerant”. POLL The statement reads, “The post-May 29, 2023 leadership of 2 out of the 3 arms of government presents a unique dilemma for the country. The President as the head of the Executive arm and government will be a Yoruba-Muslim and the Head of Judiciary will remain another Yoruba-Muslim. To dilute this equation needs a strong Igbo patriot who will also be a Christian. The South-South geopolitical Zone has served as Vice President and President for a combined period of 8 years since the return of civil rule in Nigeria in 1999″. It further reads “Having considered the current happenings in the country, and the manner cum characters of persons jostling for the position of the Senate President for 2023, we the All Progressives Congress (APC) Integrity Group, are saddened that certain groups and individuals without demonstrable competence will want to take Nigerians for a ride again by asking to be made the President of the Senate. “It is true that it is their right to aspire for such seats, but it is evidently true also that what the country needs in four to eight years from now is robust leadership in all tiers and arms of government. “The sense in this is to help rejig the economy which unemployment rate has climbed to a sad 41 per cent, with over 500 people killed in less than six months in 2022, and ethnic bigotry and religious intolerance, the order of the day. “We are convinced that our party, the APC, is blessed with a rich array of quality leadership in our National Executive Council (NEC), and our National Working Committee (NWC), not to mention the person of President Muhammadu Buhari, our leader, to bequeath the nation a vibrant, cerebral and capable Senate President who would elevate the incoming administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as a bacon of democracy, by properly guiding the Upper Chamber in a stable and worthy manner. “And we, by joining other well meaning Nigerians, having examined the country on the existing fulcrum of the North and the South, therefore states that to ensure national stability, peace, unity and fraternal development of Nigeria, our party leadership should consider zoning the Senate presidency to the South East, and not the South South as talked about in some quarters. “It is clear to all true nationals that with the incoming presidency of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima, the two topmost political offices in Nigeria have been taken by the South West and North East. “Historically, the Nigeria federation has always rested on the tripod of three dominant ethnic groups of Hausa/Fulani, Yoruba and Igbo. “Under the current political dispensation, the Yoruba and Hausa/Fulani which now include Kanuri have produced the President and the Vice President. “The imperative of political inclusiveness and arresting the growing awareness for a Republic Biafra in the South East especially among the young people, makes this all the more important. “Having not produced the president of Nigeria since independence except for the 6 months stint of General Aguiyi Ironsi as Military Head of State in 1966, the intense Igbo sentiment against political exclusion and marginalization in Nigeria is justified. “The post-May 29, 2023 leadership of 2 out of the 3 arms of government presents a unique dilemma for the country. The President as the head of the Executive arm and government will be a Yoruba-Muslim and the Head of Judiciary will remain another Yoruba-Muslim. “To dilute this equation needs a strong Igbo patriot who will also be a Christian. The South-South geopolitical Zone has served as Vice President and President for a combined period of 8 years since the return of civil rule in Nigeria in 1999. “The North-West has produced President twice with late President Umaru Yar’adua and outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari ditto for North-East that produced a Vice President in person of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar from 1999-2007. “The North-East has again retained the Vice Presidency. The most disadvantaged geopolitical zone in Nigeria since 1960 remains the South-East. “Added to these, the South-East currently has two APC Governors in Imo and Ebonyi States while South-South has only one APC Governor. “The status will remain the same post-May 29 with APC retaining the governorship seat in Cross-Rivers. “In the 10th NASS, South-East will have 6 Senators and 6 Senators will come from the South-South too. “In terms of political representation in APC, South-South has benefited more than the South-East since its formation. Chief John Oyegun and Comrade Adams Oshiomole have been National Chairmen of APC while Senator John Akpan Udoedehe from Akwa-Ibom served as National Secretary of the APC. “At the moment, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege from Delta State is the Deputy Senate President. It is politically wise to stop the Peter Obi and IPOB/ESN wave in the South East and the best way to achieve this is to have a man from the region in top three political positions and on order of protocols in Nigeria. “And this is where Senator Osita Izunaso comes to demonstrate the competence and patriotism he is known for. “Distinguished Senator Osita Izunaso (OFR) is a committed patriot, nationalist, a core party man, urbane, cosmopolitan in outlook and worldview, competent party administrator, journalist of repute and a lawyer. “Senator Osita is the current Senator-Elect representing Imo West. “Armed with quality education and a political experience that is second to none, Senator Osita has declared his interest to be the President of the 10th Senate and Chairman of the National Assembly. He has already met with President Muhammadu Buhari earlier on April 4th, 2023, where he presented his certificate of return as Senator-elect of his Imo West constituency and also informed him of his interest in seeking the top leadership position in the Senate”. According to the document, “Senator Izunaso graduated from University of Jos in 1989 with a degree in Political Science and bagged a postgraduate diploma in journalism from the University of Abuja in 1998. “To further his postgraduate qualifications, he got a Masters in Business Administration from University of Calabar. “He further went to study Law at the Nile University, Abuja where graduated with a First Class Honours. “Senator Izunaso graduated from the Nigerian Law School, Abuja Campus with a Second Class Upper, and from there, he added a Masters Degree in Law to his academic laurels. “Records show that he is the only Lawmaker in the country’s history to have worked as a staff of the two chambers of the National Assembly and later served in both chambers as an elected representative. “In 1992 Senator Osita worked as the Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Agunwa Anakwe. “He also served as the Chief Press Secretary to Senate President, Chief Evans Nwerem with the return of civilian administration in 1999. “Earlier he was Chief Press Secretary to the Minister of Youth and Sports, Chief Jim Nwobodo from 1995-97, a position he retained with the Minister of Labour and Productivity (1998-1999). “By the time the 10th NASS will open on June 10th, 2023, Senator Osita will be the most ranking Federal lawmaker and Senator from South-East and South-South. “He was first elected into the House of Representatives in 2003 and later into the Senate in 2007. “He was a founding member of the All Progressives Congress since 2013 and member of the merger committee of the then opposition parties that formed the APC. “This highly educated, highly cerebral, and an administrator par excellence, served as Interim National Organising Secretary of the APC and was thereafter elected National Organising Secretary from 2013-2014. “He was a member of the APC National Executive Council (NEC) from 2014-2018, among other party leadership positions he was honoured with. “Between 2018 and 2023, Senator Osita served with distinction as Chairman of many party committees and sub-committees including the 2014 Convention Planning Committee, North-Central Zone Party Registration and Revalidation Committee in 2020 and Director Presidential Campaign Council, Contact and Mobilisation for South-East for 2023 presidential election. “At the Red Chamber of the National Assembly, he served as Chairman of Committees and member of others; ranging from Rules and Business, Local and Foreign Debts, Housing, Gas, Foreign Affairs and Sports Development. He also sponsored many bills and led debates during plenary sessions. “Senator Osita served as Board Chairman, National Automotive Design and Development Council. As philanthropist and Humanitarian, he founded Kpakpando Foundation for Persons with Disabilities in 2009. “Senator Izunaso has at different times stressed the need to give all parts of the country a sense of belonging. “He said that the diversity of the Nigerian nation was such that a lot of consideration ought to be given to various factors in the process of determining who gets what in the allocation of government offices. “According to him, experience, capacity, competence and other considerations such as ethnic and religious balancing must be factored into the leadership selection process at the next National Assembly. “He has further argued the need for loyalty to the party, a case he readily fits into more than any other contender for the Senate President. “He is a loyal party man, lawyer, erstwhile journalist and former member of the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Senator Izunaso has remained committed to the APC against his personal safety, especially when loyalty to the APC in the Southeast makes a person a ready target for the politically intolerant”.