ABUJA – The workforce has been requested by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) to make sure that honesty and integrity continue to be their guiding principles at all levels. Permanent Secretary FCTA Mr. Olusade Adesola gave this charge in his keynote address during an award ceremony and dinner held over the weekend in Abuja in honor of ten retired FCTA/FCDA management staff members . He said that any system would struggle to function successfully without dedication, loyalty, and accountability. Adesola consequently urged people still in employment to imitate the retirees’ way of life, which he claimed had significantly contributed to the success of the FCT Administration. He said: “For those of us that are still in service, I believe there are good virtues and ethics to emulate from our senior exiting comrades, even as you continue to ensure that hard work, honesty, integrity, loyalty, commitment and accountability remain your hallmarks in service delivery” The permanent secretary urged staff of the Secretariats, departments and agencies (SDAs) to endeavour to project the administration in good light. “I urge you to endeavour to project the FCT Administration which is the seat of the Federal Government of Nigeria in good light before all Nigerians in particular and the International Community in general. Let us all be reminded that the Federal Capital Territory is a unique entity, being a creation of an Act of Law. And must be upheld with that pedigree and standard. ” For our special retirees, they should not see retirement from service as becoming redundant and spent. But rather to take full advantage of the fact you now have control over your time; therefore, you can now devote your energy to engage yourselves in other areas of greater fulfilment and accomplishment in life. POLL “The greater joy and fulfilment is that our retiring colleagues rendered a meritorious service to FCT Administration and the public at large throughout these number of years, the administration is and will always be proud of you”. On his part, the Director FCTA Human Resource Management, Mallam Muhammed Bashir pledged the administration’s readiness to continue to equip its staff for better performance. In her remarks, the Chairperson Organizing Committee And Acting Director FCT Reforms Coordination and Service Improvement Department, Dr Jumai Ahmadu said the dinner was a sign of honour in recognition of the retirees’ contributions to the administration. She said, the idea will go a long way to encourage those in service to always do their best for FCT Administration. The ten management staff of the FCTA/FCDA that retired from January to March, 2023 include Okeke Ifeoma Ebele Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Okonkwo Emmanuel Obi Economic Planning department, Danazumi Anthony Sarkin-Noma, Abuja Environmental Protection Board. Others are Saka Isiaka Ahmed Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), Baffa Isa Muhammad Abuja Environmental Protection Board, Sulaiman Mohammed Sulaiman FCDA, Dr Iwere Ejemai Vincent FCT Health and Human Services Secretariat. Usman Yahaya Musa FCT Transportation Secretariat, Perpetua N. Ohammah FCDA and Elizabeth Ukamak Atang Federal Capital Territory Pension Department.