ABUJA  – The Supreme Court has direct­ed the Independent National Electoral Commission to act and recognise Chief Edozie Njoku as the National Chair­man of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The apex court’s directive was contained in its proof of service of the certified true copy (CTC) of its judgment in respect of the APGA leadership tussle between the party’s Na­tional Chairman, Chief Edozie Njoku and Victor Oye, who is also laying claim to the office. The proof of service dat­ed April 5, 2023, was on a suit marked SC/CV/687/2021, be­tween Chief Jude Okeke and APGA & others, which judg­ment was delivered by a five-man panel of Supreme Court Justices on March 24, 2023. The proof of service of the Supreme Court judgment CTC was received by the Litigation and Prosecution Department, INEC headquarters, Abuja, on April 5, by 3:54p.m. “I forward herewith for your information and necessary ac­tion, the order under the hand of the Honourable, the Chief Justice of Nigeria/Presiding Judge and the seal of the court in respect of the above appeal. “I also enclose herewith certified copy of the order and of the judgment of the court”, Zainab Garba, Registrar, Litiga­tion, Supreme Court of Nigeria, stated. Recall that the Supreme Court had on March 24, 2023, upon an application by Chief Edozie Njoku, regularised and amended the judgment of Jus­tice Mary Peter Odili (rtd.), de­livered on May 9, 2022.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Njoku’s application followed a letter of the Supreme Court to him on January 19, 2023, where­in the apex court addressed him as the national chairman of APGA and advised him to approach the court by way of a motion to correct the slip. POLL However, in its judgment on March 24, the Supreme Court stated, “It is hereby or­dered that the Appeal No. SC/ CV/686/2021 set out on the face of the judgment delivered by the court on 14th October, 2021 is to be corrected and re­placed with the Appeal No. SC/ CV/687/2021. “That the name of ‘Chief Victor Oye’ mentioned and set out on page 13 of the judg­ment delivered by the court on the 14th October, 2021 in Ap­peal No. SC/CV/687/2021 be deleted and replaced with the name ‘Edozie Njoku’ so that the sentence on page 13 would now correctly read: ‘It needs to be stated at this point that the dispute being who should be the Acting National Chairman of the 1st respondent, APGA and whether the Chairman, Edozie Njoku, was validly replaced are within the confines of the inter­nal affairs of the 1st respondent which is not justiciable”, the judgment stated. Meanwhile, addressing newsmen in Abuja, APGA Na­tional Chairman, Chief Edoz­ie Njoku, expressed optimism that INEC will heed to the Su­preme Court’s directive by ef­fecting the necessary changes on its portals. “I am confident and optimis­tic that INEC will obey the Su­preme Court judgment having been served with the CTC.” Contrary to insinuations, Njoku said the party would not be giving the electoral body any ultimatum, adding that “ex­pectedly, we are looking at one or two weeks’ time frame for the order to be obeyed.”