Bisola Alabi is the CEO of Heels and Tech, a brand of The Learning Core Company, which offers training and mentorship on in-demand technological roles by connecting women with industry professionals. In this interview with SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, she speaks on working in a male-dominated world, and how she was able to train more women, many of whom now work in multinationals, across the globe among others salient issues. You operate in a male-dominated world. And over the years, you have carved a niche for yourself by training women to own their own in the industry. How did you found Heels and Tech? After I left the corporate scene, I took some time to raise my kids and tend to my family. In the background, I noticed a lot of women wanted to transition into the tech space but found it difficult. There were so many myths and ceilings to debunk. The majority of the myths back then was that Tech was majorly coding. I worked in tech all my life and never touched a line of code. There were so many non-coding Tech jobs. Also, as a new mum of toddlers myself, I knew the challenges women faced. So, I thought, why not create a safe space for women where they can acquire technical skills so they could earn more? That was how I founded Heels & Tech. Also, since technology is now the new oil, for those who wish to transition to tech with the hope of getting a tech job in a developed country, we also train them. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Women’s representation in the tech industry is low. What would you attribute this to, and how can it be reversed? POLL It is true that technology is an industry where women are underrepresented. The good news is that it is finally changing, and it is such wonderful news to know that the number of female technologists is increasing every year. I believe it is so because of a lack of awareness. Many people believe tech is new, which is not true. It has been around for the longest time, but back in the day, a woman would rather become a baker and a homemaker, rather than decide to acquire technical skills. All these are not their fault, as the foundation was not properly laid. Think back to high schools where the boys are asked to work on technical skills while the girls cook in the labs. All these experiences shape the girl-child and if care is not taken, they begin to make their career decisions there and there. In Africa, it is even worse as the girl-child is meant to be in the kitchen. Lack of mentorship is also a huge problem, if you don’t see people who look like you in a particular space, you won’t aspire to become like them. Technophobia is also another problem. Women believe technology is difficult, which is not true. Women have done harder things like pushing a baby out and taking care of toddlers. Women, just like men, deserve to be given equal growth opportunities to thrive in tech. Whether you are a woman or you are a man, you should be treated fairly. No one should deprive you of a chance to learn the tech skills you love or do the tech job you like. However, I must say that the gender gap in the tech industry is closing, but not half as quickly as it should. Though most tech roles are handled by men, they make up a greater number at tech establishments. This is not just a problem in Nigeria, but a global problem. Pinning down what is responsible for the vast gender gap in tech is not so easy, but it has its roots in the misconception that courses like engineering are too difficult for women. And since tech is rooted in engineering, this seems to have affected the way recruiters, trainers, and society saw women who had an interest in tech. However, I must say that the discrimination against women interested in tech has been watered down. But, even if there is now less discrimination against women who are interested in technology, there is still work to be done to close the gender gap. Tell us about some of the achievements of the training strategy, which your company adopted so far? I am an advocate of closing the gender gap between women and technology, and I can say we are responsible for the successful transition of over 100 women into the Tech industry, and are currently training many more. A major achievement of our company is that our mentees are now in high demand all over the world. They have gained employment in multinationals, such as Amazon USA, RBC Canada, Accenture, TD Bank, Auvenir, UBA, and more. We have a community of over 30, 000 combined across different channels from 22 countries. Acquiring tech skills has helped our women remain marketable, relevant and increased their earnings by $8.07m, and counting. Many youths are leaving the country to seek greener pastures in other climates. What would be your advice to job seekers out there, in terms of how to prepare themselves to get relevant jobs in a tech industry? My advice would be first to get mentors they can look up to. Secondly, acquire as many skills, whether on YouTube, online, or in boot camps, such as ours. And then, finally decide the path you want to follow. But truth be told, as a young job seeker, it’s absolutely normal to be confused as a starter, but as time goes on, you will figure out the best place for you. Can you highlight some mistakes women in tech must avoid to help them thrive in the industry? One is, not being part of a Tech community. There is this quote we love at Heels and Tech, “Alone, we can do so little; together, we can do so much”. Working in a male-dominated industry could mean that you might find it difficult to fit in. Getting support from like-minded women who are thriving in the tech world might boost your morale. There are a lot of benefits you get to derive from joining a female tech community. You could get advice and support from female experts, or you could also find out how to negotiate your salary and balance work with your family and personal life. Also, you can get access to exclusive career opportunities you usually wouldn’t get access to, if you’re looking for other career roles in tech. Another mistake is being disorganised. When you are disorganised you displease your employer and the entire team. You even make it look like you don’t have an iota of knowledge of what you’re doing. Not knowing your strength is also another mistake. Your strengths may propel you into a state of flow, in which challenge and fascination intersect and you lose sight of time. Not knowing what your strengths are can lead you to unnecessarily compare yourself with others and look down on your abilities. A way out is speaking with trusted relatives, friends, and colleagues about their perceptions of your strengths. Also, not negotiating salary. Many times, women make the mistake of not negotiating their salaries probably because they have searched for a job too long, they’re nonchalant about it, or they are desperate for job roles. This is why one ought to know one’s worth as a techie, understand your position in the market and go for roles that offer what your needs and deserve. Does one need prior knowledge to transit into tech? If not, what are the basic things one needs to possess? There is this misconception that without prior knowledge in mathematics, computer science, and statistics, one cannot succeed in tech. In as much as knowledge is required, there is no need for a rush. It is well assured that you can learn, and know more about tech without any prior knowledge. All you need to have is a passion burning in you to learn, and know more every day; an open heart and arms opened wide to receive instructions. Try as much as possible to avoid unnecessary pressure either from yourself or anyone. Who are your icons in your field? I admire women like the founder of Canva, Melanie Perkins who has built a remarkable application that has influenced millions of people globally, and whose continuous innovation has inspired me greatly to do more. In what ways has being a player in a male dominated industry changed you? It has helped me dream bigger.