LAGOS  – Leadway Assurance Com­pany Limited said its pre­mium income generation has hit a three-digit billion mark with total premium collection of N104.4 billion with a gross written premi­um of N92.5 billion, savings & investment, N10.8 billion and another N1.1 billion from its Ivorien Insurance subsidiary. The company prides it­self as a leader in claims payment with N57.5 billion record in the year under re­view making it the largest claim payer in the industry consistently in the last seven years, thereby showcasing the benefits of insurance as an intervening tool in pre­venting financial losses. The company also con­solidated its financial strength in the year under review having recorded an increase in its total asset base from N502 billion in 2021 to N535 billion in 2022, while risk premium signifi­cantly rose from N71 billion in the previous year to N93 billion in the year under review. Consequently, the Group recorded a 26 percent in­crease in total premium from N83 billion in 2021 to N104.4 billion in 2022 with the growth attributed to the business ability to acquire new businesses for Group Life and its capacity to re­new existing businesses. Speaking at the compa­ny’s 51st annual general meeting (AGM) at the week­end, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odu­kale, the Managing Direc­tor/Chief Executive Officer, emphasised the company’s resolute commitment to prompt claims payment to its esteemed policyholders despite the uncertainties and complexities surround­ing the economic realities in the country and across the world. “We are delighted in the company’s 2022 finan­cial performance that saw us record yet another in­dustry milestone of im­proved claims payout to policyholders, despite the prevailing economic con­ditions and the debilitating double-digit inflationary pressures. This is duly at­tributable to our attractive­ness to new customers and the confidence of existing ones to renew their policy contracts, affording us the headroom for growth and enabling our unwavering commitment to our policy­holders. “We remain well-posi­tioned, strengthened and financially secured to con­tinuously deliver our man­date of outstanding risk management and wealth creation to our policyhold­ers. We continue to sus­tain value creation to our stakeholders and as market leaders, bolster customers’ confidence in the industry. This performance further amplifies our quest to deep­en insurance penetration in Nigeria and on the conti­nent”, Mr. Hassan-Odukale stated.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In his remarks, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, General Martin Luther Agwai, stated, “As a flexible and market-sen­sitive company, we remain resilient and resolute in the execution of our busi­ness strategy as well as our engagement with stake­holders across the value chain. We remain firmly committed to intensifying and amplifying our group synergy towards enhancing our business reach and rep­licating successes achieved in Nigeria across other re­gions in Africa”.