Nigerians have been asked to brace up for a bleak future as the coming of Bola Ahmed Tinubu, president-elect, will not change the fortunes of the people and the lies, nepotism and deceit that char­acterized outgoing President Mu­hammadu Buhari will continue. Funkekeme Solomon, Senior Political Adviser to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa stated this while speaking on Delta Broadcasting Service (DBS) Television. He said the same set of peo­ple that chaperoned Buhari and drove his agenda that have left Nigerians divided than before are the same persons that now surround Tinubu. Solomon said the President-elect shares in the lies and deceit that characterized Buhari’s nearly eight years in power. “The All Progressives Con­gress (APC) on which Tinubu rode to power is an amalgam of desperate power-seekers seeking to maintain a stranglehold on the levers of power without any thought to better the lot of the people”, he said. But he had cheery news for the people of Delta State, saying in Sheriff Oborevwori, there is a governor-elect with a deep pas­sion to better the lot of the people. “In Sheriff Oborevwori, Delta has a man coming prepared to take the state on a great leap for­ward. He was a councilor in Okpe, a community leader in Osubi and Speaker of the State House of As­sembly for the past six years. He knows the extent of achievements of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and the areas to follow up on. He has never been alienated from the peo­ple, he grew up in their midst and he will hit the ground running,” Solomon stated. He said the representation of women in elected positions decreased after the 2023 elections at all levels, stressing that Oborev­woriwilltakeaffirmativeactionto ensure more women hold greater positions of authority.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On defection of some Delta politicians from the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP) in others days before the gubernatorial election, the Senior Political Adviser said it was indecorous and naive of the politicians. “Politics requires integrity and loyalty on the part of all stakeholders. They were not strategic in their thinking. But the people knew better,” Sol­omon said. POLL He advocated a fundamental review of the operations of the Niger Delta Development Com­mission (NDDC) and its parent ministry, the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs. “Right now, those running the NDDC pander more to the interests of politicians in Abuja than attending to the demands of the Niger Delta peo­ple. By now, we ought to have a university built and funded by NDDC, the focus on just building roads, most of which are hardly completed, is wrong.