NNEWI – An unidentified man said to be a clergyman has been reportedly ab­ducted at Nnobi Roundabout , near Nnewi, in Idemili South Local Gov­ernment Area of Anambra State. Eyewitnesses said the man who was driving a Lexus FX 300 with plate number Anambra GDD 882 PW was heading towards the Awka-Etiti when the hoodlums stormed the place. It was gathered that the victim had stopped his car at the Nnobi Junction to buy some fruits when his cellular phone rang. According to eyewitnesses, he was still answering the call and looking around for the caller when he was double crossed by another car whose occupants were armed to the teeth. The assailants forcefully bundled the man into their jeep leaving the victim’s car on the road before driv­ing off. The incident which occurred Monday night, April 25, 2023, at 8:35 p.m. disrupted the evening market and street trading along the road as the hoodlums shot sporadically into the air. Nnobi Junction had become notorious with abductions, armed robbery, killings among other vices since 2021 when the IPOB declared Monday a ghost day popularly known as sit-at-home in the South East, Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The car was still on the road facing the Awka-Etiti axis of the notorious Nnobi Junction, Tues­day morning ,the second time our correspondent went to the scene of the incident. POLL The vehicle was later driven off the same Tuesday morning by secu­rity operatives believed to be police­men from the state police command. However, there were no deaths recorded but many people, includ­ing pregnant women , nursing mothers among others, were said to have got various degrees of in­jury as they ran helter- skelter in different directions to safety when the hoodlums began shooting. When contacted, the Police Pub­lic Relations Officer. (PPRO), Anambra State Police Command, Ikenga Tochukwu, said there was no report of the incident before him at press time. “Thank you for this information, but there is no report like that be­fore me. I will escalate this informa­tion to our operatives in the area”, the PPRO said. The pictures below show the Lex­us FX 300 belonging to the abductee.