YENAGOA  – An indigenous oil-servic­ing company in the oil sec­tor, Kenyon International West Africa Limited, has announced the award of 50 post-graduate scholar­ships to indigent but bril­liant beneficiaries across the continent of Africa, for e-learning courses. The firm’s Public Affairs Manager, Mr Ifechukwu Muonyili, announced this in a statement he issued on Tuesday. The e-learning courses are facilitated by a United States-based Tekedia Insti­tute, which offers e-learn­ing programmes. Muonyili quoted the Chief Executive Officer of Kenyon, Victor Ekpenyong, as saying that the gesture was aimed at encouraging entrepreneurship amongst the youths rather than be­ing job seekers. The company had in 2022 awarded 30 scholarships for a special Master of Business Administration (MBA) programme to ben­eficiaries in Nigeria and subsequently increased the slots to 50 and extended the scope to other African countries. The statement read in part, “As an organisation with a keen interest in ed­ucation and all its related benefits to society, we are happy to announce that we have approved scholar­ships for over 50 students across Africa to be able to partake in the mini-MBA crash programme organ­ised by Tekedia Institute. “In the past year, we made the scholarship available to 30 Nigerian students who could not af­ford to be part of the pro­gramme. We were pleased to see that they acquired the enlightenment they need to function optimal­ly in today’s ever-evolving business landscape.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Our aim is to cause a par­adigm shift in the mindset of many Africans and help them discover their entre­preneurial strength, which is needed for us to experi­ence a sustainable economic boom as a continent.” POLL Kenyon International, which offers oil well con­trol services that checks vandalism and oil theft, pledged that it is fully committed to providing resources that can enable less privileged but qualified persons to acquire the need­ed knowledge and skills to effectively manage their businesses all over Africa. It commended the efforts of Prof. Ndubuisi Ekekwe, Lead Faculty at Tekedia Institute, for working to ensure that Kenyon’s idea comes to fruition. The firm said that feed­back from the institution indicates that applications are currently being re­ceived from the targeted beneficiaries.