ABUJA  – Yabagi Sani, Chairman, Inter Party Advisory Coun­cil (IPAC), has warned that the end has not been heard about the 2023 presidential and governorship elections. The visibly disappointed IPAC chairman also warned that the country’s democra­cy is standing “only by the will of God”. Yabagi criticised the In­dependent National Elec­toral Commission’s (INEC) conduct of the 2023 presi­dential election, insisting that “it was the most flawed in the history of elections in the country”. While presenting the cer­tificate of return to the ADP gubernatorial candidate for Kogi State on Thursday in Abuja, the IPAC leader lam­basted the electoral commis­sion’s refusal to use the Bi­modal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) to transmit presidential election results from polling units to its server in real time. Insisting that the com­mission did not justify the humongous sum provided to it for the exercise, En­gineer Yabagi frowned at what he described as in­ternational dissatisfaction with the poll. The presidential candi­date of the Action Demo­cratic Party (ADP) in the 2023 election further de­scribed the certificate pre­sentation to the ADP guber­natorial candidate in the upcoming Kogi election as historic “preparatory to our occupation of Lord Lugard House in Lokoja, Kogi State, come November, 2023”. In a written speech he de­livered at the event, Yabagi who is also the party’s national chairman, said, “What we are doing today is the continuation of the process that started last Fri­day (14th April, 2023) when ADP held its gubernatorial primary election in Lokoja. The primary election was transparent, orderly, peace­ful and successful. “Before I present the cer­tificate of return, permit me to say a little on the per­sonage of our candidate. POLL “Chief (Dr.) Julius Eluk­po a very distinguished Ni­gerian imbued with many parts: a political colossus, a legal luminary, who is knowledgeable and willing to reengineer Kogi State. “In addition, Chief Eluk­po is an astute politician, a man with deep passion for his people. He is ingenious, incorruptible, trustworthy and accommodating. “Through the instrumen­tality of Chief Elukpo, ADP will dislodge the clueless and banal administration of the APC that has ruined the state these odd eight years. “Kogi State, fondly called the Confluence State, is on our mind. Those of you that are conversant with history will recall that it was the gate­way to western civilisation of the Niger area and the capital city of iron and steel. “Apart from being a gateway in the old and pre-colonial days, the state is today the link between the northern and southern parts of our dear country. It therefore occupies a stra­tegic place and should be administered by the best of hands, such as I present to you today. “A state endowed with very vital natural and hu­man resources should not be left in the hands of half-mea­sured academic capacities. Chief Elukpo is the brain that Kogi State needs now. “After this ceremony, our campaigns will commence in earnest and I beseech us all to join hands with ADP as we work toward liberat­ing the Confluence State”. Julius Elukpo, the party’s candidate for the Kogi gov­ernorship, assured that if elected, he would work for the interest of the state, and Nigeria in general. According to him, the state is “too rich with solid minerals and arable farm­lands to be impoverished”.