P/HARCOURT – Management of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, has been urged to channel its energy into prosecuting laudable projects that would impact positively on the infrastructural development of the oil and gas rich-region rather than spending time and resources on mundane ventures. This is why Joseph Ambakederimo, Executive Chairman, Board of Trustees. Community Development Committees of Niger Delta Oil and Gas Producing Areas, expressed misgivings over the Public Private Partnership summit holding at Eko hotel in Lagos. The BoT of the oil producing communities, said the Summit organised by the NDDC should be called off at time, adding that as much as it applauds the initiative, the timing and the venue of the event were wrong. In a statement made available to our correspondent, Executive Chairman of the BoT, Joseph Ambakaderimo, said what should be of primary concern to the leadership of the NDDC at this time is how best to redeem the image of the commission that has been battered over the years due to the wrong doings of past administrations. “The mention of the name NDDC leaves a repugnant taste in the mouth of the people. Now the reality in the Niger Delta region, in the upland creeks, the inter land and even worldwide is a general feeling of apathy and indifference to the workings and vision of the NDDC. “The commission can only win if it has the buy-in and support of the people of the region if they collectively take ownership of the commission and join hands to achieve the Niger Delta Masterplan. The people should be engaged in the process of choosing, executing and supervising of projects as it was in the beginning”, he said. Ambakaderimo, noted that years of mismanagement and continued massive misappropriation of the NDDC funds has eroded citizens’ interest in the affairs of the Commission. The record has to be set straight; the people should be convinced with proof of achievements that the NDDC wasn’t a total failure.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Hosting the summit outside our region doesn’t make any economic and business sense. We have agitated many years ago and called for the relocation of the headquarters of the international oil and gas companies to the region with no success. A summit that would better be hosted in any of the states in the region was unjustifiably taken to a place that has no correlation with the region you seek partners to develop. POLL “The money that fuels the Nigerian economy comes from the region that has decrepit infrastructure or in most cases near non-existent infrastructure with excruciating poverty, the people not better than walking corpses in our communities in the region, diseases and environmental degradation ravaging everywhere”. Ambakaderimo, suggested that the Niger Delta region would have been the most appropriate place to host such an important Summit because the money expended would have stayed in the region to stimulate the economy. “Business owners in the region that would have made monetary gains “have been denied such patronage”. He argued that the huge sum of money budgeted for the Summit would turn around critical Infrastructure in some oil bearing communities in the region. Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Governing Board of the NDDC, Mrs. Lauretta Onochie, has called for concerted effort towards human development in the Niger Delta. She stated this recently while receiving the leadership of the Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (PHCCIMA) in her office in Port Harcourt. “Developing the people of the Niger Delta region can only be done by professionals like you, who manage your own enterprises. “Development does not only mean building and providing physical infrastructure. Development also lies in the development of our human capital. We will be relying on you for support”, she said. In his remarks, the PHCCIMA President, Eze Mike Elechi, noted that the Chamber wanted to collaborate with the NDDC in the development of micro, small and medium businesses in Rivers State and the Niger Delta region. “We need to partner with the NDDC to train individuals in micro, small and medium enterprises. We also seek your financial support for the 2023 Port Harcourt International Trade Fair”. Speaking also to a delegation from the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), South-South Zone, during another courtesy visit, Onochie encouraged youths in the Niger Delta region to acquire relevant skills that would empower them to overcome economic challenges. She advised them to reduce their dependence on white-collar jobs and focus on skills in farming, coding, and artificial intelligence. She emphasized that the era of solely relying on paper qualifications was over and encouraged the youths to complement their qualifications with relevant skills. The President of the NYCN, Okorie Kenneth, stated that the Niger Delta region was the most deprived region in Nigeria, with youths bearing the brunt of economic hardships. He sought for a partnership between the NDDC and the NYCN to address youth restiveness through sustainable empowerment programmes. Okorie also urged the governing board of the commission to involve youths directly in the formulation of youth empowerment programmes of the NDDC.