The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria (ICSAN) has elected Barr Chinonyerem Ini Ememobong as its first female Chairman in Akwa Ibom State. Mrs Ememobong who is the immediate past Vice Chairman and third Chairman of the institute in the state succeeds Barr Ime Asibong who just concluded a two-year tenure. Speaking shortly after her investiture conducted by Justice Ntong Ntong in Uyo on Tuesday, the new Chairman, Barr Chinonyerem Ememobong declared her emergence an opportunity to dictate to history by positively changing the face of Corporate Governance within her jurisdiction. The policy reformer and Maritime Law expert who identified lack of transparency and the utilization of unskilled personnel as bane of the nation’s development trajectory, said her administration is poised to make great efforts at changing such displeasing narrative through extensive sensitization campaigns and frequent trainings. She acknowledged contributions of past leaders of the chapter to the development of the Institute and pledged to run an all inclusive governance to actualize desired goals. “Permit me to quickly state that it is our administration, not my administration. Our knowledge of corporate governance would have come to naught if we personalise powers in ICSAN. The chairman is merely the rallying point of the chapter. “In this regard, it is needful to appeal to other Executive Committee members and indeed the entire members of ICSAN in Akwa Ibom State to see me as first amongst equals. I will welcome advice, observations, questions amongst other time tested processes of leading a credible institute like ours”. She said‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In his opening remarks, Chairman on the occasion and Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Moses Ekpo declared Mrs Ememobong’s elevation a testimony of dedication and hard work. POLL Represented by Mrs Rosemary Inyangubong , the Deputy Governor expressed optimism that Ememobong would bring her wealth of experience to drive the institute to desired height. He called for full support to enable the Chairman succeed. Delivering a keynote address on “MIGRATING FROM POLITICS TO GOVERNANCE: THE ROLE OF ADMINISTRATORS IN NATION BUILDING” Prof Aniekan Brown of the University of Uyo identified Accountability,, LeadershipIntegrity, Stewardship, and Transparency aspllars of good governance.. The University Don who regretted that politically motivated corruption has affected nation building, indicted administrators to have been found wanting on issues of transparency, integrity and stewardship. He therefore called for drastic measures on the part of ICSAN to liberate the nation. Applauding the institute’s choice of a woman to pilot its affairs, he said ‘Let me commend you for assimilating women into mainstream of development plan. We cannot go very far if women are not part of the mix. He, however tasked the institute to revisit the concept of civil servants being card-carrying members of political parties and playing active roles in partisan politics. A representative of the President/Chairman of Council, ICSAN, Mr Taiwo Owokalade and President-Elect, ICSAN, Mrs Funmi Ekundayo in her remarks declared the institute amulti skilled professional body, and expressed confidence in the new chairman’s capacity to to build on existing legacies and take the chapter higher The President-elect assured that the national body is very proud of the Akwa Ibom chapter. “I have no doubt that the new chairman would continue to enjoy support of members “. She said A patron of the institute and Chairman, Ibom Power Company, Engr Etido Inyang said ICSAN is distinguished in its role of qualifying chartered Secretaries and Administrators for corporate governance and administration in both the public and private sectors in Nigeria. He advised the incoming administration to work closely with past leaders for optimum impact.