The European Union said it was planning for a possible evacuation of its citizens from Khartoum when security allows, as armed clashes rage in the Sudanese capital. Around 105 Irish citizens currently based in Sudan have registered with the Irish embassy in Kenya, Minister for Foreign Affairs Micheál Martin has said. He said Ireland would help them evacuate “when the opportune time arises” and that his department was advising Irish citizens there to stay indoors and to observe local restrictions. Mr Martin said that many of those registered work with international organisations and that the number could change. He said Ireland was coordinating its efforts with international and European Union partners. “But, as in similar situations in the past, we work with our international partners. We are contingency planning, and, obviously, we stand ready to do everything we can to facilitate our citizens and to make sure they are safe, and, when the opportune time arises, to help to evacuate.” A senior EU official said: “We are trying to coordinate an operation to get our civilians out of the city which is now in a high-risk situation. We are working on different possibilities for taking people out.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “For the time being, the assessment of those on the ground, including the EU embassy, is that the security conditions are not in place for going ahead with an operation of this kind.” POLL The official said the EU and the seven-member states with missions in Sudan were looking at getting the estimated 1,500 EU nationals trapped in Khartoum out by road because the airport was closed. It would require a three-day ceasefire to carry out such an operation, he said. “We will be following closely the situation to wait for the moment that it can be done,” the official said. “At that moment, it’s our expectation we will be fully prepared to go ahead with the evacuation of our nationals.” Clashes despite calls for Eid ceasefire More than 400 people have been killed and thousands wounded since the fighting erupted Saturday between forces loyal to Sudan’s army chief Abdel Fattah al-Burhan and his deputy, Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, the commander of the powerful paramilitary Rapid Support Forces, (RSF) who is commonly known as Hemeti. A senior EU humanitarian official was shot and wounded in the violence and the bloc said its ambassador to Sudan, Irish diplomat Aidan O’Hara, was “assaulted” in his residence. An humanitarian worker was killed earlier after his vehicle was hit by crossfire as he tried to move his family to safety, the International Organization for Migration said. The Sudanese man was the fourth UN employee to be killed since fighting broke out. Warring forces continued to clash in the nation’s capital, as they ignored appeals by world powers for an end-of-Ramadan ceasefire. Both UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called separately for a ceasefire of “at least” three days to mark Eid al-Fitr in the mostly Muslim country, as explosions and gunfire resounded in the capital Khartoum for the sixth straight night. “On the night of Eid al-Fitr, several areas of Khartoum were bombed and are still exposed to shelling and clashes between the armed forces and the RSF,” the Central Committee of Sudan Doctors said in a statement. “We call on all citizens to exercise caution, stay home, close doors and windows and lie down. We also call on these forces to be responsible and immediately stop fighting to protect innocent lives.” Nine children among casualties – UNICEF The UN children’s agency UNICEF added that at least nine children were among the dead and more than 50 children had been wounded. Citing Sudanese health ministry figures, Ms Harris said 20 health facilities had stopped functioning and another 12 were at risk of stopping. This would affect “not only the people who have been injured during this terrible fighting, but the people who were needing treatment before”, she noted. “It’s taking a devastating toll on the country’s children,” UNICEF spokesman James Elder told reporters. “As long as fighting continues, children will continue to pay the price. “The fighting means many families are trapped, with little or no access to electricity, terrified of running out of food, water and medicine.” He said Sudan already had one of the world’s highest rates of child malnutrition, with critical life-saving care now disrupted for an estimated 50,000 severely acutely malnourished children. “This is life-threatening,” he said. The most critical cases are “being fed with tubes because that’s literally the only way they can be fed”, said Mr Elder. “When the bombing or shelling begins outside the hospital and where medical staff need to flee, then what?” Mr Elder also warned that the fighting was putting at risk the cold storage of more than $40 million (€36.4 million) worth of vaccines and insulin, due to the breaks in the power supply and fuel shortages. “We need forces to immediately cease hostilities and for all parties to respect their international obligations to protect children from harm,” he said. “He urged both military leaders to implement and uphold a nationwide ceasefire and sustain it through at least the end of Eid al-Fitr, Sunday, 23 April,” the statement said. As battles raged, General Burhan appeared on television for the first time since hostilities began, to deliver an Eid address as in previous years. Sitting behind a desk, dressed in military uniform and backgrounded by two Sudanese flags, he made no mention of a truce. “For Eid this year, our country is bleeding: destruction, desolation and the sound of bullets have taken precedence over joy,” he said. “We hope that we will come out of this ordeal more united … a single army, a single people … towards a civilian power.” After two ceasefires failed to take hold in two days, gunfire continued last night, with columns of black smoke rising from buildings around Khartoum International Airport and the army headquarters. While many sheltered at home, others were venturing out despite the risks “to protect themselves and their families”, said architect Tagreed Abdin. Beyond Khartoum, witnesses reported loud explosions in the city of Obeid, in the central state of North Kordofan. The World Food Programme (WFP) warned that the violence could plunge millions more into hunger in a country where 15 million people – one-third of the population – already face food insecurity. It has suspended its Sudan operations after the killing of three WFP workers on Saturday. Mr Burhan and Mr Daglo’s bitter dispute centred on the planned integration of the RSF into the regular army, a key condition for a final deal aimed at restoring Sudan’s democratic transition. Around Khartoum and elsewhere, RSF fighters in armoured vehicles and pickups mounted with machine guns have taken over the streets. Many have mounted checkpoints to search cars carrying civilians trying to escape the worst battle zones to safer areas in Khartoum and beyond. Civilians are becoming increasingly desperate. By Tuesday, thousands had fled the capital, with many reporting streets strewn with corpses. Hospitals hit Medics have warned of a catastrophe, especially in Khartoum, where many hospitals were reportedly caught in the crossfire. Up to 70% of the hospitals in Khartoum and neighbouring states have been rendered “out of service” by the fighting, the doctors’ union said. It has warned the death toll is likely to be far higher than stated, with many wounded unable to reach hospitals. Several countries’ evacuation plans have been put on hold, with the US Defense Department announcing yesterday that it was deploying forces “nearby in the region” with hopes of “securing and potentially facilitating the departure of US Embassy personnel from Sudan”. The Sudanese army said 177 Egyptian soldiers were evacuated from the northern city of Meroe to Egypt, which confirmed their arrival. The RSF said later that it handed over another 27 Egyptian soldiers to the Sudanese Red Cross, and Cairo confirmed their arrival at Egypt’s Khartoum embassy. The United Arab Emirates said it had “led” the mediation for the Egyptians held by the RSF. ‘City is in ruins’ The General Secretary of the Sudanese Community Association in Cork has said this Eid will be particularly sad, adding that locals will gather tomorrow to call on humanitarian agencies to prioritise an urgent plan to end the suffering in Sudan. Speaking on RTÉ’s Morning Ireland, Dr Osama Ali said the scenes in the Sudanese capital were “unbelievable”. Dr Ali was born in Khartoum and described it as a lovely vibrant city and lived there most of my life before moving to Ireland. He said it was very hard to see areas he recognises that are now completely destroyed. “The city is in ruins and everyone is fleeing due to continuous shelling. It seems it’s not unrest between two parties, but it looks like a full-blown war as if it’s between two countries. “You see artillery, you see fighter jets. It’s unbelievable. The city is reaching a point of utter and complete destruction.” (SOURCE: RTE)