Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a communication expert and seasoned politician, is a chieftain and a leader of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State. Adikwuru, a member of Imo State Presidential Campaign Council under Media and Publicity Sub-committee, is also the State Publicity Secretary of Imo State Professionals for Atiku, as well as the State Coordinator of the Imo PDP Grassroots Movement. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU. Excerpts: How do you see the recent removal of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Chairman, Iyorcha Ayu, and his removal by a court order, which stopped him from parading himself as such? Honestly speaking, the suspension of PDP’s National Chairman by his ward and subsequent court order backing of the same came at a wrong time when damages have been incurred. The sacking of Dr Iyorchia Ayu is reminiscent of that of former National chairman, Uche Secondus, which was anchored by Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike, and he is not far from this game play ongoing. I am deep in my thoughts for the future of PDP and I fault the timing of the suspension which has dampened spirits all over the federation. Incidentally, much damage was wrecked on the party culminating from the presidential primaries. Sadly, key PDP leaders spearheaded the loss of the party in the Presidential/NASS elections and they are quick to lead the onslaught for deeper crises in the party. It does not portend good for the party and my fear is that the cabal that is sponsoring this present crisis is serial and cyclical, deadly and inconsiderate. I am afraid that this is a hijack mission akin to a suicidal mission and it will take wisdom and perseverance to come out of this quagmire. I will conclusively call on Governor Wike to come all out open and organise, disorganise, integrate or disintegrate PDP as he may wish and boast. With the recent sack of Iyorchia Ayu, where do you think the next PDP Chairman should come from as a way of resolving the leadership crisis in the party? Having exited Iyorchia Ayu, the party has appointed an acting National Chairman in line with the provisions of the party’s constitution. Talking about where the next substantive chairman should come from is a matter of total reshuffling in the National Executive of the party. When that is done, the clearer zoning formula will be made known but I believe the party will come up with a generally acceptable zoning which will satisfy the desires of the majority of members. Since the presidential elections cases in this country usually end in the Supreme Court, don’t you think it is possible for the Supreme Court to give its ruling on the presidential election suit, as Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) has suggested, well ahead of the May 29 inauguration? The right thing should be to thrash out all cases before inauguration of the new president so that once inaugurated, the president will swing into governance rather than waste time and state resources trying to retain power. Unfortunately, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in connivance with the All Progressives Congress (APC) is frustrating legal moves and it is not surprising that till this moment, hearing is yet to commence at the Presidential Election Panel. And this is yet another absurdity of both the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the ruling APC to sustain the electoral fraud. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ How are political parties in Imo State strategising for the governorship election coming soon? POLL The race for Imo governorship election coming up on November 11 has kick started with key political parties on various levels of preparations. The aspirants to the gubernatorial contest have emerged in their political parties, screening of the aspirants also concluded while preparations for the primaries are on top gear. I think this is where they are now. With the general elections over, all eyes are on the Imo governorship election. As a close associate of Chief Emeka Ihedioha, could you confirm that he will not be contesting under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), but under the Labour Party (LP)? Chief Emeka Ihedioha has withdrawn from the PDP governorship contest and I cannot confirm that he has any communication with the Labour Party. Let me inform you that the Labour Party parades the highest number of aspirants, already turning to a battle field for the aspirants and certainly not going to end in unity of purpose for the party. I do not think Ihedioha is contemplating joining any party for the governorship contest. You are very close to Chief Ihedioha. What would you say could have made him leave the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a party he had nurtured and sustained over the years? He did not leave PDP. He only withdrew from the governorship contest, but he is still a member of the party. However, the issue of withdrawal from the race is mostly his personal decision based on certain recent developments in the polity. He is a master in the game of politics and has a lot of experience which led to his decision. With his exit would you say that PDP in Imo will still be in one piece, or is he moving with his well established and oiled political machine in the state? Like I said, he has not left PDP and his structure in the party is still intact. I want to believe that as a loyal party man and statesman at that, he will join forces in the PDP to ensure the party’s victory Will you be leaving for the Labour Party with Ihedioha with your political structure since you have been with him over the years? Ihedioha is still in the PDP and has not joined the Labour Party or any other party. As for me, I am in the PDP and will remain in the party for now. My structures across the state are solid and intact and shall be availed for the success of the party hopefully, if sought for. How would you explain the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the recently held House of Assembly election? The last State Assembly election in Imo State was just a mafia attack and self-declaration by APC. It is on ground that APC lost the main election but got the aid of INEC and security forces to manipulate the outcome of the elections to its favour. For sure, PDP won most constituencies of the State Assembly and the ruling government converted the retinue of security agencies and Ebube Agu into the electorate that voted for their candidates. An instance is Aboh Mbaise State Constituency where I come from and my PDP candidate, Princewill Ugochukwu Amuchie, was cruising to an unprecedented landslide victory with about 187 uploaded results. But, suddenly as we awaited the INEC declaration of Amuchie, APC candidates accompanied by their thugs and fake security stormed the INEC office and went away with materials to Owerri. The same thing took place in other local government areas where APC lost the election and the use of force was employed to falsify the results. With the movement of Ihedioha to LP, don’t you think that APC’s incumbent governor, Hope Uzodimma, will now have a smooth ride to retain his position? With or without Ihedioha in the Labour Party, but like I said, Ihedioha has no business with the Labour Party. I want to place it authoritatively that the incumbent APC government in the state will not have another field day during the November governorship election. PDP will do everything possible to regain power and I want to believe that the machinery of total reconciliation will soon be put in place. What is your advice to Imo people as they are getting ready for the election? I can only enjoin Imo people at home and outside to be fully ready for the election and take a lead in the protection of the votes. Doing this will see the exit of APC and enthronement of PDP back to the state. From what transpired in the presidential election, to what extent do you believe in the BVAS technology as a way of deciding winners of elections in the country? There is no trust in BVAS as far as INEC as presently constituted is concerned. The manipulations in the BVAS wherein transmission of the results at the polling units was stalled, makes nonsense of the technology. It would have been better to go with manual accreditation and voting than the multi billion naira gulping technology turned to the APC rigging technique. Very very unfortunate.