As the dusts settle after the 2023 general elections,the losers are licking their wounds while the winners are savor­ing victory. Notably,five (5) governors on Peoples Demo­cratic Party,PDP platform also known as the G-5 (who l like to refer to as Furious Famous Five, FFF) rebelled against their party and remained within striking striking it,thereby introducing a new angle and drama into politicking and po­litical party internal machinations in our clime. In the past ,whenever party members or leaders felt aggrieved,they rebelled by cross carpeting to other parties to pursue their polit­ical interest. But that was not the case with the G-5 gover­nors who opted to stay put in their party and pull it down instead of switching parties. And they successfully contributed to the downfall of PDP in elections 2023, even though they were accused or suspected, but they have not been found guilty of anti-party activities. Anti-party is a veritable ground for the sus­pension and expulsion of politicians by their political parties,if they are proven to be working against the party to which they claim to belong. As the conventional wisdom in politics goes: party is supreme.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It is similar to the dogma in the military: obey-before-complaining and Orders-is-Orders. POLL Plainly speaking,it means whatever the party decides is final as long one remains a member. Now,there has been cases of politicians tak­ing their parties to court to reverse decisions taken against them. Situations where parties denied their mem­bers the party’s ticket illegitimately after win­ning in the primaries or where proper prima­ries are not conducted to produce the party’s candidates during party primaries are typical examples. In some cases politicians succeed in com­pelling their parties to reverse unwelcome or unwholesome decisions against them. The recent event in the main opposition PDP which has faced all sorts of trial in the current election season is a good reference point of a political party suspending some of its members and reversing the suspension literally in the twinkling of an eye even without being com­pelled by any court of law,but by introspection. The suspension and reinstatement of senator Anyim Pius Anyim, ex secretary to the federal government,ex Governor Ayo Fayose of Eki­ti state and Dr. Aslam Aliyu a party leader in Zamfara as well as Prof.Denise Ityavyar,a com­missioner in Benue state while the Governor, Samuel Ortom was referred to the party’s dis­ciplinary committee for action amongst others are typical instances. The decision to sanction and rescind the de­cision to sanction some members of the party has exacerbated the already tense situation in the PDP. It is more so because it had just lost massively in the 2023 general elections with the party suf­fering severe political casualties in some of the states that are originally PDP. Take Sokoto for instance. The loss is particularly more serious in the south east,where it currently controls three (3), Abia, Enugu and Ebonyi since 2015, but would be reduced to just one-Enugu in the new dispen­sation that commences next month. Similarly,the number of current legislators of lgbo extraction that would be returning to National Assembly,NASS for the tenth (10th) as­sembly from the PDP stable have been shrunken dramatically. The specific number of seats nationwide from the PDP platform is yet to be established owing to outstanding elections scheduled to be held on a future date, but by all indications, it has also significantly contracted. Even the struggle to win Enugu state govern­ment house for PDP in the last election is compa­rable to the difficulties encountered in crossing the mythical Bermudian triangle. It is such a striking reversal of political for­tunes that the APC whose platform had no gover­nor in lgboland before 2011, will soon be incharge of two (2) governors mansions-Imo and Ebonyi states while the PDP will be presiding in just one. If any one is in doubt as to whether the PDP is doing well or not, the reality is very stark as it is clearly illustrated by its receding influence nation wide following its decimation in its erst­while south east political base by Mr Peter Obi and his tsunami-like Obidients and the prying of Sokoto stare off its fingers by the APC. And the immediate and remote causes of the misfortune of the PDP is indiscipline. It is a seemingly incurable malady afflicting both the erring party members and the party leadership which has also, some how, been incon­sistent in its policy formulation and implementa­tion, particularly with respect to the presidential power rotation policy. For instance,by engaging in what l would like to categorize as the sudden change of the goal post in the middle of a football game as reflected by the denial of lgbo people the exclusive right to present the presidential candidate of the PDP in 2023, and instead it threw it open,l had no doubt that the action was bound to have grave reper­cussions. That is especially if the associated feeling of betrayal by the lgbo nation was not going to be well managed through effective communication to achieve a buy-in of the easterners into the new agenda which was thrown up by exigen­cies arising from the new realities faced by the party which was intent on winning back Aso Rock Villa. The case for a president of lgbo stock was made in my book: “Becoming President Of Ni­geria. A Citizens Guide”. ln that book launched on 10th May last year, l proposed that in the event that PDP felt that there was no lgbo man popular enough to take on a Hausa/Fulani candidate from the ruling APC,(it was sus­pected that a northerner Waziri Atiku Abuba­kar would be fielded) therefore a partnership agreement between the lgbos and the presiden­tial candidate of Hausa/Fulani extraction would be required. At that time,it was apparent that the seed of not sticking to the original calculus of presiden­tial power rotating to the eastern part of our country have been sown. But for the sake of equity ,as it had already swung to Yoruba and Hausa/Fulani lands re­spectively, it was ideally the turn of someone from lgbo land. That meant that they had to be wooed seri­ously. And what was supposed to the clincher or win-win formula for both the party,lgbo nation and Hausa /Fulani power blocks was for the presidential candidate of northern extraction to enter into solid agreement that an easterner would be the vice president and he would take over from the winner of 2023 presidential elec­tions who would be of Hausa/Fulani extraction after serving only one term of the presidency,wil­ly-nilly. That was a sure bet way of an lgbo becoming president of Nigeria without too much rancor as the power of incumbency would have improved the chances of success,with a dose of good gov­ernance also being factored into the equation. That advise was offered about two (2) years be­fore the elections,even as l had also predicted in the same book that the 2023 presidential contest was going to be between Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of APC and Waziri Atiku Abubakar of PDP. For those interested in the Post Mortem of elections 2023 in preparation for 2027 contest,the granular details of the formula that l had pro­posed are contained in the book: “Becoming President Of Nigeria. A Citizen Guide”which is still available in leading bookshops. That formula was a critical and viable way,(in my assessment) that the lgbos could have agreed to commit their votes to the PDP for the purpose of winning the 2023 presidential elections. But the leadership of the PDP failed spectac­ularly in adopting or executing that plan. Consequently, the party fell short of achiev­ing its preferred plan of returning to Aso Rock Villa that it lost since 2015 without working very hard to secure the lgbo votes that have proven to be elusive. That is demonstrated by PDP’s calamitous loss of influence in lgbo land culminating in the catastrophe of holding only one governor­ship position and a paltry number of National Assembly seats in the east which is the worst humiliation it has ever experienced. Of course one can not discountenance the Pe­ter Obi and Obidients factor, but it could not have arisen if there was a deal for the inclusion of the lgbo nation on the table for national governance. After the avoidable damage had been done,the main opposition party decided to tackle the vi­rus that had developed into cancer which has inflicted a debilitating harm on it,by issuing suspension orders on a handful of members earlier listed. And rather than be remorseful,the targets of the party’s disciplinary measures were disdain­ful of their purported sanction. In fact they literally referred to the pro­nouncements by the party as a joke and derided the party leadership. Despite the obstinacy and intransigence of the party members that allegedly breached the party rules by engaging in anti party activi­ties,the PDP did not prove that it can bark and bite in order to deter other members from com­mitting such offense in the future,but before the ink applied in issuing the sanction could dry up, the PDP reversed itself. That suggests that the decision might might not have been well thought out in the first place,and such ambivalence would in the near future certainly imperil the party,if it has not already done so. Meanwhile,the job of keeping the ruling APC on its toes seems to have been conceded,if not lost to the insurgent LP being led by Mr Peter Obi. And in fact, because it is adept at keeping its head under the water, and having surviving all the rough weather that has rocked its boat,l see the APC ruling the roost beyond PDP’s sixteen (16) years reign because it has been very dexter­ous at managing internal crisis. Right now,PDP seem to be the main opposi­tion party only by virtue of being the party with the next highest number of elected politicians after the ruling APC,as it is actually the LP that is gaining more traction in its role as the main opposition party. A keen observer would notice that the LP’s candidate, Mr Peter Obi gets men­tioned as the one opposing the outcome of the presidential contest in which APC candidate was declared the winner ahead of PDP and its candidate, Waziri Atiku Abubakar. In fact a large proportion of Nigerians are un­der the impression that the PDP has withdrawn its law suit challenging Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s victory as declared by INEC. As a way of patting itself on the back for doing a good job when it was in opposition,one can recall how the current information and cul­ture minister,Alh.Lai Mohamed mischievously mocked PDP by entreating it to come to him and the APC for a master class on how to be a good opposition party. Co-incidentally,as earlier stated,the APC has also been having internal wrangling as a fall out of the Muslim-Muslim ticket which is novel in our country and rejected by some Christian lead­ers in the APC stable such as former secretary to the federal government, Mr Babachar Lawal and ex Speaker of the House of Representatives,Mr Yakubu Dogara. But the ruling party at the centre has man­aged the potential crisis without serious collat­eral damage,which has sort of become a defining feature of the PDP.