In its third generation, Honda HR-V ‘The Standard’ has hit the Nigerian market with the target of changing the face of automobile industry in the country. Stylish and sporty with coupe-inspired design, the sub-compact Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), All-New Honda HR-V also comes with competitive pricing, quality, state-of-the-art design and the determination to increase its market share in its category. At the unveiling of the brand in Lagos last week, Mr. Remi Adams, Manager, Sales, Marketing and Logistics, Honda Automobile Western Africa Ltd, the distributor of the brand in the country, in his presentation to the automobile media, said the HR-V third generation meets the needs of modern times, space utility versatility, improved fuel economy, safety, comfort and enhanced comfort for the driver and the passengers. Adams expressed the optimism that the latest HR-V would follow the trail of success blazed by its predecessor and increase its acceptance among the corporate and individual families in the country. Adams explained that the all-new HR-V is powered by Honda’s 1.5 litre powertrain technology, delivering a blend of efficiency and responsive performance with five colours as options for enthusiasts. Carrying on with the concept of meeting the exacting needs of modern consumers, the new model achieves a rare balance of premium SUV styling and exceptional spaciousness, with compact dimensions and easy entry and exit for passengers. Coupe-inspired Exterior, Premium SUV Styling ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The new generation HR-V embodies Honda’s simple, clean, modern design philosophy already seen in the Accord. POLL He added: “Defined by the same key design concepts of function and beauty, the compact coupe-inspired silhouette is familiar yet exciting in appearance, with a playful character and confident SUV stance. “Its sleek stance is achieved by increasing ground clearance by 25 mm, now a total of 195mm GC and reducing the front overhang further reinforce the robust SUV appeal.” The clean simplicity of design is realised through the car’s smooth surfaces, with exterior design features incorporated into the body shape. For example, the headlights, unique body-coloured grille and distinctive lower mesh grille seamlessly integrate with the forward-protruding nose shape and front quarter panels, giving it a more sculpted appearance and creating a sleek, bold expression. The body sides present a contemporary, noiseless aesthetic, with a crisp horizontal shoulder line running from the rear as far as the front headlights, generating a sense of forward momentum. The protruding front section and pulled back A-pillar combine to create a premium long bonnet, visually moving the cabin volume rearwards and further accentuating the sleek coupe-like proportions. The combination of utility and aesthetics is evident in the simple, elegant tailgate design, which neatly integrates the tailgate door handle within the three-dimensional rear panel. Aerodynamic improvements are achieved without the need for unnecessary design features that often compromise styling. Interior Design, Class-leading Spaciousness Inside the new HR-V, every design element is dedicated to achieving a sense of generous spaciousness and airiness that connects occupants to the outside world, with levels of comfort and practicality unrivalled in the sub-compact SUV segment. Contemporary fabrics and textured materials create a solid, premium feel, with the quality of soft-touch materials. The interior was designed with a focus on space and light to elevate the sense of airiness in the cabin. This airy feeling is amplified by a unique ‘Air Diffusion System’ where L-shaped vents are positioned in the top corners of the dashboard. This new system addresses a disparity in traditional vent configurations, where passengers often feel uncomfortable with air flowing directly onto them. Particularly worthy of note is a new driving position, which is 10mm higher than the previous model. In addition, windows that are designed to admit as much light as possible, which are aided by the horizontally orientated, noiseless instrumental panel to the flat line of the bonnet. Furthermore, the mirror attachment has moved lower down the door, improving visibility around the three-quarter area when turning thereby preventing blind spot situations. Honda’s next-generation body stabilising front seats feature mat-structure support, replacing the previous spring set-up, which helps prevent fatigue on long journeys and increases comfort in everyday use. For additional comfort while driving, the interior controls are optimally positioned as close as possible to the driver’s field of vision. Platform, Packaging Although overall vehicle dimensions are similar to the previous model, the new HR-V offers greater leg room and shoulder space, for an enhanced feeling of spaciousness and comfort. In addition to the 35mm increase in rear leg room, there is an additional two-degree recline compared to the previous generation HR-V. The platform configuration also allows Honda to retain the exceptionally versatile rear magic seat set-up, that offers both fold-flat or flip-up seat flexibility, depending on load space required. Easy loading access has not been compromised by the coupe-inspired roofline. The clever packaging and magic seats, a lower tailgate edge, tailgate aperture, low, flat cargo floor all work in unison to provide this. The resulting cargo space can easily accommodate a wide variety of luggage and lifestyle-related equipment. Efficient, responsive powertrain Honda’s proven technology delivers a smooth and enjoyable driving experience, with responsive performance and impressive fuel efficiency. A 1.5-litre i-VTEC petrol engine with a CVT transmission that perfectly fits helps to drive with peak power output of 119hp/6600rpm and a Torque of 145Nm/4300rpm. You can be guaranteed of best in-class fuel economy with its Econ button that allows the owner to have a fuel usage of as little as 18.4Km/L, depending on driving condition and terrain. Advanced, Intuitive Connectivity Thanks to the auto maker’s thoughtfulness, the All-New HR-V provides seamless in-car connectivity that allows owners to connect to their everyday lives with ease. The intuitive 8” LCD touchscreen interface is designed to minimise driver distraction, with a simplified and fully customisable menu layer enabling easy access to convenience features and controls. HMI operation time is greatly improved compared to previous model HMI systems, making it quick and easy to switch between Apps and providing fast response to inputs and commands. The interface, which is navigated using familiar smartphone-style controls, also enables smartphone mirroring via Apple CarPlay (through Bluetooth, WiFi or cable) and Android Auto (cable). Over-the-air software updates allows upgrades to the latest features and apps. Enhanced Safety Very innovative among the array of safety features in the All-new HR-V are the On/Off headlights: They automatically come on when the car gets into dark environment, go off when it’s bright, changes the low beam headlights to high beam headlights when necessary. Hill Descent Control, available for the first time in some markets on the HR-V, operates from a minimum speed of just 3 km/h. This technology enables greater and smoother control on low-grip surfaces and steep descents to increase driving confidence in a wider range of conditions. Interestingly, only a few months after going on sale, the car earned the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety’s (IIHS) highest accolade, the Top Safety Pick+ (TSP+) rating. After-sales Support/Warranty As always, owning a Honda is a passport to peace of mind in motoring due to the nationwide after-sales support network of THP Limited (The Honda Place) featuring updated workshops manned by well-trained teams, regular stock of genuine replacement parts, and offering efficient service/ maintenance. Like all other Honda vehicles provided in the Nigerian market by HAWA and THP Limited (The Honda Place), the new generation HR-V is supported by a five-year/100, 000 warranty, in addition to five-year free service, including labour and parts availed to the owners within the period of the warranty.