Luka Modric is a major doubt for Real Madrid’s Champions League semi-final first-leg tie against Manchester City after picking up a thigh injury. Modric, 37, was taken off with an apparent knock in the 63rd minute as Los Blancos fell to a shock 4-2 defeat against Girona on Tuesday. The club have since been confirmed that the Croatian suffered a thigh injury and “his progress will be monitored” in the coming days and weeks. However, reports in Spain have now revealed Modric will miss the next three matches, including the Copa del Rey final against Osasuna next weekend. Carlo Ancelotti’s side face Almeria on Saturday and make the trip to Real Sociedad – both in La Liga – before they take on Los Rojillos. Los Blancos will be without Modric for that game, but it hasn’t yet been confirmed whether he will definitely miss the first-leg of their Champions League last-four tie against Man City. Real host Pep Guardiola’s men at the Santiago Bernabeu on May 9, before the return leg a week later. Modric has been a key figure for Real this season, making 44 appearances and scoring six goals. Speaking earlier this week, Ancelotti outlined how much of a blow Modric’s injury will be. Ancelotti said: “He has had a small injury and it depends on how it evolves. I don’t know if he will reach the Cup final, we must evaluate him. We are hurt, but it can happen. I hope he recovers.” “He’s a very important player, nobody can replace him in terms of experience in these types of games, but I won’t complain, because we have midfielders of the highest level.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Real are currently enduring a tough time domestically, having fell a mammoth 11 points behind Barcelona in the race to win La Liga this season. They are two points ahead of city rivals Atletico Madrid with seven matches to go and missed the chance to move further ahead after being beaten by Girona. POLL “Tough night, to lose like that,” Ancelotti told Marca. “At the defensive level it has been a bad game, that’s where the key has been. Today the team has not played and we tried to raise the level through individuals. It has been a very low level in all senses. The team was anxious.” “Today we didn’t have the usual defensive commitment,” he continued. “Before today, four clean sheets in a row, today, they scored four against us. This is something the players understand, they have understood it. If the players haven’t understood it, I’m going to repeat it every day.” (SOURCE: Mirror UK)