ABUJA – The Forum of Former APC Local Government Chairmen in Nigeria has backed Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara for the position of Speaker in the 10th National Assembly. Chairman of the forum, Hon. Alegwu Adadu said Betara’s selling points are “experience, capacity, and strength of character”, adding that as “a unifier”, he will build bridges regardless of party affiliations. Addressing the press on Wednesday, in Abuja, Adadu said the forum settled for the Borno lawmaker as the best man for the job after consulting widely and extensively on the caliber of high-ranking Federal House of Representatives legislators. “The name Hon Muktar Ahmed Betara comes to the fore with experience, capacity, and strength of character to lead the Federal House of Representatives as Speaker. “There is no gainsaying that the Federal House of Representatives needs a unifier as Speaker and someone passionate and committed to the Nigerian Project. “There is also the need for the Speaker to be a bridge builder regardless of party affiliations to complement the efforts of the executive arm of government in the mundane task of formulating and enacting laws that would be beneficial to sustainable growth and development in the country,” Adadu said. He added that as a body of committed and dedicated APC members that have served at the grassroots level, members of the forum have interacted extensively with Hon Muktar Ahmed Betara on numerous occasions in implementing constituency projects.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “He is a man of few words but massive action. Hon Muktar Ahmed Betara is a dedicated party man that has contributed immensely to the growth of the APC as a party. POLL “This much is evident in the overwhelming support he got from the electorates during the elections. His grasp of issues in the legislative chambers is legendary, and his strength of character to lead carrying everybody along in the Federal House of Representatives. He comes on board with experience as chairman of sensitive and vital House Committees. It is on record that he indeed distinguished himself as a parliamentarian of repute. “Hon Muktar Ahmed Betara fits the bill for the Speakership of the 10th National Assembly. He is a high-ranking legislator with over 16 years of cognate experience in the National Assembly. He has demonstrated capacity and competence over these years. If elected Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, he would hit the ground running and bring to bear his legislative experience to lead to contribute to the Nigerian Project that we all desire” Adadu said. Therefore, the Forum of Former APC Local Government Chairmen urged the APC members-elect to focus on competence, experience, and integrity over zoning. “We are convinced that Betara is the man for the job. As a result, we endorse Hon Muktar Ahmed Betara for the Speakership of the 10th Assembly. “We call on other well-meaning groups and individuals to extend their support to the candidature of Hon Muktar Ahmed Betera for the Speakership of the 10th Assembly. He has a rich pedigree; he is a progressive, and chiefly, he is a firm believer in a strong and united Nigeria. “The task ahead of us requires that we get it right with the choice of leaders. Hon Muktar Ahmed Betara is the man for the job,” Adadu said.