In order to ensure a clearer and more habitable university community, the Sweep Foundation has collaborated with The Coca Cola Foundation (TCCF) to ensure that Nigerian university cam­puses are rid of plastics wastes. Thus, TCCF has provided a grant to support the local NGO, SWEEP Founda­tion, on their ‘Green Campus Project’, designed to facilitate the implementa­tion of a comprehensive waste manage­ment program across selected universi­ty campuses in Nigeria. The pilot phase of this project will collaborate with select higher education­al institutions in Nigeria. The project will provide waste and environmental education, establish university cam­pus community drop-off points and recycling hubs, while simultaneously providing an additional income stream for the campus community youth who participate in the program. The implementation of this waste reduction scheme will facilitate the deployment of key infrastructures and mobile collection receptacles across participating institutions in the country. Overall, this program will help acceler­ate and improve collection of discarded plastic bottles (PET) leveraging targeted awareness programs on campus com­munity recycling. The Green Campus Project will be flagged off in the following universi­ties- University of Ibadan, University of Benin, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus, University of Port-Harcourt and Obafemi Awolowo University. And it will focus on galvanizing support for more sustainable means of dealing with packaging waste through cost effective aggregation models. It also aspires to eliminate waste incineration, a common practice in many institutions in Nigeria. The project will support 250 students with training, logistic, PPE and other incentives in each campus-based recy­cling and waste collection hub as they volunteer the various drop-off centres. Amb. Phillips Obuesi, President, SWEEP Foundation, while speaking during the launch of the project at the University of Ibadan, reiterated the impact of the program on the selected universities and surrounding commu­nities saying, “University campuses suffer from indiscriminate waste dis­posal habits of its staff and students, mostly occasioned by low – level aware­ness and inadequate infrastructures to support proper waste management across these campuses. Tertiary insti­tutions as change agents in society play a central role in supporting students to forge more sustainable habits that are necessary to tackle plastic pollution. The Green Campus Project is therefore stra­tegically positioned to lead the charge in these universities”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Mrs. Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, Di­rector, Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability (PACS), Coca-Cola Company, also at the event, said: “To­day is significant to us as a business. Not because of our commercial footprint in this historical city, but because of the hope that this initiative brings to youth and communities across the country. POLL “We understand how important it is to protect and preserve our natural eco­system resources through intentional sustainable action, which we must all commit to, and that is why this initia­tive, the Green Campus Project, funded by The Coca-Cola Foundation, is being launched today in Nigeria’s premier University. “We are proud to flag off this pro­gram here, to advance our efforts to­wards environmental sustainability and along with this objective, also, fa­cilitate wealth creation for our youth, leveraging our under-utilized waste value chain. “The Green Campus Project con­nects fundamentally with two of our critical success levers and sustainabil­ity priority points which focus on sup­porting ecosystem resilience through proper packaging waste management and building socio-economic resilience through economic empowerment ac­tivation in local communities. We do hope that youth in and around Ibadan will adequately benefit from it. “In the next few weeks, we will roll out The Green Campus Project in more campuses, expanding hopefully, what will not only be a revolutionary approach to community waste man­agement, but also a trigger to socio-eco­nomic recovery across Nigeria.” Speaking on this project, the pres­ident of The Coca-Cola Foundation, Saadia Madsbjerg, said: “We recognize that student communities are critical stakeholders in our broad strategy to preserve and protect our ecosystem. We are proud to support this initiative which will not only improve the waste value chain of campuses in Nigeria but will also help inspire an entire genera­tion of environmental advocates”. Ambassador Obuesi said further: “This event is very important because we are providing a behaviourial change among our students and lecturers. “This project is very important be­cause we are trying to use it to recover waste plastics particularly and other recycling wastes that litter the environ­ment, thus ensuring that University of Ibadan is clean, green and sustainable. “So this project is all about ensuring cleanliness, sustainability, and decency within and around the university envi­ronment.”