In a bid to nip the bud of the infant-child mortality rate, medical experts urged nursing mothers on the need to give their babies exclusive breastfeeding. The medical experts unanimously gave this advice during an awareness campaign for infant and young children feeding practices, organised by a Non-Governmental Organisation, NGO Hand Stretched Out Love Charity (HSLC), warning them to desist from poor breastfeeding. At the programme, themed “Combating Infant/Young Child Mortality Rate and Malnutrition”, held in Ogun state, the Chief Dietitian, Orile Agege General Hospital, Olowolekomo Temitope, encouraged nursing mothers and pregnant women on the need to eat the right food and fruits. She warned against the usage of herbal concoctions, saying that they are harmful and in most cases, cause more harm to the body. Also, the Paediatrician, Orile Agege General Hospital, Bamgbade Obakunayo, spoke on body antibiotics, and right feeding practices before, during and after pregnancy. According to him “healthy eating leads to healthy babies”. He explained that antibodies are soldiers produced from the body and for babies, which can be gotten through exclusive breastfeeding.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The highlight of the event was the distribution of hampers to over 400 pregnant and nursing mothers who attended the event. POLL The participants thanked the organisers and promised to practice what was taught. In her remarks, the Chief Executive Officer of the organisation, Mrs Clementina Abohi, thanked partners for their support, appreciated mothers who took out time to come get educated and equipped “On behalf of Hand Stretched Out Love Charity Initiative’s want to appreciate our mothers who took out time to come get enlightened, educated and equipped on how they can as well in their own ways contribute to the fight against infant / young children mortality rate and malnutrition in our society. “I also want to acknowledge and appreciate Individuals and Organisations like Africa Port Services who donated towards the event. Your contribution made the Event a huge success,” she said.