…Explains Why Violence Is Not The Best Option The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi has given some encouraging and stimulating words to Nigerians who are going through very traumatizing pains since the general election, assuring them that with hope in the God of justice, better and happier years await all. Obi in a series of tweets last night, in reaction to the show of shame that went on in the rerun election in Adamawa State last weekend, noted that the intention of all the electoral brigandage is to provoke the people to violence but cautioned that such was not the best option for those who believe in the rule of law with faith in God. He recalled: “We were provoked during the elections but we showed restraint, patriotism, and wisdom because we were voting for a greater Nigeria; and not for the destruction of Nigeria. They deployed agents who killed and maimed many, including innocent women, but we kept our cool” While assuring the people that he is on this journey of rescuing Nigeria together with them, Obi noted that the recent events in our country, including political developments in Adamawa state, underline the importance of adhering to the rule of law. “As a patriotic Nigerian who has served this country diligently, I remain committed to serving the Nigerian people and achieving a greater Nigeria in which everyone will be a beneficiary of our God-given wealth of abundant human and natural resources. In appreciating the huge potential in our land, the LP standard bearer noted that “Nigeria is a truly blessed and potentially great nation. With the Almighty God on our side, Nigeria’s greatness will soon manifest fully, thus ensuring that she is well-respected globally. In view of this, l ask all well-meaning Nigerians to commit their heart to prayers for a better and greater Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It bears reiterating as I did on Tuesday at the National Executive Council Meeting of the Labour Party held in Asaba, that the millions of Nigerians who voted for Datti and I did not just cast their votes, but they invested their hope in us for a new Nigeria, So we must stay the course. POLL The former Anambra state Governor recalls President Muhammadu Buhari’s admonishing to Nigerian youths when he signed the ‘Not Too Young to Run Act’ into law, that they should have faith in Nigeria and prepare for leadership roles, and said he agreed with the President that we have enough vibrant and intelligent Nigerian youths ready to propel Nigeria to greatness, and it is my desire and commitment to empowering Nigerian youths to leadership. “Even in the face of provocations”, Obi appealed to the youths for calm, “We must do our utmost to be calm even under provocation; we must also not allow those bent on using any pretext to plunge our country into chaos and leave our youths without a future to succeed” Finally, the LP flag bearer declared, “I plead to every Nigerian to keep the faith and hope in Nigeria alive. We are on this journey together, and better and happier years await all of us. God bless the good people of Nigeria and the Federal Republic of Nigeria”.