LAGOS  – The Sokoto Division of the Court of Appeal Friday, March 31, convicted and sentenced two Chinese nationals, Mr. Meng Wei Kun and Mr. Xu Kuai, to 6 years imprison. The duo was sentenced on two of a three -count charges, which borders on conspiracy, money laundering and attempt­ed bribery to the tune of N50 mil­lion. The charges were brought against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commis­sion, EFCC. In a unanimous judgment delivered by Justice Abubakar Mahmud Talba on the appeal of the EFCC against the judgment of a Federal High Court, Sokoto, which discharged and acquitted the respondents, the appellate court found the respondents guilty of counts 1 and 2, and sentenced both to Three years in prison on each of the counts, with an option of N10 million fine on each count. Justice Talba held that the EFCC had proved counts 1 and 2 of the charges before the Federal High Court beyond reasonable doubt, but agreed with the lower Court on count 3 and accordingly struck it out on the grounds that a similar charge was pending be­fore the Sokoto High Court. Justice Talba said, “The re­spondents are charged with conspiracy and making a cash payment in excess of the thresh­old provided by the Money Laun­dering Prohibition Act 2011 ( as amended in 2012) to Abdullahi Lawal (then zonal head of EFCC Sokoto) which was established beyond reasonable doubt before the lower Court but surprisingly the trial Judge summersaulted in his judgement and recanted. “I regret to say that the judg­ment is like a fiction by the trial judge who created doubts in his mind while discharging his re­sponsibilities. “Without doubt the trial judge grossly misconceived that no of­fence was committed.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Conspiracy is a distinct of­fence even if the commission of the actual offence is aborted, and in the instant case there ex­ists positive cogent inescapable evidence the offence was com­mitted.” POLL Justice Talba therefore held that the appeal was “immense­ly meritorious” and convicted and sentenced the Chinese na­tionals to 3years on each of the two counts with an option of N10 million fine each on each count. He concluded by saying, “The respondents are Chinese and an offence of this gravity in their home country attracts the death penalty yet here they are corrupt­ing our Country. The Courts of the Federal Republic of Nigeria will not condone corruption in any way; as President Muham­madu Buhari has said “if we don’t kill corruption, corruption will kill Nigeria.” Count one reads: “That you Mr. Meng Wei Kun adult, male, and Mr. Xu Kuai adult, male, on or about the 11th day of May, 2020 in Sokoto within the Ju­risdiction of this Honourable Court (Federal High Court) did conspire amongst your­selves to commit an offence to wit: making cash payment of N50,000,000.00, which sum ex­ceed the amount authorised by Law without going through a fi­nancial institution and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18(a) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act 2011 as amended in 2012, and punishable under Section 16(2) (b) of the same Act.”