LAGOS  – Justice Oyindamola Ogala of a Lagos State High Court, Ikeja, sentenced a 32-year-old carpenter, Onyekachi Agu, to seven years imprison­ment for pouring acid on his ex-girlfriend and his rival. The judge convicted the carpenter following his prosecution of a one-count charge of causing grievous bodily harm to two persons, Mansur Ahmed and Aishat Adefarati in 2020. According to the State prosecutor, Uju Uwangaze, the defendant committed the offence on July 3, at Gangare Hotel, Mile 12, Lagos. The convict had traced the victims to a hotel and poured acid on them. The offence contravened the provisions of Section 245 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Justice Ogala, having found the defendant guilty, based on his confessional statement, sentenced him accordingly. According to the judge the confession is consistent and supported with other ev­idence, which she held that the accused may be convict­ed on the basis of a confes­sional statement.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Justice Ogala while pro­nouncing the judgement said, “Onyekachi Agu, the court has found you guilty of one-count charge.” POLL Trouble began for the convict following a rocky relationship between the de­fendant and his ex-girlfriend. The defendant disclosed in his testimony that his girlfriend had got pregnant for him and aborted it. While the lady was said to have testified that the de­fendant was in the habit of harassing her which led to their separation after three years of relationship. The court held that re­traction of the defendant’s confession was meant to de­ceive the court, having plead­ed guilty at his arraignment before a lower court. Justice Ogala noted that the victim, the PW2 Mans­ur Ahmed suffered serious bodily harm affecting his face, eye, neck and even the money in his pocket. The prosecution held that the scar on the arm of the defendant was sustained during the attack on the vic­tims, when he poured acid on the victims through the hotel’s window. The Investigation Police Officer who was Prosecu­tion Witness, PW4, testified during the trial, submitted during cross-examination that though PW 1 and PW2 did not see the person that poured the acid, but suspect­ed the defendant because he had been attacking and ha­rassing them prior to the acid bath. The defendant did not present any evidence of al­ibi to testify, the court held. Following the conviction, the Defence Counsel, from the Office of Public Defence, U.E Omolola pleaded with the judge to consider that the defendant is a young man.