ABUJA – The World Health Organization (WHO) Country Representative (WR) to Nigeria, Dr Walter Kazadi Mulombo has hinted that, in the WHO African Region, around 25% of health expenditure comes out of people’s pockets and as a result, hundreds of millions of people in the African region have been pushed further below the poverty line due to spending on health. While adding that at the heart of #health for all is the attainment of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) where people can have access to affordable, equitable, good quality and sustainable health care. Mulombo gave this hint at a press conference to commemorate World Health Day, World Health Organization @ 75 on Thursday in Abuja. He said:”Concerning Universal Health Coverage progress, WHO and partners made relentless efforts for the National Health Insurance Authority Bill to be signed into law in May 2022: which makes health insurance mandatory for all citizens and legal residents. The law creates a mechanism to finance health service delivery for the poor and vulnerable. “WHO has been supporting the government across all levels to build the capacity of health workers to improve health resources and services provided in the country. “Furthermore, WHO has continued to support the protracted humanitarian crisis in the northeast region of Nigeria since 2016”. He added that, National health strategies should therefore position primary health care as the entry point into a health system which not only treats ill health but also prevents illness and promotes good health.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL He called for more investment in human resources for health, by increasing pre-service training, implementing strategies to attract, retain and ensure optimal performance of highly motivated health workers in Nigeria. Also, Ms. Ulla Mueller, UNFPA Resident Representative said, on this World Health Day, United Nations Population Fund Nigeria, reaffirmed its strong commitment to assisting Nigeria to build a resilient and stronger Health System that upholds the rights of all people to reach the highest possible standard of health through support to HRH development. “Hence, we are calling on everyone to reimagine a Nigeria with a strengthened Health System with well-resourced HRH and capacity to realize the UHC through expanded access to sexual and reproductive health, as the path to a more equal, prosperous and sustainable future”. “Our women die giving birth not only because health services are unavailable, inaccessible, unaffordable or of poor quality care, but also due to lack of or inadequate human resources at the PHC levels both in numbers and skills mix. The COVID-19 pandemic not only showed this obvious void in Health Systems in Nigeria and around the world but also worsened it. “For decades, health care systems around the world have made progress in improving the reach and quality of sexual and reproductive health care through strengthened HRH of which UNFPA has played key supportive roles”, she said.