ABUJA – The first problem con­fronting educational development in Ni­geria has to do with spending too little money in the sector, just 1.2 percent of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is spent on education, whereas the international benchmark is 4-6 percent, the United Nations Children’s Fund, (UNICEF) has lamented. According to the UN inter­vention agency, even the paltry 1.2 percent funding is not prop­erly spent in areas where it will make an impact. It noted that more invest­ments between the range of 45-50 percent of the nation’s education budget ought to be channelled to primary educa­tion, if the Nigerian govern­ment is desirous of giving foun­dational literacy and numeracy a boost among children. These were part of the sub­missions of the Chief Educa­tion Officer, UNICEF Nigeria, Saadhna Soobrayan at a sem­inar on foundational literacy and numeracy held in the UN House, Abuja recently. “So the first problem on ed­ucation in Nigeria is spending too little money on education, Nigeria is spending 1.2 percent of it GDP on education, the in­ternational benchmark is 4-6 percent and even the available funds are not being spent well.” “Presently 28 percent of Nigeria’s education budget is spent on higher education “When children in primary school cannot read, write and count. “We need to get the budget right and increase the volume of expenditure, the country needs to improve the efficien­cy of expenditure to primary education,“ Saadhna declared at the seminar on foundational literacy and numeracy.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to the UNICEF Chief Education Officer, the UN agency has variously re-echoed the need to train the teaching personnel by making available instructional materi­als to fully scale up programs such as Reading and Numer­acy Activity (RANA), Early grade reading (the USAID model) and Teaching at the Right Level (TaRL). POLL She noted that stakehold­ers should deploy the next five years to scale up improvement in literacy and numeracy skills. Saadhna said political will, human and financial resourc­es, would be an indispensable tool especially when all of these challenges and prospects have been itemized, it requires just  revisiting the drawing board. Meanwhile, in a response to this observed shortcomings on the part of government, the Director, Basic Education of the Federal Ministry of Education, Dr Folake Davies, said government steps were on to domesticate some of the laudable programs following the displayed evidence in the Northern part of the country. Davies, claims the Federal government is developing a policy framework that would serve as a blueprint for the practitioners, including sup­port base for foundational lit­eracy and numeracy practice across the country.