ABAKALIKI – Ohaneze Ndigo said Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, recently said to have emerged as the new President General of Ohaneze Ndigo is too old,unfit for the tasks waiting to be tackled by leadership of the group in the current state of the Nigeria nation, more so the Igbo race. The socio-cultural group explained that the ranks of Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu should rather be playing advisory roles than be used for political interests of a few persons against the overall interest of Ndigo and Nigeria. In a press statement issued in Abakaliki yesterday by Mazi Okechuwu Isiguzoro, Secretary General of Ohaneze Ndigo Worldwide they noted that, “We believe that being over eighty years of age, Iwuanyanwu is too old for this. Firstly, being a member of the Imeobi Ohanaeze for over three decades, a one-time Chairman of the highly respected Ohanaeze Strategy and Planning Committee and as well involved in various Ohanaeze constitution drafting committees, he should not allow himself to be dragged into illegalities by adversaries of Ndigbo”. “His parading himself as President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo or even claiming to have been so selected by Imo Council of Elders is contrary to Articles 11,12 and 13 of the Ohanaeze constitution.In Imo State, none of the known members of Imeobi/ Ohanaeze elders like Prof Uzodinma Nwala, Dr Joe Nwaorgu, Prof Chidi Osuagwu, Archbishop AJV Obinna, Chief Mike Aham, SAN was present at the so-called Imo elders meeting where Iwuanyanwu was selected. This implies that those there were hand picked by Douglas House to run errands and are therefore on their own”. “If Iwuanyanwu was such a fantastic choice for the office, why did Douglas House snub him to pick Late Prof George Obiozor as his candidate. Again, why does he want to answer Ohanaeze PG through the back door? Is he afraid to stand for election at the Ohanaeze General Assembly because of the fact that he is the most unpopular Ohanaeze member from Imo State alive today based on his unenviable track record as a typical Nigerian politician rather than an Igbo Patriot.” His parading himself earlier on as Chairman, Ohanaeze Elders Council is contrary to the Ohanaeze constitution which expressly states that the President General shall be the Chairman of/ preside over all organs of Ohanaeze. Moreover, office of the President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo is not a retirement home for tired Igbo politicians. Rather, at this turning point in the history of the Igbo nation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo needs a PG who has the soundness of mind and body and as well the goodwill and integrity to lead from the front. Evidently, it is for the above reasons that Ohanaeze stakeholders and affiliates including Ala-Igbo Development Foundation (ADF), Global Igbo Leaders(GIL), Njiko Igbo, etc have rejected him”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ They noted that the only way forward is the Implementation of the Resolution of the IGBO Archbishop and Bishops Peace Committee Report and IGBO Pentecostal clerics.