AUSTIN OBOH Nigeria’s incoming government will be inaugurated on May 29 but so much dust has been raised ahead of the event. The Federal Government, its agencies and officials have been very busy as they engage key members of the opposition, especially the presidential and vice presidential candidates of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed. Their recent accusations against the duo have generated suspicions that the government might just be preparing grounds for their arrest or simply attempting to antagonize and weaken their resolve. Nevertheless, a statement made by Baba-Ahmed in a television interview has been faulted in other quarters. Thus the road to May 29 is getting festooned with landmines. The Federal Government had on Tuesday warned the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, and his running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed, against inciting people to violence over the outcome of the February 25 presidential election. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, gave the warning in Washington DC during his official engagements with some international media organisations. The minister said it was treason for Obi and Datti to be threatening that if the president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), was sworn in on May 29, it would be the end of democracy in Nigeria. But Obi and the Labour Party soon debunked the allegation. The information minister who is in Washington to engage with international media organisations and think-tanks on the just concluded 2023 polls, such as Washington Post, Voice of America, Associated Press and Foreign Policy Magazine, said it was wrong for Obi in one breadth to seek redress in court over the outcome of the polls and in another breadth incite people to violence. “Obi and his Vice, Datti Ahmed cannot be threatening Nigerians that if the president-elect, Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is sworn in on May 29, it will be the end of democracy in Nigeria. This is treason. You cannot be inviting insurrection, and this is what they are doing. “Obi’s statement is that of a desperate person. He is not the democrat that he claimed to be. A democrat should not believe in democracy only when he wins the election,” he said. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ But Lai Mohammed’s allegation came after the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) had fined Channels Television N5million for allegedly violating the NBC code in a programme with Baba-Ahmed. POLL Baba-Ahmed, in the interview with the station, said Tinubu failed to fulfill the requirements stipulated in the section of the 1999 Constitution for election to the office of the president, adding that swearing in Tinubu as president was “ending democracy” and a clear violation of the constitution. He then asked Olukayode Ariwoola, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), not to participate in the swearing-in of Tinubu as president. Circle Of Accusations In what may now be seen as a convoluted circle of accusations, the Department of State Service (DSS) had, like Lai Mohammed, raised the alarm that some politicians were plotting to truncate the May 29 inauguration of Tinubu and enthrone an interim government. Responding to Lai Mohammed claims in a statement made available to journalists, Obi said he was not disturbed by the minister’s reckless use of the word ‘treason’ because, as far as he (Obi) was concerned, he had taken the legal route towards the recovery of his mandate and has remained committed to that. “Any person ‘seeing’ treason in a clear legal process should explain to Nigerians how opting for the tribunal by myself and my Deputy amounts to treason,” Obi argued. He added: “In the past few days, I’ve observed various campaigns of calumny directed at my person, the latest being allegations attributed to the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed, in Washington DC. It is most unfortunate that these consistent efforts to portray me in a manner, quite contrary to what I am and my core values, are coming from such high quarters. “Minister Lai accusing me of stoking the fire of insurrection is totally fictitious and malicious. I have never advocated or encouraged anyone to undermine the Nigerian state; I’ve never sponsored or preached any action against the Nigerian state,” he stressed. Obi said it was utterly perplexing that a minister would be busy travelling round the world, telling Nigerians that the purpose was to tell the world the true story of the Nigerian election. He described the move as laughable, against the background of the fact that most of those countries sent their people to monitor the election and had all received reports from the monitors, as well as from their embassies. “Between Lai Mohammed and their monitors/embassies, who would these countries believe?” he asked. He further said that such reckless behaviour, sponsored with tax payers’ money, was among the reasons those countries often do not take Nigeria seriously. “The billions spent on those meaningless trips would be enough to fix several dilapidated schools in the country,” Obi added. While urging Nigerians to always remain law-abiding and hopeful for the coming of the ‘New Nigeria’, Obi restated his steadfast inclination to maintaining the peace at all times. “I’m on record, as always, advocating peace and issue-based campaign, not a campaign based on ethnicity or religion. I’m committed to due process and presently seeking redress in court. I urge those engaged in this ‘demarketing’ process to stop presenting Nigeria in such bad light. “Our future generations deserve a new Nigeria where they can live a secure and decent life, like their counterparts in other climes. And this is possible,” he insisted. The accusations and counter accusations aroused concerns among stakeholders. A civil rights organisation, International Society for Civil and Rule of Law (Intersociety), cautioned the Federal Government against fanning the embers of hatred with its treason allegation against Peter Obi, and his running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed, saying such claims could create ill-feelings in the polity. Intersociety’s Board of Trustees Chairman, Emeka Umeagbalusi, observed that the treason alarm by the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, had chances of exposing Obi and his running mate to danger, including assassination. Intersociety, in a statement, said the false treason alarm raised by Mohammed in faraway United States of America is nothing short of directly exposing Obi, Datti and their supporters, as well as the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, and other key democracy activists to security agencies’ harassments. In addition, he said the minister’s utterance could incite attacks or threats to their privacies and properties, as well as their fundamental human right to life, dignity of human person and personal liberty, such as unlawful arrest and detention without trial. Umeagbalusi insisted that Federal Government’s treason allegation “clearly and gravely runs contrary to fundamental human rights, which are constitutionally provided to secure and protect the political actors concerned, as well as democracy activists. “These, in addition to citizens’ rights to political participation, including rights to vote and be voted for, are also provided in the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights of 1981, signed, ratified and domesticated by Nigeria in 1983.” Intersociety, therefore, warned that nothing must happen to Obi, Datti, Atiku, others, stressing: “Nigerian security agencies and their commanders must refrain from being used by the outgoing Buhari/Osinbajo government to falsely or criminally label and molest defenseless Nigerians, including the named political actors and democracy activists. “Obi, Datti and Atiku must be protected at all times by security operatives to enable them attend to and conclude their cases before the election tribunal. Nigeria must avoid set on unquenchable fire.” DSS And The Opposition Also, in respect of the recent allegations coming from the DSS against Peter Obi over a purported leaked tape, a PDP stalwart, Timi Frank, alleged that the DSS had since deviated from its core mandate in the last 10 years by becoming a willing tool to the government in power. Frank, in a statement, alleged that the agency had metamorphosed into an intelligence arm of the ruling party. He noted that while the DSS had the right to intercept unlawful communication, it was not permitted under the law to leak private conversations of individuals. Frank, therefore, called for the total overhaul of the secret police immediately, saying there was a need for the agency to wake up and restore the lost confidence Nigerians have in its leadership. He further accused the agency of monitoring and then leaking telephone conversations of some political leaders–opposition leaders in order to embarrass them and to impress the APC elements. Frank added: “How does someone explain the fact that the DSS has continued to tap the telephone lines and release phone recordings of opposition politicians and influential Nigerians critical of the government.” He added: “The latest misadventure was a leaked telephone conversation between Labour Party Presidential candidate, Peter Obi, and revered cleric, Bishop David Oyedepo, the founder of the Living Faith Church Worldwide, and presiding Bishop of the Faith Tabernacle in Ota, Ogun State. “On the eve of the Presidential election, Obi and Bishop Oyedepo had a private telephone conversation. There was no terror plot and the conversation in itself was not about the use of violence. Obi simply asked Bishop Oyedepo to help him convince his congregation in the southwest to vote for him.” Frank stressed that the main responsibilities of the DSS as stated in its enabling Act include counter-intelligence, internal security, counter-terrorism, and surveillance as well as investigating some other types of serious crimes against the state. He said: “The Department of State Services or the State Security Service needs a complete and total overhaul. The agency which was established by Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, was supposed to be patterned after the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the United States of America or the MI5 Security Service in the United Kingdom.” “But the DSS has since deviated from its core mandate in the last 10 years by becoming a willing tool to the government in power. In recent times, the DSS has focused more on regime protection and fostering the interest of politicians in the ruling party and their allies. “The DSS and the APC have become one and the same and it is almost difficult to differentiate a statement written by the DSS and the APC.” He expressed worry that the most sophisticated security agency in the country descended into the arena of politics in order to favour the ruling party. It would be recalled that Festus Keyamo, a minister and spokesperson of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), had similarly petitioned the DSS, in a statement addressed to the Director General on Thursday, March 23, stressing the need to soothe frayed nerves, lower the temperature, and begin the healing process, especially in a post-election period, stating that the president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, had recently issued a statement to that effect. He, However, noted that it would appear that Obi and Datti were not prepared to toe the conciliatory path for the sake of peace and national cohesion, even while exercising their rights to pursue duly laid down constitutional means of addressing their grievances. The duo, according to Keyamo, had been hopping from one media house to another, making incendiary comments and claims about the declaration of the President-elect by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He accused them of calling for the outright truncation of democracy by insisting on adopting other processes outside the contemplation of the constitution and even calling for establishing an interim government. Keyamo singled out the comments made by Datti Baba-Ahmed on behalf of himself and Obi on Channels TV on Wednesday, March 22, wherein he threatened that if the President-elect is sworn in on May 29, it would “signal the end of democracy” and unilaterally declared the duly elected president-elect as “unconstitutional.” He claimed that Obi and Datti have also camped some youths in a popular hotel in Abuja to instruct them to push out inciting messages daily on social media to cause panic fear within the federation and incite people to riot and social unrest. Keyamo acknowledged that the former Anambra governor and Datti had submitted election petitions to the courts for adjudication. But the minister said their conduct and utterances amounted to a subversion of the processes they have instituted in court and a subversion of the Nigerian Constitution and the laid-down processes for addressing disputes and grievances. He warned that the LP presidential flagbearers’ conduct and utterances were a build-up to something more sinister, and urged the security agency to “rein them in” immediately. But the Labour Party (LP) immediately dismissed Keyamo’s call for the arrest of Obi and Baba-Ahmed, describing it as a desperate attempt to gain political relevance. Spokesperson of the LP Presidential Campaign Council, Yunusa Tanko, stated that Datti was a free citizen of Nigeria and entitled to his fundamental right of freedom of expression. Tanko also stressed that Datti never called for insurrection or any act envisaging treason. He further called out Keyamo for recognizing that the elections were marred with blatant rigging, violence, voter suppression, and intimidation orchestrated by his party. He pointed out Keyamo’s failure to report MC Oluomo, who told Igbos not to vote in Lagos, accusing the minister of ignoring the ethnic and tribal vitriol by his party and their supporters. Tanko also criticized Keyamo for not reporting Tinubu, who, according to him, was recorded telling key supporters to fight, snatch, grab and run with ballot boxes during the elections. According to Tanko, Keyamo has achieved nothing as a minister except posting fake news to rile up the polity on social media. In addition, the Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) and Chairman, Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, urged the government and politicians to shun provocative utterances. “It is in this regard that we must follow the democratic and constitutional rules to conduct and channel any grievances without engaging in any action capable of causing political violence as violence cannot bring peace and stability. “Therefore, political actors must avoid utterances capable of incitement and also public officials must not manipulate or abuse their positions to undermine human rights and political freedoms. “Government and public officials must also be honest and sincere and must not engage in provocative utterances against other politicians. They must not also frame them for what they did not deserve to be treated. There must be respect for freedom and democratic choice,” he said. Executive Director of the Resource Centre for Human Rights and Civic Education (CHRICED), Dr. Ibrahim M. Zikirullahi, said: “The resort to threats of treasonous dimensions to gag the opposition will not make the issues, which undermine the credibility of the elections go away.” He said if the elections were smooth and free of mind-boggling flaws, there would be no objections against it. “The outcome of the process has frayed many nerves, and the political actors on the losing side are raising questions both in the regular courts and in the courts of public opinion. It is counterproductive to further heat up the polity with allegations of treason.” Stakeholders who have expressed their concerns over the endless circle of accusations have blamed party spokespersons for the growing tension in the country while hoping that purer emotions would prevail in the remaining days to the May 29 inauguration.