Anthony Obioma Nwaopara, a Professor of Anatomy in the Edo State University, Uzairue, has recommended lifestyle adjustments for people having unhealthy diets. He gave the recommendation while delivering the 6th public lecture series of the university titled “The Brain And Human Cravings: Inquests On Diet-Induced Neurodegeneration” Nwaopara who is the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Administration) of the university advised the people to avoid what he described as undue social-class pressures that encourages negative group-driven behaviour. According to him, “we should be determined to eat balanced diets that are periodically complemented with our healthy exercises and fruits/vegetable regiments”, he stated. The varsity don explained that Neurodegeneration is cascade of events that involves the progressive loss of nerve cell structure, function, as well as the subsequent death of cell owing to the exposure to nerve cell toxins, infections, hypoxia and defect in metabolic processes. ” The self-destructive manner by which some individuals deal with the satisfaction factor even when it is to the detriment of their health and overall well-being calls for concern. “Many go over-board in their quest to acquire or even consumed what they really don’t need and the manner by which some individuals manage their instinctive desire irrespective of the attendant consequences, and health related challenges.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL “Eating suya prepared from red meat can increase one’s chance of dying from various diseases like cancer, diabetes, heart disease and Alzheimer’s disease, this suicide-like trajectory is unequivocally scary and should no longer be ignored”, he posited. Earlier in his address, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Emmanuel Aluyor said that the University since inception has taken her place in the educational ecosystem. He said the institution has achieved milestones within the few years of its existence, adding that it has infused technology in the delivery of her courses through the use of CANVAS Learning Management System (LMS). He reiterated that the university has qualitative curricula in place with competency-based in Medicine and Engineering, noting that the school is students friendly. “One of our university’s traditions is the delivery of Inaugural Lectures by senior academics which is indeed an avenue for seasoned academics to give a steward of their research”, he emphasized.