A non Governmental organisation (NGO) The Ekiti Women Arise NGO (EWA) has renewed its commitment to ending violence against women and girls in Ekiti. The NGO, partnering with Women Advocates Research And Documentation Centre WARDC on the Ford Foundation-sponsored project visited the GenderbasedViolence( GBV) Community Response Team (CRT) in Aramoko Ekiti. In her remarks, Ms Dunni Riches, President of Ekiti Women Arise commended the team for their consistency and encouraged them to see their effort as a means of securing the lives of their daughter, wives and mothers from the hands of perpetrators of violence. She hinted that the  visit was  part of the activities  under the ’’Building Solidarity Accountability And Commitment To End Violence Against Women And Girls’’ (SAC-EVAWG) She also assured the team of the readiness of EWA  in helping and supporting their cause of wiping out the menace from society. Going forward and with the aid of the support received by the CRTs, the team is further strengthened to give maximum attention to any form of cases reported to them as they continue in their sensitization and awareness of their advocacy against GBV in Aramoko Ekiti. The project is aimed at building a community-level accountability system whereby community members and traditional leaders take responsibility for the affairs of ending violence against women and girls in their communities ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She recalled that  during the  first face of the project, a group of community response team was inaugurated in Aramoko Ekiti, being part of the project beneficiaries POLL The team was also trained in GBV case management and was presented to the community for adoption. “To further strengthen the work of the existing CRTs, Ekiti Women Arise meet with the CRTs on Wednesday 13th April 2023 paid a courtesy visit to the Aramoko CRTs to deliberate on how to further enhance their effort in ending violence against women and girls. “It is worthy to note that The Aramoko CRT under the coordination of Mrs Aladesanmi assisted by Mr Bolarinde has become a structured paralegal who take full responsibility over ending VAWG in Aramoko Ekiti. “During the discussion the CRTs mentioned many of their efforts and the achievements they have recorded since their inauguration. The team has been able to successfully conduct a wide range of sensitization awareness to several markets, schools, motor parks, hospitals, Traditional Birth Centres, and religious meetings. “Their activities have also been productive as there has been an increase in the number of reported cases which the team has been managing effectively. “The CRT also mentioned the massive support that the activities has been receiving from the Kabiesi of Aramoko the chiefs and the Olori as the Olori through her Foundation Adedenike Foundation has also been providing empowerment support for some victims whose cases were being managed by the CRTs.” The meeting proved to be fruitful as members of the CRTs expressed their profound gratitude towards WARDC for maintaining a constant connection with them as they implement the project and also promised to work with Ekiti women arise group as they need to give feedback and to also monitor the implementation of the project.