Tips Delta Lawmaker, Hon. Waive Above His Peers ABUJA – A coalition of Civil Society Organizations under the aegis of Progressive Parliamentary Support Alliance (PPSA) on Thursday urged all Members-elect in the 10th Assembly to unanimously cede the position to a Christian lawmaker from South South region. The Coalition’s position was conveyed via a statement jointly issued by its Chairman, Hon. Bala Mohammed and Secretary, Hon. Boboye Akinrefon and made available to Parliamentary Correspondents in Abuja, where they expressed solidarity for the incumbent Deputy Chairman, House Committee on Power, Hon. Rev. Francis Waive, member representing Ughelli North Ughelli South Udu Federal Constituency of Delta State. The group stressed that the election of a Christian Deputy Speaker will go a long way to balance religion, equity and justice, in tandem with federal character principle in the 10th Assembly, revealing further that Hon. Francis Waive has all it takes to deputize the Speaker in the 10th Assembly. They also emphasised the need to ensure that Christians have adequate representation in the Body of Principal Officers in the Green Chamber, while urging President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to cede the position of Deputy Speaker in the 10th Assembly to a Christian from the South South geo-political zone in person of Hon. Francis Waive. Accordingly, the Group argued that after diligent assessment of all the lawmakers from the South South region, it found Hon. Waive worthy of being elected as the Deputy Speaker. Hon. Waive is the incumbent Deputy Chairman, House Committee on Power and member of several Standing Committees in the 9th Assembly.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We wish to put on record that we are not opposed to the choice of a Muslim Speaker in the 10th Assembly, but we wish to unequivocally demand for religious balancing especially among the two Principal Officers – Speaker and Deputy Speaker. POLL “This becomes very germane to the principles of fairness and equity. Recall that Nigerians and Christian Community took it in good faith when the leadership of APC resorted to the Muslim-Muslim joint ticket in the 9th Assembly. “And it is very expedient to point out that with the Muslim-Muslim joint ticket which was replicated with the choice of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Senator Kasim Shettima, the Parliament should reflect religious balancing. “From series of assessment carried out on all the three geo-political zones – South South, South West and South East, we can attest to the character and personality of Honourable Reverend Francis Waive as the man fit for the job. “Our assessment was premises on the proficiency and high sense of responsibility discharged by Hon. Francis Waive as Deputy Chairman of the House Committee on Power. “Looking at his pedigree in the 9th Assembly, we can authoritatively state that Honourable Francis Waive has demonstrated utmost diligence as member of various Standing Committees including: Finance, Banking & Currency, Capital Market, Housing & Habitat, North East Development Commission, Niger Delta Development Commission, Sustainable Development Goals, Steel and Mines Development, Pilgrim, Foreign Affairs, Privatization & Commercialization, Police Affairs and Host Communities. “From all indications, Honourable Francis Waive is fit for the office of the Deputy Speaker, not only because of his performance in the aforementioned capacities, but as a Gentleman per excellence as well as his ability to coordinate the affairs of the Parliament. “We strongly believe that Honourable Francis Waive has the capacity to provide the support for whosoever is nominated as the Speaker in the 10th Assembly and handle critical role of Committee of the Whole as well as Committee of the Supply at any give time,” the statement read in part. According to the Coalition, Hon. Waive was educated at Bendel State University (now Ambrose Ali University) Ekpoma graduating with a Second Class Upper Degree in Accounting, also served as President of the Students Union Government of the University. Before his election in February 2019, Hon. Waive served Church of the Anointing Warri Delta State and used the platform of the church to dispense of charity to the deprived communities of the Niger Delta through his establishment of the Riverine Communities Health Organization. His involvement includes both action research projects and intervention programmes in Education, Health, Water and Sanitation, etc. His social advocacy efforts include convening the free Delta Group for good governance in Delta State. Widely travelled, Hon. Waive, a Graduate of Accounting with Second Class Upper Division – 1994, holds a Masters in Legislative Studies 2022 and attended several training courses at home and abroad. Reverend Waive also holds a Diploma in Biblical Studies. He served as Member National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) 2019 – 2022; Member House Caucus, All Progressives Caucus – 2019 -2023; Honourable Member, House of Representatives Ughelli North, Ughelli South, Udu Federal Constituency – 2019 – date; Deputy Chairman House Committee on Power from 2019 to 2023; Chairman Nigeria/Niger Parliamentary Friendship Group; Member of the House Standing Committees on He also served as Member House Ad-hoc Investigative Committee on Power Sector Reform; Utilization of Military Funds between 2011 and 2020; Structure and accountability of Joint Venture Business & PSCs of NNPC; Petroleum Product Subsidy Regime; Tank Farm; N19.2 billion Railway Rehabilitation Contract awarded to Eser Contracting Industry Company Incorporated; The Purchase, Use and Control of Arms, Ammunition and related Hardware by Military, Paramilitary and other Law Enforcement Agencies in Nigeria.