Dr. Bolaji O. Akinyemi is several things in one. He is the Convener, Apostolic Round Table; Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), Project Victory Call Initiative, aka PVC Naija, and CEO, Masterbuilder Communications. Dr Akinyemi, an advocate of good governance and One United Nigeria, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, speaks on why the presidential election petition hearing should be transmitted live on television, among other issues. Excerpt: You are one of the Nigerians who have respect for activists like Omoyele Sowore of the African Action Congress (AAC). Was it a surprise to you that he and his party, AAC, did not win the election at any level? I am really not surprised. Sowore’s love for this nation and its people is not in doubt. But, he is yet to connect with the masses. No true lover of this country will not have respect for someone I regard as one of the most consistent Nigerians alive today. You cannot fault Sowore on One Nigeria since his days in the university. But, the transition from student leadership to the masses leadership is what has not taken place. Note, my emphasis, LEADERSHIP. As for love for the masses and the oppressed, he has it in excess. It is left for him to earn not just their love, but their leadership. The AAC is a masses-oriented party with a revolutionary flavour. Would you say that its message and agenda did not sink down on the masses or that they did not just like a revolutionary change of the nation? Or, was it a case of rejecting the message and the messenger? Branding is a key to product marketing. Whatever the product, it must be packaged based on the needs and taste of the consumers. Sowore has dwelt on the needs of the consumers (masses in this instance); education, energy, justice, peace and the rest. I think he needs to take a look at their political taste and consumer behaviour going forward. The message must be strategically communicated and the messenger politically effectively marketed. That for me is the missing link. The Labour Party, with all positive opinion polls that placed it and its flag bearer, Peter Obi, on top, came a distant third in the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) calculation. Would you say that the results of the opinion polls and the massive followership of the Obi-Datti Movement precipitated a political gang up against that presidential ticket by the ruling party and the ruling class? A distant third? That rhetoric is a disservice to ourselves. When are we going to accept the reality of the political tsunami we could not curtail? Some of those opinion polls are the reason for Obidients’ confrontation with the establishment. Those credible and scientific polls have taken Lagos from Tinubu and Rivers from Wike, Abuja and Katsina from Buhari, and you come around to say this science failed elsewhere. I am not with the Obidients who say Obi must win, but INEC has to prove that Tinubu won the election. We should leave our self-deception behind and accept the reality of what has come upon us; a new generation of voters. From four persons in a room tweeting on Twitter till they took that space and built a country online; Twitter Naija. They had no structure, but Wike had to literally declare a war to survive them in Rivers State. The landlord of Lagos was humiliated in his home. After they managed to survive by crook or hook, we asked them to go to court. Now, it is as if people have never been going to court before. Nnamani, one of their victims of political retirement, is advising them to withdraw from court and negotiate. Even the Obidients led by Peter Obi acknowledged that their plan to build a new Nigeria will not be ‘a walk in the park’. So, they must know what they are up against. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ How do you see the current hullabaloo over purported calls for an Interim Government? Do you see such alleged calls as real or meant to whip up sentiments for the announced winner of the presidential election? POLL The call is a big question on the integrity of the process that saw Tinubu declared as the President-elect by INEC. Nigerians seem to have lost faith in the present political class as constituted by PDP and now APC that promised to save them from PDP, but has turned out to be worse than PDP. The show of shame the world witnessed in Adamawa has further complicated things for APC and BAT. Announcing a winner without counting the ballots is a possibility by INEC as an institution. But, our allegiance is to the Constitution on such issues as have arisen aftermath the 2023 elections, including the calls for an Interim Government, not personal or group opinions and sentiments. Going by antecedents, could you attempt to predict the way the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal and the Supreme Court may go in their decisions on the 2023 presidential election? The court is the hope of the common man. The Judiciary is alleged to have been messed up by the political elites in whose corruption the system is snared. However, the failure of all the system involved in the process has given a new opportunity to the judiciary. INEC failed, Police became the spokespersons of political touts; and the DSS, rabble rousers in political affairs where their interest was not sought. The Judiciary is the only proof left that our democracy can work. We can only appeal to them to lift the integrity of their institution back to reckoning. They must avoid technicalities that will leave the people confused at their ruling. Live transmission of the proceeding will convey transparency. The judiciary can help us see the winner. This is the burden on them. What is your view on the way the governorship election in Lagos was carried out and the sentiments that were whipped up against certain ethnic groups? Lagos saw a twist to the arrangements made for distribution of electoral material when LP, armed with information made available, approached the court to scuttle the arrangements between Lagos REC and Oluomo. This, without doubt, inevitably affected APC’s game whatever it was. The need to avert that led to corrupting the traditional institution whose call for Oro out of the normal traditional order was to help ensure controlled movement of voting materials. Oro is known to come out once a year at a fixed period or at the death of the monarch or when a calamity has befallen a community. What befell Lagos on February 25 was more than a calamity for which Oro became a necessity in places where Goliath fell to David. The sentiment against the Igbos was practically the only political card left. That was smart of whoever placed it on the table. Let me commend the Christians in Lagos who rose up against Muslim/ Muslim ticket, which was supported by a reasonable percentage of Justice-loving Muslim. That for me was a dead-end for APC and the so-called ‘owners of Lagos’ became the narrative to at least take the Yoruba Christians and the Justice seeking Muslims out of the movement. And with the unleashed Oro and thugs whose arson and brutality left many killed and several injured has left a burden on the Sanwo-Olu led administration. If the allegation is that those who carried out the destruction we saw during #EndSARS are certain persons from a particular region. Where are those ones we saw on camera? Will the persons captured on video and pictures during the election like those of the #EndSARS go free without facing the law? Going by what transpired during the elections, do you think that in a free and fair contest, Lagos can experience a true change of baton to another party? I will respond to this with a counsel to APC, hoping they will heed it. Mat 5:13 KJV: ‘Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted?’ It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. The elements in that party were once salt, taste the people admired, but they lost it to sycophancy. People telling them all is well when nothing is. The problem is not the people, but their taste except they reinvent their taste, they may never rise from this trampling. What is your message to the truly masses-oriented and revolutionary parties and politicians in the country, such as AAC and Omoyele Sowore? I have stated earlier in this interview that the Leftist ideology is not such that the masses can identify with and run with. AAC and others must rebrand and reposition as a progressive movement and Sowore must be Presidential. Let him focus on what he plans to do for the people to better their lot. He can hire a loud mouth who will be abusing candidates and their parties. He should focus on the people. As an ideologue yourself, with the way things are going will you consider going fully into partisan politics in the near future to help in redirecting the nation? My mission in the Nigerian space for now is that of a catalyst to activate a change of order. Our desire is to see politics done differently. The future is in the hand of God and we are in His hands too, to do with us as He pleases in the future you are seeing.