ENUGU – Enugu State Hose of Assembly has decried the massive electoral malpractices and intimidation that marred the 2023 governorship and state assembly Elections in parts of the state. The House in a motion of urgent public importance presented at the plennary in Enugu on Tuesday by the member représenting Nsukka East constituency, Hon. Chinedu Nwamba, also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to investigate military excesses, intimidations and harassment of the members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the said elections in the state. He said that the Constitutional role of the Military as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution of the federal Republic of Nigeria, chapter 6. Part 3. Section 217 sub section 2a and 2b, which was to defend Nigeria from external aggression. Nwamba said that on the of March 17, Enugu State citizens woke up to notice the heavy deployment of combat-ready fierce-looking AK47 wielding Soldiers in all the 17 Local Governments Areas of the State as they were prowled about the roads and streets. He said that heavy armoured vehicles and high military armaments as though they were headed for war were also seen on the March 18, the day of the Guber and State Houses of Assembly elections. According to him, the manhandling and fragrant intimidation especially of members and supporters of the ruling party during the elections to provide cover for the electoral heist that went down in the state calls for a deeper concern. He said “It was also more worrisome and ignoble how the armed forces and security agencies were enabling the electoral brigandage and frauds, including the abduction of electoral officers, the inflation of votes under duress, the barricading of collation centres especially in all the LGA headquarters of INEC and refusing agents and officials of the ruling party entrance into the centres.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Whereas, other party agents and supporters had unfettered access to the centres where election results from various wards were rigged against the ruling party” he said. POLL While accepting the motion, the speaker of the assembly Hon Edward Ubosi urged president Buhari to cause an inquest and investigate the roles and excesses of the military in the state during the elections, with a view to sanctioning anybody found wanting to serve as a deterrent to others. He condemned the massive electoral malpractices and intimidation that marred the 2023 governorship and state assembly Elections in parts of Enugu State.