ASABA – In line with NSCDCs’ zero tolerance on Vandalism, illegal dealing in petroleum products as well as dealing in adulterated or illegally refined petroleum products, Delta State Command Suleiman Agboola Jimoh has launched a massive pursuit and arrest of Vandals and Oil thieves who consistently sabotage the nation’s economy through their nefarious activities in Delta state. According to a statement made available to the Independent signed by ASC 1 Anthony Uchenna, Public Relations Officer, NSCDC, Delta Command, officers and men of the Anti-Vandal Unit of the Delta State Command, on the 7th of April, 2023 at Ugbenu Community along Benin-Sapele expressway in Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State arrested a truck driver, following a credible intelligence tip-off that the truck driver was allegedly involved in the adulteration of AGO. The truck driver was alleged to have opened the compartments of the truck; he siphoned the refined product he lifted from the source and later refilled the compartments with adulterated products. The statement added that the driver is currently in custody and has given useful information that will aid the NSCDC intelligence department in their investigation, adding that Nigerian Upstream Regulatory Commission (NUPRC)took samples for analysis and confirmed the product to be adulterated. The case will be charged to Court soon. The statement further added that on the 14th of April, 2023, at about 0250hrs the Command”s Anti-Vandal Operatives while on routine patrol along Kwale-Okpai Agip Gas Station arrested three suspects namely Henry Kpolugeo, a male, driver, , moto boy and Edema Paschal another motor boy in an IVECO Stralis truck with registration number KOGI – LAM 740 LG while they were conveying 117pcs of 4×7inches vandalized gas pipes from location to Ashaka, adding, “the lead suspect (kingpin) Kanu Paul is currently at large.” ASC 1 Uchenna spoke further, “investigation is ongoing to arrest the kingpin who sponsored the vandalization of the gas pipes.” The Command’s Public Relations Officer disclosed: “On the 17th of April, 2023, officers of the Commandant’s Special Team while on routine patrol in Ajagbodudu in Ethiope West environs at about 0900hrs acting on credible intelligence, intercepted a white Ford Bus hiding in the nearby forest. Upon sighting the NSCDC Special Operatives, the suspects fled and abandoned the bus which was discovered to be conveying suspected locally refined AGO wrapped in Nylon Bags and Sacks which was promptly intercepted Al and arrested. The investigation is still ongoing to unravel the owner (s) of the Vehicle.” Parading the suspects, the vehicles and petroleum products, Commandant Suleman Agboola Jimoh, Commandant, NSCDC, Delta State Command advised the public to be wary of the usage of adulterated petroleum products because of the danger it portends to their vehicles and equipment.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Commandant Jimoh called on petroleum products dealers /marketers to operate within the existing rules and relevant laws guiding the industry or face the full wrath of the law in Delta State. The Delay State Commandant also warned truck drivers to beware of entrapments of lifting scraps with the intention to make money as there are no scraps in any Oil Company’s location/ facility. He warned Companies and their drivers to avoid cutting corners while doing their business as severe penalties in line with the prevailing laws await those found culpable.