LAGOS  – Tetra Pak, a food processing and packaging solutions company has unveiled its ‘better with carton’ campaign to ensure improved food packaging by providing consumers with the highest quality packages. Oshiokamele Aruna, Managing Director of Tetra Pak West Africa, disclosed this during a media parley in Lagos stating that the firm in its global commitment to ensuring improved food packaging is set to embark on a sustainability drive, tagged: Better with Carton to create awareness among stakeholders about the worrisome environmental effects of other packaging materials and the need to switch to cartons for food safety and consumers’ health. He said that Tetra Pak has been championing the continuous need for safe food packaging for many years and has made safety and health some of its guiding principles. “Using some of the latest technologies to push modern limits of packaging, processing, and service solutions, the company has expanded access to safe food in the entire food and beverage industry to deliver safe, standard and high-quality food packages. “Tetra Pak packages are environmentally sound because they are made from renewable materials, recycled with the aim of helping prevent food waste. We are committed to reach net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in its global operations by 2030. On an average about 70 percent of our carton by weight is paperboard- renewable, plant-based material and made from FSC®-certified forests and other controlled sources. “Renewable plant-based materials are better for the environment because they can be replenished over time and enable a move away from fossil fuel-based materials. “As more and more companies globally continue to explore alternative packaging materials to achieve plastic reduction targets, carton has won the hearts of many and certified as one of the more sustainable solutions because it is bio-based, recyclable, and reusable. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It can be used to make new paper products within a cycle. With this in mind, Tetra Pak as a leading global company has decided to embark on an awareness campaign to among other things share the enormous environmental advantages and sustainability of carton and encourage more and more companies to switch to carton in their packaging,” he added. POLL Clement Sunday, Marketing Director, Tetra Pak West Africa, while giving further insight on the proposed campaign declared that it is majorly an opportunity to share the positive experience of companies already using carton in their packaging to other people. According to him, “the idea is to encourage most of our enthusiastic customers to share their voice on the positives of used beverage cartons so that more are aware of the enormous advantages of cartons. “We are extending our global commitment to sustainability to our stakeholders in West Africa through awareness drives and hoping to reach as many as possible with the immense benefits of using cartons in packaging through many activities including sustainability advocacy foras and seminar events which we have lined up for this purpose.”