ABUJA  – President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan has said he feels bad that the 9th Senate under his pur­view could not pass the Gender Equality Bill, expected to ad­vance the rights of women in Nigeria. He said for inexplicable rea­sons even bills concerning the National Assembly could not see the light of the day but it was not a basis to write off the Senate as having under performed. Lawan made the comments on Friday, on the sideline of the homage paid to President Mu­hammadu Buhari on the occa­sion of Eid-el-fitr festivities at the State House, Abuja. The Senate President howev­er advised proponents of such bills not to lose hope, but rath­er campaign vigorously when representing them to the 10th National Assembly. Recall that out of about 68 legislations or amendments, five bills sought to promote more op­portunities for women in politi­cal parties, governance and the society at large. But the National Assembly voted against all five bills con­cerning the women folk, prompt­ing criticisms from cross section of Nigerians. One of the five bills sought to grant citizenship to foreign-born husbands of a Nigerian woman. Already, a Nigerian man’s for­eign-born wife is automatically a Nigerian citizen.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ While another bill sought to allocate 35 per cent of political positions based on appointment to women. Another legislation sought to create special seats for women in National and State As­semblies. POLL His words, “First of all, when the bills, five of them that con­cern women were not voted for by the National Assembly. I think naturally, there are things that we assume could happen. But they didn’t happen the way we wanted them. But remember that even bills that concern the National Assembly were killed. “There are bills that concern the National Assembly itself, that did not see the light of the day. I felt bad that we could not pass even one. But then we shouldn’t really lose hope we should continue to campaign, we should talk to more and more members of the National Assembly. And we should also re-strategize. “Maybe the kind of campaign that was undertaken may not be necessarily the one that will give you the kind of outcome that we needed. But I’m very confident that we should continue to cam­paign for issues that we have not been able to get right.”