As Christians celebrate Easter across the globe, the gubernatorial candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in Ogun state in the March 18th elections, Olufemi Ajadi Oguntoyinbo has called for mutual respect among adherents of various faiths in the country, as this is the only guarantee for peaceful coexistence among different religions in the country. In his Easter message personally signed by himself on Easter Sunday, Ajadi urged all Nigerians to unite in confronting the challenges facing the nation and urged Nigerians to rededicate themselves to the service of God, the nation and humanity. While congratulating Christians for the successful completion of the Lenten season, a period of 40 days of fasting and prayer that culminated in the Easter celebration, urging them to imbibe the spirit of love, perseverance and sacrifice which the Lord Jesus Christ exhibited in ensuring the salvation of humanity. He then admonished them to imbibe and reflect on the lessons associated with the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ, urging them to use the opportunity to pray for God’s intervention in the affairs of the country, especially in bringing lasting solution to its economic challenges and making it a better nation. Ajadi, a frontline politician in Ogun state maintained that the Easter symbolises sacrifice and service to God and humanity and urged Nigerians to emulate the life of Jesus Christ who laid down his life for mankind. According to him, “It is yet another Easter celebration, we bless God for the gift of life. Let me use this opportunity to call on Nigerians, irrespective of ethnic, religious and political differences to continue to live in peace and harmony. It is only in an atmosphere of tranquillity that development can thrive. “It is no longer news that the country is currently faced with economic challenges but we must remain prayerful, strong, focused and optimistic in order to get out of the economic hardship. The problems facing the country must be collectively solved by the government and the governed.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “People at the helm of affairs must demonstrate sincerity of purpose in the discharge of their duties and responsibilities and the governed must also be patriotic in their pursuits. In the spirit of Easter, we must appraise ourselves as individuals and as a people. For us to build a decent society, we must embrace the teaching of the holy book embraced in our lives. POLL “I implore the people of Ogun state and Nigerians as a whole to use the Easter period to renew their faith in God and strengthen the bond of friendship and brotherhood that has held the country united since the amalgamation in 1914. “Among the essence of Easter is sacrifice, love for humanity and total submission to the will of God. These virtues should not be lost on us as Nigerians. Let’s continue to pray for a peaceful Nigeria that will be a pride to us and the future generation. I want to also appealed to Nigerians to continue to be their brothers’ keepers, irrespective of their religious belief”.