“If only we could sincerely practice the good deeds that we profess and preach in our diverse religious circles, Nigeria wouldn’t have been a sorry sight that even the Devil cannot comprehend.” — DSM. The story of Nigeria has become more inclined towards the reality of building a project without any clear cut architectural design or timeline executory expectation. It’s becoming increasingly difficult to understand the true identity and ideology of a nation where playing fair has become a factor of failure. In Nigeria, if you are known for speaking out against injustice, nepotism, corruption and other notorious evil vices, you are tagged by friends as a tribal bigot. Nigeria has become a nation where results are cleverly written by INEC ahead of the elections. Nigeria has become a nation where if you speak against the government, you become a target of treasonable incarceration. How on earth could one describe a situation where citizens are being attacked, and they ran to the security agencies for protection, but only to be arrested instead? ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ How can one describe a situation where thugs, ‘agberos’ and criminals are snatching ballot boxes and maiming citizens, and security agencies are watching with admirations? POLL How can one describe a news story of impending tribal attacks and only for the security agencies to tag such inflationary statement as a joke? “Nigeria is a scam society where scammers are scamming all Nigerians.” – DSM. Today in Nigeria, Nigerians are becoming so comfortable with poverty and hunger and the sad reality is that nobody seems to be indifferent to the sufferings anymore. Just take a mental assessment of our leaders today, and you’ll hardly find 10% of them without one criminal record or the other. A very comical post that has circulated wide was when Orji Uzor was trying to state that the Senate president should be allotted to him. The same man that’s preaching secularism was an architect of Muslim-Muslim APC ticket. For him, it’s all about APC winning elections, and not the feelings of our secularism. Supporting Orji Uzor is not only about secularism but to give the three top positions in Nigeria’s tripartite leadership hierarchy of drug, terrorism and ex-convict global disaster. Nigerians are special species, and that’s probably why Nigerians can queue up to buy fuel for days without much complaints. In fact, such gathering oftentimes, becomes a theatre of political discussion. Even if it turns out to be violence, such scene will be viewed as a comedy show. For once in our lifetime, Nigeria has been upgraded in the Guinness World Record for being the only country where you’re allowed to buy Naira with Naira. It’s now a booming business, and everyone is involved. POS merchants and fuel attendants are now more revered than bank managers or clerics. This is how degenerated we have found ourselves in Nigeria. A case of impunity dislodging humility and conscience. A sad reality where our highways have become the toll gate of exploitation by roadblock security agencies. A gruesome situation where the citizens respect ‘agberos’ and thugs more than the security agencies. An ugly expository situation where LASMA and Road Safety officials will applaud wretched vehicles with no headlights and dilapidated overviews, but will stop new vehicles for routine checks at every opportunity. The new Lagos State-introduced road-worthiness inspection scheme is only enacted for the road-worthy vehicles. I have gone to their designated places of inspections and 99 % of the vehicles being inspected are private vehicles. I have not seen a ‘danfo’ or dilapidated articulated vehicle in any of these inspection centres. That’s the kind of Nigeria that we have all been entrenched to, a place where criminality is hailed, while decency is abhorred. We are so tribalic and yet can betray our children or families when money and power are involved. We are so religious, and yet, our hearts, souls and bodies are filled with all sort of evilness. Every night and day, the distortions of various religious preaching and rituals are everywhere, and yet, we are still engrossed with religious intolerance. Can we mock God Almighty with our shallow religious rituals that are never in line with love amongst ourselves? Same religious people are more in turned to the present religious and tribal politics in Nigeria. A religious belief that kills to be on top. A religious belief that openly derogates other tribes with touch of arrogance? A religious belief that we have erroneously believed that, after wanton destructions and killings, we can organise Thanksgiving Services to atone for our heinous sacrilegious actions. A religious belief that made me to cry when I saw a re-elected Governor, dancing in a church pulpit for victory when many citizens have been killed, maimed and their means of livelihood destroyed. Instead of being sober, he is dancing and praising God Almighty. Anyway, I am not surprised because Christ said that His judgement will start from the church. What exactly was he thanking God for? The dead or those maimed? Yet, we are all jumping, extolling the dastardity of our stupidity. It’s not gain saying that wherever the children of God are gathered, the Devil will be there. Hence, when some terrible rogues and robbers are dancing shamelessly in the churches or mosques, I am always wondering what the Devil would be thinking. “Evil can never be appreciated by God Almighty no matter how we tend to portray the artificiality of our true selves.” – DSM. A nation where armed robbers will be embarking on robbery expeditions, but will, first of all, pray for the success of maiming, destroying, killing and robbing their own citizens. And when they come back after their crime against humanity, they’ll pray and behave as nothing happened. A nation where our leaders, who have certain corrupt money to be shared amongst themselves will start the sharing formula with a prayer. A nation that has been robbed of their electoral mandate and lie to its citizens that God understands. How can God Almighty understand an evil vice when our God is God of justice? A nation where citizens will defend a known criminal with their lives simply because such criminal is from their tribes or religions. A nation where clerics accord known criminals prominence because they can donate church or mosque buildings, spiced up with stolen money. A nation where people will see evil with their ‘korokoro’ eyes, and they will defend such evil with every breath of their lives. A nation where our security agencies, NCC and other cybersecurity organisations could not track bandits, terrorists, kidnappers and criminals who are using telephones to communicate and collect their information and ransoms, but now, could track personal conversations of Nigerians. The audio call between Peter Obi and Pa Oyedipo has become APC mantra, but this same APC has forgot when in the public glare, Governor Ganduje hosted a lot of Islamic clerics in Kano. These clerics were blunt when they called all Muslims not to vote for infidels. That public speech wasn’t a religious war. Hypocrites…That’s the APC’s shameless fundamentalists new toga. What’s wrong in calling my spiritual father, daddy? I rather pride on calling my spiritual father, daddy than having a father whose character, identity and background are shameful in certain global disastrous image. “A nation driven by religious and tribal hatred will prefer to buy lies in exchange for the truth.” – DSM. A nation where the fastest route to political relevance is to be a criminal, and hence, being nascent can be interpreted as a treasonable offence against the state. Are there hopes? There are hopes if only we can be bold enough to profile criminals in our societies and equally made them to realise that criminality is an abomination in Nigeria. A new orientation about a contented lifestyle should be considered right from our homes. We must love one another irrespective of our diverse birthplaces or religions. A new Nigeria is possible when we think about Nigeria first before our selfishness. A new Nigeria is possible when our religious clerics begin to teach us more of morality values, principles and beliefs in practical terms, rather than the miracles and get rich quick sermons that never touched our spiritual alignment with God Almighty. A new Nigeria is possible when every Nigerian is treated as a citizen and not as a tribal bigot. A new Nigeria is possible when Nigerians will stop promoting falsehood, or people with criminal records irrespective of the culprit’s tribal, political or religious affiliation. A new Nigeria is possible when the allegiance of our security agencies is fully a commitment of duty to the citizens rather than to the president, individual or the political party in power. Great societies are creations of patriotism and harmonious relationship between visionary and humble leadership and the citizens resilience in standing firm to truth and accountability. For the first time in Nigeria, the supposedly INEC-selected winner seems to have eclipsed the entire country into a mourning mood, and at every point that his supporters want to demoralize the citizens with cooked-up propaganda about the supposedly loser, the more it becomes the true representation and celebration of victory for the masses. An irony of life where a stolen mandate will never be approved by sane society…hence, I come in PEACE. Dr. Sunny Oby Maduka (DSM), is an Author, Resource Personality, Management Consultant/ Trainer, Chartered/Certified – Au d i t o r / A c c o u n t a n t , Financial Compliance Expert, Economic/Political Analyst Strategist, Marine Expert and Motivationist)