Assures of Buhari’s Assent To ICT Bill Before May 29 ABUJA – The Lawmaker representing Imo North federal constituency, Frank Ibezim, has raised the alarm that unless the country’s leaders do the right thing for the people, there was risk of an implosion. He also cautioned that most Nigerians are 40 years and under, and are very hungry and frustrated, warning that leaders must advise themselves on time and keep to the rules of the game. Ibezim regretted that while God did not allow the country to experience natural hazards, its leaders have allowed the country to derail towards insurrection and other crimes. The Imo North Senator said this in an interview with Daily Independent on Monday, shortly after the Senate public hearing on the Bill for an Act to Establish the Institute of Information and Communication Technology Nsu, Imo State and for other Matters Connected Therewith, 2023 (SB 1105). He said “it doesn’t matter whether I’m coming back or not, we must do the right thing”. According to him, “it was in the course of doing the right thing that the Senate shot itself in the foot with the Electoral Act”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “If you do not want your place to be burnt, or for you to be kidnapped, do the right thing”, the outgoing Lawmaker warned. POLL In a related development, the Senator has assured of Buhari’s assent to the ICT bill before May 29, date for handover to a new government. Ibezim gave this assurance against the backdrop of concerns that there may be no time for the President to assent to the bill which he sponsored and whose public hearing took place on Monday, April 3, 2023, at a time the transition of the current administration to a new government is ongoing. He further expressed optimism that President Buhari will sign the bill before leaving office because the proposed Institute of Information and Communication Technology is important and critical to nation building and a veritable tool for economic and socio-cultural development. Earlier in his presentation at the public hearing on the bill, “Institute of Information and Communication Technology, Nsu, Imo State” by the Senate Committee on ICT and Cyber Security which was chaired by Senator Yakubu Oseni, Senator Ibezim stressed that ICT has become a major source of culture in businesses and other fields. He said: “Information Technology helps us to understand the workings of our immediate world. Social media, which is an integral part of ICT, is a major source of modern culture and entertainment and it requires us to learn and use critical thinking skills. “Technology is extremely important in the workplace as a means of communication. Today’s businesses heavily rely on information technology, as it allows businesses to expand more quickly in view of access to proper means of promotion and innovation.” Meanwhile, the public hearing report of the bill is expected to be submitted to the Committee of the Whole on Tuesday, April 4, 2023.