Six bodies have been pictured on the ground at a teenager’s birthday party as police respond to reports of a mass shooting in Dadeville, Alabama. Local news outlet WRBL reported that up to 20 people were injured. Only a few details are currently available from the incident that happened at around 10:30 pm local time on Saturday when officers were called to the shooting in the small city, according to BNO News. There was no word from officials on the exact number of victims but a graphic photo shared by a witness showed bodies on the ground. Though it has yet to be confirmed by law enforcement, it’s thought that the majority of those wounded are teenagers who were attending a reported ‘Sweet-16’ birthday party. It’s believed the shooting took place at the Mohagany Masterpiece dance studio, near East Green Street and North Broadnax Street – just around the corner from the local courthouse. A witness at the scene said the total number of victims could be higher, including multiple people who died at the scene, which officials have yet to confirm. White sheets were covering the bodies and multiple families were seen gathering outside a local hospital.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Evidence has reportedly been marked and cleared from in front of the building, with investigators working at the scene through the night. POLL Locals have been taking to social media to share their thoughts and prayers for those who have been impacted. Many have commented on the ‘quiet nature’ of the town. Dadeville is a small city with a population of just over 3,000 as of the 2020 census. The identity, whereabouts and motive of the suspect are not known, however, WRBL reported that a suspected altercation led to the shooting. Other law enforcement agencies have been assisting Dadeville Police Department – including the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency’s State Beureau of Investigation and the Tallapoosa County Sheriff’s Office. A press conference is anticipated, however it’s reported there has been a delay while the SBI Public Information Officer arrives. Meanwhile, on the same night, two people were killed and four others injured after shots were fired into a crowd of hundreds gathered in a Louisville park. Police do not yet know how many shooters were involved and have not released any information regarding suspects. The mass shooting is the third for the city this week and last night was just five miles from where the shooting which killed six occurred six days earlier. Old National Bank employee Connor Sturgeon killed five of his colleagues during a senseless rampage at his workplace. Eight others were wounded including a police officer who was shot in the head and remains hospitalised in critical condition. Sturgeon’s parents said in a statement their son had mental health challenges that were being addressed, but “there were never any warning signs or indications he was capable of this shocking act”. There have been 146 mass shootings in the United States so far in 2023, the most at this point in the year since 2016, according to the Gun Violence Archive. The nonprofit group defines a mass shooting as four or more people shot or killed, not including the shooter.