LAGOS  – The National Association Of Nigerian Students (NANS), Ondo State axis, has appealed to the man­agement of Ondo State tertiary institutions to ensure probity and compliance with the disburse­ment guidelines of Federal Gov­ernment’s N320,345,040,835 inter­vention funds to public tertiary institutions across the country. The umbrella students associ­ation lauded the kind gesture of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying it was aimed at further boosting educational development in Nigeria. NANS Ondo axis, in a state­ment jointly signed by Akinola Elijah Joint Camps Committee (JCC), Chairman-Elect and Okeni­yi Elijah, the Public Relations Of­fice, JCC, Ondo, urged respective management teams of beneficiary tertiary institutions in Ondo to ensure that the fund is effectively and judiciously deployed to re­spective universities, colleges of education and polytechnics for the same purpose set by the Federal Government. NANS Ondo JCC in its commit­ment and resolve to avoid another sorry situation, stated that it will set up a taskforce to monitor the proper disbursement and ensure that the TETFund intervention is not diverted or mismanaged. The statement, titled: “Release Of N320.3 Billion TETfund Inter­vention By President Buhari: A Sunshine On Education Sector,” read in parts: “It’s with an abso­lute sense of gratitude and appre­ciation that we received the news of the approval of N320.3 billion TETFund intervention fund dis­bursement for public tertiary in­stitutions in Nigeria, by President Muhammadu Buhari. “Nigerian students, under the auspices of the National Associ­ation of Nigerian Students Ondo State axis, sincerely appreciate this kind gesture from the Presi­dency, which is strategically aimed at further boosting educational de­velopment in Nigeria. “We strongly believe that this is a significant opportunity for schools to upgrade their facilities, which will further enhance aca­demic qualities and activities on campus.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “NANS ONDO JCC wishes to commend the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) for its sin­cerity of purpose in line with the anti-corruption campaign. POLL “Information at our dis­posal reveals that each univer N1,154,732,133.00, while each polytechnic and college of educa­tion will get N699,344,867.00 and N800,862,602.00 respectively. This is the highest disbursement to each beneficiary institution since the inception of TETFund. “NANS Ondo JCC is, however, sending a strong note of warning to managements of Ondo State institutions to consider utilizing these funds effectively and judi­ciously for the development of our schools and other academic-relat­ed activities. “In view of this, NANS Ondo JCC will be setting up a task force basically to ensure that the TET­FUND funds are not diverted and mismanaged. The committee will be charged to consider engaging the EFCC and ICPC should we suspect any financial misappro­priation of the said fund by any school management. “We strongly believe that the disbursement of such a signifi­cant amount will avail schools the opportunity of solving a few of the major challenges facing our schools, which include but are not limited to outdated facilities, poor infrastructure, inadequate academic resources, and security mechanisms among others which will lead to improvement in the quality of education and equally provide better opportunities for students to succeed upon gradu­ation, with an assurance of not been half-baked graduates.”