MAKURDI – JKL Capital, England, a team of investors based in the United Kingdom, on an investment drive in Nigeria plans to boost Nigeria’s local economy by introducing iGaming business opportunities, with unique features in Nigeria. The team also said part of its plans is aimed at building a centralized digital currency exchange platform that would meet local regulatory license requirements. The partnership would also lead to the development a Payment Solution Service (PSS) that would address bottlenecks that results in delayed or failed transactions in the banking system and may be one of the fastest. Speaking with Daily Independent, Solomon Amande, the Public Relations Manager of Etecha Communications Ltd, JKL’s partner in Nigeria noted that the investment to be embarked on by its foreign partners would be of mutual benefit to both countries. Amande further explained that the team of investors arrived Nigeria on an investment drive to help boost the local economy as well as create job opportunities for Nigerians. He pointed out that “the company will partner with Etecha Communications Ltd to create jobs, and wealth and also provide solutions that will be beneficial to Nigerians and similarly boost the nation’s economy.” Speaking on the mission of the delegation to the country on arrival at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, the team lead, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of SpinnrTech Ltd and Openbox Ltd, Richard Hogg said they were in Nigeria to invest in critical areas that would grow Nigeria’s economy and create job opportunities for the people.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Hogg highlighted areas of interest for investment with its partners in Nigeria to include; “building a centralized digital currency exchange platform that will meet local regulatory license requirements. And to also connect with key personnel in local authorities and government offices to maintain sustainability within the digital assets ecosystem.” POLL He reiterated that JKL Capital of 40 Gracechurch Street London England, and their partners in Nigeria were going to “Introduce iGaming business opportunities in Nigeria with unique features. This will include obtaining a license and collaborating with local telecom companies to implement the best iGaming industry practices. “JKL and Etecha are poised to provide a new Payment Solution Service (PSS), which will include a license as a PTSP, Super-Agent, and PSSP Acquiring payment license. The payment solution will address every bottleneck that results in delayed or failed transactions in the banking system and will be one of the fastest. “Also, we will collaborate wit Universities in Nigeria to build internationally recognized Blockchain Technology through enhancing of local research facilities and connecting with other world universities to broaden the scope of blockchain applications within the Fintech industry.” In her comment, a Senior Advisor to JKL Capital, Ms. Nadia Sabbagh said through the above-mentioned suggested initiatives, and investment platforms in Nigeria, “the various areas will broaden the scope of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) in Nigeria which will enhance job creation, vocational and creative thinking. This will also include social responsibilities such as scholarships to less privileged people for professional courses and support.” Receiving the team in Nigeria on behalf of Etecha Communications, Chairman of the outfit, Oba Olusegun Aderemi, accompanied by other representatives of the company among them Dr. Raymond Asemakaha-CFA, and the Secretary Engr. Jeffrey Udende, said, “Nigeria has a big and prosperous market that will accommodate all the investment areas proposed.” Daily Independent also learnt that the JKL team that arrived the country comprise of Ms. Nidaa Sabbagh, Mr. Hen Su, Mr. Harris Cheah, Mr. Matt Tam, Mr. Y. Chen, Mr. K. Zhao, Mr. J. Shi and Mr. Richard Hogg will stay in Nigeria for seven days and meet with critical stakeholders, and financial experts to familiarize with their partners for onward investment. End.