Have you been looking for how to save your money in dollars without a USD account? Well, you’re not alone. If you’re in Nigeria like me, you may have seen how bugging it is to open a USD account. Too many referees needed, time, and registration. And most of the time, not everyone has all the required materials always asked from the bank. It is really frustrating! But one may wonder, why is saving in dollars that important? Inflation today is really affecting a lot of smaller currencies. When I say “smaller currencies”, I mean currencies that don’t hold a lot of weight internationally. A very good example of a smaller currency is Naira, the Nigerian currency. As of today (18th April 2023), 1 USD is equivalent to 750 Naira. The difference in these currencies is so high that it is so bad for Nigerians who earn an average Nigerian salary (N30,000) to transact outside the country. And this inflation doesn’t apply to Nigeria alone. There are other countries that are suffering from this financial disaster. Therefore, the best way for such people to manage inflation is to save their money in a currency that is stronger than theirs and one of the best options is the United States Dollar. Hence USD is recognised globally and holds more international power financially. But if you do not have a USD account, how can you save your money in dollars? That’s where USDT comes in! USDT, also known as Tether, is a stablecoin that is pegged to the value of USD. This means that 1 USDT is always worth 1 USD. USDT is popular because it provides the stability of the US dollar with the accessibility of a cryptocurrency. I know you may be asking “Whether USD is the same as USDT?” Well, the answer is yes and no. Yes, in the sense that they are both equal in value. As I mentioned earlier, if USD today is 750, USDT will also be 750 (Naira). If USD increases to 800 tomorrow, USDT will also increase to 800 Naira. USDT is pegged to USD, meaning that any value USD reaches, USDT also reaches. USDT can help with inflation when utilised properly. USDT and USD are not the same because USD is the traditional fiat currency for a country, the United States. And USDT is a type of cryptocurrency known as “stablecoin”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL To start saving in dollars with USDT, you will need to acquire USDT. There are a few different ways you can own USDT. One of the options is to buy it directly from Tether’s website. Another option is to buy it on a cryptocurrency exchange that supports USDT trading pairs, such as Binance. If you’re in Nigeria like me, you can buy USDT in Naira. What I like to do is, save the extra money I have in USD by converting my money to USDT. For instance, if I have 75000 Naira after my budget is extracted from my monthly salary. I will buy USDT with 75000 Naira. Which will be equivalent to 100 USD if I buy it at today’s rate. So, instead of having 75000 Naira in my account which is likely to decline because of inflation, I now have 100 USD. Which may even increase in value, for example, if by next month 1 USD increases to 800 Naira. This means that if I want to exchange my USD back to Naira, I will now have 80000 Naira. It is also a form of making more money via saving. And even if Naira reduces more, it will not affect you because your money is in USD. When it comes to saving your money in USDT, there are a few things to keep in mind. First, USDT is a stablecoin, which means it’s designed to maintain a stable value. However, its price can fluctuate slightly over time when USD, the traditional US fiat currency fluctuates. To maximise your savings, you may want to buy USDT when its value is lower and sell it when its value is higher. This way, you can even make a profit from just saving. Another important consideration is fees. When you purchase USDT on an exchange, you may be charged fees for the transaction. Be sure to research fees before making any trades to ensure you’re getting the best deal possible. But not to worry though, I will introduce you to a crypto exchange that is fee-free. When you’re ready to sell your USDT for your local currency, you have a few different options. One option is to sell using a peer-to-peer platform. You can then withdraw the USD to your bank account. Another better option is to sell your USDT on a crypto exchange that supports USDT trading pairs like Breet. With Breet, you can sell USDT for Naira or Cedis and directly withdraw to your local bank account. This can be a convenient option if you’re looking to avoid exchange fees. Because Breet is 100% free. No withdrawal fees, no trading fees, and no receiving fees. You also have competitive rates with Breet compared to other crypto exchanges. Without a USD account, saving money in dollars may seem difficult, but USDT provides a workable option. You may save money by purchasing and carefully managing USDT, which you can then exchange for dollars if necessary. To maximise your savings, just be sure to do some market and charge research. In conclusion, using USDT to save in dollars is a fantastic approach to safeguard your savings against inflation and other economic risks. When the moment is perfect, you may save in USDT and sell it for USD by employing the proper technique. Don’t forget to download the Breet app available on all Android and iPhone devices. So you enjoy high crypto rates, zero fees, and faster ways to sell USDT to Naira or Cedis if you’re in Ghana. Happy Saving!