YENAGOA – A former President of Nigeria, Goodluck Jonathan, and the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) Simbi Wabote, have been honoured with the African Democracy and Peace Icon Award and Champion of Local Content Development in Africa Award, respectively. The NCDMB Corporate Communications, in a statement on Sunday, said that Jonathan and Wabote were among change-makers across Africa conferred with awards at the inaugural African Heritage and Concert Awards event which held at Kigali, Rwanda, on Saturday. They include a former President of Botswana, Seretse Khama Ian Khama, who picked up the Africa Philanthropist Award, and pan-Africanist and legal practitioner, Patrick Lumumba, who was honoured with Africa Advancement Icon Award. Others are the late President of Tanzania, John Magufuli, who won the African Icon Award (posthumous); the former President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Olumide Akpata, who was conferred with the African Legal Icon and the Triplets Ghetto Kids from Uganda, who won the African Entertainment Award. Wabote said the award would challenge him to continue promoting local content across Africa in concert with other organisations and individuals. He stressed that all African nations should optimized value addition to their natural resources and develop the capacities and capabilities of their human resources, so they can participate fully in the value chain of their extractive industries, particularly the oil and gas industry. Wabote stated that NCDMB had already started to promote local content implementation in the linkage sectors such as mining, power and manufacturing.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL According to him, “the primary task for the various African nations is to energize their core sectors and inculcate the can-do belief in their nationals.” The NCDMB boss dedicated the recognition to his family and the hard-working members of staff of the board, noting that the award and several others he had clinched in the past were made possible by staff members’ dedication and support. He hailed the organisers of the African Heritage Concert and Award and described the honour as a stepping stone to the African continent’s development. Jonathan also commended the organisers for honouring Africans who had distinguished themselves in different endeavours. The former president regretted that “we live in a thankless society,” and urged that it is important to celebrate the efforts of individuals who are changing the narrative. He admitted that the African continent is facing huge challenges, yet some persons are working hard to ameliorate the difficulties and are making huge differences in the same environment, hence the need to acknowledge their efforts. Jonathan challenged political officer holders to initiate policies that would improve the lives of the citizenry and build institutions that will outlive them, such that they would be remembered for good when they leave office. Speaking further, he lauded the government and people of Rwanda for their developmental strides and becoming a preferred destination where organisations and groups across Africa and beyond now prefer to host their events. The chairman of Heritage Times, Moses Siloko Siasia explained that the African Heritage Concert and Awards was conceived to motivate change makers in the public, and private sectors across the continent with a view to positioning them as models for other persons to emulate.