NGOZI UMA For a man that devoted almost all his productive years in active service to the University of Lagos, (Unilag) and humanity, immortalising him with a book that centers on his life, ideas and some of his literary works was an honorable deed well deserved. Prof. John Pepper Clark, also known as Prof. JP Clark was a professor of English at Unilag for many years, and a prolific writer, poet and playwright. According to reports, he continued to write until his death on 13 October 2020. Some of his former colleagues and associates during the book presentation at the school Campus in Lagos acknowledged that the late wordsmith, Prof. JP Clark was a man who was unpopular in the media compared to his contemporaries and was quite controversial too despite being one of the finest writers and creatives Nigeria ever produced. One of them, Prof. Hope Eghagha said, “the reason he never enjoyed press puff was probably because he never courted the press.” Due to this, most of his literary works which address salient social-political, cultural and political issues in Nigeria and Africa like his plays, ‘The Masquerade,’ ‘The Wives’ Revolt’ and ‘All For Oil’ and his poems, ‘A Decade Of Tongues,’ ‘Abiku’ and ‘Mandela And Other Poems’ were quite unpopular. His family and former associates took this path to honour him by compiling some of his ideas, his biography; controversial and authorised and his memoirs ‘America Their America’ into a book titled, ‘Connecting The Local And The Global Across Literary Genres: Emerging Perspectives On JP Clark And His Works.’ And was edited by Prof. Hope Eghagha and Dr. Solomon Azumurana. Prof. Kunle Akiosi, the first Dean of Dental School in Lagos, a close friend of late Prof. JP Clark described him as a unique person with outstanding poetic pieces. He also noted that he was a man who understood Nigerian society and his culture and reflected them in his poetry. He said, “he didn’t care about these earthly things, his talks and actions were outstanding and he never sought wealth but was rich in ideas. POLL “I was the first dean of the dental school in Lagos, and my friend, Prof Kashamu was the dean of law and Clark was the dean of art all in the 70s and we were exactly in the same age group.” The Vice Chancellor of Unilag, Prof Folashade Ogunsola, in her submission recognised the academic strides made by Prof. Clark, especially his impacts in Unilag and the department of art. The VC, who was represented by Professor Ayodele Atsenuwa, the Deputy Vice Chancellor of Unilag, stated that, “We stand tall only because we stand on the shoulders of giants who have come before us and one of such giants is a man we have come to celebrate. “I am glad we are celebrating a man that advances scholarships, because various critics that constitute the chapters of this work were creating new knowledge. We recognise the genius, Prof Clark and it is from that genius that other professional works are coming out.” The VC, however, suggested that the art department can have presentations of Prof. JP Clark’s plays. “May be we can have a JP Clark month where we act, and where we can have a spoken word ‘oratory’ concerts so that it would not be solely academic analysis and those of us under this confines can better appreciate and also begin to celebrate him. Like they said, he was a man that was not celebrated, maybe we should start celebrating him. This is a challenge to all of us, the faculty of art, the dean of art and the entire team,” she said. On the other hand, the wife of the late don, Prof Ebun Clark told the excited students who filled the Julius Berger Hall on why Unilag is being exalted as the pride of Nigeria. She said Unilag prides itself as the first choice University and pride of Nigeria because it is the first Nigerian University and also the first federal university of Nigeria. She revealed further that the purported reports about University of Ibadan being the first university of Nigeria was not true. In her words, “When you said Unilag is the pride of Nigeria, I don’t really think you know why? University of Ibadan is the oldestawardingdegreeinNigeria. Itis not the oldest Nigerian University. “The degree awarded in the University of Ibadan then says University of London. “When Nigeria became independent in 1960, Nigeria set up her own University, by act of parliament, which is the University of Lagos. Nobody can sue me for this, because I have first hand information about what I am saying. I was a staff of University of Ibadan and among the first staff of University of Lagos when it started. When we became a federal republic in 1963, Unilag became the first federal university of Nigeria, “ she said. She, however, appreciated the school, Faculty of Art and all their former colleagues and associates for taking time out to honour her late husband.