Fabio Paratici has re­signed as Tottenham Hotspur’s managing direc­tor of football with imme­diate effect. The move follows the 50-year-old losing his appeal against a 30-month ban, which was extended “to have worldwide effect” by FIFA, from Italian football. Paratici was banned af­ter Juventus, where he was sporting director and man­aging director before joining Spurs, were found guilty of false accounting. Juventus’ 15-point penalty was reversed with the case to be re-examined. However, Paratici, who took up his roleat Tottenham in June 2021, had his appeal against his ban, which he re­ceived in January, rejected. A Spurs statement said: “FIFA ruled to extend the ban worldwide and, whilst there continues to be a dis­pute as to the scope and ex­tent of the ban, the current worldwide ban prevents Fa­bio from fulfilling his duties as our managing director of football. “Fabio has consequently taken the decision to resign from his position at the club with immediate effect to fo­cus on his legal position in respect of the FIGC (Italian Football Federation) and FIFA rulings.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Tottenham dismissed An­tonio Conte as their manag­er in late March and Parati­ci said that he and the club were “focused” on moving forward and finding a re­placement before FIFA ex­panded his ban to be world­wide a day later. POLL Spurs have since appoint­ed Scott Munn as chief foot­ball officer in a role which saw him join the club’s board as well as taking charge of all footballing departments. “This has been a stress­ful time for Fabio and his family,” said Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy. “We wanted to ensure that we al­lowed for due process to be followed. Fabio is a man who lives and breathes football – we wish him well. “As outlined in our year-end results, we started sever­al months ago to restructure our football operations and last week announced the ap­pointment of Scott Munn as chief football officer to head up all the departments. “We shall continue to strengthen our football functions over the coming months.”