LAGOS  – History was made recently when the Gospel Musicians Association of Nigeria (GOMAN) inaugurated a new executive to run the affairs of the body. The new executive is headed by Evangelist Phillip Olayiwola, who took over the mantle of leadership from Evang. Dr. Funmi Aragbaiye. The inauguration, which took place on in Lagos on Thursday March 23, 2023, was indeed a big celebration and had the trappings of a true Christian event. It took place at the Shepherd’s Flock International Church, 18, Sogunle Street, off Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way, Behind Eko Hospital by Sheraton Hotel, Abule Onigbagbo Bus Stop, Ikeja, Lagos. In his inaugural speech, the new President, Evangelist Phillip Olayiwola pledged to make the association a true national body. Evangelist Olayiwola aka Pholat noted that GOMAN had been regarded as a sectional association. He promised to make efforts to extend its influence to other geopolitical zones of Nigeria, thereby giving it a true national outlook it should have. He said: “As I speak, discussions are ongoing with our fellow gospel music ministers in Port Harcourt, and very soon, we shall be going there for their inauguration.” Evangelist Olayinwola stated that he would soon set up a reconciliation committee to look into various issues behind the prevailing rancour, discord, disloyalty and divisions among gospel musicians. He stressed: “Many of our members have been wounded and there is a crucial need to heal those wounds and bring them back into the fold. “We shall improve and sanitise the existing procedures of admitting new members and pay attention to membership drive, funding, transparency and accountability at all levels. The business shall no longer be as usual.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Evang. Olayiwola promised that under his administration, GOMAN would embark on “training and retraining programmes for members to enhance professionalism, spirituality, functionality, and relevance in our music ministry and to achieve this, we would soon commence a standard music training programme and set up our own GOMAN School of Music that would be affiliated with reputable institutions.” Olayiwola also promised to get a befitting national secretariat for the association. POLL Olayinwola also has a plan for new members of the association. He stated: “I am aware of our members’ agitations and those who are yet to join us on what they stand to gain as members of GOMAN. This regime, by the grace of God, is going to put a good welfare package programme for members. “This package, among several others, shall cover health plans, music promotion and protection of our intellectual properties. We are going to strengthen collaboration with relevant bodies like MAAN, Label Owners, FIBAN, COSON, MCSN, Copyright Commission etc in order to realize our objective.” Olayinwola, who requested for the support of all members and stakeholders, disclosed that “a team of technocrats, academics and music experts had been set up to provide free advisory services to us while some other Management Consultants would be engaged in the course of time. “I humbly request the unflinching support of our past presidents, respectable elders, state governors, spiritual fathers and mother, friends of GOMAN and all well-meaning members to come to our aid anytime we knock on your doors. “This new regime, with oneness of purpose, has come to serve and to change the narrative of GOMAN. We shall also make efforts to rebrand GOMAN, a brand that is long overdue for rebranding. “We shall in the process of rebranding, put effective restructuring in place in order to reposition the association for national and international spaces that would be beneficial to both the association and her members.” It would be recalled that the national election that produced Evangelist Phillip Olayiwola and his team took place in Ibadan on Wednesday February 15, 2023, thereby terminating the six-year two term tenure of Evang. Dr. Funmi Aragbaye In attendance were some important personalities and ministers of God like Evang. Dr. Funmi Aragbaiye, the immediate-past president, Pastor Dr. Tunde Kajogbola, Dr. SMO Oni, who preached the message of the day; Pastor Kola Olulana, Pastor Oluwaniyi, Apostle Timi Orokoya, Apostle James Iyanda, Olori Itunu Oyebisi, representative of Rev. Tony Akinyemi, Dr. Peter Olayiwola, Taiwo and Kenny Jones, and a host of others. Also, several members attended from other parts of the Nigeria. Other members of the new GOMAN National Executive Council are Hon. Ayodele Paul, Deputy President; Pastor Prophet Samuel Oyelowo (Alagbadaina), Vice President North; Evang/Prophet Kayode Emmanuel Ogunniyi (Arole David), Vice President West and Evang. (Dr) Boladale Stephen-Amzat, National General Secretary. Also, the new executive included Evang. Bukola Ilupeju, Assistant National General Secretary; Prophetess (Dr) Christiana Folashade Bello (Awoko Jesu), National Treasurer; Evang. Joy Oladejo, National Financial Secretary; Olori Dolapo Ogunbajo, National Internal Auditor; Evang. Faniyi Olawumi (Omo-Ologo Ara), National Public Relations Officer. Others in the new executive are Evang. Bayo Bankole, National Enrolment Officer; Evang. Mike Abdul National Music Director; Evang. Opeyemi Oladipupo Bello (Imole Ayo), National Chief Whip; Evang. Gloria Oyenike Oladiti, National Welfare Officer 1; Rev. Oluwaseyi O. Oyebanji (Sheyi Glory), National Welfare Officer 2; Evang (Dr.) Prince Oluwole Adekunle, National Protocol Officer; Prophetess (Dr.) Stella Ajayi Adeniyi, National Prayer Coordinator. The Inauguration ceremony also featured the investiture of some important personalities as the Association’s Patrons and Advisers. Amongst other dignitaries to be in attendance are Evang. (Prof) Obey Fabiyi, Chief Michael Ade Ojo, Dr Tunde Kajogbola, Arch. David Adegbite and Rev. Tony Akinyemi as the Spiritual Father of the day. Words of exhortation would be delivered by Dr. S. M. O Oni. In a pre-event statement made available to newsmen by the Public Relations Officer, Evang. Mrs. Olawunmi Faniyi, all the members of the association nationwide as well as friends, partners and well-wishers were expected to grace the event.