ABUJA – The National Commandant Peace Corps of Nigeria, Prof. Dickson Akoh has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the  Bill for an Act to establish the Nigerian Peace Corps into law as parting gift to the teeming Nigerian youths before leaving office. The Senate had on Tuesday passed the bill  after the adoption of the report of the Conference Committee set up with the House of Representatives to harmonize the ‘Bill for an Act to establish the Nigeria Peace Corps. Akoh  said the entire contents, especially the functions contained in the Bill is indeed a summation of inclusive empowerment programmes for the youth and on how to harness their innate potentials for  nation-building, leadership role and act of patriotism. He made the appeal on Thursday at a press conference in Abuja. Akoh said the President would be writing his name in gold if signs the bill into law before leaving the office on May 29tt 2023. The Commandant also expressed gratitude to the leadership and entire members of the 9th National Assembly for the extraordinary and unanimous support given to this organization through the legislative processes leading to the eventual passage  of the Bill for an Act to Establish Nigerian Peace Corps. According to him ” The overwhelming support accorded the Bill by the Distinguished Members of the Senate and Honourable Members of the House of Representatives is hereby recognised and celebrated by all bonafide members of the Corps. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ”  The overwhelming support accorded the Bill by the Distinguished Members of the Senate and Honourable Members of the House of Representatives is hereby recognised and celebrated by all bonafide members of the Corps. POLL ” While we particularly note with deep appreciation, the cordial efforts and support for our Bill, it is our most considered view that the Members of the 9th Assembly, has through the passage of the Bill, demonstrated their strong passion and commitment to the emancipation of Nigerian Youth through  genuine youth empowerment and development, which are prerequisite for addressing the increasing wave of unemployment and its social consequences upon the nation. ” Concerned with the increasing waves of unemployment and high level of poverty in the land, both past and present administrations initiated different intervention policies to mitigate these challenges. Some of these initiatives are Subsidy Re-investment Programme (SURE-P), You- Win, Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT), N-Power, Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), Government Intervention Funds (GIF), Nigerian Youth Investment Fund (NYIF) and Social Safety Net (SSN), etc. ” It is a proven fact and incontrovertible reality that once these ‘Financial Handouts’ are no longer forthcoming or delayed in coming, these same Youths go back to the streets on protest or quickly revert to social ills and unproductive preoccupations, and even sometimes back-lashing the Government. ”  However, it is advisable that a more robust, sustainable and institutionalized approach be adopted to ensure irreversibility of conditions and welfare status of our youths” He explained further that there is a need for multi- sectoral, multi- lateral and multi- dimensional approach in combating the insecurity challenges in the country He added that Youth Based Organisations like the Nigerian Peace Corps, are established with the sole aim of engaging and pre-occupying the youths as a panacea to the social consequences of being unemployed. ” In more developed economies, efforts are tailored towards the pre-occupation of the youths in productive ventures where they will be economically useful to themselves and the larger society. This is in addition to engaging them in moral, citizenship and leadership training aimed at Character Building and their valuable participation in nation-building. ” In the United States of America, for instance, the American Peace Corps was created as an agency to promote World Peace and Friendship by training American youths as volunteers to perform social and humanitarian services overseas, including Nigeria. The volunteers help communities in Developing Countries improve their Social and Economic conditions. ” The entire contents, especially the functions contained in the Bill is indeed a summation of an inclusive empowerment programmes for the youth and on how to harness their innate potentials for the over all tasks of nation-building. It is in the light of the aforesaid that I wish to humbly use this medium to appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, to do the needful by assenting to this all-important Bill which will in no doubt, give positive credence of his concern for the plight of the youth, nationwide. Assenting to the Bill, will be a deserving parting gift to the youth of the nation, for which posterity will always reckon with him on the right side of history. ” Finally, may I use this opportunity to commend you the Gentlemen of the Press for being our veritable partners in progress and for your supportive roles you have over the years accorded us, especially the wide and massive publicity you accorded this all-important Bill. ” It is on this note therefore, that I wish to re-assure you that we will remain a veritable partner as we hope to transit from a Non-Governmental Organisation to a Government Agency with the anticipated assent of the Bill by Mr President ” The Commandant added.