LAGOS – Nigerians have expressed dis­may over the claim by the In­dependent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that the whereabouts of the Residential Elector­al Commissioner (REC) in Adamawa, Hudu Yinusa-Ari, is unknown to the Commission. Hundu Yinusa-Ari is the controver­sial Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) who announced the Adamawa governorship poll midway into colla­tion, giving it to Aisha Dahiru (Binani) in the absence of the properly appointed Returning Officer. He vanished into thin air when condemnations, even from the Federal Government, greeted his dubious action which has since been revised with the announcement of Ahmadu Fintiri as governor-elect. Festus Okoye, National Commis­sioner and Chairman of the Informa­tion and Voter Education Committee of INEC, claimed on Friday that Yinu­sa-Ari had not reported to the office of the Commission as he was instructed to do after he had shocked the commission with his brazen announcement. Okoye said since his whereabouts was unknown to the Commission, it was the duty of the Police to fish him out. Expressing his anger over the latest development, a public affairs commen­tator, Dr. Victor Mathew, stated that any right thinking Nigerian with a noble conscience should be grossly disap­pointed with the despicable action of the Adamawa REC. He stressed that President Muham­madu Buhari would not be leaving a good legacy if the REC was not prose­cuted for such a heinous crime against democracy and the Nigerian State.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He stressed: “The man by now should be facing charges if the government is serious. POLL “Even the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Binani, should equally be arrested and persecut­ed for being part of such a disdainful act. “It will be a very dangerous prece­dent if the perpetrators are allowed to go scot-free because tomorrow an un­authorized person can just announce election result at any level. This, to me, is a major setback for Nigeria’s fledgling democracy. “The REC and the governorship candidate and anyone associated with that shameful act must be heavily sanc­tioned. Their actions was desperation for power taken to unacceptable height.” Adding his voice to the dramatic dis­appearance of the Adamawa REC, Com­rade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi,a National Working Committee (NWC) member of Afican Action Congress (AAC), and the party’s former chairman in Lagos State, lamented that after crime, Nigerian offi­cials always go on AWOL. Ajayi stressed: “Even the president is used to disappearing and reappear­ing. Things are so abnormal here. But I know the police know where the Ad­amawa REC is. “They are only just raising the alarm to show that they are helpless. What matters is that the REC was burst. And that will be the victory for the people’s democracy.” Also reacting, Hon. Dennis Adikwu­ru, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Imo State, stated: “Today’s INEC is a master fraudster, propelled by a fraudulent APC government. “To declare the whereabouts of Ad­amawa Resident Electoral Commission­er as unknown is, to say the least, more embarrassing and criminal than the crimes of the REC. “You employed someone, posted him to Adamawa State with the mandate of truncating the people’s mandate. “There was a clear winner in the PDP candidate during the March 18 gover­norship election, but the announcement was stepped down for a re-run. “Unfortunately, the REC misman­aged the rigging process and he was tracked down by vigilant PDP faithful. And the bubble burst. “If the INEC Chairman was not in league with this malpractice, he would have done everything to get the man detained. But, I can tell you that our Ni­gerian public servants in high places are fast and too clever. “How would you expect Mahmood Yakubu to get the man arrested and the man will expose the conspiracy of the topmost ladder in the heinous electoral crime of the 2023 elections?” CACOL Seeks Yinusa-Ari’s Probe On its part, the Centre for Anti-Cor­ruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has called on INEC to investigate and possibly prosecute the Resident Elector­al Commissioner. CACOL noted that according to the electoral law, the announcement should have been made by the Returning Offi­cer for the election, a different person, usually an academic appointed by INEC for that purpose. The group’s Chairman, Debo Ade­niran, in a statement made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT on Saturday and signed by its Director for Adminis­tration and Programmes, Tola Oresan­wo, stated that like every other democrat and peace-loving Nigerian, the anti-graft body was appalled by the drama that played out in Adamawa State following the just-concluded supplementary elec­tion in the state. He stressed: “The funny aspect of the whole drama is that the person who is supposed to be an unbiased arbiter and the repository of all electoral laws and guidelines in the state is the one at the centre of the melodrama. “It is a known fact that all the drama­tis personae in the drama playing out in the state, especially the politicians, have their supporters who would want them to win at all cost but it is an anomaly to find an INEC official who is holding such a highly esteemed position in the middle of the storm. “We at CACOL will like to reiterate that to protect the sanctity of the elector­al process, INEC officials must be above board in all their dealings, they must be people whose hearts cannot be bought with money or other material things, they must also be patriotic individuals who will always put the interest of the country above their personal or selfish gains.” Adeniran maintained that by his ac­tion, many voters in the state would have lost confidence in the whole election and their hope for a free, fair and transparent election would have been eroded. He stated: “We would therefore call on INEC to take urgent actions to protect the integrity of the electoral process in the state. “The Nigeria Police, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) should investigate what transpired during the Adamawa State supplementary governorship elec­tion in its entirety. “The allegation that the REC re­ceived a N2billion bribe to announce Binani as the winner should be thor­oughly investigated and anyone found culpable in the illegality, including the security officers who aided and abetted the crime, should be made to face the full wrath of the law. “If Binani herself is involved, she should not be spared. It doesn’t matter what moral meanings anyone could read into it, since nobody is above the law. “Once a crime has been proven to be committed all those involved should be made to face the consequences of their actions, no matter their status on the social ladder.” Reflection Of Past Elections Analysts who spoke with Sunday Independent said what happened in Adamawa was a reflection of what has been happing in past elections. Speaking on the issue, Dr Bolaji Akinyemi, the Convener of Apostol­ic Roundtable, maintained that what transpired during the Adamawa State governorship election “is obviously a revelation of all the compromises that produced the shame we are confronted with as a nation and our nationals in the committee of nations”. He added: “From the grotto of mas­querades we call the Independent Na­tional Electoral Commission (INEC) is coming different dancing steps of shame. “Hudu Yinusa-Ari is a reflection of Yakubu, who hurriedly announced his ‘President-select’, while the results on its institution iReV says the contrary. “Binani a protegee of BAT’s desper­ation that allegedly handed N2 billion out for a process not concluded to be announced. “Adamawa is a grim awareness of how badly devalued we are as a people. If a state was bought for N2 billion, I won’t be surprised if the cost of the merchandise of February 2023 runs in to trillions. “Adamawa was a reckless display of impunity. Aisha is a gut without a sense of guilt. Yinusa-Ari is a call for our con­science that all REC must be immediate­ly investigated, with attention on Lagos, Rivers and Kano. “We can’t cross this season without a righteous revolution against electoral corruption, which is the mother of all corruption.” Also reacting, Barrister Emeka Iheonu, a Lagos-based lawyer, stated: “The REC announced the lady APC can­didate as the winner when collation of results was allegedly ongoing. INEC has announced the incumbent governor as the winner. “What happened in Adamawa State is a reflection of the general lapses that the electorate experienced during the just concluded elections. “Despite assurances prior to the elec­tions, INEC fell short of expectations. “Results already counted at polling units were not immediately uploaded to the appropriate portal giving room for manipulations. “There were viral videos of some private and public personalities, includ­ing INEC representatives, engaging in issuing threats, destroying ballot papers, distorting already compiled figures, in­juring voters, etc,. Yet, no prosecution has commenced. “The reported suspension and ap­proval of the prosecution of the Ad­amawa REC by the outgoing Nigerian President is ludicrous. “There have been infractions in La­gos and other states and no presidential approval of arrests and prosecutions. Why is Adamawa State so special for presidential approval? Can’t INEC and security agencies do the needful in line with the extant Electoral Act?” Another commentator, Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, stated: “The Adamawa governorship re-run election has provid­ed clear evidence of the manifest elec­toral fraud orchestrated by APC in con­nivance with INEC and security forces. “The Adamawa re-run also is an op­portunity for INEC, security forces and the ruling government of APC to own up to the unprecedented upturn of the will of the people.” He added: “I can deduce here that the Adamawa case is a case in point to evaluate the entire 2023 general elections in Nigeria under the desperate, power hungry and impunity ridden APC gov­ernment.” Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh, anoth­er analyst, said: “A leopard can never change its spots. “There is no disparity between the show of shame in the Adamawa State governorship supplementary election and the Presidential/National Assem­bly election which took place on Febru­ary 25, 2023.” Comrade Odeh, National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF), continued: “Just imagine the shame as the same people who conspired to subvert the will of the Nigerian voters during the presidential election are now against each other. “The inordinate desire for money has led them to this mess. Can we be wrong to say INEC is a cartel? A body equipped with enabling law to conduct a free, fair and credible election, blatantly refused to obey its own law. “We don’t need any other evidence that INEC under Prof. Mahmood Yaku­bu has completely failed and needs to be overhauled.” Also, Hon. Charles Anike, National President, Eastern Union (EU), stated: “The show of shame that took place during the just-concluded governorship election in Adamawa State was nothing new, but a repeat or replay of the many dramas that took place across the coun­try on February 25 and March 18. “We all heard the governor of Ad­amawa after he was, at long last, de­clared winner, addressing the press. He stated that he didn’t contest against Binani, the APC candidate, but that he contested against Abuja. “What exactly does that statement tell us? The simple truth is that the APC-INEC forces from Abuja were and still are behind all the violence and crisis that trailed the conduct of the 2023 gen­eral elections across the country. “Since the inception of the Bu­hari-APC, the commission lost its in­dependent status, but automatically became an extension of the Presidency. “The 2023 general elections would have been the best and the most credible election ever conducted in the country, if only the APC-INEC wanted it, because of the introduction of the BVAS and also, if the commission is truly inde­pendent.”