Lagos State Government has partnered ARCA Payment Ltd. to develop the parking payment application that would enhance coordinated parking operations between it and the public. A statement by Abayomi Ariba, Head, Public Affairs Unit, Lagos State Parking Authority (LASPA), said this was in a bid to facilitate seamless parking experience across the metropolis. The statement quoted Mrs. Adebisi Adelabu, the General Manager, LASPA, as saying that the partnership was to improve the overall parking system by ensuring a seamless transaction process for permits, registration, enquiry among others. According to her, this is a commitment towards integrating technological solutions into the authority’s parking management system, which she said would provide a user-friendly system whilst building an accurate database to manage parking proceedings for the State. She noted that LASPA has adopted innovative ways in providing lasting solutions to parking challenges for a safe and secured environment, stressing that the ultimate aim was to give Lagosians the best and most suitable parking experience. Adelabu explained that the initiative guaranteed a stress-free process for end-users of the authority’s services, emphasising the effect on reconciliation and revenue assurance for the government. She reiterated that LASPA was committed towards supporting various organisations and business entities to identify and proffer long-term solutions to their parking challenges, maintaining that it had observed that most organisations operating in state lacked adequate parking space, which contributes to indiscriminate parking.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ While describing the various interventions introduced to reduce indiscriminate parking across the state, she averred that the government had commenced the installation of signages and lane markings in phases across the state to guide motorists and pedestrians on available parking lots. POLL The General Manager urged the public to support the authority’s efforts towards improving the parking system of the state, maintaining that enforcement of parking regulations had significantly reduced road mishaps and traffic congestion across the metropolis in recent times. Earlier in his remarks, Mr. Oluwadare Owolabi, the Managing Director, ARCA Payment Ltd, appreciated the government’s role in regulating parking across the state in line with the smart city drive. Owolabi noted that the integration of the application solution to manage parking proceedings would further promote effective customer service, accountability and transparency for all organisations and business entities. Owolabi unveiled the plans to commence intensive training for staff of the authority on how to navigate through the application software, opining that all efforts are geared towards providing smooth, quick and result oriented process for the public to access parking services.