Political fallout has swelled from FIFA’s decision to strip Indonesia of hosting rights for this year’s Under-20 soccer World Cup, threatening the front-runner status of a potential successor to President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo. Public opinion has turned sharply against government officials seen as ruining the dreams of the soccer-loving country’s young players. The controversy stems from the handling of Israel’s participation in the tournament. Indonesia, with the world’s largest Muslim population, does not have formal diplomatic relations with the country and has long called for Palestinian independence. Gov. Ganjar Pranowo of Central Java is seen as one of the potential leading candidates in Indonesia’s February 2024 presidential election. He and other Muslim conservatives expressed opposition to Israel’s participation, spurring protests. When FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, announced on March 29 that it would pull the tournament from the country, public reaction was swift. A post on Ganjar’s Instagram account received about 350,000 comments accusing the politician of destroying young people’s futures and pledging to oppose him in the upcoming election. Ganjar’s rhetoric against Israel’s participation was widely regarded as an attempt to score political points. In order to run in the election, he needs to be nominated by his party, the ruling Democratic Party of Struggle. The party has had a historically strong anti-Israel stance, and some observers say it was behind the push to exclude the country from the tournament.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Various polls show Ganjar as a leading potential presidential candidate. But an opinion poll conducted after the tournament cancellation — though not from a major polling institution — showed Ganjar’s position plummeting, with rivals Defense Minister Prabowo Subianto and former Jakarta Gov. Anies Baswedan gaining ground. POLL Ganjar is desperately trying to put out the fire. A video posted on his Instagram on April 4 showed him dining with a player from the Indonesian U-20 team who had criticized him on the player’s own social media account. The player took down that post immediately after making it. “I want to apologize to the national team, and hope we can move forward,” Ganjar said in an interview with local media. President Widodo will leave office after completing his second and final term in October 2024. He may have to rethink his succession strategy depending on public support for Ganjar, who is considered likely to continue his agenda. (SOURCE: Asia.Nikkei)