ISAAC ASABOR Nigeria’s real estate market is fast improving in the last few years. It has been witnessing technological advancement, particularly as some of the housing estates in the country are being equipped with solar-powered electric services, environment-friendly incinerators, as well as Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV), and other modern devices to keep residents safe. Not only that, the real estate industry is undergoing a huge digital transformation, which is influencing the growth of the market. Also, the demand for tech-enabled innovations and new soft skills is driving companies to invest in Property Technology solutions. Such innovations are unarguably easing the processing of products, integration of employees into a network for data collection and analysis, process efficiency, corporate improvement, and end-user experience. In fact, to ensure that real estates are no longer built-in abeyance, particularly when rendered unattractive for buyers and tenants, property developers now carry out market research to ascertain what clients actually need before commencing work on a housing estate project. In the same vein, some developers engage customers while adopting tech devices they intend to use, to meet the consumers’ expectations. While building, the developer is sure that once the property is completed, investors or tenants will grab it outright. That means a quick Return On Investment (ROI). Against the foregoing backdrop, it is expedient to say that most of the housing estates that were unveiled in recent years across the country by notable developers are driven by technology. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In fact, not a few developers are providing housing solutions with technological designs and structures. POLL For instance, in the bid to meet the emerging needs of consumers in the sector, particularly in the area of adequate electricity, Nedcomoaks Limited, a Lagos State-based real estate development company, in 2021 launched full solar-powered Citadel View Estate (CVE) in the Ibeju-Lekki area of the state. Situated along Abraham Adesanya, Lekki–Epe expressway, Lagos, CVE aims at making living affordable through an array of housing options with exceptional features. The residential housing development company is providing access to constant and affordable power supply for its prospective residents in the Sangotedo area of Lagos. On the level of technology integrated into building the estate, the founder of Nedcomoaks, Kennedy Okonkwo, said the company deployed cutting-edge solar energy solutions and a biogas sewage treatment system. According to him, CVE is, perhaps, the first of its kind in Lagos, with a housing model focused on sustainable living. He added, “This is done alongside other modern tech solutions designed to improve the quality of life, such as stealth security systems, world-class recreational areas, and water treatment facilities.” As regards the sustainability of the environment within the estate, he said: “The need to separate and re-use waste to enhance better life, no doubt, has prompted Citadel Views Foundation to embark on a generational life-saving campaign. “We are already painstakingly building a sustainable green estate to reduce necessary emissions, which could put the climate in jeopardy. “The world is presently talking about climate actions, and as a way of bequeathing a safer and better planet to the generations unborn, we are partnering with notable companies like Coca-Cola to ensure that waste generated, especially the Polyethylene Terephthalate beverage bottles, known as the PET, can be recycled.” Explaining how tech will drive human activity in the new estate, Okonkwo said: “In addition, the estate’s residents will have access to an efficiently installed Google Voice Assistant. This will enable them to get basic information about their environment in terms of the traffic situation and best route to ply, and the weather.” He added, “There is no denying the fact that proptech (Property Technology) is fast influencing the real estate market now more than ever, as tech is integrated into our everyday lives, to the extent that every product, service, process, and business model in the sector is driven by tech. In fact, digital innovation continues to change the real estate sector so much that it is majorly used to reach out to consumers”. For the sake of clarity, Proptech is a technology aimed at the real estate market. It may be used to alter the way real estate is bought, sold, designed, contracted, and/or managed, both commercial and residential properties. The term, no doubt, is fast gaining popularity, as it is making a significant impact in the sector. This tech is advancing at such a rapid rate and is affecting buildings in the sector. It is such a broad term that can cover so many different aspects. Its function is to improve the work of professionals and companies in real estate. It offers a rapidly changing digital landscape for the real estate sector, in which different stages of proptech are brought to bear on meeting consumers’ needs as it includes Chatbots. A chatbot or chatterbot is a software application used to conduct an online chat conversation through text or text-to-speech, in lieu of providing direct contact with a live human agent. It is a simple use of proptech to satisfactorily improve customer experience. Chatbots are a must-have for almost any customer service website. They can help to reduce manual work and costs. Powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI), they can help to provide actionable insights into customers’ needs. Another innovation being used to serve consumers in the real estate sector is Micro Investing. Simply put, Micro investing means that even people with little savings can enter the world of investment. It means investing in fractional shares of stock. The same principle is now being applied to real estate. It is possible to buy a percentage of a property and reap some of the financial rewards. This could be from the lease of the property or from its increase in value over time and eventual sale. Against the foregoing backdrop, there is no denying the fact that these days, proptech is the catchword on everybody’s lips. It is called the new disruption power and driver of innovation. It is said to be the remedy for real estate agents, who deal with endless paperwork and confusing spreadsheets. Given the foregoing development, there is no denying the fact developers in Nigerians are getting smarter as a result of the adoption of technology in offering their products to consumers in the housing sector. According to Mr. Kingsley Nwankwere, a marketer in the sector, “Without a doubt, the real estate industry is one of such sectors that have grown at an exceptional rate. The birth of online property platforms in Africa’s most populous nation is making transactions among developers, property owners, prospective buyers, and potential tenants easier, compared to the cumbersome processes witnessed a few years ago. Mr. Dominic Olayiwola in his appreciation of the development in the sector, said, “Think back to the 80s and 90s, if you were going to purchase a property, you would spend many days trying to find a decent agent who will charge you high fees to take you from property to property in only a few locations -meaning he was limited.” Ostensibly applauding the development in the sector, Mr. Smart Ikubor said, “The evolvement of diverse technological innovations in the real estate market has led to the disruption in the traditional practice of real estate globally. The adoption of innovative technologies such as blockchain, IoT, and drone technology in Nigeria signifies a developmental omen in the sector as it would boost the growth of real estate practice and merchandising.