LAGOS – Former Deputy Nation­al Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Com­rade Timi Frank, on Friday, told former Minister of State for Pe­troleum Resources, Chief Timi­pre Sylva, to tell Nigerians his real identity and the authentic­ity of his academic certificates. Frank made this call in Abu­ja in reaction to a statement by Sylva in which he denied any wrongdoing for parading multi­ple names but failed to address germane issues concerning his true identity and academic qualifications but rather resort­ed to name calling and insults. The Bayelsa-born political activist had earlier in a petition to the National Assembly, Ni­geria Police Force and Depart­ment of State Services (DSS), among others, called for urgent and thorough investigation into the name and certificates being paraded by the immediate past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources. However, Sylva, in a state­ment signed by Horatius Egua, labeled Frank a “political pros­titute, blackmailer and jobber” without advancing any cogent proof to resolve the glaring discrepancies in the names in his academic certificates now fueling suspicion about his true identity and allegations of cer­tificate forgery. Frank said: “If there is any­body that is a blackmailer, it is Sylva who has continued to parade different names to pres­ent himself as Governor and Minister. “It is not enough for Sylva to call me all sorts of names with abuses, but let him tell the pub­lic his true identity and prove that his academic certificates which is the issue at stake are genuine. “As a Public Servant who has been opportune to govern Bayelsa State, served as Minis­ter of State for Petroleum Re­sources and presently warming up to be re-elected as Governor, the people of the state in partic­ular and Nigerians in general deserve to know who Timipre Sylva is.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “For the avoidance of doubt, the onus lies on the ex-minister to present unassailable proof as to why he waited till 2022 to gazette his correct name which had kept changing like a chame­leon over the years. POLL “For instance, who is Anagha Timipere, Marlin Anagha Timipre, Anagha Timi­pre Marlin and Chief Timipre Sylva as contained in his Prima­ry School certificate, WAEC cer­tificate, first degree certificate and postgraduate certificate respectively? “He claimed that the former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi was his class­mate and the Governor-elect of Abia State, Alex Otti, was his contemporary at the University of Port Harcourt. “The question is, by which name or names did Amaechi or Otti know or call him at the time because his first degree certifi­cate after graduation in 1986 did not reflect Timipre Sylva which is his current name.”