“The Federal Republic of Nige­ria shall not be governed, nor shall any persons or group of persons take control of the Government of Nigeria or any part thereof, except in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.” – Section 1 (2), Constitu­tion of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999. The idea of an Interim Government or an Interim National Government is unknown to Nigeria’s constitutional jurisprudence. It is therefore a delusional proposal situated deep­ly inside the realm of treasonable felony. It is constitutionally forbidden. In the last several months, especially in the buildup to the just concluded general elections, there have been some incoherent and subdued allusions to something verging on pseudo-revolutionary mechanisms for a kind of regime change in the country. But because people are normally allowed to fool themselves talking about issues that are well-beyond their comprehension, we tend to ignore such talks as the rantings of mistaken individuals who have no idea of the nature of the Nigerian political process beyond the fact that they have the fundamental right to freedom of speech. The interview recently granted to Chan­nels TV by the Labour Party’s Vice-presi­dential candidate, Datti Baba Ahmed, even though he did not expressly used the expres­sion, “Interim Government” was in his tone and demeanor, an open allusion to some ex­tra-constitutional solutions to the ongoing election results disputations. No matter the degree of his frustration over the outcomes of the elections and especially the alleged wide­spread irregularities which accompanied the election processes, he ought to be in full awareness of the over-arching constitutional regime under which the election was conduct­ed. Many other lesser voices, including some rented crowds in the streets of Abuja, have equally been heard angrily making similar unconstitutional demands. Most Nigerians were however surprised when the Department of State Security, DSS, came out early last week with a shocking dis­closure of plans by some people, ostensibly disgruntled politicians, to foment trouble through the promotion of violent protests with a view to causing a breakdown of law and order across the country which would then lead to the emergence of an unconstitu­tional “Interim Government”. The surprise however was that if indeed there was such a plot in the offing, it would have been the duty of the government to respond accordingly unless it is forcefully overpowered and, if that scenario was a real likelihood, why didn’t the DSS immediately swing into action by arresting those already identified treasonous criminals instead of unduly causing panic amongst the general public or was it just some red herring? The last time the idea of an Interim Gov­ernment was broached in this country was during the dictatorial and unconstitutional days of military rule. To be precise, it was General Ibrahim Babangida who as an un­elected military ruler went by the constitu­tional misnomer of “president”. He was free to adopt any title of his choice just as any head of a criminal gang could assume the title of “president”. However, in the proper constitutional parlance, the general only comically dressed himself up in a borrowed title because the Constitution does not make provisions for anyone to become President outside of the democratic electoral process as clearly set out therein.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ After the annulment of the presidential election of June 12, 1993 which was widely acclaimed to have been won by the late Chief MKO Abiola, IBB subsequently lost both the necessary military and political backings to continue in office whereupon he had to promptly “step aside” while a governing con­traption was hastily put in place which they called the “Interim National Government” with the late Chief Ernest Shonekan hand-picked as the “head” but because the whole transaction was a political joke taken too far by a contumacious military establishment, it collapsed barely 93 days of its inauguration and General Abacha, who really was never too far away from scenes of unconstitutional shenanigans, seized power and returned the country to full military junta once more. POLL When Justice Dolapo Akinsanya even­tually declared that Ernest Shonekan was sworn in illegally by General Babangida as his supposed appointment was made after the general had resigned, a legal hammer emphatically knocked off the noxious idea of Interim Government from the nation’s political and constitutional lexicons. If Shoenkan’s Interim National Govern­ment was judicially nullified on the basis of the 1979 Constitution which did not express­ly rule out the possibility of a revolutionary or unconstitutional government, it has now become expressly forbidden under the 1999 Constitution which specifically declares in its lead section section 1 (2) that “The Federal Republic of Nigeria shall not be governed, nor shall any persons or group of persons take control of the Government of Nigeria or any part thereof, except in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.” What this means constitutionally is that the stamp of illegality over any other forms of government has become a permanent ju­ridical pitfall without exception and also in perpetuity, irrespective of the nature, form or shape it might take. The overall implication of this provision is that such a constitution­al and political aberration remain unlawful and are therefore punishable in at any time thus implying that Nigeria shall no longer be governed by any means other than as consti­tutionally prescribed. Why Interim Government? Many Nigerians are, no doubt, fed up with the Buhari-led APC administration and in their frustration will countenance any alter­native even if such would be patently unre­alistic as a legal proposition. Nothing could have been more telling in that direction than the massive hardship which enveloped the land over the last few years which finally reached a miserable crescendo in the weeks preceding the elections; everything that could go wrong went wrong: fuel shortages, the Naira re-design crises, poverty, an unending specter of insecurity, etc. Expectedly, members of the opposition welcome the numerous forced errors of the government and indeed capitalized on them during the campaigns. There was nothing the Buhari government and the APC did there­after that was not bitterly criticized, mocked and fiendishly dramatized. So, when the APC presidential candidate opted for a Muslim/Muslim ticket contrary to the common polit­ical wisdom of religious and ethnic balancing in presidential tickets pairing, preferring in­stead, to give more considerations to the deci­sive issue of winnability, all hell was let loose. Segments of the Christian population were actively mobilized around the dreadful pros­pect of an imminent Islamisation, an idea which resonated quite scarily with many peo­ple in the Southern, South-Eastern and the Middle parts of the country. There were fake prophesies concocted by many church/mis­sionary proprietors indicating that God has endorsed a particular presidential candidate which then created something like “Article of Faith” for many naïve churchgoers. They however forgot something very important. First, that we do not operate the two-party system in which the failure of the ruling party automatically means the success for the opposition as it is in the US where power routinely oscillates between Democrats and Republicans. Instead, ours is a multi-party system where several parties are usually involved in the fight for the same big prize. Second, instead of uniting to wrestle power from the incumbent APC, the various opposition parties fought their separate elec­tions battles hoping to use their individual resources to uproot their commonly adjudged unpopular incumbent party which picked as its flagbearer, a very savvy political operator in the person of Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Many expected the APC to lose but they were wrong for reasons stated above. What really was the basis of such an expectation when the opposition parties failed to syner­gize electorally through a formidable working alliance? Politically tapping into the immense anger and anguish in the land without put­ting a winning strategy in place merely raised hopes that were painfully dashed. Belatedly threatening unconstitutional remedies for a self-inflicted electoral injury by calling for obviously unlawful “Interim Government” is just like applying medicine after death.