In preparation for African Youth Scrabble Championship (AYSC) Trophy Tour which begins in Ghana in May, the Scrabble Association of Ghana (SAG) in collaboration with the Pan African Scrabble Association (PANASA), have concluded plans to host Nigeria’s Wellington Jighere a former Scrabble World Champion and a two-time African King. Jighere, unarguably the most successful and most decorated Scrabble player in Nigeria and the continent of Africa is to be honoured by the Scrabble Association of Ghana owing to his dexterity and influence on the game of words in Nigeria, the West African sub-region, Africa and the World. In 2015, the Delta State-born Scrabble Super Star won the World Championship in Australia and became the first African to achieve that feat by defeating Lewis MacKay. Also, he won bronze medal in 2007 and finished fourth in 2017 at the World Championship. Seven years earlier, Wellington Jighere at 25, became the youngest player to be crowned as African Scrabble Champion in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. Two years later, in 2010 in Accra, Ghana, Jighere became the second player to do a double with his defence of the African Scrabble Championship diadem. Dennis Ikekeregor was the first to do a back to back wins in 2004 and 2006. On April 30th, the Dr Mrs Winifred Awosika Trophy will be received at the Kotoka International Airport in Accra, Ghana by the President of the Scrabble Association of Ghana, Haruna Adamu. On Workers’ Day, the first of May 2023, a one-day Scrabble Tournament in honour of former World Champion, Wellington Jighere and the visiting AYSC Trophy Tour delegation will be played in Accra.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Also, on Tuesday the second of May, the AYSC Trophy will be received by Ghana’s Minister of Youth and Sports, Honourable Mustapha Ussif, the President of Ghana Olympic Committee (GOC), Ben Nunoo Mensah and Ghana’s Director of National Sports Authority will also play host to the Dr, Mrs. Winifred Awosika Trophy. POLL The Trophy Tour caravan will similarly make a stopover at the biggest privately owned radio station in Ghana, Joy FM before closing Tuesday’s tour at Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC). And on Wednesday, the trophy will be taken around some selected schools in Accra and Tema. Liberia, Uganda and host Nigeria are the other countries that the AYSC Trophy will tour before the start of the Inaugural edition of the Pan African Youth Scrabble Championship held at the Chrisland School Idimu-Lagos, Nigeria between the 24th and 28th of August, 2023.