As strong Lobby mounts across the geopolitical zones over who leads the 10th National Assembly, a Coalition of APC Support Groups has urged the leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC) to zone the slot to the South East as a way of pacifying the geopolitical zone. The group, in a letter to Senator Abdullahi Adamu, the APC National Chairman said that there is every need to protect and preserve the nation’s nascent democracy from the needless crisis. While congratulating the APC NWC for the resilient fight that resulted in the party’s victory in the election, Mazi Peter Okoroafor , Secretary of the Coalition urged that importantly, the fallout of the party’s victory must be managed to its benefit. Okoroafor in the letter copied by principal officers of the NWC, noted that the polity has been overheated by ethnic and religious sentiment in the paast few weeks over the allotment of offices. While not pandering to this sentiment, the group said the smooth resolution of misgivings is key to national cohesion and peaceful coexistence, hence the need for the party’s leadership to take steps to ensure that the party ” recognizes and promotes inclusivity of all groups in the country into public offices”. It is their belief that zoning the Senate President to the South East will help in assuaging feelings of discontent and agitation in the zone borne of a need for inclusiveness. The letter reads in part:‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “For a smooth democratic process; there is a need for the protection of nascent democracy which is hinged on the principle of Federal Character as provided in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that recognizes and promotes inclusivity of all groups in the country into public offices. POLL Aside their demand for the Senate president be zoned to the Southeast the Coalition also demanded that character and competence should guide the person that finally emerges to lead the 10th Senate. Consequently, they demanded that the position be microzoned to Osita Izunaso, the Senator-elect representing Imo West in the red chamber “By compliance to this provision, the peaceful co-existence and national security is guaranteed which is the bedrock of progress and development of our nation..“Without being subservient to the primordial argument of state, tribal, religious, regional considerations, emphasis should be placed on character profile, experience, capacity and competence on who should superintend over any arm of Government especially the senate of the 10th Assembly. For the 10th Assembly, the aforementioned should be the yardstick in determining who becomes the Senate president. “As members of the NWC, paramount amongst your reasons for preference on who become the senate president, should be commitment to party loyalty to party, capacity for performance and track record of service in party administration “While not objecting to the emotional argument of geo-political consideration, it behooves on the NWC to lean on the balance of justice and equity, and insecurity challenges to concede the senate president position to the South East geo-political zone, where undoubtedly character and competence is remarkably in abundance. “Only recently, the South East political zone has been overheated by non-inclusivity in principal elective appointments which the NWC can redress by taking proper and judicious decision on the South East Senate Presidency. “Going forward, while not overstretching our bounds of advice, we are compelled to further micro zone the office of the Senate President to a square peg to a square hole. Having considered the prerequisites referenced above, we recommend a man who has character, experience, capacity, trust and above all loyalty to the party as most suitable for the office of the Senate President. “The man best suitable for the office so described is Distinguished Senator Osita Izunaso, OFR; a ranking senator, the most senior senator from the South East zone in the 10th Assembly, a member of the APC merger committee, APC caucus member, national organizing secretary etc, etc. “Humanitarian gesture of Senator Osita Uzunaso is tremendous. He founded the Kpakpando foundation for persons with disability which caters for the needs of persons with disabilities. The foundation has sponsored a good number of disabled persons over the last 15 years of its existence. Senator Osita Uzunaso initiated the disability bill which later metamorphosed into the establishment of the now National Commission for Persons with Disability. “For national cohesion and integration, and for peace to be pursued and delivered in the South east political zone, the NWC should do the needful by zoning the office of the senate president to the south east and consider Distinguished Senator Osita Izunaso OFR as their first choice for all the conditions stated above”.