The Speaker of the Borno State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Abdulkareem Lawan has applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for postponing the National Population and Housing Census scheduled for May 2023. He said, the commendation followed the displacement of many people from the Borno North Senatorial District by members of Boko Haram terrorists. The Speaker while reacting to the development in an interview with Journalists in Maiduguri on Saturday revealed that majority of people from the 10 local government areas in Northern Borno, especially, Guzamala, Abadam, Kukawa, Marte and Mobbar are still displaced, while others are taking refuge in neighbouring Niger, Chad and Cameroun Republic for over a decade. Lawan lamented that conducting the 2023 census would amount to an infringement of the human rights of many displaced persons and victims of the Boko Haram sect in the region, which could also deprive other millions of Nigerians who had been displaced from their ancestral homes and were living in Internally Displaced Persons, IDP, camps and other parts of the country. ” Honestly, i commend President Muhammadu Buhari for postponing the National Population and Housing Census scheduled for May 2023. This is because, the majority of our people from the 10 local government areas in Northern Borno, especially, Guzamala, Abadam, Kukawa, Marte and Mobbar are still displaced, while others are taking refuge in neighbouring Niger, Chad and Cameroun Republic for over a decade. ” Therefore, conducting such an exercise is not only il-timed or injustice, but would amount to infringement of our human rights as many displaced persons and victims of Boko Haram sect in the region could be deprived, in addition to millions of Nigerians who had been displaced from their ancestral homes and were living in Internally Displaced Persons, IDP, camps and other parts of the country. “I describe the President’s decision as a welcome development, even as I urge the military and other security agencies who are fighting Boko Haram/ISWAP to intensify their efforts to restore civil authority in Guzamala Council Headquarters and other communities that are still ghost-town for many years.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This is necessary to enable all the displaced persons to return to their ancestral homes and pick up their pieces.” The Speaker stated.