JOS – The Executive Secretary, the Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev Dr Yakubu Pam has announced that the Commission would commence the 2023 Easter pilgrimage exercise to Israel and Jordan on 26th April this month.Pam gave this hint at Jericho during a prayer meeting with pilgrims of Ekiti state, Plateau, Osun, Kwara, self-sponsored Pilgrims and consulars in the ongoing 2022 December pilgrimage exercise in Israel. He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for providing the Commission the enabling environment to operate. Pam also thanked the Secretary to the government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha for their support and the effective supervisory role over the Commission. Rev Pam urged the pilgrims to pray for a smooth transition of power in Nigeria on May 29, 2023. The NCPC boss affirmed that the 10th batch of pilgrims which is the last batch of the 2022 December Main pilgrimage exercise that commenced on 26th December 2022 had come to a successful end with this last batch to pave way for the commencement of the Easter pilgrimage exercise on 26th April. He described the last batch of the 2022 December pilgrimage as unique and special. He added that the pilgrimage afforded every pilgrim the wonderful blessing of fellowship together.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Pam averred that his Commission had been able to live up to the dreams of its founding fathers by ensuring that Christian pilgrimage survives despite all odds. POLL In the words of the NCPC boss, “In Christ we are one. Your friendship with one another during this pilgrimage Will help to build unity for our country”. He commended the pilgrims for their good conduct and for not using the platform provided by the Commission to escape. He thanked the government of Ekiti state for sending the Deputy Governor, Her Excellency Chief Mrs. Monisade Afuye to be part of of the last batch of pilgrims. He equally applauded the participation of Ekiti state, Plateau, Osun and Kwara who made up the last batch of the 2022 December pilgrimage exercise.