LAGOS – Sahara Group Foundation, the corporate sustainability vehicle of the Sahara Group, has launched the second edition of its Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Maths (STEAM) educational initiative, called the Sahara STEAMers programme. The 2nd edition of the programme, which launched in Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, is designed to inspire, equip and empower young African students with the practical knowledge, skills and innovative mindset required to proffer sustainable solutions to the communal and societal problems affecting Africa. The Sahara STEAMers programme was designed by Sahara Group Foundation, in partnership with STEMCafe, a non-linear learning centre, to create an opportunity for young people to have access to world-class maker labs, participate in a deep dive learning experience and get immersed in a practical classroom that would inspire them to tackle prevalent challenges within their communities. Participants of the programme will engage in a series of practical workshops, vision boarding exercises and mentoring sessions involving STEMCafe trainers and Sahara foundation staff volunteers. Speaking about the programme at the launch, Ejiro Gray, Director, Sustainability and Governance, Sahara Group, stated that ‘’the Sahara STEAMers programme aligns with the Sahara Group commitment to promoting sustainable development in Africa by helping to raise a new generation of social innovators capable of accelerating Africa’s development’’. Gray added that ‘’At Sahara Foundation, we believe in the potential that Africa’s young generation has in shaping the continent’s development. And through STEAMers, we can help them tap into that potential because they possess the ideas, creativity and great energy to generate widespread positive social change in Africa’’. Also, addressing the students at the launch, Bosun Tijani, Founder, STEMCafe, stated that ‘‘This partnership has given us the opportunity to expose more young secondary school students across the continent to STEAM education and its application towards solving real-life problems. Thus, helping us to raise a new generation of changemakers across Africa”. Tijani challenged the students to take advantage of this opportunity, as it has the capacity to set them on an inspiring and ambitious pathway. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Sahara STEAMers programme, which was launched in 2022 saw Igbobi College, Yaba, Lagos, emerge as the overall regional champions. While St Peter’s Naalya Secondary School, Uganda and Olympic High School, Nairobi, Kenya emerged 2nd and 3rd respectively. POLL This year’s edition will feature eight (8) schools from Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania.