Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has said that it is a known fact that President Muhammadu Buhari failed woefully in securing Nigeria. Ortom also alleged that the mass murder of Benue people by Fulani mi­litia has the endorsement of the admin­istration of President Buhari. Governor Ortom noted that Garba Shehu, the Spokesman of President Buhari, does not only speak for the pres­idency but also for Fulani militia,  an act he said has emboldened the herdsmen to further perpetrate killings in Benue and other states in the country. ­ In a statement signed by Na­thaniel Ikyur, Chief Press Secre­tary (CPS) to Governor Ortom and made available to Daily In­dependent in Makurdi on Thurs­day, Ortom also alleged that the presidency has emboldened the herdsmen in their expansionist agenda. Ikyur, who was reacting to a statement credited to Garba Shehu that Governor Ortom was responsible for the killings in the state, said, “Shehu Garba’s infantile statement on the secu­rity situation in Benue State has once again confirmed our posi­tion that the killings; mass mur­der in Benue by the Fulani militia has the full endorsement of the Buhari government. “It also goes to confirm that the presidential spokesman does not only speak for Buhari but for some terrorist Fulani groups too. “Indeed, the presidential spokesman’s futile attempts to twist events and history in Benue State is unfortunate and repre­hensible. It shows how much he and others in that league have misled the government and Nige­rian people in the last inglorious eight years.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is common knowledge that as the commander-in-chief, Buhari has empowered and em­boldened the Fulani pastoralists in their expansionist agenda including killings. It is equally a known fact that President Bu­hari has failed woefully in secur­ing Nigeria, and Benue State in particular.” POLL The statement further elab­orated that “it is on record that Governor Samuel Ortom has repeatedly pleaded with the Bu­hari’s government to intervene in the incessant invasion of Benue State by Fulani militias. The pres­ident sadly chooses to endorse the invasion and merely asks our people to learn to accommodate their neighbours who derive plea­sure in killing and dispossessing them of their ancestral lands. “What the Buhari adminis­tration has done to our people through the Fulani militants as confirmed by Shehu Garba is to spit on the graves of our compa­triots mowed down needlessly by Fulani militia. We shall not forget these atrocities. “Besides unleashing Fulani killers on our people, the Buhari government denied Benue State any meaningful project in the last eight years, including the repair of Federal Government roads in the state which are now death traps. We have tried in vain to find out the offence of Benue people, but we found none, except that our people are responsible, law abiding citizens.” While Ikyur further stated that Governor Ortom has re­fused to be a lackey in the hands of the herders, he noted that the recent outing by the presidential spokesperson is a confirmation of the complicity of the Buhari led-administration in the killing of the Benue people. Ikyur said, “For the avoid­ance of doubt, Governor Samu­el Ortom was elected in 2015 and re-elected in 2019 to defend the interest of the people of Benue and never to be a lackey in the hands of expansionists using every means to perpetrate evil against the Benue citizens. “By Garba Shehu’s latest statement, the presidency has clearly demonstrated that Gov­ernor Ortom is right when he consistently accused the APC-led Federal Government of complic­ity in the killings orchestrated against Benue people by the Fu­lani herdsmen as represented by Miyetti Allah Kautal, Fulani Nationality Movement, FUNAM and other Fulani socio cultural groups. “If the presidency can find it convenient to lay the blame of the massive killings that the Fulani have continued to perpetrate in Benue on Governor Ortom, what can it say of the massacre and kidnappings in Plateau, South­ern Kaduna, Niger, Sokoto and President Buhari’s home state of Katsina among other states where the killing of innocent citizens has continued unchal­lenged?” Lamenting the position of the presidency on killings in the state, the CPS said, “The presi­dency has shown in this recent public statement that they have placed cows above human lives and made the animals to urinate on the graves of those they mas­sacred in Benue and elsewhere across the country. If not, they wouldn’t have gone to town to mock the slain in their graves. “It is an insult on Benue peo­ple including those killed and butchered children, the maimed, raped and abused women and the over two million people living un­der squalid conditions in Nige­ria’s largest internally displaced camps in the state. The presidency’s statement is a reckless stab by agents of geno­cide against the Benue people by blaming the victims. “Let Garba Shehu and occu­pants of the current Presidential Villa be informed that the ongo­ing pogrom in Benue State is a de­signed plot by the Fulani against the Benue people to dispossess them of their lands and these atrocities are well documented. The perpetrators are also well known to local and international authorities. By this recent postur­ing, everyone is now aware that the perpetrators have the back­ing and sympathy of the Federal Government. “The presidency’s attempt to mock Governor Ortom over the loss of his senatorial seat and the PDP in the governorship has furthermore strengthened our belief that the massive de­ployment of security personnel for the elections in the state was planned and hatched in the Pres­idential Villa and supervised by agents of the APC. “But let the presidential spokesman remember that Gov­ernor Ortom is extremely grate­ful to the people of the state for always giving him the opportuni­ty to serve them. As he has often quoted Psalm 34:19, ‘Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all.’ The governor stands for justice, equity and fairness and no amount of blackmail and impunity as orchestrated by the Buhari administration can make him to change his advocacy against injustice and oppression. “In fact, before the elections, Governor Ortom had publicly stated that he was ready to sac­rifice his senatorial ambition for the sake of the survival of democ­racy where the likes of Garba Shehu and their collaborators would rather want it truncated. “It is public knowledge that the 2023 elections were heavily rigged using some security op­eratives, money, federal might and electronic means. Governor Ortom’s decision not to challenge the result of the Benue North West Senatorial election in court again points to the fact that he is not a selfish and desperate politi­cian”, he emphasized. He further pointed out that “Benue people are well aware that Governor Ortom has been a target of the Buhari presiden­cy since 2017 when he boldly signed a law banning open graz­ing of livestock in the state. The governor has been subjected to many coordinated media attacks, probes, freezing of state accounts and other punitive measures to frustrate and cripple his admin­istration. “While other states were giv­en infrastructural loans, Benue under Governor Ortom was denied access to the funds. The same thing happened when the Benue State government met all requirements to secure N42 bil­lion to clear the backlog of sala­ries, pensions and gratuity. “In a nutshell, the presiden­cy’s statement is the height of recklessness and gross insensitiv­ity against the people of Benue. It is on record that Governor Or­tom has given full cooperation to all layers of security agencies working in the state to help cur­tail the menace of the Fulani killing squad displacing various communities in the state and oth­er internal security skirmishes. “Between 2015 and this year, Governor Ortom has constant­ly held security meetings and gathered intelligence to support security agencies operating in the state. He has, however, con­sistently pointed out that the security agencies are grossly underfunded and deserve to be better equipped and motivated to tackle insecurity in the country. It is therefore laughable when Shehu ignorantly tries to whip up an unfounded lie against the governor. “Governor Ortom is per­forming his duty as governor of Benue State and will continue to do so until May 29, 2023, when he leaves office. We expect the out­going president to also do what he was voted to do for Nigerians. “Lastly, we are tempted to conclude that President Buhari was not aware of Garba Shehu’s statement, because if the presi­dent were aware, he would not have permitted his media aide to release a statement that rather in­dicts him as commander-in-chief of Nigeria’s Armed Forces for ab­dicating his constitutional duty of providing security to Benue State and other parts of the coun­try, admitting failure and opting to blame a state governor”, the CPS stressed.