SUNDAY APAH; IGONIKO ODUMA; SAMUEL OGIDAN; RAJ I ADEBAYO YENAGOA / LAGOS / ABUJA / IBADAN – Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta, Duoye Diri of Bayelsa and Yahaya Bello of Kogi States amongst others have congrat­ulated Muslim Faithful and Nigerians on Eid-el-Fitr and the completion of the Holy Ra­madan Fasting. Governor Okowa of Delta in a congratulatory message to Muslims in the state, Nige­ria and across the world on the occasion of the 2023 Eid-el-Fitr celebration, urged all Muslim faithful to display the spiritual benefits of Ramadan, which are love, peace and justice, in their daily living and contribute to nation-building. “I felicitate with all Nige­rians, especially our Muslim brothers and sisters, on the oc­casion of this year’s Eid-el-Fitri celebrations. As we celebrate Eid-el-Fitri, it is my hope and prayer that Ramadan’s spiritual lessons and the Holy Prophet’s teachings of piety, love, justice, fairness, equity, peaceful co-ex­istence with others, tolerance, honesty and dedication to duty will remain with us all for the benefit and greater glory of our dear nation. “I urge all Muslim faithful and every Nigerian to use the celebration for sober reflection and pray for peace, unity and progress of the nation as the country prepares for transition to the new government at the centre and the states.” Governor Diri, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secre­tary, Daniel Alabrah, on Friday, said the end of the month-long fasting and the celebration of Eid-el-Fitri is a period to reflect on the lessons of sacrifice, tol­erance and love that the feast epitomises. He noted that as one of the key pillars of Islam, fasting during Ramadan was import­ant for developing the virtues of self-abnegation and tolerance in every Muslim, while urging them to continue to pray for the peace, progress and prosperity of Bayelsa State and Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “My administration will not detract from the ennobling principles of love, harmony and religious tolerance regardless of any resident’s legitimate belief or ethnicity. We are committed to promoting peaceful co-existence between and among adherents of the different faiths in order to build a prosperous state for ev­eryone to realise their dreams.” POLL Governor Yahaya Bello, in his message tasked Nigerians to be in peaceful coexistence, national integration and stick­ing to the lessons of Ramadan which proffers solutions to some of the problems facing the country, even as h congratulates Muslims. Bello made the call in a state­ment by his Chief Press Sec­retary, Onogwu Muhammed, stating that the teachings of Ra­madan centered on humanity, kindness, peace and love. The governor also urged all Muslims to ensure that the lessons they learnt during the Ramadan season and their act of devotion remained a consis­tent way of life even after the 29 days exercise. Bello noted that Ramadan was a season of several teach­ings that centered on humanity, kindness, peace and love hence if the lessons were imbibed many of the problems in the country would reduce. He used the opportunity to again harp on the gains of peaceful coexistence and na­tional integration as he calls on every Nigerian to offer prayers for the leaders most importantly as the country is preparing for the transition of government at the federal and in most states of the federation. Don’t Forget Significance Of Ramadan, Oyetola Charges Muslims Immediate past Governor of Osun, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola has called on Muslims in the State in particular and Nigeria in general not to forget the sig­nificance of Ramadan and its numerous lessons and virtues as they celebrate the end of the 29 days of fasting. The former governor, who made this known in a Sallah Message released by his media aide, Mr. Ismail Omipidan, on Friday, prayed to Allah to accept all acts of worship and suppli­cations of the Muslim faithful during Ramadan. He also urged them to pray for a successful transition and peaceful take-off of another All Progressives Congress (APC) administration, effective from May 29, this year. Oyetola expressed confidence in the abilities, competence and administrative acumen of the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and that of the Vice President-elect, Senator Kashim Shettima, to take the country to enviable heights nev­er known in Nigeria’s history. He noted that the election of the duo by Nigerians is a clear indication that Nigeria is on the verge of democratic rejuvena­tion, insisting that Tinubu and Shettima, who are endowed with the required qualities of good leadership, would consoli­date on the track records of Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari. LagosPDP, JandorCongratulate Mus­lims The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the candidate of the party in the just concluded governorship election, Dr. Ab­dul-Azeez Adediran, popularly called Jandor, have congratu­lated Muslims across the world and in Lagos State, in particular, to imbibe the lessons of Rama­dan as they celebrate this year’s Eid-El-Fitr. “As Muslims all over the world celebrate this year’s Eid- El-Fitr, which signifies the end of Ramadan, the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Demo­cratic Party (PDP) wishes to congratulate all Muslims.” In separate messages sent to Lagosians, the party told Mus­lims to note that the period of Ramadan is always an oppor­tunity for Muslims to get closer to their creator, while Jandor described this year’s celebra­tion of the completion of the Ramadan fast which coincided with the Christian Lent period as a unique opportunity to have attracted the intervention of the Supreme Being in the precari­ous situation of Lagos State. Jandor on his part, in a mes­sage signed on his behalf by Gbenga Ogunleye, Head, Media & Communications, JANDOR­4Governor Campaign Organisa­tion, felicitated with the Muslim Ummah in Lagos State and all the good people of the state on the occasion of Eid-el Fitr. PDP Call For Entrenchment Of justice, Equity, Fairness The Peoples Democratic Par­ty (PDP) has urged Nigerians to use the occasion of Eid-el Fitr to pray and work towards the en­trenchment of justice, equity, fairness and good governance in the country. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologun­agba, said, “The Holy Ramadan offers our nation the divine op­portunity for serious introspec­tion especially on issues of the fear of God, integrity, account­ability, adherence to set Rules and Constitutional Order as well as the respect for the rights, per­sonal freedom and Will of the citizens in a democratic setting. “Nigerians, especially lead­ers must reflect on the essence of Ramadan and use the occa­sion to reawaken the virtues of selflessness, honesty, self-re­straint, fair-mindedness, mu­tual respect, forgiveness, love and compassion for one anoth­er without regard to ethnic, sectional, religious or partisan considerations as this is the only way to achieve the much-desired politically stable and economi­cally viable nation.” The PDP said it is deeply sad­dened that at a time such as this, Nigerians are still under siege by terrorists and subjected to a life of fear, misery, anguish, ab­ject poverty and excruciating economic hardship occasioned by the inexcusable misrule of incompetent, insensitive, heav­ily corrupt and manipulative leaders in the last eight years. PDP Chieftain, Abidikugu Felicitates The Muslim Ummah A Chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State and a House of Repre­sentatives aspirant for Ibadan North East/South East Federal Constituency of the state, Dr. Kazeem Adesina Abidikugu has felicitated with the Muslim Ummah in the constituency and the state as whole as they join other faithful the world over in celebrating the Eid el-fitr which marks the successful comple­tion of the Ramadan fast. In a goodwill message on Fri­day, Abidikugu, a Nigerian UK-based medical consultant urged Muslim Ummah to sustain the lessons of the holy month and replicate them in their daily lives for the good of society. He tasked the citizenry not to lose sight in face of the cur­rent socio-economic and secu­rity challenges bedeviling the country but to remain resolute and prayerful with faith that the nation’s trying moment will be over and Nigeria will emerge stronger and more united. Ogun NNPP Guber Candidate, Ajadi Charges Citizens On Peaceful Con­duct The gubernatorial candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in Ogun State, Ambassador Olufemi Ajadi Oguntoyinbo has congratulat­ed Muslim Ummah on the com­pletion of 2023 Ramadan fasting, urging them to remain commit­ted to the peaceful coexistence with other religious faiths in the society. Ambassador Ajadi, who de­scribed the Ramadan season as a rare opportunity to commune with God said the Holy month signifies a period of purifica­tion, sacrifice and an act of sin­cere worship. While urging the people of the state, his supporters and Ni­gerians as a whole to be cautious in celebration, Ambassador Aja­di warned the youths against be­ing used as agents of destruction by desperate politicians. Ambassador Ajadi, who is the Managing Director of Bul­lion Go-Neat Global Limited, the producer of Coco Samba made the admonition in a statement he personally signed on Friday to felicitate with Muslims across the globe on the successful com­pletion of fasting in the holy month of Ramadan. Delta Governor-Elect, Oborevwori Preaches Peaceful Co-existence Among Muslims Delta State’s Governor-Elect and Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori has felicitated with Muslims across the country as they celebrate this year’s Eid El- Fitr, urging them to rededicate themselves to the teachings of Prophet Mohammad. In a Press Statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Den­nis Otu, Rt Hon Oborevwori, who is also the National Deputy Chairman of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria, stressed the need for inter-religious harmony in Nigeria. Part of the statement read: “As Muslims globally cele­brate Eid Mubarak, I urge our Muslim brothers and sisters to continue to pray for the peace, unity, and progress of Nigeria. I believe that no matter our faith, religion should be more than a badge of identity; it should also serve as a vehicle to contribute to the socio-economic advance­ment of our country.” AICL Director, Ovbije Felicitates With Muslims The newly sworn-in Direc­tor of Abuja Investment Com­pany Ltd, Chief Pius Ovbije has felicitated with Muslims in Nigeria as they celebrate Eid el-fitr which marks the successful completion of the Ramadan fast. In a goodwill message, Ovbi­je urged Muslims to sustain the lessons of the holy month and replicate them in their daily activities for the good of society. He tasked Nigerians not to lose sight in face of the current socio-economic and security challenges bedeviling the coun­try but to remain resolute and prayerful with faith that the nation’s trying moment will be over and Nigeria will emerge stronger and more united. He enjoined Muslims across the nation to sustain the devo­tion and other acts of worship performed during the holy month as well as to imbibe the lessons learnt during Tafsir ses­sions for the good of the religion, society and humanity. According to him, “Nigeria is in dire need of good people with excellent moral standings to overcome the evils being per­petrated by some few who do not mean well for the country. ”Eid el-fitr festival connotes sacrifice, selflessness, love and obedience to the tenets of Islam. I, therefore, enjoin us to draw en­during lessons from Ramadan and show love to one another as well as promote harmony and peaceful coexistence among our diverse people “.