Rite Foods Limited has urged recyclers to continually adopt up-to-the-minute approach in the recycling of plastic waste collected from the environment, especially the coastal areas, during an innovation training series organised for them, with the fundamentals and techni­cal implementation processes inherent in their operations. The market leader with its 13 award-winning variants of the Bigi brand, the premium Bigi Premium Water, Fearless ener­gy drink, the Sosa fruit drink, Bigi and Rite Sausages, pow­ered the innovation scheme for recycling start-ups in its ongoing bid at ridding the en­vironment of plastic waste, as it did with the award-winning project, Riteonthebeach’ which cleared 100,000 plastic bottles from the shorelines of Lagos. The training which was in collaboration with the Cir­cular Economy Innovation Partnership (CEIP), saw the Managing Director of the La­gos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), Ibrahim Odumboni, commending Rite Foods for the exercise aimed at broadening the recyclers’ hori­zon on how to keep the state and the country a better place to live and free from plastic waste, mostly caused by growth in urbanisation. The Rite Foods’ sponsored event culminated in the pitch of the business ideas of a series of recycling companies that took part at the final presentation ceremony of the three months exercise on Tuesday, 28 March, 2023. The innovation scheme which involves the fundamen­tals of plastic recycling, the busi­ness processes, the development of new techniques as well as the technical architecture that is suitable for adoption in the ad­vancement of recyclable mate­rials for a cleaner environment, saw Westman Recycle, emerg­ing as the winner and benefits accrued to the tech-driven recy­cling company include support for business growth. This was followed by Recycle Works as the first runner-up, while GIVO Africa emerged as the second runner-up. Other recycling companies that also participated in the fi­nal stage include Recycavaenue, Brickify Limited, Trashusers, Retreasure, and Nature Kcalls, with brilliant presentations on how their start-up works. The winner was selected af­ter a thorough scrutiny of the various plastic waste collection and recycling ideas by the judg­es which include the LAWMA boss Odumboni, Rite Foods Managing Director, Seleem Adegunwa, Deputy Consul General, the Netherlands Con­sulate, Ms. Leonie Van Der Stiji, Chief Operating Officer, Nige­ria Climate Innovation Centre, Mr. Adamu Garba, Advisor Nigeria, UNIDO IPTO Germa­ny, Mr. Adekunle Olusile, all admonishing the recyclers to be strongly committed in their cause of tech-driven recycling operations while maximising gains.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒