IBADAN  – The founder and spiritual leader of One Love Family, Sat Guru Maharaj Ji, has called on Nigerians to support the presidential elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for him to deliver on his electoral promises as well on his quest to move the country forward. Maharaj Ji, while speak­ing with journalists at the Maharaj Ji Village along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, during a press conference to mark the Unity and Light Anniversary of his exis­tence as the Living Perfect Master, stressed that Tinu­bu is a stepping stone to divine government. He noted that Tinubu will behave like an African if he assumes duty as Nige­rians president, stating that with his wealth of experi­ence in governance, Tinubu will move Nigeria forward. He said, “Tinubu will be humane, he will be a democrat, he will behave like an African, with his wealth of experience he will be able to lay down a good foundation and he will be able to take good care of our meager re­sources to produce more and meet up globally. “It is high time Nigeria should move forward, reli­gion is an aberration, it has nothing to do with man’s life, whether the president elect and his vice are Mus­lim or not let us give them our support and prayers and I believe they will per­form very well.” “Nigerians should rally round the new president elect, so he can perform wonderfully well; he needs our prayers and support. “Anybody that has rec­ommendation, or sugges­tions should forward it to Asiwaju Tinubu, he would do wonders, he will surely perform excellently if we give him our support,” Ma­haraj Ji said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ While speaking on liti­gation issue that comes up shortly after the general election, Maharaj Ji said, “Peter Obi is a failure, any right thinking person will not want him to president of this country, having Peter Obi as president is just like reenacting Biafra again, I wish both Atiku and Obi should withdraw their cases from the court because we are Africans we don’t believe in trouble. POLL “We believe in giving honour to whom honour is due, especially when it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the present government has tried their best in ensur­ing free, fair and credible elections, though there are little skirmishes here and there, but we cannot continue wasting money running into billions on litigations when the com­mon man on the road needs food to eat. “To me, Atiku is not even qualified to rule this coun­try, he breaks the law of his party and the consensus arrangement agreed upon in Asaba between those governors in attendance, so Nigeria is bigger than him. We don’t need such a person who brazenly oppos­es the law as our president, if given the power he will kill everybody,” he said.