SHABTAI GOLD The World Bank’s reform trajectory risks sidelining core development priorities such as education and health in poorer countries, as a “one-size-fits-all” climate approach dominates momentum for modernising the lender, according to a group of scholars and former development bank officials. Their new research paper, on which Devex is the first to report, argues that high-income shareholders’ reform push risks articulating grand ideas while underfunding the bank’s capacity to carry them out. In a way, this fits a pattern in which wealthy countries make promises on climate finance that never fully materialize, sowing distrust and disillusionment in lower-income nations. The paper reflects concerns that the reform agenda is being dominated by the most powerful countries and civil society groups from advanced economies, reflecting their interests and risking the bank’s core anti-poverty mandate. U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has spearheaded the reform push and wants sweeping changes before the end of the year. “The World Bank’s evolution cannot be an unfunded mandate for climate change,” write the 12 researchers, nearly all from emerging markets and developing economies. The lender has a vital and unrivaled role, but doing it effectively would require a different approach that more clearly integrates environmental concerns into countries’ anti-poverty strategies, they say. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The World Bank can be an engine at the core of global efforts to achieve shared development and climate change goals,” the experts write. “There will be no ‘one size fits all’ approach to the development trajectories that provide global public goods and promote development goals,” they state further. POLL Global public goods is the catchphrase for things like reducing emissions and stopping pandemics, as these things benefit people everywhere. The experts also argue that no matter how much is squeezed out of existing resources, the bank will need a capital increase — the term for the bank asking shareholders to give it more money to boost its lending power. “The size of the World Bank is not fit for its purpose in the 21st century,” the authors say. High-income countries have remained mum on management’s proposal for shareholders to put more money into the lender. The World Bank board is due to agree to initial reforms at the Spring Meetings in April. The institution, which has some $230 billion in loans outstanding through its main wing, is expected to then start lending an extra $4 billion annually over the next 10 years using its existing resources. The increase in lending lags far behind what a report last year suggested might be possible, but even this amount comes after months of negotiations among board members, who are keen to keep the bank’s high AAA credit rating. However, size alone is not enough to bring the lender into the modern era, as the scholars argue that borrowing countries also need a greater “voice” and representation in the bank’s decision-making process. The bank’s structure means high-income countries are the largest shareholders. Among the paper’s signatories are Amar Bhattacharya, a former World Bank official and advisor to developing economies; Abebe Shimeles, who worked at the African Development Bank and is based in Kenya; and Jiajun Xu, an academic in Beijing and a former World Bank and United Nations official. The experts were brought together by Boston University’s Kevin Gallagher. The professor at the university’s Global Development Policy Center organized a series of workshops last year to devise a vision to guide the reforms and keep development at the center of the World Bank, which led to the new paper. “There is too much focus that is driven by the shareholders, think tanks and environmentalists in the global north,” Gallagher told Devex in an interview. “It’s imperative that the World Bank evolution not just be about global public goods, which it must, but that it do so in a development-friendly way,” he said One concern is that the reforms’ focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions — often termed climate mitigation — will disadvantage the poorest countries, which hardly use carbon-intensive energy. These countries need adaptation financing, meaning money that will allow them to invest in coping with the rising frequency of extreme weather events, such as droughts and floods. The focus of mitigation would then target the largest emitters and the countries that will become huge sources of carbon emissions, according to Gallagher. Also, some countries that used World Bank funds to build hydroelectric dams are now facing droughts that will drag on their economy, as these relatively clean energy sources dry up. This is happening in Kenya and other countries, and solutions will be needed that take into account their needs and constraints. In short, the World Bank reform needs to integrate the development needs of countries on a case-by-case basis so that the poor do not get left behind, the paper argues. For example, while a country like Nigeria does not emit much carbon, its key export is oil — so what is being done to help the people there prepare for a net-zero future? Similarly, the so-called “new winners,” such as countries with lithium deposits that will be vital for clean energy production, will need new development pathways. The bank primarily lends directly to countries based on the strategies they devise for their own growth and development models. Because Yellen’s push for reform, which is backed by key allies like Germany, wants the bank to tackle more global challenges, some low-income nations worry their domestic needs could get brushed aside at a time when poverty is rising. The experts are in favor of getting the World Bank in shape for the modern era — including the expectation of higher interest rates for longer that will make borrowing on markets more costly and could limit growth in lower-income nations — but want it done with a focus on the vulnerable. “It’s great that there is World Bank reform, it’s desperately needed,” Gallagher said, but added: “Borrowing countries, the countries on the front lines of climate change getting hit by hurricanes and droughts, they need more of a voice. Right now, they don’t have a voice.” That is why the paper also calls for changes to the way the World Bank board is structured in order to give more say to borrowing countries. That’s a tall task, as getting those who hold power to relinquish their control will not be easy. Notably, the U.S. is the bank’s largest shareholder and effectively appoints the head of the World Bank. Indeed, the U.S. nominee for the job, Ajay Banga, is due to take over from current president David Malpass in July and will have to handle the reform process. The former Mastercard chief has already indicated that understanding the needs of countries at different stages of development will be critical to his success. • Shabtai Gold is a Senior Reporter based in Washington. He covers multilateral development banks, with a focus on the World Bank, along with trends in development finance.