ABUJA – The Tertiary Education Trust Fund(TETFund) has partnered Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa(FARA) to establish and launch Agricultural Research and Innovation Fellowship For Africa (ARIFA)innovation platform in Nigeria. ARIFA is aimed at producing a new generation of fit-for-purpose workforce to re-engineer the African agri-food sector to provide the change factor for rapid agricultural transformation in the next 10 years. In the first phase of ARIFA, TETFund identified six institutions for the establishment of IPs, namely Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, University of Benin, University of Lagos, Micheal Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, University of Maiduguri and the University of Jos. The Executive Secretary of TETFund, Arc. Sunny Echono during his opening remark at the event in Abuja, Monday, explained that the Fund’s intervention in ARIFA will impact on faculties and departments across Nigeria’s tertiary institutions resulting in the delivery of science-led solutions for improved livelihoods while sustaining and advancing academic excellence. He explained that TETFund has supported over 120 scholars nominated by beneficiary institutions, with most of the Phase I nominees rounding off their programs this year. He added that the pre- admission process of the second phase of the Program has since commenced, and TETFund remains committed to supporting another 500 sets of fellows. According to him, TETFund recognised the ARIFA model as an innovative strategy for revitalizing pedagogy that will strengthen the institutional capacities of Nigeria’s tertiary institutions and contribute to building the knowledge- based economy through its Centers of Excellence (CoE) across the country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As we celebrate the return of the first contingent of ARIFA Fellows, I would like to reiterate the commitment of the Fund towards sustaining the momentum of the Program, especially as we begin to see the impact of injecting the new fellows into our educational sector, who will power the engines of TETFund ARIFA Innovation Platforms (TAIPS) across the country. POLL Executive Director for FARA, Dr. Yemi Akinbamijo, said the launch of the programme is the beginning of realization of ARIFA training in Brazil. He added that the ARIFA fellow returnee for Brazil will be planted back to their institutions where they took off to Brazil. According to him, Agriculture is so crucial to the development of Africa, noting that more than 80percent of the working population, in the continent derive their livelihood from agriculture. “So as the concept of AR4D is that you don’t do agriculture because you have nothing to do it is AR4D, “ he said.