ABUJA – The House of Representatives members-elect of Minority political parties have held a strategic meeting ahead of the inauguration of the 10th Assembly at Transcorps Hilton Hotel In Abuja. Rep members who attended are from the minority, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party (LP), All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Social Democratic Party (SDP) Youth Progressive Party (YPP), and New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP). In the opening address the leader of the minority caucus, Hon. Fredrick Agbedi who congratulated all the members of the Minority Parties urged them to see Nigeria as their Constituencies. According to him, the meeting was organised to enable them to network and familiarise with themselves. He continued that, the information released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) so far, 324 members have won the House of Representatives seats where APC won 162 seats, PDP 102, LP 34, NNPP 18, APGA 4, both ADC and SDP won 2 seats each while YPP won 1 seat. However, INEC is expected to conduct supplementary elections in the 33 Federal constituencies on the 15th April, 2023. He noted that, out of the two lawmakers from African Democratic Congress (ADC), only one was present at the meeting while Hon. Leke Abejide was absent.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He added that with the outcome of the elections, the Minority Caucuses have a greater number to deepen the role of the opposition in the House. POLL The leader of the Labour Party who spoke on behalf of the Caucus, Honestly George Ozodinobi, expressed optimism that the meeting of the Minority Caucuses will help achieve mutual benefits. He noted that the caucus commitment will reflect the ideology of the Labour Party. He added that the resolution of the LP Caucus in the choice of the House leadership will be based on competence, character and integrity. Hon. Beni Lar On her part averred that for the first time the Minority Caucuses in the House “I believe with our number, our doggedness and our strength we can achieve a lot.” She also said that the group will not succumb to oppression. ” It is a great joy to see the opposition become the majority. With our numbers and strength, we will provide leadership. We will not be silent in the face of oppression. We will work together to bring about good leadership to the tenth Assembly,” Hon Lar said. While urging all the Minority Caucuses to remain united, she harped on the need to define their collective interests and friendship in order to strengthen democratic structure in the 10th Assembly. Also speaking, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, enjoined lawmakers to know that whatever meeting they are invited to, the truth may not be laid bare. He pointed out that the Caucus needs to come together to achieve interest and ideology and continue to put their best. On her part, Hon Chinwe Nnabuife (YPP)called for a better Nigeria and inclusion of women in the mainstream. She also said that a lot of Nigerians are looking up to the tenth assembly. Speaking during the opening ceremony of the meeting, Hon. Dachung Bago’s (PDP-Plateau) paid homage to the most high ranking lawmakers Hon. Nicholas Mutuas as well as fifth timers Hon. Beni Lar (PDP-Plateau) and Hon. Wole Oke (PDP-Osun). He expressed optimism that the Minority Caucus “will achieve what nobody thinks we can achieve.” At the meeting, the lawmakers unanimously adopted the slogan: “10th Assembly, greater majority”.