Bayelsa State Government has urged the Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Major General Barry Ndiomu (retd), to partner with the various state governments in the Niger Delta, especially Bayelsa, to stimulate regional integration and cooperation in the region. Alaowei Jonah, the Focal Person of the PAP to Governor Douye Diri, made the call in Yenagoa, saying that as willing partners the state government would support the various and laudable initiatives of the PAP. He also appealed to the interim administrator to include more youths from the state to benefit from the various agricultural and cooperative schemes he is planning to establish. Jonah equally commended President Muhammadu Buhari for reappointing Ndiomu, noting that the extension of his tenure was a reward for his excellent service during his first appointment. He said,”Ndiomu at different events had hinted that the proposed schemes to be sponsored by the Amnesty Office will help to address the issue of unemployment in the Niger Delta and reduce the overdependence of the monthly N65,000 stipends by ex-agitators. “We think it is laudable and we commend him for that. Our request is that he should include more of our youths in the proposed schemes so they can benefit from it. We also call for more partnership with the PAP in different areas. “While we congratulate Ndiomu on his reappointment, we commend President Muhammadu Buhari, who made it possible through his belief in this great Ijaw son. We know that the Interim Administrator will continue to make us proud by discharging the functions of his office for the collective interest of the Niger Delta and the country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Ndiomu is a square peg in a square hole and we commend him for supporting ICT-driven skill acquisition programmes organised by the National Spokesman of the Ijaw Youths Council ( IYC) Worldwide. The interim administrator provided laptops and accessories for beneficiaries.” POLL Jonah urged Ndiomu to make the rehabilitation of the PAP training centre at Boro Town in Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area of the state a matter of priority to enable ex-agitators have a standard and safe environment for training. Diri’s aide also restated the commitment of the state government to work with institutions of the federal government to bring development to the state, especially in the areas of employment generation and skills acquisition. He noted that the governor had provided the enabling environment for such partnership to thrive through his open-door policy and peaceful disposition.