LAGOS – Dangote Cement has demonstrated how to put into appropriate use, its variants of cement to achieve the best results as part of its public enlightenment programme. The Company at the on-going Trade Fair at Enugu, gathered together stakeholders in the built industry and demonstrated the use of its Falcon cement brand, saying when you used appropriately, the consumer is guaranteed solid structure that can withstand any weather. The practical demonstration of the use of the cement brand in the full glare of block moulders and other construction experts involved building, plastering, and tiling and band screeding four dwarf walls with the product. Mr. Johnson Olaniyi , Dangote cement Plc’s Coordinator, Artisans Training, who conducted the demonstration of the use of Falcon Cement brand in four categories said the product comes with several benefits even as it is pocket friendly. He explained that the use of Falcon Cement in screeding produces a smooth surface that would require less quantity of paint adding that the smoothness of the wall after the screeding should be the desire of all prospective house owners. Olaniyi argued that if people understand the role of Dangote Cement’s falcon brand in having a good and attractive screeding, every intending house owner would insist on the use of Dangote Falcon for screeding. He pointed out that the binding power of Dangote Falcon Cement enables tiles to stick easily to walls and surfaces as the artisans watch tilers used Dangote Falcon Cement to place tiles on walls and surfaces. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He then advised the artisans to always “recommend Dangote Falcon Cement to their clients for setting and plastering of walls as its binding power helps to hold sandcrete blocks used in walls and partitioning.” This was also demonstrated at the venue. POLL Engr. Fred Akingbesote Regional Director, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), in his remarks, during the demonstration, said the initiative by Dangote Cement to conduct a practical demonstration of the uses of its Falcon Cement brand is commendable and should be emulated by other cement producers. The SON Director said the demonstration has enlightened and educated end-users of cement on the importance of using grades of cement for specific and prescribed jobs. He urged the management of Dangote Cement not to relent but do more to educate users on the qualities and strengths of each grade of cement adding that SON is ready to collaborate the cement company in this regard.