BENIN – The former Minister of  Works, Dr(Arc) Mike Onolememen, yesterday, paid a glowing tribute to the Uromi-born iconic international journalist, Peter Osajele Aizegbeobor Enahoro, also known by his pen name as “Peter Pan” , who died on the 24th of April 2023 in London at the age of 88. In his statement of tribute signed by his media aide, Mr. Oluwabamidele Elempe and made available to newsmen in Benin, Onolememen who also doubles as the Adolor of Uromi said, “We shall fondly remember him as a trailblazer in the field of journalism, and perhaps Africa’s best-known international journalist. “As I used to call him, Uncle Peter distinguished himself not only as a journalist, but as an author, businessman, publisher, and most importantly, a family man. ” I recall the last visit he made to my office years back in Abuja, where we discussed critical national issues, touching all aspects of our human existence. “I must confess that it was a meeting I will continue to cherish for a long time to come”, Onolememen said . Onolememen added that he was a unique gentleman who carried around himself that inborn nobility; his maternal grandfather was the Onogie of Uromi, Ogbidi Okojie. He said he (Peter) was also the younger brother of the late elder statesman and politician, Chief Anthony Enahoro.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The former minister of works said, so, his unpresuming upbringing and nature as a gentleman in spite of his global achievements as an international journalist and author was not by accident. POLL “He started his career in media as an Assistant Publicity Officer, Department now Federal Ministry of Information and later joined Daily Times as a sub-editor in 1955, when he was just 20, before moving on to serve as Assistant District Manager at Rediffusion Services, Ibadan, in 1957. “He became the Editor of the Nigerian Sunday Times in 1958 at the age of 23, and Features Editor of the Daily Times in 1958, then the paper’s Editor in 1962, going on to become the Daily Times Group Editorial Adviser in 1965, and in 1966 Editor-in-Chief of the Daily Times.” The Edo State 2024 gubernatorial hopeful, Dr Mike Onelememen, in his tribute, also traced the education of the rare gem through his stint at St. Stephens Elementary School, Akure (Ondo State); CMS Primary School, Ado-Ekiti (Ondo State); Government School, Ekpoma (Edo State), St. David’s School, Akure (Ondo State), Government School, Warri (Delta State), and Government College, Ughelli (Delta State) in 1948. “Although we shall miss this very special son of Esan who has etched his indelible mark in the sands of history through his journalistic works and as an author of several books, we are consoled measurably that his life and times were worthy of emulation by this generation. “I can never forget the book he personally autographed for me, with the title, “Thus spake the thunder”. The book which was well researched spoke to the oneness of EDO people, the World over. “I want to condole with the family he has left behind and to take solace in the fact that Papa lived a very fulfilled and accomplished life. May his soul find solace eternally with the Lord Almighty.” “I send my condolences to the Ojuromi of Uromi, our revered Oba of Benin, our state governor and indeed Edo state indigene as a whole and Nigerians in general”, Onolememen said.