ABUJA – Helpline Foundation for The Needy and the Federal Capital Territory’s original inhabitants have requested cooperation from stakeholders to enhance the management of the educational system. At a one-day town hall meeting held on Wednesday at Kuje in Abuja, they each remarked that the combined efforts were crucial because they would raise the standard of education throughout the territory’s six local councils. Dr. Jumai Ahmadu, the founder and president of the Helpline Foundation, stated that it is imperative to prioritize Abuja residents’ education in order to change the course of the future for women, girls, and young people. The project manager, Onoja Arome, who spoke on behalf of Ahmadu stated that the Foundation is tasked with building a platform where the natives especially the children will have a meaningful life. “We are saddled with the responsibility of providing an enabling environmentwhere women, girls and youth in the territory and beyond will enhance their livelihood, education and their whole well-being. “In November, 2021 Helpline Foundation received support from Macarthur Foundation to revamp the cultural heritage of the natives people of FCT through women empowerment and children, it is the initiative that is still in progress. “The event is to chart a course for a better future of Abuja original inhabitants which through economic and other reasons have been marginalized in their own territory”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Ahmadu explained that the meeting would examine the necessary areas, and pressurize offices in-charge to take the education of the natives children as a priority. One of the speakers and former director FCT Universal Basic Education Board (FCT-UBEB), Dr Adamu Noma called for overhaul of the entire system to pave way for corrections. He said the FCT Administration and Area Councils should put renovation and provision of infrastructure as top on its agenda to encourage access to education in rural areas. Meanwhile, the education secretary for Gwagwalada Area Council, Malam Musa Mamman advocated the setting up of elders education forum, constitution review and school monitoring committee to review the issues holding the FCT education system back. “Strategic stakeholders must be involved, this means that the government should constituted elders education forum, school monitoring committee as well as review the constitution to capture key areas that need to be place”.