Says Tinubu Must Not Carry A Baggage Of Religious Insensitivity, Autocracy ABUJA – One year after the inauguration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee NWC, some of its members have cried out that Senator Abdullahi Adamu, National Chairman of the Party and the party’s National Secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore have reduced members of the NWC to onlookers, and at best, a rubber stamp committee. Salihu Moh. Lukman, a member of the NWC from the All Progressives Congress (APC) North-West Zonal Office, Kaduna, who levelled the accusation, also claimed that vital provisions of the party’s constitution have been observed in breach, while relevant organs of the party are deliberately lying in a comatose. Lukman observed rather sadly that like what prevailed during the tenure of the sacked Adams Oshiomhole -led NWC, critical organs of the party including the National Executive Committee of the party as well as the party caucus, again have not been allowed to play roles assigned to them by the APC constitution. For instance, he noted that the duo of Senators Adamu and Omisore have appropriated the powers of the NEC of which is statutorily supposed to approve budgets for the party, adding that all issues relating to the finances of the party is only known to the two leaders while the rest NWC members look on. “As a member of the NWC, I can say without fear of contradiction, all decisions bordering on managing the finances of the party are being taken by the National Chairman, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu and the National Secretary, Sen. Iyiola Omisore. Most members of NWC are reduced to onlookers or at best rubber stamps. All appeals for accountability have fallen on deaf ears. The decision of the NWC to convene the NEC meeting in August last year was simply sabotaged. “Once the party’s constitution is no longer the guide for managing the affairs of the party, discretionary decisions of leaders take over. Consequently, even what get paid to party officials and organs becomes acts of benevolence by the National Chairman or anyone he delegates.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ” As a result, something as fundamental as the decision on what proportion of the party’s income is paid to States, Local Governments and Wards is exercised solely by the National Chairman and National Secretary. Party staff are hired and fired by the National Chairman and National Secretary without report to any organ, including the NWC. POLL “Given all these, there are embarrassing reports of party members who served in Screening, Primary and Appeals Committees for the 2023 elections yet to be paid their allowances. There was also the case of aspiring contestants for party offices during the March 28, 2022 National Convention who voluntarily stepped down in the spirit of facilitating consensus and therefore entitled for refunds of the cost of their nomination forms who are yet to be paid”. He lamented that the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT), nicknamed National Advisory Council in the new constitution of the party, is yet to be constituted despite provisions mandating the National Secretary to initiate action in that regard within a stipulated time. “The name of the party’s BoT has been changed to National Advisory Council (NAC) and its functions have been substantially reduced to advisory as the name imply at the March 28, 2022 National Convention. Even with that there is hardly any ongoing discussion to constitute the party’s NAC in the last one year. By the provision of Article 13.2B.(i) ‘the National Secretary shall, not later than one month after an elective convention, convene the meeting of the National Advisory Council’. One year after assuming office, the National Secretary has never proposed any action towards the inauguration of NAC. “So far, there was only one meeting of the party’s NEC on April 8, 2022. There was never any meeting of the National Caucus. Instead, meetings of the NWC hold without necessarily ensuring that existing constitutional provisions are respected. In this circumstance, critical functions of the NEC, which include approving the national budget of the party as provided in Article 13.3A(xiv) of the Party’s Constitution is simply ignored. “Further, Article 13.3A(xv) of the party’s constitution directed the NWC to give quarterly financial reports to NEC. Also, Article 13.4(ii) direct the NWC to present reports and Article 13.4(iv) compel the NWC to present financial report on income and expenditure of the Party. All these have been ignored. “Yet, it is public knowledge that the party has earned billions of Naira in revenue from sales of forms to aspiring contestants for the 2023 general elections. We are yet to, as NWC, declare to any organ of the party how much we inherited from His Excellency Mai Mala-led Caretaker Committee and how much was received as donations and contributions for the 2023 elections. Large-scale expenditure, which includes the renovation of the National Secretariat complex is being undertaken without any organ of the party exercising the powers of due diligence”. He said the unsatisfactory state of affairs in the party is confronted with the challenge of managing the contest of the emerging leadership of the National Assembly. With relevant organs of the party not meeting he said the contest will be focused on individual contestants rather addressing those issues that bother on unity and religious sensibilities of different parts of the country. Lukman had recently raised concern that unless the party intervenes to moderate the contest, the Chairman of the 10 National Assembly may again be a Muslim, a situation he said will not augur well for the country. He maintained that national assembly members -elect aspiring for Senate President from the North West must be made to drop their ambition in the overall interest of the country. “Given that we already have two Muslims occupying the highest positions of President and Vice President, any attempt to allow another Muslim to aspire for the position of Senate President, who is the number three highest-ranking officer in government will be insensitive, injurious to the unity and peaceful co-existence of the country and damage the electoral viability of our party. “To avert this, and as a party envisioned to be progressive will require activation of the wider consultative process and negotiations using our constitutional structures, especially the NEC so that decisions taken will be binding on all members, including the aspiring candidates. “Being a progressive party specifically requires dynamism, actions, and improvements on how things are managed. Dynamism will require acknowledgement of the realities facing us as a nation and as a party vested with the responsibility of providing leaders for the country for another four years, based on which we are able to initiate proposals..” One of such realities is the existing ethnic and religious tension in the country. Our proposals should seek to improve on previous experiences of leadership formation during the 9th and 10th Assembly. “All the indications are there now that no attempt is being made to regulate the emergence of leaders for the 10th National Assembly with a high possibility for the emergence of self-centred leadership in the 10th Assembly, which should be averted. “As a member of the NWC, I want to publicly register my objection to the seeming inability of our NWC to activate the process of convening meetings of NEC to appropriately take decisions and regulate the emergence of the 10th National Assembly leadership. “In particular, I want to restate my position that the leadership profile to emerge for the country on May 29, 2023 is already taking the colouration of the leadership of the country in 1999 with a President from the South-West and Vice President from the North-East. Unlike in 1999, we have two Muslims as President and Vice President. It is therefore very compelling that the Senate President should come from either the South-South or South-East. And since the North-West produced more votes to give our party the victory in the 2023 Presidential election, the position of Speaker House of Representatives should be zoned to North-West in line with what was obtained in 1999. “I want to specifically note that two respected Senators-elect from North-West has made a public declaration of their aspirations for the position of Senate President. These are His Excellency Abdulaziz Yari and Sen. Barau Jibrin. The North-West has been known for its commitment to progressive politics. Our Governors and other party leaders from the zone were unwaveringly progressive during the contest to produce Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the Presidential candidate of our party for the 2023 elections. They were forthright in ensuring that nothing is done to threaten the unity and peaceful co-existence of Nigeria, based on which they stood for a power shift to the Southern part of the country. “Now that power has shifted to the Southern part of the country, as a region, we equally have the responsibility to regulate the conduct of all our Senators-elect from the North-West, including the two Senators-elect Abdulaziz Yari and Barau Jibrin to withdraw their aspiration for the Senate President. “All party leaders from North-West must prevail on these leaders to, in the overall interest of the unity and peaceful coexistence of the country withdraw their aspirations to contest the position of Senate President for the 10th Senate. At the most, they should aspire for the position of Majority Leader of the Senate in line with the 1999 zoning formula in the Senate. “Given that no meetings of either the NEC or National Caucus are about to convene anytime soon, party leaders at Zonal levels should take initiatives to regulate the conducts of Senators-elect and House of Representatives members-elect in the contests for leadership of the 10th Assembly. President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu should immediately intervene to restore constitutional order in the management of the party affairs. It will be a mockery to continue to bear the name progressive and continue to run affairs of the party based on the personal discretion of the National Chairman and National Secretary. “There is also the challenge of urgently reviewing the performance of the party in the 2023 general elections. One of the issues that should be addressed as a matter of urgency is the case of indiscipline by party leaders at all levels. There are highly placed party leaders who have worked against our candidates during the 2023 general elections. This should be investigated, and appropriate disciplinary actions taken in line with provisions of our party’s constitution. “Democracy without accountability means dictatorship. Once the organs of the party are not meeting as enshrined in the constitution of the party, accountability will be absent, and the character of our party will be autocratic and retrogressive. ” Asiwaju Tinubu cannot afford to assume office with the baggage of being a leader of an autocratic and retrogressive APC, which is insensitive to ethnic and religious tension in the country, largely compounded by our inability to regulate the conduct of our Senators-elect and House of Representatives members-elect. Everything must be done to return our party to its founding vision of engendering progressive politics in the country, which is about equitable distribution of power and resources in the country. “It is disappointing that one year since our election into the NWC, we have been running the party based on the old mindset of disregard for allowing organs of the party to guide decisions and appropriately allow for wider input by members and leaders of the party in the decision-making process. This must change urgently!”