Interim manager Frank Lampard will take charge of The Blues for the first match of his second tenure at the club, and supporters will be hoping his return can trigger a change in fortunes. The west London outfit haven’t won in any of their last three Premier League games and currently sit 11th in the table, although they face a struggling Wolves side that find themselves in the midst of a relegation battle. Lampard is set to depart the club at the end of the season, and it appears that one of his current players could also be on his way out. As per Football Insider, French champions Paris Saint-Germain are set to renew their interest in winger Hakim Ziyech. The Ligue 1 champions were reportedly close to signing the Morocco international during the January transfer window, but the proposed move collapsed on deadline day. Ziyech, 30, joined Chelsea from Dutch side Ajax in the summer of 2020, during Lampard’s first spell in charge of the club. The Moroccan has so far failed to recreate the form he showed in Amsterdam, though, and has scored just 14 goals in 102 matches for The Blues across all competitions.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ This term, Ziyech has struggled to maintain a regular starting spot at Stamford Bridge, making just 19 appearances across all competitions. POLL Chelsea are therefore said to be willing to let the player leave this summer, with a fee of £20-£30 million said to be enough to lure him away from the capital. PSG are believed to be on the lookout for cheap signings this summer as they look to ensure they adhere to Financial Fairplay rules, and Ziyech is therefore one of their targets for the upcoming summer transfer window. Chelsea, meanwhile, will need to sell a number of first team players this summer in order to make their squad more manageable ahead of next term. Since taking charge of the club last summer, owner Todd Boehly has spent more than £500 million on 16 new signings, leaving Lampard with a surplus of players in a number of positions. Ziyech is contracted to his current club until 2025, but it appears increasingly likely that he could depart Stamford Bridge this summer.