Race for the Speaker of the House of Reps in the 10th Assembly has assumed a more frenzied direction after the Centre for Excellence and Performance in Governance, CEPG took to task two largely northern interest groups over an attack on Hon. Benjamin Kalu of the All Progressives Congress, APC, over his ambition to emerge as speaker of the lower chamber. Speaking via treatise put together by its convener, Henry Madubuike, a public and social affairs analyst, CEPG stated that some of these northern interests may have confused all hardworking party men in Abia State and the South East with a few bad eggs from the zone. The group alleged that there is a phobia over Hon. Kalu’s ambition. “The attention of the entirety of well-meaning Nigerians as represented by CEPG, birthed on the need for truth and objectivity in Nigeria’s political space, has been drawn to statements credited to the groups, Coalition of Northern Patriotic Front’, ‘South West Professionals’ and ‘Coalition of Arewa Youth Groups’, all seeking to bring to disrepute, as impossible as it is, the reputation of Hon Kalu, Spokesperson of the 9th Federal House of Representatives.“They have not minded the deployment of all manners of falsehood against the person of Hon. Kalu,” CEPG said. The group stated that accusing Hon Kalu of selling the party short is pure heresay, lacking in clear evidence. “One can evidently see and sense the hate for an individual and by extension the entire South East in their comments. “It is not difficult to decipher the obvious unintelligence of these groups, respectfully speaking, following the rancid deployment of numerous grammatical errors and the struggle to deploy figurative languages that even an SSCE student can comfortably puncture as puerile and the handiwork of brown envelope advocacy merchants.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Do these people not know those who openly refused to identify with Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu during his campaign tour of Abia State for reasons best known to them, which some have deduced to political witchcraft? POLL “Benjamin Kalu defied their witchery and led from the front. “Hon Kalu amongst all the APC Candidates across contestable positions in Abia was bold enough to openly campaign for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu across the length and breadth of Abia State, spending hugely in media houses, positioning the image of the APC in the entire South East. “When the big men and sacred cows were nowhere to be seen, Benjamin Kalu sweated blood for the APC in Abia State,” Madubuike said.