Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, has said that there is no going back in the plan by the Federal Government to ensure Total Radar Coverage of Nigeria (TRACON) for safety and security of the country’s airspace. A statement by Mr. James Odaudu, Special Assistant to the Minister on Public Affairs on Thursday said that Sirika gave the assurance on Tuesday, during his visit to the headquarters of CXR Networks, in Paris, France, the company engaged by the Federal Government to manufacture the equipment required for the TRACON project of the Nigeria’s airspace. According to Sirika, the TRACON was one of the legacy projects of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in the aviation sector as it is meant to ensure safety and security of the Nigerian airspace. The statement hinted that Sirika lauded the Government of France for its support towards the project and its implementation. He reiterated that the project would enhance the capacity, efficiency and capability of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), which is statutorily empowered for the management of the Nigerian airspace. Sirika declared that the various components of the equipment are some of the best that could be found in any part of the world, stressing that they were manufactured in line with the best international recommended practices and standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). He said the equipment, when delivered, would be deployed to aid civil and military aviation’s operations at designated airports and flying routes in Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Receiving the Sirika and his team, Mr. Marco Di Valerio, the Chief Operating Officer of CXR Networks, expressed delight at receiving the Nigerian team. POLL Valerio reassured of his company’s readiness to ensure that the project was delivered on time and in line with the terms of engagement. He also stated that the company had all the necessary certifications of the International Organisation for Standardization (ISO) and operates from 96 countries of the world. According to him, the equipment are of the best standards and are the latest in air traffic management and security. Sirika later went on a guided tour of the facilities of the manufacturing company of aviation equipment. He was accompanied on the trip by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Aviation, Dr. Emmanuel Meribole, Mr. Lawrence Matthew Pwajok, the acting Managing Director of NAMA and some Directors in the Ministry of Aviation. Recall that the TRACON agreement was signed between the Federal Government and Thales of France in 2003 at 66.5 million Euro and commissioned in September 2010 by former President Goodluck Jonathan.