LAGOS – The National Association Of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA) has tasked players in the downstream sector of the country’s aviation industry to promote professionalism as a way of surviving the myriads of challenges confronting business sustainability in the sector. Mrs. Susan Akporiaye, the President of NANTA stated this in Lagos on Wednesday during the media briefing on the association’s forthcoming 47th Annual General Meeting (AGM), slated for Abuja. According to Akporiaye, the three days AGM, which is scheduled to hold between April 25 to 27 is with the theme: ‘Professionalism: A Key To Surviving Aviation Downstream Turbulence And Its Exploitative Effects.’ Akporiaye decried that the aviation industry was bedevilled by a series of challenges, which was militating the growth of the downstream players in the sector like travel agencies and others. She explained that the only way players could survive this era was by intentionally adopting professionalism in their daily conduct, stressing that most organizations were striving to remain in business. Some of the challenges in the aviation sector in the country according to her include the trapped funds, monopoly, unfair practices, border and visa issues, among others. She emphasised that NANTA chose the theme in order to help its members and other industry players to navigate the challenges and imbibe other professional means of surviving the challenging period.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to her, Barr. Tunde Irukera, the Executive Vice Chairman Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) would deliver a paper on how industry investors could confidentially protect their businesses, clients and also on how to navigate challenges of foreign airlines trapped funds and its impacts on NANTA’s businesses. POLL She added: “As usual, we will use the opportunity to learn from experts about areas of our business that must be addressed and improved upon.” Besides, she lauded the management of South Africa Tourism (SAT), particularly their teams in Nigeria and Ghana for the special interest in the growth of the association through knowledge-based exposures and assistance to its clients wishing to visit, trade, and immerse in South African hospitality and culture. She hoped that the west coast tourism collaboration between Nigeria and Ghana would be sustained.