In a bid to alleviate the sufferings of the less privileged, a non-governmental organisation, Ike Jerusalem Foundation has donated medical assistance, eyeglasses and surgeries to residents in Akwa Anambra State. The medical outreach took place during the Easter celebrations in Anambra State with the theme ‘Vision is Life’ (Umuawulu Sees). Henry Chekwube Okafor, aka Ike Jerusalem, the founder of the Ike Jerusalem Foundation, in his welcome address, said the aim of the organisation is to ensure that the plight of the poor and needy in rural communities is taken care of. Okafor, Chief Executive Officer of Multiple Hems World Accessories, said, “I am after the welfare of the less privileged people and I do the best that I can because my main concern is to help the poor.” He recalls that in the past he has given the less privileged money, food, and clothes but today, his foundation decided to look after children and elderly people who have problems with their sight. “We got the services of eye specialists who examined their eyes and gave them eyeglasses to correct their sight. We also paid for the fees of those that will require surgery for their sight. “What motivates me to render assistance to the less privileged is that as an individual that likes to take care of people, I don’t like seeing people go through one pain or the other. I always try my best to help the less privileged in society. When we join hands together, things will work well in society and I am doing this to the glory of God.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Dr George Muoka George, Director of Credible Eye Care Limited said; “We are here to support Ambassador Ike Jerusalem, a renowned philanthropist. He has a heart of gold for people. He has feelings for the poor, needy and the less privileged in the society.” POLL Ike Jerusalem Foundation is a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) and over 200 people have benefited from this programme. Hundreds of excited residents of the community came out in large numbers to benefit from the medical outreach.