ABUJA – The presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the 2023 election, Peter Obi, has called on support­ers that even in the face of provocations, they should remain calm. According to Obi, it is important not to allow those bent on using any pretext to plunge the coun­try into chaos and leave youths without a future to succeed. The LP standard bearer also gave some encourag­ing and stimulating words to Nigerians who are going through very traumatizing pains since the general election, assuring them that with hope in the God of justice, better and hap­pier years await all. Obi in a series of tweets, last night, in reaction to the show of shame that went on in the rerun election in Adamawa State, last week­end, noted that the inten­tion of all these electoral brigandage is to provoke the people to violence but it’s not the best option for those who believe in the rule of law with faith in God. “We were provoked during the elections, but we showed restraint, pa­triotism, and wisdom be­cause we were voting for a greater Nigeria and not for the destruction of Nigeria. They deployed agents who killed and maimed many, including innocent wom­en, but we kept our cool”, he said. While assuring the peo­ple that he is on this jour­ney of rescuing Nigeria together with them, Obi noted that the recent events in our country, including political developments in Adamawa State, underline the importance of adher­ing to the rule of law. “As a patriotic Nigerian who has served this country diligently, I remain commit­ted to serving the Nigerian people and achieving a greater Nigeria in which everyone will be a beneficia­ry of our God-given wealth of abundant human and natural resources”, the LP presidential candidate said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In appreciating the huge potential in our land, the LP standard bearer noted that “Nigeria is a truly blessed and potentially great nation. With the Al­mighty God on our side, Nigeria’s greatness will soon manifest fully, thus ensuring that she is well-re­spected globally. In view of this, I ask all well-meaning Nigerians to commit their heart to prayers for a better and greater Nigeria. POLL “It bears reiterating as I did on Tuesday at the Na­tional Executive Council meeting of the Labour Par­ty held in Asaba, that the millions of Nigerians who voted for Datti and I did not just cast their votes, but they invested their hope in us for a new Nigeria, So we must stay the course.” The former Anambra State governor recalls President Muhammadu Buhari’s admonishing to Nigerian youths when he signed the ‘Not Too Young to Run Bill’ into law, that they should have faith in Nigeria and prepare for leadership roles, and said he agreed with the presi­dent that we have enough vibrant and intelligent Nigerian youths ready to propel Nigeria to great­ness, and it is my desire and commitment to em­powering Nigerian youths to leadership. “Even in the face of provocations”, Obi ap­pealed to the youths for calm, “We must do our ut­most to be calm even under provocation; we must also not allow those bent on us­ing any pretext to plunge our country into chaos and leave our youths without a future to succeed”. Finally, the LP flag bear­er declared, “I plead to ev­ery Nigerian to keep the faith and hope in Nigeria alive. We are on this jour­ney together, and better and happier years await all of us. God bless the good peo­ple of Nigeria and the Fed­eral Republic of Nigeria”. Labour Party’s Leadership Tus­sle: Abure, Others Know Fate May 12 Meanwhile, Justice Hamza Muazu of the High Court of the Federal Cap­ital Territory (FCT) will on May 12, rule on the pre­liminary objection by Ju­lius Abure, the embattled National Chairman of the Labour Party (LP), in re­spect of a suit challenging his continued stay in office. The court had upon an ex parte application on April 5, restrained Abure, Alhaji Farouk Ibrahim (Na­tional Secretary), Oluchi Opara (National Treasur­er), and Clement Ojukwu (National Organising Sec­retary) from further pa­rading themselves as party officials. Similarly, on Monday April 17, Justice Muazu de­clined a request to vacate the interim order restrain­ing Abure, Ibrahim, Opara and Ojukwu from further parading themselves as national officers of Labour Party. The party officials were restrained by the court on grounds of alleged fraud, forgery and criminal con­spiracy. The order followed a suit challenging Abure and his co-defendants’ continued stay in office. However, at a resumed hearing on the suit in re­spect of the embattled officers’ suspension on Thursday, Abure and his co-defendants in their preliminary objections maintained that the law­suit borders on leadership crisis, which they argued, is an internal affairs of the party. Arguing through their counsel, Ben Nwosu, the defendants insisted that the issue being an internal affairs of the party, renders it non justiciable. It was the argument of the defendants that the suit was incompetent and that the court lacks the jurisdic­tion to entertain the matter. On their part, the eight claimants represented by George Ibrahim asked the court to dismiss the defen­dants’ preliminary objec­tion and grant their reliefs accordingly for being mer­itorious. Ibrahim told the court that the claimants have also filed contempt pro­ceedings against Abure, his co-defendants and the Pres­ident of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) for alleged­ly acting in breach of an ex­isting order of court. Ibrahim informed the court that in spite of a subsisting interim order, the defendants went ahead and held an executive coun­cil meeting. After taking arguments from various counsel in the matter, Justice Muazu fixed May 12 to rule on the pre­liminary objections.