DAMATURU – The National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives (NANNM), Yobe State Council has assured citizens of improved health care delivery services across the facilities in the state. Comrade Bala Sulayman, Chairman NANNM Yobe State Council revealed shortly after the Congress meeting held at it’s Secretariat in Damaturu.The meeting attracted participants from all nooks and crannies of the state. He said that their members are committed towards ensuring successful and healthy society adding that “we will continue to double our efforts towards improving sound health care delivery services across the facilities in the state”. The NANNM Chair used the forum to commend Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni for continuity in offering automatic employment to the graduates of the Shehu Sule College of Nursing Health Science, appealing for the recruitment of the few enrolled graduates. Sule further appreciated the support of the Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr. Mohammed Lawan Gana and the Staff for priorities given to Nurses through inclusion in all their activities while appealing to me Nurses to sustain the tempo of hardwork, commitment and dedication to duty. “I call on you to shun all acts of indiscipline, negligence to duty and acts capable of ruining the integrity of the noble profession. “As Nurses, let’s always contribute our quota towards making the health sector accessible and affordable to our people”. We similarly appreciate the contributions of Shehu Sule College of Nursing Health Science, Al Ma’ariff College of Nursing Health Science and Technology Potiskum and others for providing a conducive atmosphere of academic excellence to the upcoming generation to pursue their respective studies. This is a milestone achievement in recognition of the number of the students undergoing studies”. The NANNM meeting outcome expressed gratitude to INEC, Security agencies, Media and political parties for the peaceful polls in the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We’re also using this medium to salute our Christian and Muslim brothers for the successful Good Friday, Easter Monday and Ramadan fasting in the state”.