BENIN – The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Edo Sector Command, has urged motorists in the state to desist from driving when they are fatigued to prevent road accidents. Edo Sector Commander, FRSC, Mr Paul Okpe, said that driving when tired was dangerous and ranked among major causes of road traffic crashes in the country. Okpe, who was speaking at the inauguration of the 2023 FRSC Easter Special Patrol/Rally in Benin, urged motorists to be safely cautious especially during the Easter holiday. He said, “we have discovered through research that when you drive for several hours without rest, it could lead to tiredness and sleeping, and this causes road traffic crashes. “As you drive this period, you should be patient, observe speed limit, plan your trips, set out early so as to arrive your destination early. The Sector Commander noted that mobile courts had also been set up across the state to penalise erring motorists. Simillarly, Deputy State Secretary, Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), Edo chapter, Mr Benedict Okpokunu, said the association was fully in support of achieving safer roads.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said drivers must comply with road traffic rules and regulations, noting that any driver who disobeyed such rules and regulations would be taken to mobile court or serve jail term. POLL Also, Mr Friday Ekhiator, Zonal Coordinator, FRSC Special Marshall, while speaking on causes of road traffic crashes, urged the government to fix bad roads in the country Ekhiator also urged motorists to desist from drunk driving, driving when fatigued, use of wornout tyres, and execeeive speed, among others. Meanwhile, Managing Director Edo Transport Authority, Mrs Edugie Agbonlahor, noted that continuous sensitization was key in changing the mindset to adopt positive attitudes. Agbonlahor said, “As a responsible citizen, you must ensure safety on the road while on the wheel. “Motorists should always take time to rest after driving for some hours. She also urged fleet operators to always educate their drivers on the need to ensure safety on the roads as well as avoid excessive speed.