ABUJA – The National Chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief Edozie Njoku, has dismissed with a wave of hand, reports that he was arrested by the police, shortly after attending proceedings at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Bwari on Monday. Chief Njoku urged the public to dispel the twisted narrative of his arrest, describing it as “totally false, unfounded and misleading”. A statement by Okoro Chinedum Benedict,National Administrative Secretary,APGA, explained that the police prosecutor, CSP Ezekiel Rimansomteseeing that they cannot prove beyond reasonable doubt, the allegation of forgery levelled against Chief Njoku, Chukwuemeka Nwoga and Mrs Ogunseye Adebisi, Secretary to a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Mary Peter Odili, decided to withdraw the amended charge, while embracing drama. “CSP Ezekiel Rimansomte , having failed to jail Chief Njoku like he promised Victor Oye and Godwin Udu resumed another round of distraction by alleging that the APGA National Chairman was threatening his life. “On getting to the Bwari Police Station, the same man within seconds withdrew the matter he reported and pleaded with Chief Edozie Njoku for forgiveness. “Being a man of peace, Chief Njoku forgave him and departed” without spending five minutes there. “It is utterly senseless for the reporter with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) who was paid and brought to Bwari High Court by Victor Oye to have reeled out such vile and bile reportage designed to misinform the public. “Journalists like the reporter that set out to derail public consciousness are more dangerous than hirelings” Chief Njoku said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “However, in his usual melodramatic outlines, CSP Ezekiel prayed the Court that he was ready to present witnesses and his prayer was granted by Mohammed Madugu, the presiding Judge. POLL “It was then that he put one Mr. Godwin Udu, in the witness box, who claimed to be the Deputy National Secretary of APGA that emerged from a purported convention at Awka in Anambra State. “The implication of this is that CSP Ezekiel deliberately took the stance of Pontius Pilate, by washing his hands off the matter to avoid the damnation and karmic retributions associated with bearing false witness against an innocent man” Njoku said. The APGA National Chairman stated that the police having dropped the amended charge, lured Victor Oye and his protege, Godwin Udu into another trap of attempting to commence a fresh retrial of a matter which the Supreme Court has already ruled on.