ABUJA  – The Independent Nation­al Electoral Commission (INEC) has resolved to write the Inspector-Gener­al of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, to investigate and prosecute the suspended Resident Electoral Commis­sioner (REC) for Adamawa State, Hudu Yunusa-Ari, over unlawful declaration of Aishatu Dairu Ahmed, also known as Binani, as the winner of the state gov­ernorship election. The commission made the decision at a meeting on Tuesday convened to discuss matters arising from the Adamawa gover­norship poll. “At its meeting today, 18th April 2023, the com­mission discussed matters arising from the Adamawa governorship election and decided to: “Write to the Inspec­tor-General of Police for the immediate investiga­tion and possible prosecu­tion of the Resident Elec­toral Commissioner (REC) for Adamawa State, Barr. Hudu Yunusa-Ari. “Request the Secretary to the Government of the Federation to draw the at­tention of the appointing authority to the unwhole­some behaviour of the REC for further action. “The collation process shall resume at a time to be determined by the Return­ing Officer,” INEC wrote via its Twitter handle. It would be recalled that INEC shifted its emergen­cy management meeting earlier fixed for Monday to Tuesday.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ IGP Replaces Adamawa CP Over Governorship Election POLL Meanwhile, the Inspec­tor General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, has with­drawn the Commissioner of Police on election duty in Adamawa State, Moham­med Barde, with immedi­ate effect. The IGP also ordered that the Commissioner of Police in charge of Gombe State, CP Etim Equa, immediately proceed to Adamawa State for election security of the concluded supplementary governorship poll. Force Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, while addressing newsmen on Tuesday in Abuja, said the IGP is committed to a free and fair process. He said, “The IGP has given directive that the commissioner of police on election security in Adama­wa State, CP Barde, should pull out of Adamawa State and the Commissioner of Police in charge of Gombe State, CP Etim Equa, to pro­ceed to Adamawa immedi­ately, to go and supervise election and provide the necessary information and ensure that the process is a success.” Adejobi also said the IGP has yet to receive any let­ter from the Independent National Electoral Com­mission (INEC) seeking the probe and prosecution of its embattled Resident Electoral Commissioner in Adamawa.