ENUGU – Dr Olusoji Akinleye, Chief of Field Office, UNICEF Enugu Field Office has stressed the need to always educate and sensitize parents especially mothers on importance of immunizing their children. Dr Akinleye stated this during the media interview for the World Immunization Week 2023 held at UNICEF Field Office Enugu. He said “every child must be alive to achieve their potentials and be useful to themselves and the society. Failure by parents to admit immunization on their children will deprive them from attaining their maximum potentials” He stressed the need for all hands to be on deck to raise awareness and educate people especially mothers to present children for immunization in order to reduce child mobility and mortality. Dr Akinleye said Global partners announce a new effort – “The Big Catch-up” – to vaccinate millions of children and restore immunization progress lost during the pandemic “Unfortunately, we witnessed some kind of reversal in immunization as the result COVID 19 pandemic. So in three years between 2019 and 2022, the coverage of immunization globally declined. That means the global population simply became more vulnerable to vaccine preventable diseases. “And these caused set back, even though it took place within a space of three years, it actually set the entire world back by about 30 years because if we look at the kind of progress we should have made, we found out that we have gone back like 30 years.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “So that is why the global immunization community decided to make this particular thing the big catch up. POLL “We’ve seen that we’ve had about 25 million people, children, that have not had the opportunity of receiving any immunization at all, any vaccination at all. We call them the zero dose children. They’ve not had benefit of receiving even the first dose and Zero dose is a big problem hence the need to sensitize people in accepting vaccination. In press statement made available by UNICEF Field Office Enugu lamented that the COVID-19 pandemic saw essential immunization levels decrease in over 100 countries, leading to rising outbreaks of measles, diphtheria, polio and yellow fever. It explained that The Big Catch-up’ is an extended effort to lift vaccination levels among children to at least pre-pandemic levels and endeavours to exceed those. The statement reads “Led by a broad range of national and global health partners, The Big Catch-up also aims to ensure stronger primary health care services for essential immunization in the future. “Geneva/New York/Seattle, 24 April 2023 – The World Health Organization (WHO), UNICEF, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, along with Immunization Agenda 2030 and many other global and national health partners, are today joining forces to call for “The Big Catch-up”, a targeted global effort to boost vaccination among children following declines driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. “This effort aims to reverse the declines in childhood vaccination recorded in over 100 countries since the pandemic, due to overburdened health services, closed clinics, and disrupted imports and exports of vials, syringes and other medical supplies. “Meanwhile, communities and families experienced lockdowns, restricting travel and access to services, and financial and human resources were limited along with access to health commodities, due to the emergency response. “Ongoing challenges like conflicts, climate crises and vaccine hesitancy also contributed to the decline in coverage rates.With over 25 million children missing at least one vaccination in 2021 alone, outbreaks of preventable diseases, including measles, diphtheria, polio and yellow fever are already becoming more prevalent and severe. “The Big Catch-up aims to protect populations from vaccine-preventable outbreaks, save children’s lives and strengthen national health systems. “While calling on people and governments in every country to play their part in helping to catch up by reaching the children who missed out, The Big Catch-up will have a particular focus on the 20 countries where three quarters of the children who missed vaccinations in 2021 live. “Although global coverage levels have declined, there have also been bright spots of resilience. For example, early reports indicate India saw a strong recovery in essential immunization in 2022, while Uganda maintained high coverage levels during the pandemic. Countries have also been successful at reaching groups in vulnerable situations. In Kenya, for instance, collaborations with community health workers and local leaders have improved levels of immunization among nomadic populations in the north of the country.“To ensure progress on childhood immunization, partners are working with countries to strengthen health care workforces, improve health service delivery, build trust and demand for vaccines within communities, and address gaps and obstacles to restoring immunization. In addition to catching-up on childhood immunization, intensified efforts are needed to introduce the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine to adolescents to prevent cervical cancer, particularly in low- and middle-income countries where the burden is highest,” it said