ABUJA  – The African Democratic Congress (ADC) has cau­tioned against anti-party activities in Kogi State, threatening to punish any­one responsible for the ille­gitimate act. The ADC Chairman for Kogi State, Kingsley Temitope Ogga, issued the warning in a statement on Monday in Abuja. Ogga said that some prominent ADC members in Kogi State had engaged in anti-party activities during the recently con­cluded elections. He chastised the per­petrators for supporting Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) President-elect. The statement reads: “Let me state here with­out mincing words that as politicians, anti-party ac­tivities are a very serious offence. No party anywhere in the world takes the is­sue of anti-party activities with levity. It is either you are a party member or you stay out of the party. “I want to make it abun­dantly clear here that it is no longer secret that some notable members of ADC in Kogi State were involved in anti-party activities during the just concluded elections. We noticed the heinous act perpetrated by these characters but need­ed to wait till after the elec­tions in order not to rock the boat. “As law-abiding party loyalists that operate solely on the principles of democ­racy, we cannot tolerate in­discipline in our party. As democrats, I as the state chairman of the party and with the executive mem­bers of the party in the state, cannot stand and fold our arms to watch our great party slide to abyss.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Ladies and gentlemen, the most embarrassing of the illicit acts of members was that of the House of Representative candidate of the party and reelected House or Representatives member, for Yagba Federal Constituency, Leke Abejide. POLL “Himself and many oth­ers were openly involved in anti-party activities by campaigning for the can­didate of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC), Asi­waju Bola Ahmed Tinibu, during the presidential election. This ignoble ac­tion of Joseph Leke Abe­jide and his cohorts are seriously against the spirit of democracy and the con­stitution of our great par­ty, the African Democratic Congress (ADC).” The Kogi State ADC chairman further stated that anti-party activities was a great misconduct and attracts grievous sanc­tions to those who choose to be perpetrators. The statement contin­ued, “For the avoidance of doubt, anti-party activities are a great misconduct and, therefore, attract grievous punitive measures as en­shrined in the constitution of our party. It, therefore, came to us as a matter of shock to see a candidate of his status carry out anti-party activities with wanton impunity during the presidential election. Their actions created un­necessary distrust among party faithful across Kogi State. This is inimical to the success of a growing party like ours and, there­fore, has generated seri­ous setbacks to the gains we have made across Kogi State in the past years.