ABUJA  – Members of the George Uboh Whistleblowers Net­work, on Tuesday protested at the main entrance to the National Assembly, accus­ing the Hon. Mark Gbillah Ad-Hoc Committee of the House of Representatives of complicity in the theft of 48 million barrels of crude oil, which was later claimed to have been sold to China. The protesters led by Amb. Joseph Peter Umoh, carried banners and plac­ards with inscriptions de­nouncing the setting up of the House of Representa­tives Ad-Hoc Committee, when the crime involving US$2.4billion, is already in court. In a written statement, Umoh said that as whis­tleblowers, they blew open the stolen crude oil and ille­gal sales in China to Gbillah and Nigerians generally. However, they alleged that rather than carry them along in the planned investi­gation, the lawmaker decid­ed to do it alone, raising sus­picion of vested interests. He said: “The whis­tleblowers who furnished Hon. Mark Gbillah, the in­formation germane to the 48 million barrels of crude oil stolen, did not file any peti­tion to the National Assem­bly for any investigation or hearing, neither were they called as witnesses to testify during the hearing. “Because Gbillah did not follow this sacrosanct due process, the purported pub­lic hearing by the Ad-hoc committee is a sham pred­icated on unilateral action driven by greed. “Therefore, we, the whis­tleblowers at this protest, au­thoritatively assert that the National Assembly does not hear or deliberate on any matter in court.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Two different competent courts of jurisdictions, are already handling the case filed against the Chief Ex­ecutive Officer (CEO) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNP­CL), Mele Kyari to account for proceeds from the stolen crude oil which are roughly estimated to be $2.4billion at $50 per barrel and $4.8billion at $100per barrel.” POLL When told that the d- hoc committee was not set up by Gbillah himself, but the leadership of the House of Representatives, he said the protest was staged for the leadership to know the futility of its action on the committee.