LAGOS – Former Commissioner for Agriculture and Food Security in Ekiti State, Dr Olabode Adetoyi has said that Nigeria’s dwindling economy can be rescued by agriculture. He stated this while addressing some Cassava Cooperative Farmers who visited his Cassava Farm yesterday in Ekiti State. Adetoyi, who is an investor in Agribusiness in crops, livestock feed milling and feed additives, explained that both Federal and State Governments should key into the Agricultural revolution by making it attractive to the teeming youths. He noted that 60 percent of Nigeria’s population is made up of youths; hence, their potential can be harnessed by creating agricultural processing zones and supporting the initiatives of the African Development Bank. The Former Commissioner, while citing the advantage of Cassava farms, explained that it is very good in Nigeria and it can be grown in nearly all the states in Nigeria, adding that Nigeria still produces 59 million metric tonnes of cassava. According to him, we can have cassava flour, ethanol and other by-products that would effective in others with a tremendous effect on the country’s economy. “Nigeria’s economy is dwindling and agriculture should be used to rescue the situation.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We can rescue the situation when both Federal and State Governments key into the Agricultural revolution by making agriculture attractive to our teeming youth. POLL “60 percent of the Nigerian population is made up of our teeming youth. How can we harness their potential? “Both states and federal can do this by creating Agric processing zones and supporting the initiative of the African Development Bank. “This is the only way to key into the Agric value chain. This is a cassava farm. Cassava is very good in Nigeria and it can be grown in nearly all the states in Nigeria. “Nigeria still produces 59 million metric tonnes of cassava. From cassava, we can have cassava flour which 10 percent will be added to our flour to make bread which will reduce our importation of wheat. “Also, we can also get by-products such as starch, Garri, Fufu, ethanol, cassava chips, and cassava flour from cassava,” Adetoyi said