ABUJA – The Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Feder­ation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, has dismissed claims that the country lost over $2.4 billion revenue from alleged illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil exported in 2015 to China. Malami faulted the allega­tions during the resumed ad-hoc committee investigation hearing on the alleged sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil amounting to over $2.4 billion and crude oil export to global destinations from 2014 to date. Malami described the alle­gations as baseless, unfounded, lacking merit and substance. The House had in December, last year, resolved to constitute an ad-hoc committee to probe the allegation when it adopted a motion sponsored by Isiaka Ibra­him from Ogun State, at plenary. The committee was also man­dated to investigate all crude oil exports and sales by Nigeria from 2014 till date with regards to quantity, insurance, revenue generated, remittances into the federation account or other ac­counts as well as utilisation of the revenue for the period under review. Ibrahim had said in the motion that “a whistle blower alleged in July 2020 that he had in July 2015 brought to the atten­tion of a committee purportedly set up by the president for the recovery of missing crude oil exports, the existence of 48 mil­lion barrels of Nigeria’s Bonny Light crude oil in storage at several ports in China, under the authorisation of the then Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to sell the cargo.” But speaking at the hearing on Thursday, Malami said that the Office of the Attorney-Gen­eral of the Federation had filed a criminal suit against the individ­uals who purportedly raised the allegations being investigated by the ad-hoc committee.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to him, the indi­viduals had attempted to de­fraud the Federal Government under the guise that the alleged crude oil stolen in China had been recovered. POLL Malami explained that the ongoing investigation initiated by the House was unconstitu­tional and sub judice, and argued that the prosecution of the peti­tioners which started in 2019 suf­fered setback as a result of series of adjournments caused by the absence of the accused persons. He said the allegation in its own right is devoid of any reasonable ground, pointing to a material suspicion cogent enough to invoke the constitu­tional oversight of the commit­tee. “Let me state on record and for the benefit of Nigerians and the committee that the allega­tions relating to the 48 million barrels are baseless. The allega­tion is unfounded. It lacks merit and indeed substance. “The allegation in its own right is devoid of any reasonable ground pointing to a material suspicion cogent enough to in­voke the constitutional oversight of the committee. “Why do I say so? Sometimes in 2016, allegations were rife and hyped in the social media. There were allegations of existence of stolen 48 million barrels of Nige­rian crude in China said to have been valued at $2.4 billion. “President Muhammadu Buhari informally requested the attorney-general, making refer­ence to my humble person, Mele Kyari, Lawal Daura, former DG of DSS, and the late Abba Kyari to look into it and advise. But unfortunately, for there to be a reasonable ground for suspicion, at least, you require certain basic facts. “If you’re talking of a prod­uct, you cannot establish the sub­stance relating thereto, without confirming the origin of the pur­ported product in China. If you talk about a product in China. Is it of Nigerian origin? That can be ascertained by sample and specifications. Is it Bonny Light for example, which you know emanate from Nigeria or what is it? “The basic details of the existence of the product and connecting it to Nigeria was not there at all. If you are talking of a product, the vessel perhaps that has taken it, what are the partic­ulars and details of the vessel? They were not available at our disposal at all. “Which authority is it that has taken custody of the prod­uct? There was no information at all. So the issue is simple. There were no reasonable grounds for suspicion of the fact that the purported oil product ei­ther exist in spirit or in fact or indeed exist in China — and it is in no way connected to Nigeria. And all effort on our part to get details have proven abortive. “So, it was a committee that was dead on arrival because it has not been formally consti­tuted. “So, we could not establish the substance in the allegation because detailed information to confirm the existence and origin of the shipment such as sample of the oil, vessel involved, load­ing point etc, location of the crude in China etc were not provided. “So, we reported to the pres­ident that we were unable to confirm the veracity of the alle­gation, hence no further action was taken by my office,” Malami said. He further disclosed that the OAGF was instrumental to the recovery of various sums of funds which were deposited in the Asset Recovery Account domiciled with Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). These include: $322 million recovered from Switzerland in 2016; $311.4 million from US/UK; $15.4 million Abacha loot recov­ered in 2020 from Northern Ire­land; £12.2 billion recovered from UK; $20 million recovered from Licosta as well as £954 million re­covered from Diepreye Solomon Peter Alamieyeseigha. While responding to ques­tions on the recovered funds, payment and disbursement, he said: “Ministry of Finance is the coordinator of the whistle blower policy and all payments to whistle blowers are made by the Federal Ministry of Fi­nance, Budget and National Planning. “It should be noted that whis­tle blowing thrives on confiden­tiality and protection of infor­mation. Therefore, disclosing the details of whistle blowers at a public hearing breaches the confidentiality provision of which the office of the attorney general was committed to on the account of personal security and the national security. “So, arising from that con­sideration, I have taken pains to develop information taking into consideration the confidential­ity element of it but providing same for the consideration of the committee exclusively,” he submitted. He explained that the details of international account, expen­diture, statements of accounts are obtainable from the Central Bank of Nigeria. Malami added: “For the in­formation of the committee, the Office of the Attorney-General does not maintain the custody of an account of associated recov­eries, they are maintained by the central bank and opened on the request of the Office of Attorney General and then opened on the directives of the Office of the Accountant General. “As far as being a signatory or in any way being responsi­ble in the management of such account is concerned, the Office of the Attorney General is in no way connected whatsoever. “Whatsoever information that may be required as it con­nects to the details of the signato­ries, details for the management, details of the disbursement as­sociated with the recoveries ac­counts, I suggest that the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Office of Accountant General are ex­clusive custodians, managers and operators of the account, not the Office of the Attorney General. “What I am saying in essence is that reference or details, signa­tories, disbursement, associated information on all the recovery accounts should be routed to the central bank, Office of the Accountant General and indeed, the Federal Ministry of Finance that are the operators, maintain­ers, custodians of this account in question”, he stressed. He revealed that “the whistle blower is believed to be one Mar­co Antonio Ramirez, an Ameri­can businessman, who is being prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for an alleged $368,698.24 fraud before Justice Mojisola Dada of the Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos. The case could not continue today, April 26, 2023, due to the absence of the defence counsel, Lawal Pedro (SAN).” The EFCC is prosecuting Ramirez on an amended nine-count charge alongside his companies, USA NOW LLC, Eagle Ford Instalodge Group LP, and USA NOW Energy Capital Group LP.