ABUJA – A leading and sensational Nigerian biographer, Luke Okojie who is also a trustee of the Guild of Professional Biographers, Africa, is poised to once again release to the reading public three compendia. In a statement which he personally signed and made available to INDEPENDENT, the author of several best-selling biographies disclosed that his company, Accolade Communications Limited, a media company and publisher company has previously published five compendia. The latest three Compendia to be released soon include, “NIGERIAN ROLE MODELS (inspiring excellence and leadership in Nigeria everywhere),50 DISTINGUISHED NIGERIANS IN DIASPORA (celebrating the Nigerian spirit of excellence beyond borders) and 50 PACE SETTERS OF EDO STATE (honouring distinguished Edo State Ambassadors).” The Managing Director and CEO of the company, Okojie stated further that he is “poised to make the occasion a memorable one given the fact that the company has gone through some tough times of corporate hardship.” The media magnate is an experienced communication expert with vast knowledge in Public Relations, Advertising and Print Journalism. He has used his media platform to contribute his quota not only to the growth of the industry, but to the development of our dear country. With an enviable track record of being an enthusiastic operator in Small and Medium Enterprises, his foray into public relations and communications fulfils his desire to form a conglomerate targeted at wealth creation and employment generation with substantial economic growth. He is also skilled in Event Planning, Customer Service, Strategic Planning and Marketing Strategy, a strong business development professional, an SMEs Business and Life Coach and a brand specialist as well as a Fellow of several institutes, including the Institute of Management Consultants (FIMC).‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Okojie’s new found interest in the internet and digital marketing is infectious. Honourable Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, OFR, has recognized him as a “He For She person for his egalitarian and equal gender society campaign. He is that person that knows no impossibility as he finds opportunities even at unlikely places. POLL “He is a leader par excellence, compassionate philanthropist, bridge builder, reformist, community leader, astute administrator, and selflessly patriotic. Known for his unique charisma, Okojie possesses a remarkable aura that enables him to interact across class divides and mixes well with the high and mighty without losing his essential values and orientation. He is a lover of peace, a conciliator and an arbitrator. He is a Convener/ current Executive Secretary of Accolade Ambassadors, a class of eminent personalities who have distinguished themselves as NATION BUILDERS.” The company has previously published five compendia namely: NIGERIA@50: LEADERS PAR EXCELLENCE (2010); NIGERIAN ROLE MODELS( VOL 1, 2015); NIGERIAN ROLE MODELS( VOL 2, 2017); AUDACIOUS (2019);  NIGERIA @ 60: 60 LEADERS PAR EXCELLENCE (2020); 100 DISTINGUISHED NIGERIAN ENGINEERS(2022)( and 100 AUDACIOUS NIGERIAN WOMEN(2023).The occasion will provide the opportunity to recognise few distinguished Nigerians who would be honoured at the event with African Leaders Par Excellence Award 2023 .