AWKA  – The National President Anam­bra State Association of Town Unions (ASATU) Chief Barr. Titus Nnabuike Akpudo has hinted that Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo will in no distant time begin to implement his promise of 25 Million Naira Community-Choose-Your-Proj­ect Scheme for communities in the state. Akpudo, who gave the hint during an exclusive interview at the ASATU National Sec­retariat Government House Awka, said the governor was determined to engender mas­sive grassroots development through the 25 Million Naira grant that would be disbursed to communities to execute proj­ects of pressing needs without interferences. He said soon communities will begin to sub­mit proposals to government on their preferred projects which government would sponsor through the community devel­opment scheme and that the governor upgraded the scheme from 20 Million Naira of the previous administration to 25 Million Naira presently. Apart from the Communi­ty-Choose-Your-Project Scheme, Akpudo equally disclosed that the present administration has enthroned relative peace in var­ious communities where town union crisis were the order of the day, adding that the relation­ship between ASATU and Solu­do’s government is very cordial. According to him, govern­ment involves ASATU in its programmes especially as it concerns monitoring projects in their respective communities. He was, however, of the opinion that before Soludo’s administration came on board, moneybags and political big­wigs in the communities conve­niently ordered for the removal of a President-General from of­fice without the opportunity of fair-hearing. He said incessant arbitrary removal of PGs from their posi­tions led to many communities having town union caretaker committees and non-elected of­ficials until the dawn of a new era came with the present state government and PGs who were wrongly removed from office were reinstated like the PGs of Ifitedunu, Agulu, Awgbu, Alor, Nkweleezunaka, Isiagu to mention a few, adding that town union elections have been conducted in over 80 communi­ties which currently have duly elected PGs and other officials. ASATU National President who described the Local Gov­ernment Commissioner, Hon. Tony Collins Nwabunwanne as an expert in community affairs, maintained that his tenure was the very first time government showed real interest in issues concerning PGs and traditional rulers in Anambra State.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Akpudo, therefore, thanked Governor Soludo for his efforts in rural development, saying that all the road constructions were being executed in the communities. That planting of Coconut and Oil Palm seedlings were equally done in the com­munities.