The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has commenced a five-day training on shoe and bag making for 20 Edo women. The 20 trainees are among the 740 women selected nationwide by the Directorate to be trained in shoe and bag making with the available indigenous fabrics. Mallam Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo, the Director General of NDE while declaring open the five-day training for the 20 women in Benin city, the Edo state capital said, the 740 women were drawn from the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, with each state having 20 slots. The training, according to Mallam Fikpo, is designed to create jobs among unemployed youths, women and others that might want to better their lives through the four cardinal programmes which are sustaining skills through Vocational Skills Acquisition, Entrepreneurial training, labour-based development and training on agriculture. The DG whose address was read by the Edo State Coordinator, Mr Solomon Edobor also noted that the training which was organised by the Women Employment Branch, WEB, of NDE would last for a period of five days upon which the participants are expected to acquire self-employment skills for decent job opportunities. “The training, under the Women Employment Branch (WEB), a platform of the Small Scale Enterprises (SSE) Department of NDE, was aimed at designing income-generating activities for women to generate mass employment and reduce poverty among them” he said. Fikpo also said that the WEB was created with the mandate to ensure full and equal participation of women in the four main programmes of the directorate.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to him, ”The intervention areas of the WEB include the formation of cooperatives, savings and lending groups, training on marketable job skills aimed at making women self- reliant, at least to take care of their homes and overcome persistent gender-based barriers. POLL ” The participants of this training will be trained on the art of shoe and bag making which is an emerging and trending skill amongst women across the country. ” The first phase of the training was held in the 19 Northern states and the FCT between the 27th and 31st March 2023 while the 2nd phase is presently holding simultaneously in the 17 Southern states from 17th to 21st April 2023. ” The Directorate through its intervention programmes and schemes has created over one million direct jobs for women of all categories through skills acquisition and Entrepreneurial training opportunities designed to equip them with the critical skills required to enable them successfully set up and run private enterprises.” Ms Chikodi Ike, Head of Department, Small Scale Enterprises of NDE, Abuja office, in her address said that no fewer than 740 unemployed women were participating in the training across the federation. Ike, who was represented by Mrs Nonye Iweka, urged the participants to be confident in themselves in order to become experts in the skill, noting that at the end of the programme, the trainees would be given some money to establish their own businesses. Counseling the participants, the Edo State Coordinator of NDE, Mr. Solomon Edobor said that economic empowerment was central to women’s ability to overcome poverty, cope with shocks and improve their well being. He urged the participants to put in their best by being punctual and dedicated to the training and also be good ambassadors for their respective families. A participant who responded on behalf of others pledged to be focused in the training, just as she thanked the Federal Government for selecting them for the programme.