LAGOS – Justice Uhuegbu, lawyer, activist and the national president, Association For Good Governance, has said that Senator Chimaroke Nnamani’s comment that Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party in the just concluded general elections, should withdraw his petition at the Presidential Election Tribunal (PET) is a mere distraction. Uhuegbu told Daily Independent on Monday that the lawmaker’s comment is not a national issue and should not get the kind of attention that it has generated. He said, “What Nnamani said is a mere distraction. It shouldn’t be a national issue. I want to use this opportunity to tell Nigerians to disregard some of the news that fly around. We have a lot of issues in this country that deserve national interest. “Nnamani’s statement is a personal opinion and doesn’t represent the opinion of the generality of Nigerians By law once an election has come and gone, parties in the election have the right to go to court and contest the outcome of any election, that is part of their constitutional right, which is why election tribunals are approved and set up by the judiciary. The Vice Presidential candidate of the National Action Council (NAC) in the 2019 general elections added, “I believe that if Nnamani wanted to advise Peter Obi he should have spoken to him personally and not go public because he is not Obi and cannot determine for Obi what to do. “Apart from the presidential election, there are so many other parties that have gone to court in different states arising from the governorship, Senatorial, House of Assembly and House of Representatives elections. Will he go to all these parties and ask them to withdraw their petition?I don’t see his statement as germane. His comment is not supposed to be a national issue. Nnamani has made his statement by act or omission. I am only worried as to why it has become a national issue. It is not part of our problem,” Uhuegbu said. He added, “We all know the position of the law that when somebody is dissatisfied with the outcome of any election in Nigeria, the person has to go to court. It is not only in elections even within parties’ internal issues. The appropriate place to take your grievance to is the law court.”