BENIN  – A University of Benin (UNIBEN) lecturer, Dr. Ishaq Osagie-Eweka has dragged the Commissioner of Police in Edo State, CP Mo­hammed Adamu Dankwara be­fore the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) over al­leged unlawful and unconstitu­tional arrest and detention. This was contained in NHRC’s acknowledgement let­ter marked C/2023/CPR/226/ HQ, dated February 21, 2023 and signed by Atedze Juliet Mimi, for the Executive Secretary and made available to Journalists in Benin City, the Edo State capital. The statement titled, “Re: The Unseeming Behaviour, abuse and wrong use of office by the CP Mo­hammed Adamu Dankwara for Edo State Police Command and the unlawful and unconstitu­tional arrest of Ishaq S D. Osa­gie-Eweka Ph.D.”, read in part. “Please, l, refer to your peti­tion dated January 23, 2023 to the National Human Rights Com­mission on the above subject. “I am directed to acknowledge receipt of your complaint. The complainant has been registered as C/2023/CPR/226/HQ. Please reference this complainant num­ber in all correspondence with the commission. “The Commission wishes to also inform you that it has requested for the comments of the Commissioner of Police Edo State Command, the Com­plainant was also forwarded to NHRC Edo State Office”. It would be recalled that Dr. Osagie-Eweka, a Lecturer in the Department of Biochemistry, University of Benin, through his Lawyer, B.A Iluobe, had earlier petitioned the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, to investigate his alleged unlawful arrest and detention by the Edo State Commissioner of Police, Muhammed Dankwara.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The aggrieved lecturer also gave Dankwara 48 hours to tell the public the reason he was arrested and paraded like a common criminal before the public. POLL Osagie-Eweka rooted his petition titled, “The unseeming behaviour abuse and wrong use of office by CP Mohammed Dankwara, of Edo State Police Command, and the unlawful and unconstitutional arrest” and addressed to the Executive Sec­retary, National Human Rights Commissioner which was also made available to our correspon­dent in Benin City.