YENAGOA – Bayelsa State Government has assured the Izigwe family, chiefs and people of the Biogbolo-Epie community in the Yenagoa Local Government Area of its commitment towards ensuring justice for the alleged gruesome murder of a youth, one Mr Goodluck Izigwe, in police custody. The Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, gave the assurance during a meeting with some stakeholders of the community led by the paramount ruler, Frank Amos, in Government House, Yenagoa, on Tuesday. A statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Doubara Atasi, said the deputy governor promised to prevail on the committee set up to look into the unfortunate incident to submit its report for the government to take necessary actions. Ewhrudjakpo stressed that as an administration that believes in equity and justice, the Governor Douye Diri-led administration would not sweep any important matter, including the killing of Mr Goodluck Izigwe, under the carpet. While calling for a little more patience and understanding of the Biogbolo-Epie community, he apologized for the delay on the part of government blaming it on the several activities of government and failure on the part of the community to follow-up the matter. Responding to the community’s request, Ewhrudjakpo said the government would tidy up the report as soon as possible and ensure the release of the deceased’s corpse for burial. He commiserated with the Izigwe family, all acquaintances of the late Goodluck Izigwe and appreciated the Biogbolo-Epie community for their show of maturity and calmness over the unfortunate incident.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The deputy governor said, “First, on behalf of the Governor and the government, I want to once again commiserate with the Izigwe family, all his acquaintances and the entire Biogbolo-Epie community over the unfortunate death of Goodluck. POLL “It was one death that gave all of us concern. The government was ruffled because it was a very cold and gruesome incident that happened almost simultaneously with the one at Ovom that time. “Yes, a committee was set up by government but unfortunately the report has not been submitted. We admit our fault and apologize for the delay because we are not infallible. Mistakes are part of the characteristics of any human endeavours, including government. “But I can assure you that this Government will not sweep any important matter such as the one we are talking about here, under the carpet. But you should have also reminded government before now. “I want to assure you that once we tidy up the loose ends on our part, the corpse will be released to the community for burial. Let me also appeal that you still stretch your elasticity of patience, understanding and goodwill towards government on this matter.” Earlier, the paramount ruler of Biogbolo-Epie, Frank Amos, explained that six youths of the community were allegedly arrested and tortured by operatives of a special police strike force, Operation Puff Harder, sometime in 2021, which led to the death of Mr Goodluck Izigwe. Amos, who appreciated the state government for the role it played at the time to pacify aggrieved members of the community, particularly the youth, however, requested the administration to make public the committee’s report. He also appealed to the administration to facilitate the release of the body of the deceased for proper burial, stressing that it is against the culture and traditions of Biogbolo and the entire Epie Kingdom for the corpse of a young person to be kept in the mortuary for a long period.