ABUJA – Pastor William Kumuyi, the General Superintendent and founder of the Deeper Life Christian Ministry has arrived in Ghana, where he will preside over a six-day global crusade. The clergy and various Christian leaders in Ghana were on hand to welcome Kumuyi, the convener of the Global Crusade with Kumuyi (GCK) to Ghana. The GCK convener said all is set for the grand crusade which seeks to impact and transform the nation. Kumuyi is well known for his unwavering commitment to biblical holiness, pentecostal preaching and godly lifestyle that prioritises divine mandate over earthly ambition. The Global Crusade with Kumuyi dubbed ‘glorious visitation from Christ’ is to transform lives and bring souls to Christ. Arriving in Ghana Tuesday morning and in an interaction with the media, the GCK convener said he was looking forward to a greater experience come Thursday, April 20 at Black Star Square (Independence Square) in Accra, the nation’s capital city. There will be a four-day Ministers and Professionals Conference, where the GCK convener will share insight into ministerial success on Friday, April 21 at 6:00 am, at the Royal House Chapel.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Another session dubbed ‘Impact Academy’ for young adults will be held on Saturday, April 22 at the Accra Sports Stadium with seasoned speakers with the aim of raising great leaders that will impact the nation. Speaking at the media interaction in Accra, Pastor Kumuyi said Ghanaians should expect the move of God at the crusade. He indicated that his coming to Ghana is very timely because God wants to transform the country for greater works. “God has lifted Ghana and it will become the source of miracles and power for the rest of the world. The Lord is going to bless us in ways we never imagined,” he added. Several Christian leaders drawn from various denominations who were present at the event, pledged their support to make the event a success. They include Dr. Ampiah Kwofie (Global Revival Ministries), Most Rev. Dr. Paul K. Boafo (Presiding Bishop, Methodist Church Ghana), Senior Bishop James Saah (Christian Action Faith Ministries), Rev. Dr. Lawrence Tetteh (Lawrence Tetteh Ministries), Rev. Dr. Joyce Aryee (Executive Director, Salt & Light Ministries), among others.