SAMSON NWAFOR gives account of the reactions that trail the outcome of the governorship and State Assembly elections in Ebonyi State. The governorship and State House of Assembly elec­tions have come and gone, but its outcome didn’t go down well with some people, es­pecially the opposition parties in the state. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state se­cured a landslide victory in the election with its governorship candidate, Right Honourable Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru scor­ing a total of 199131 to defeat other contestants. Declaring the result at the Independent National Elector­al Commission, (INEC), State Headquarters in Abakaliki, on Monday March 20, 2023, the State Returning Officer, Prof Charles Igwe who is the Vice Chancellor, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) said Nwifuru polled a to­tal of 199131 votes cast across the 13 local governments of the state. His closest challenger, Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) got a total of 80191 votes cast to place second, while the candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Bernard Odoh placed third with 52189 votes. A total of 13 political parties participated in the governorship elections in the State, but three political parties, namely; APC, PDP and APGA participated more prominently. These major opposition parties publicly rejected the outcome of the elections, citing irregularities and manipulations that alleged­ly characterized the exercise as reasons.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ At a press conference held at its Campaign Office on March 23, 2023, the PDP rejected the out­come of the governorship and State Assembly elections in the state and vowed to challenge it in the court. POLL The acting chairman of the PDP in the state, Barrister Ifeanyi Nworie, who made the position of the party known said the ruling APC in the state allegedly per­fected a pre-determined charade in collaboration with INEC and announced concocted results. According to him, the outcome of the elections were absolutely condemnable and unacceptable to the party, adding that INEC nev­er acquitted itself creditably with patriotism and the high sense of responsibility expected of it. He further alleged that the rul­ing APC resorted to electoral ma­nipulations, violence, killings and the desecration of electoral rules. “The people of Ebonyi State attested to the fact that there is a pall of gloom, disquiet and dis­contentment in the state since the release of the concocted re­sults which INEC Ebonyi State manufactured to deny the PDP candidate his hard-earned victo­ry following his very impressive showing due to his mass follow­ership by Ebonyi people and his state-wide acceptability. “They have murdered the sleep of Ebonyians but the murderers will not sleep until they restore the people’s mandate to the legit­imate owner. “Consequently, it has become expedient for us to express our disgust, indignation and dissat­isfaction over the spurious man­ufacture of results that upturned the victory against our illustrious and promising candidate, Dr. If­eanyi Chukwuma Odii. “We unflinchingly state that our candidate was duly elected by a majority of the lawful votes cast in the election for the office of the Governor of Ebonyi State. “Our opponents in APC resort­ed to electoral manipulations, vio­lence, killings and the desecration of electoral rules. “In Ezza North Local Govern­ment Area (LGA), the chairman of PDP in the council area was murdered by elements believed to be APC thugs on the election day. The same thing happened in Onicha Igboeze, where a PDP agent was shot dead in similar circumstances. “We note that in the build up to the commencement of election­eering campaigns in the coun­try, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) stripped the op­position of level playing field by denying them campaign venues, generated and unleashed multiple modes of conflict and sporadic at­tacks determinedly perpetrated to perfect disruptions, violence, vandalism, snatching of electoral materials, voter intimidation and suppression, manipulations of re­sults and a plethora of fraudulent practices during the elections. “In the light of the foregoing, the 2023 governorship election in Ebonyi State was marred by irregularities, glaring cases of violent intimidation of the op­position, unlawful management and dispositions of the umpire that rendered them unacceptable and void as it lacked substantial compliance with the Electoral Act 2022, the electoral guidelines and Constitution of the Federal Re­public of Nigeria 1999 as amend­ed, the party said. The PDP said that its guber­natorial candidate won the elec­tion by the valid votes cast in the election. “We make it clear that we are absolutely determined to prove that, based on the valid votes cast at the governorship election of 18th March 2023, Dr Odii scored the highest number of votes cast at the election and not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in each of at least two-thirds of all the local gov­ernments in the state. As such, he ought to be declared and returned as the winner of the governorship election,” Nworie added. For the governorship candi­date of APGA, Professor Bernard Odoh, the tone of his rejection of the outcome of the election was not different. Odoh made his feelings known in a message he sent to Ebonyians on March 20, 2023, shortly after the declaration of the APC can­didate as the winner of the gov­ernorship election. While urging his supporters to be calm and peaceful, the APGA gubernatorial candidate vowed to review the entire results and pro­cesses as released by INEC with a view to challenging the outcome in court. He said: “On March 18, you took out your time to discharge your electoral franchise. You vot­ed for us and for the betterment of our great state. This is to say a big thank you for the honor you have given our state by voting, and for voting for APGA. “On Behalf of my running mate Dr Nkata Nwani Chuku, my party APGA, and the Odohzia Campaign Team, I say thank you immensely for standing with us throughout the campaigns and during the electoral processes. Notably, we appreciate party faithful, our benefactors within and outside Nigeria, the clergy, civil servants, teachers, business­men, traders, pensioners, our students, our youths and govern­ment functionaries who sacri­ficed their comfort for us and for our state by voting for us. I must specifically appreciate the urban­ites who unanimously chose our party, APGA at the polls. Also, the governorship candi­date of the New Nigeria Peoples’ Party (NNPP) in the election, Prophet Dr Adol- Awam Chris, has called on the INEC to can­cel the governorship election conducted in Ebonyi and hold a fresh one. Awam, who rejected the out­come of the election while brief­ing journalists in Abakaliki, vowed to challenge the exercise in court. He said it was disheartening that the INEC failed to live up to its mandate of ensuring a free, fair, and credible election. Awam said: “It is unfortunate that the election was an absolute sham as it was plagued with ir­regularities, such as failure to use Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) to upload election results to the INEC Result View­ing Portal (IReV) in real time, disenfranchisement of voters, rigging, vote buying, violence and intimidation, manipulation of election results, under-supply of voting materials, over-voting, ballot box stuffing and others are issues of corrupt practices and non-compliance with the provi­sions of the Electoral Act. “It is on this premise that the NNPP sternly rejects the outcome of the election since it is appar­ently glaring that the process was flawed. “Consequently, a flawed pro­cess will eventually produce a flawed outcome. Therefore we call on INEC to cancel the guberna­torial elections in Ebonyi State. We are not alone in this as several other parties have also rejected the results and are in tune with our position. The Petitions Tribunal has since commenced sitting. On March 28, it granted leave to the governorship candidate of the PDP, Mr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii and that of the APGA, Professor Bernard Odoh to inspect docu­ments used by the INEC for the conduct of the March 18 gover­norship election in the state. This order followed two sepa­rate Exparte Applications filed by Messrs Odii and Odoh, who came second and third, respectively, in the governorship election. The duo are alleging substan­tial non-compliance with the Elec­toral Act 2022 in addition to vio­lence and rigging which they said marred the conduct and outcome of the election. However, the Governor-elect, Right Honourable Francis Ogbon­na Nwifuru has extended a hand of friendship to all the candidates who contested the election with him. He also called on them to es­chew their political differences and join hands with him in the development of Ebonyi State. “I thank all my fellow candi­dates, who went on this great journey with me, Dr. Chukwu­ma Ifeanyi Odii of the PDP, Prof. Benard Ifeanyichukwu Odoh of APGA, Sunday Opoke of the Young Progressives Party (YPP) and Prophet Chis Adol Awam of NNPP. “I call on them to embrace this divine mandate and eschew all differences, so that we can work together for the peace and devel­opment of Ndi Ebonyi, as I strong­ly believe that the campaign was a race to serve our people. “Therefore, I invite them to join me in building a state that we all will be proud of, as my ad­ministration will run an inclusive government,” Nwifuru said.