The Leader Of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele has released fresh prophecies concerning the presidential elections that will be held in Gabon, Zimbabwe, DR Congo and Liberia later this year. In a statement signed by his media aide, Osho Oluwatosin, Primate Ayodele revealed some of the things that will come up in the countries and how the winners will emerge. In Zimbabwe, Primate Ayodele revealed that the opposition will not want to concede if they lose and they will go all out to indict the incumbent president. The man of God said that there would be massive protests and create problems in the country. He mentioned that the election would be marred by violence and that the ruling party would lose powers to deal with opposition. ‘’In Zimbabwe, there will be a crisis because the opposition will not agree if they lose, they will indict the ruling party if they win. They will create problems and will stage massive protests against the ruling party. If an election is conducted today, the opposition will berate the ruling party and they will not concede defeat so easily. The election will be marred with violence and the ruling party will lose constitutional powers to deal with the opposition.’’ In Liberia, Primate Ayodele noted that the incumbent president will retain his seat with God on his side though the opposition will work against him. He urged him to remain on the Lord’s side in order to have victory in the election. ‘’In Liberia, the opposition will work hard against the victory of the incumbent president. They will oppose his competence of the president. They will rub him with various scandals for him to lose the election. With God on his side, He will win the election but the opposition will come out strongly against him.’’ In Gabon, Primate Ayodele revealed that the president has good plans for his people and they will put pressure on him to run for office. He advised him not to run because he will have challenges leading the country. He noted that his government will be controlled by cabals.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ‘’Sincerely, the Gabonese President is a good man who has good intentions for his people and they will put him under serious pressure to run again but I want to advise him not to run if he loves himself. If he runs, He will win but will not be able to do as expected in the coming season. He will face gang-ups and challenges, he is a good man but he should step down from the race. He will win but continuation in his office will be challenging. His government will be in the hands of Cabals.’’ POLL Likewise, Primate Ayodele mentioned that the president of DR Congo will face battles from his opposition as they will try to unseat him but if he takes the right step, He will retain his seat. ‘’The president will be hated by the people and the opposition will come out with different strategies to unseat him but if he takes the right step, he will still retain his seat. He must be careful because there are backdoor forces that will make the government unstable and the economy will be so bad. He needs to work on security, economy and the youths if he wants to win.’’ 