As Nigerians join the rest of the world for this year’s Easter celebration, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and a former governor of Enugu state, Chimaroke Nnamani called for justice and peace. While PDP urged Nigerians to use the occasion of Easter, the celebration of the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to pray for the triumph of justice in the country and rekindle their hope for a new and purposeful Order that derive only from the Will of the people, Nnamani urged Nigerians to put the interest of the corporate existence of the nation above personal considerations. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon Debo Ologunagba said that the coming of Easter, at the time Nigerians are despondent over the outcome of the 2023 general elections, serves as an assurance that no matter how long falsehood and manipulation appear to thrive, the truth will surely prevail at the end of the day. “This season rekindles humanity’s assurance of victory of life over death, hope over despair, justice over injustice and the triumph of the Will of the people over the selfish and parochial scheme of an arrogant, selfish, corrupt and manipulative few,” the party said. PDP said that it is saddened that Nigerians are again observing a celebration such as Easter in hardship, fear, insecurity and hopelessness occasioned by the misrule of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Our Party therefore charges Nigerians to persevere in prayers and continue to care for, show love and share with one another at this critical time in hope for a better nation under a people-enthroned leadership,” the party said. The PDP assured of its upmost resolve to take every lawful action in the determination to retrieve the Presidential mandate freely given by the people to it and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar at the February 25, 2023 Presidential election so that Nigerians can have the breath of fresh air under a purposeful leadership that they eagerly yearn for.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The PDP felicitates with Nigerians and wishes them a happy Easter celebration. POLL The Enugu East Senator and former Governor of Enugu State, Nnamani noted that, regardless of religious or political inclinations, the survival of the country is paramount. Senator Nnamani thanked the Christian and Muslim communities alike for their prayers during this Lenten season which coincided with this year’s Ramadan fasting. He urged them to sustain the momentum in order to uphold the peace and unity of the nation. The former Governor noted the concerns of most Nigerians about the state of affairs saying, “we need to come together as a people with common destiny and find a lasting solution that will set the nation on the path to greatness.” He opined that “which ever side of the religion or political divide we may find ourselves, the interest of the country must be paramount.” In spite of misgivings in some quarters about the outcome of the 2023 general elections, Nnamani expressed optimism that the incoming administration offers a new vista of hope for the citizens. Nnamani said: “The newly elected leaders must be prepared to lead Nigeria out of the present challenges. Collectively we can make Nigeria great if we resolve to work together in an atmosphere anchored on honesty and mutual respect for one another.” “For the Christians, Easter is a thought-provoking moment as it commemorates the triumph of love, forgiveness, and sacrifice over evil as demonstrated by Christ. While wishing Nigerians a peaceful Easter celebration, he also urged them to sincerely pray for the nation.