UYO – Akwa Ibom State Government has constituted a committee to interface with the National Population Commission and ensure a smooth census process in the state. Governor Udom Emmanuel who constituted the Committee at the State Executive Council meeting in Uyo at the weekend intimated the members of the state EXCO that the National Population Census has been fixed for this year May. A release signed by the Hon. Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong and made available to our Correspondent in Uyo on Saturday indicates that Secretary to the State Government, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem has been appointed Chairman of the Committee. Others include Commissioners for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Economic Development, Information and Strategy, Women Affairs and Social Development, Rural Development and Cooperatives, and Special Adviser, Bureau of Political and Social Re-orientation, who all received the charge totake the exercise very seriously to ensure a smooth process. The release also reports Governor Emmanuel’s charge on his exco members to fast-track all the remaining projects under their supervision, as the handover date is fast approaching.“Efforts must be redoubled to achieve results, before the end of the administration”. He reportedly said The post-Exco meeting report also indicates that the state government has approved the takeover of 15 community schools across the state, bringing the total number of schools taken over by the administration to 34. It listed the affected schools to includeCommunity Christian High School, Ikot Oku Usung, Ukanafun LGA, Ibaka Community School, Ibaka town, Mbo LGA, Seat of Wisdom Comprehensive secondary School, Ibianga. Oruk Anam LGA, Community secondarySchool, Obot Ideng, Ibesikpo Asutan LGA , Migrant Community School, Ibakang Nsit, Nsit Atai LGA, All Saints Secondary school, Ibikpe Uruan, Uruan LGAETDA Secondary School, Nto Eton, Obot Akara LGA.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Others are: Abat High School, Abat Town, Etim Ekpo LGA, Community Comprehensive High School, Obo Atai, Nsit Ibom LGAChristian Community Secondary School, Okoyo, Ukanafun LGA, The Apostolic Church High School, Esit Urua, Eket LGAIbiono Ibom Community Secondary School, Ibiaku Ikpedip, Ibiono Ibom LGA Community Primary School School, Atabrikang, Eastern Obolo LGA Itak Peoples High School, Itak, Ikono LGA Secondary School, Oku Iboku, Itu LGA POLL “Council frowned at the disruption of free flow of traffic caused by illegal trading on the roads and environment around Itam junction and Ikot Oku Ikono fly over and directed the Ministry of Environment and Solid minerals to immediately take action to ensure a free flow of traffic at those points and its environs”. “Council granted approval for the 2022 promotion of civil servants, effective April 1, 2023. A Ministerial Status report of all Ministries was presented. Hon. Commissioner for Works and Fire service and HC- Special Duties presented the list of projects ready for inauguration”. The release stated.