LAGOS – The management of Arik Air on Tuesday barred Sir Johnson Arumemi-Ikhide, the founder of the airline, from gaining entrance into the carrier’s premises despite the Federal High Court judgment that granted him the right to do so. A mild drama played out at the premises of the airline on Tuesday when Arumemi-Ikhide in company of his team, attempted to enforce the Federal High Court ruling, which granted him “unfettered access” to the airline’s offices, but some security operatives at the airline stopped him from going beyond the front desk office of the airline, claiming to be acting on “order from above.” Arumemi-Ikhide had challenged the takeover of the airline by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON). AMCON had in February 2017, took over the running of Arik Air from Arumemi-Ikhide, claiming that it wanted to save it from total collapse, but the former management had kicked against the takeover. AMCON immediately appointed a receiver-manager, Kamilu Omokhide for the airline. But, in 2021, Arumemi Ikhide, and his wife, Mary Arumemi Ikhide (plaintiffs) filed an originating motion dated December 14, 2021, and prayed the court that the duty imposed on the receiver-manager, Kamilu Omokhide (first defendant) by Section 553 of the CAMA 202O to act in the best interest of Arik Air Limited as a whole, includes the duty to act in the best interest of the plaintiffs (Arumemi and Mary Ikhide) as members of Arik Air Limited. Arumemi-Ikhide also sought an order directing the 1st and 2nd defendants “to allow the Directors and Shareholders of Arik Air Ltd unfettered access to their offices, premises of the plaintiff, facilities and staff required for the discharge of their functions.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Our correspondent learnt that Arik Air management was served the court judgment on April 3, 2023, while Arumemi-Ikhide allegedly visited the airline on April 4, 2023 and had a meeting with Capt Roy Ilegbodu, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the airline. POLL At the entrance of the airline on Tuesday, Mr. Tom West, the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of the airline stopped him from entering the premises, claiming that he was acting based on a superior order. West insisted that he was only answerable to the receiver manager as one of his employees. He said: “The receiver manager gave an instruction not to allow you in. I am not aware of the court order. “We cannot give you access to get into the compound. This is the instruction from above. I’m very sorry that I’m keeping you people under the sun. “We have the directive to deny you access. I’m obliged to respect the directive from receiver manager.” Speaking on the issue, Arumemi-Ikhide, epressed surprise that he was not allowed entry into the complex, saying that it was in contradiction to the Federal High Court judgement. Arumemi-Ikhide told journalists that he was not at the complex to foment trouble, but in pursuant of the court judgement in the suit no: FHC/L/CS/1175/2021, which stated that he should be given unfettered access into his offices in Arik Air in order for him and his team to perform their duties. He added: “The court having affirmed that notwithstanding the appointment of a receiver manager that the organs of Arik Air remain intact and those organs such as the board and shareholders must be allowed to function. It is because of that that I being chairman of the board came to the office today. “Being aware of the service of the order of court on the company and having met the management led by Capt Roy Ilegbodu (CEO) on Wednesday 4th April 2023 with whom I discussed the orders made by the court and our intentions to adhere strictly to including the orders of court to be given office spaces. “We both agreed that the orders of court must be obeyed. We agreed that I and my team will resume this morning (Tuesday) 11th April, 2023, but to my greatest surprise and shock, I was barred entry by the CSO, Mr. Tom West who claimed that he has strict instructions of the receiver manager, Mr. Kamilu Omokide to deny me and my team access contrary to the orders of court. “Every persuasion with certified copies of the orders of court, earlier served on Arik Air by the court was discountenanced. As a law abiding citizen we decided not to press any further by ourselves, but rather fall back to the processes of the law by reporting to appropriate authorities.”