LAGOS  – The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Com­mand, CP Idowu Owohu­nwa, has warned those engaged in cultism and violent criminal activities in the state to desist and opt for a legitimate means of livelihood or face the wrath of the law. CP Owohunwa warned his command would deploy all op­erational assets to ensure that the command sustains the battle against cultism because the battle to end the illicit group in the state has started. He gave the warning on Wednesday at the state Command Headquarters in Ikeja, while pa­rading some suspects who were arrested at different parts of the state. During the parade of suspects, the Police boss stated that this was in line with the promise he made to Lagosians when he assumed office and with the support of the Inspector General of Police, he formed and equipped special units. He added that the idea is a new strategic plan to decentralise oper­ations of the Special Operations to move them closer to the grassroots to the places where we have been getting reports on cultism activi­ties. “We send them to our area commands, equip them and charge them to op­erate ultimately, not just to identify these cultists but to undertake in­telligence operations such that the battle will be taken to safe havens of these so-called cultists. “To support their operations, we also deployed unique intelli­gence because the orientation is that we do not wait for these cult to strike, we want to remain steps ahead of them in order to restore order within the internal security forum of Lagos State. “I am delighted that through the courageous and coordinated activities of these officers deployed on these special operations, within the first two weeks, we have made very significant breakthroughs worthy of notification.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In this regard. In the course of these anti-cultism operations, we have mopped up and arrested a total of forty-two (42) cultists in op­erations carried out in Ijora, Orile, Ebute-meta and ikorodu. POLL In the course of this opera­tions, a total of ten firearms of var­ious descriptions were recovered from the cultists, these includes 6 locally made shotguns, three lo­cally semi- automated pistols and one English made pistol. Three battle Axes, three cutlasses, three daggers, three knives, thirteen live cartridges, multiple charms.” “ I am therefore warning the cultists that in line of the prom­ises I made to Lagosians , we will deploy all our operational assets and we will provide the leadership support that will ensure that the special unit of the command sus­tain this battle against this cultists who appeared to be determined to threaten the internal security of Lagos, our value for peace and our wish for a stable secured state,” stated. He added, “The Lagos State Command under my watch will deny them the access in a very forceful way. I am also reassur­ing Lagosians that the battle to rid Lagos State of cultism and violent criminals has started and we will not relent until we restore order across the state. So the cultists and every group that operates on whatever’s guise should take this as clear or firm warning.