LAGOS – Otunba Segun Runsewe, the Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), has described Mrs. Oyenike Monica Okudaye, the proprietor of Nike Art Gallery as a woman of substance with an overriding motivation to revolutionise and empower young men and women with creative skills. Runsewe said that the impact of the Art Gallery proprietor was not only felt in the arts and crafts sector, but also in traditional Adire making that would make youths self-employed and employers of labour in the nearest future. A statement by the council stated that Runsewe stated this over the weekend during his visit to the Nike Art Gallery on airport road in Abuja. The statement hinted that Runsewe in conjunction with the major stakeholders in the culture and tourism industry, gathered at Nike Art Gallery to celebrate the commitment, hard work, creative, ingenuity and sheer resilience of an outstanding personality in the art and culture sector. According to him, the Nike Art Gallery with centres in Osogbo, Lagos, Kogi and now in Abuja was providing employment for thousands of unemployed Nigerians. He noted that the numerous activities of ‘Mama Nike’ in the art galleries were impacting on Nigerian economy by contributing to the country’s Gross Domestic Products (GDPs) and stimulating overall economic growth. Runsewe pointed out that Mama Nike Art Galleries had become veritable platforms for research and academic scholarship, noting that the Nike Art Gallery in Osogbo now admits undergraduate students in tertiary institutions in Nigeria, Canada and the United States for industrial training programme in textile design, traditional arts and culture, Yoruba Adire fabric processing and African dyeing method.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Runsewe further enjoined every Nigerian to consider Nike Art Gallery as a destination marketing strategy in cultural tourism. POLL In her response, Okudaye popularly known as ‘Mama Nike,’ expressed the appreciation for all the efforts and contributions Runsewe had put into making the Abuja branch of Nike Arts Gallery a reality. She added that Runsewe had contributed immensely to the growth of cultural industry and had been supportive from the conception stage of her art gallery to the present state. She also expressed her deepest appreciation to Runsewe, the management and staff of NCAC for supporting the creative industry.