LAGOS  – The Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh has said that the potentials of the blue economy are enough to pay off the country’s debt and improve its finances if properly harnessed. Jamoh stated this while delivering a lecture on “Banking on Blue Economy for Nigeria’s Economic Development”, during the 7th Annual ‘The Bullion Lecture’ organised by the Centre for Financial Journalism (CFJ) in Lagos. According to the Debt Management Office (DMO), Nigeria’s total debt stock rose to N44.06 trillion as of the end of September 2022, and could rise to N77 trillion. The NIMASA DG highlighted that the greatest threat to Nigeria’s blue economy is sea blindness; a situation whereby the people are unaware of the impact of shipping in their daily lives. He said that people now see shipping as an old-fashioned industry, which is not the case, as it is still dependent on and brings in almost 90 per cent of what Nigerians consume. The NIMASA boss added that the country is faced with the need for diversification and a move away from the dwindling revenue hitherto generated from the oil sector. He said: “There are many aspects to maritime domain awareness ranging from security to safety to the health of the marine environment. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “But when it comes to the Blue Economy, all eyes must be on the money. POLL “We need to know what we as Nigeria have domiciled in our Economic Maritime Domain. “Most discussions about maritime domain awareness have centered largely on security. “Little wonder that when I assumed office three years ago as the Director-General of NIMASA, we introduced our strategy around the tripod of Maritime Security, Maritime Safety and Shipping Development – known popularly as the TRIPLE ‘S’, but with the recent gains in calming our waters, it is now time for Nigeria to pivot to the Economics of Maritime Domain Awareness hence the Blue Economy. “We need to take stock of what is out there in our waters – we need to know what we have in terms of what will create jobs, build coastal communities, grow careers, enhance transportation of humans and cargo, renew and sustain the environment, reduce littoral areas poverty and make our nation competitive by maximizing our comparative oceanic advantages. “The country had focused on a hybrid economic structure that blends oil with agriculture but the former remained consistent as a growing economic mainstay ahead of the latter over the years. “Today, the waters provide low-hanging fruits to diversify the economy. It is increasingly being accepted that the country’s future lies in the Blue Economy. “Agbakoba made mention of the debt that the incoming government will inherit. If you look at the blue economy, you will think that it’s child’s play, but it is not. Once serious, we can use the blue economy to knock out the debts.” Jamoh pointed out that the Nigerian government’s policy direction towards economic diversification from oil dependence to a blue economy is deliberate because studies have proven the oil industry to be subject to limitations in the face of global demand for environmentally sustainable sources of energy. He said that the country stands to benefit more from her waters if sustainable steps are taken to harness the many untapped marine potentials for investment and job creation while preventing marine pollution. The NIMASA boss explained that while many confine their thinking to a blue economy concept that revolves around littoral states where large bodies of waters are found with ports and jetties, the benefits are cascading to none littoral areas like Kaduna and Kano now have dry ports; and Northern based businesses and importers can depend on trans-shipment of cargoes from the seaports to these dry ports. While giving the five key pillars of the Blue Economy as sustainability; promoting ocean resources; preservation of the ecosystem; economic growth, as well as improved livelihoods and jobs, he stated that the industry is valued at 2.5 trillion USD per annum, 350 million jobs are linked to marine fisheries worldwide; At the same time, 34 per cent of offshore crude production by aquaculture is the fastest-growing food sector providing 50 per cent of fish for humanity. According to him, in 2012, sea tourism increased by four per cent despite the global economic crisis and constituted nine per cent of Global GDP: nine per cent of global jobs; and generated $1.3 trillion or per cent of the world’s export. He listed maritime transportation, fisheries, aquaculture, renewable energy, tourism, climate change, waste management, port development and logistics, shipping, dockyards, marine tourism, dredging, offshore oil & gas exploration and production, renewable energy and biotechnology, maritime fabrication and construction as key segments of the blue economy. Speaking further on the inherent opportunities of the blue economy, he urged investors to look in the area of tourism, cargo operations, stevedoring services, warehousing/ bonded terminal, haulage, shipbuilding and repairs, ship/cargo surveying, ship management, and tank farms. Other areas include packaging, logistics, bunkering services, ship/cargo surveying, ship chandelling, short-sea services, a ship brokerage, ship agency, ship finance services, training for shore and shipboard personnel, marine insurance services, legal/admiralty services and IT services. Jamoh stated that NIMASA is driving Nigeria’s blue economy agenda through the following: “Disbursement of Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF)$360MX2. Deployment of the Modular Floating Dock, capacity building for seafarers and capacity building (Maritime Skills) – Maritime Training Institutions (MTIs). Midwifing of Strategic Synergy to further enable ship-owners easily acquire vessels to expand the national fleet through financial investment and cargo support by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL).