EJIKEME OMENAZU Today is Easter. It is a day set aside by Christendom to celebrate the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the saviour of mankind. Easter period is popularly referred to as ‘The Passion’. Today, as it is the tradition, Churches will be filled to the brim as part of the celebration. In Christian homes, there will be celebrations, even as the effervescence of the festivity will be everywhere. Not minding the national mood of sadness, fear and worry due to the prevailing insecurity and economic hardship, believers will still make merry in celebration of the Risen Christ, the hope of mankind. Apostle Dr. Peter Enesi, the President, Royal Light Institute of Biblical Studies (RLIBS), Lagos, who spoke on the essence of Easter, maintained that in a culture where ‘Christians’ and the ‘Unbeliever’ traditions have become interwoven, it could be difficult to determine the meaning of the celebration of Easter. He stated: “The Resurrection of Our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ, is the foundation of our Christian faith. His resurrected body was historically verified by the New Testament Apostles and witnesses numbering in the thousands. He was crucified, died and was buried and raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures. “If Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is also in vain (I Cor. 15:14). Of all the great miracles of His earthly ministry, the Resurrection gives the definitive proof of His divine authority, which He had promised and fulfilled. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “By His death, He freed us from the effects of what sin had caused; separation from God. Original Sin and guilt had to be redeemed and made good by the sacrifice of the Spotless Lamb. Through His unmerited death on the Cross, He did what we could not: He paid our debt. POLL “He took on the consequence of sin, though sinless in order to wipe the slate clean. In this respect, the Resurrection of Jesus is the definitive victory, that is, over death, a triumph of the salvavic love of God. “Jesus came into the world to build the kingdom of God, crushing the head of the serpent Satan, who is not just a metaphor or sin but a real malevolent presence that exists in the current world.