One of Nigeria’s leading full-service Public Relations and Event Management Consultancy firm, Integrated Indigo Limited, has emerged as one of the winners of the 2023 Sabre Awards Africa. The Agency clinched the award in the Measurement and Evaluation category (Industrial/Manufacturing) for the Maltina Teacher of the Year Competition of the Nigerian Breweries Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund (ETF). The news of Indigo’s emergence was conveyed in a mail to the Agency by the organizers of the prestigious Pan Africa PR Awards- PRovoke Media, formerly known as Holmes Report. The mail reads, “Congratulations! You are a 2023 SABRE Awards Africa Winner! If you are receiving this email, then you are a winner in the 2023 SABRE Awards Africa” Integrated Indigo also won a certificate of excellence in Measurement and Evaluation for Western Africa category with its Maltina Teacher of the Year competition. It would be recalled that Indigo received similar recognitions in the 2022 Sabre Awards for Africa with the Mastercard Foundation COVID-19 Public Awareness Campaign and Hope Documentary Campaign – EU’s Intervention in North East, Nigeria campaign. Organised by the world’s leading media voice in public relations and communications, PRovoke Media, SABRE Awards EMEA is an annual ceremony to celebrate public relations and communication excellence in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. This award recognizes campaigns, agencies, and individuals that have demonstrated the highest levels of creativity, effectiveness, and integrity in public relations, benchmarking campaigns from around the globe. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ This is the second time Integrated Indigo Limited will be recognized and honored for its creativity and work for clients in the public relations and communication space. POLL Bolaji Abimbola, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Integrated Indigo Limited, while speaking on the award, described the award as a well-deserved reward for excellence and commitment to delivering exceptional client services.