***Highlights Attacks Against Him, Datti-Ahmed ***Says They Remain On Course ABUJA – The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, has saluted Muslim faithful on the occasion of the Eid-ul-Fitr festival which begins Friday following the sighting of the moon in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). He charged Nigerians to, in the spirit of Ramadan, remain focused on peace and rule of law in the country and refuse to be distracted. Obi in a Sallah message noted that the Holy Month of Ramadan was for all to practice restraint, decorum, and humility; as he asked all faithful to be fair and just in all dealings; to help the needy and heal the ailing; to also promote mutual understanding and peace within communities. The Labour Party presidential candidate in the 2023 election noted that the occasion seeks to promote the values of universal social justice, world peace, and human progress. The former Anambra State governor explained that “Nigeria, the only nation we have as our own, is going through uncertainties relating to insecurity, deprivation, unemployment, and most recently, divisive flawed elections arising from the activities of fringe elements, who do not respect the rule of law and the wishes of our people”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “They have deployed impunity and exploited the weak national institutions to subvert the will of the people with many untoward activities directed at our people and nation. POLL “We remain in prayers that these challenges will be overcome without adverse shock to the polity, nation & national interest”, he pointed out. He further disclosed that he and his Vice Datti Baba-Ahmad have been at the receiving end of false allegations, but because of the regard for Ramadan, they refrained from reacting. “The most egregious of these acts is the allegation of treason for speaking up and for following due process. It is now common knowledge that perpetrators of state capture and their acolytes continue to attack Datti and I, and indeed, the Labour Party and the Obidient Family, for seeking redress in the court of law to recover our stolen electoral mandate. “Efforts to dissuade us from pursuing rightful judicial recourse have included state deployment of deep fake audio, identity theft, impersonation, trolls, and fighting words, but In the true spirit of Ramadan, we have remained guided and responsible”, he added. The message added that “the struggle to reclaim their mandate is in good stead, and on course”. “On the occasion of the celebration of Eid il Fitr, I wish you all a Happy Sallah and congratulate you for completing Ramadan 2023 successfully. Ramadan Kereem! “The Holy Month of Ramadan was for all to practice restraint, decorum, and humility; it enjoined all faithful to be fair and just in all dealings; to help the needy and heal the ailing; to also promote mutual understanding and peace within communities. These injunctions promote the values of universal social justice, world peace, and human progress. “Our dear country, Nigeria, the only nation we have, is going through uncertainties in different areas relating to insecurity, deprivation, unemployment, and most recently, divisive flawed elections arising from the activities of fringe elements, who do not respect the rule of law. They always deploy impunity and exploit weak national institutions to subvert the will of the people. “Many untoward activities have been directed at our people and nation but we remain resolute in fighting for a New Nigeria, through all peaceful and legal options under our laws. We continue to implore all Nigerians to remain peaceful and law-abiding. “We equally remain in prayers that these challenges will be overcome without further adverse shock to the economy, nation, and national interest. “In deference to the revered periods of Lent and Ramadan, we have refrained from personally reacting to various distractive allegations and fake news directed at Datti Baba-Ahmed and I. The most egregious of these acts is the allegation of treason for pursuing the due process. “It is now common knowledge that perpetrators of state capture and their acolytes continue to attack Datti and I, and indeed, the Labour Party and the Obidient Family, for seeking a New Nigeria that will be beneficial to all Nigerians. “Efforts to dissuade us from pursuing a rightful path toward achieving an equitable, secure, and productive New Nigeria, included the deployment of doctored audio, identity theft, impersonation, trolls, and fighting words. Indeed, be assured that a new Nigeria, that is safe, secure, fair, and prosperous for all Nigerians is POssible”, it emphasized.