BENIN – Prince Clem Agba, the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, says no fewer than 60 Federal Government projects is cited in Edo State under the Economic Sustainability Plan. The minister stated this while commissioning and inspecting some projects in the Edo-North Senatorial District of Edo, on Tuesday. Some of the Federal projects completed and inaugurated, according to the minister include, 1.5km Mogbe-Edegbe road, 4.5km Agenebode-Unedeger road, 2.5km Ekiwosor-Ivikhue road, Imukena road, Installation of 500 KVA transformer in Agenebode, open stalls market and solar street lights Other projects, all of which were inspected by the minister included the construction of 31km Uzanu-Ajaokuta road in Kogi, 21.5 km Uzanu-Okpekpe road, 6km Ogeneda-Ugochi road, 10km Egbegeri-Ate road and Somorika road. Others are; Uzanu mini market, Uzanu Divisional Police Station, Uzanu mini stadium, Uzanu internal roads and construction of 80 bed seater with two theater and doctors quarters of Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital Uzanu Annex. Agba while speaking to journalists said the inauguration of the projects in the rural area is as results of 60 per cent post harvest lost by farmers and to reduce multi dimensionally poverty in the rural areas. According to him, the President Muhammadu Buhari’s policies are geared towards reducing drastically the multi dimensionally poor Nigerians spanning over 130 million.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “From the last count including what we have in 2023, I think we have about 60 projects in Edo and I am glad that you have seen some yourself. POLL “We have seen some write up on social media where they said the president have done nothing in Edo. “Apparently is those who have done nothing signing MOU’s are the one also saying this. “But, seeing like they say is believing, just that we having been making a lot of noise, after all we are not empty vessels. “The president have done very well for the state, you saw a bridge today at Uzanu and I also told you that we have a modern bridge we facilitated in economic sustainability plan, these are two bridges in Edo” Agba said. Agba explained that the massive construction of roads in the rural communities under the National Roads Reduction Policy was to link rural areas together to transport their farm produce to neighboring communities for economic benefits. The Minister, however, allayed fear of abandoning any of the ongoing projects as they have been captured in the 2023 budget which the incoming administration of the president-elect, Bola Tinubu would continue under his renewed hope agenda. Some community leaders, Mr. Peter Okpnokhe, Simon Ogie, and Julius Enakhena commended President Muhammadu Buhari as well as the minister for attracting such a laudable projects to the senatorial district. They, however, appealed for the speedy completion of the other projects in the senatorial districts.