Besiktas are surprisingly considering extending Dele Alli’s stay at the club. Alli moved to the Turkish side on loan from Everton at the start of the season but has had a torrid time, only making 17 appearances due to a hip injury. The 27-year-old was booed off by his own fans in December after a woeful display against Şanlıurfa in a Turkish Cup tie. And had been banished from matchday squads for the remainder of the season by manager Senol Gunes. Reports had initially circulated that the Black Eagles had no interest in keeping Alli past his season-long loan but now Besiktas president Ahmet Nur Cebi is claiming otherwise in a shocking U-turn. With Alli’s contract at Everton expiring in 2024, Cebi has claimed he would be open to signing Alli permanently if he ‘leaves Everton for free’ in the summer, as per the Daily Mail. Alli was recently caught up in controversy when he was pictured sucking on a balloon surrounded by gas canisters. The ex-Tottenham star is yet to break his silence on the incident, but Everton manager Sean Dyche had his say when asked about Alli in the wake of the images emerging. He said: “You can only guide people with what you think is good for them. Eventually, players have choices, so we recommend they make good choices. “But behind that, he’s factually injured. He’s come back with a proper injury that’s going to take some time to get sorted out, so he’ll use that period wisely, I hope.” Speaking about Alli’s future at Everton, he added: “He is not here. He has an injury which will keep him out for some time. Some of the stuff reported – they know what they should and shouldn’t be doing.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As a manager, you cannot control everything in their lives. Should we be following them all day? You can only guide them. He has an injury which will take a while to sort out – it will be a number of weeks.” POLL Alli is now back in England at the request of Everton and has recently undergone surgery on his injured hip. He is not available for his parent club for the rest of the campaign and is unlikely to play any senior football for the rest of the season.