***Congratulates Muslim Faithful On Completion Of Ramadan Oyo State Governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, on Friday, stated that his administration has laid a very solid foundation for governments that would come after him, adding that his successors will ride on the initiatives of his administration to achieve better things for the state. The governor, while receiving the State Executive Council members and other Muslims members of his administration led by the Deputy Governor, Barr Abdul-Raheem Bayo Lawal, congratulated Muslims for the completion of Ramadan fast. The governor said that all the achievements attained by his government were the collective efforts of the cabinet. He maintained that the people that will come after him will do more and surpass his achievements because he has been laying a solid foundation for the future. He said that there are lots of talents among the Christian and Muslim faithful whom he said will take the state to greater heights.He expressed the hope that the state would produce more of Makindes and Adebayos in the nearest future . The governor also thanked the people of Oyo State for supporting him in the last election, declaring that he would continue to ensure that the dividends of democracy get to the nooks and crannies of the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “Let me use this opportunity to greet our people Barka de Sallah and I would like to mention that we should be thankful to God, no matter how difficult we feel the situation has been. POLL “God has kept us through the 30 days of fasting, which is to discipline the flesh. So, I would like to let our people know that there is room to be thankful to God. “When Professor Malik was talking, he said we have raised the bar of governance in Oyo State, and people coming behind us have serious challenges to face. But I said no, it is actually the other way round because we are laying a very solid foundation so that the people coming behind us will even surpass what we have been able to achieve simply because the foundation is solid.” Earlier, the Deputy Governor, Barrister Abdul Rahman Adebayo Lawal, had said that the purpose of the visit was to pay homage to the governor after leaving the Mosque for Eid prayers. He explained that Governor Makinde has raised the bar of governance in the state.During the visit, prayer was said for the success of Governor Makinde’s second term in office, which commences on May 29, 2023.