***Tells INEC To Give Date For Joint Inspection LAGOS – Rivers State has been in the eye of the storm since yesterday over inspection of election materials, and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) have been on each other’s neck over the issue. The office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) also seems to be under a siege of some sort since yesterday. The PDP on its part is insisting that the APC wouldn’t be allowed to inspect the election materials alone, stressing that if INEC must make the materials available, all the political parties which participated in that election must be there to do a joint inspection. Recall that Tonye Cole, the gubernatorial candidate of the APC in Rivers State, in the last general elections said that he was attacked and his life threatened by members of the ruling party in the state on Monday at the INEC office in Port Harcourt, where he had gone to collect a Certified True Copy (CTC) of the election results. Speaking on Tuesday on Arise TV, Dr. Sam Nwanosike, chairman of Ikwerre Local Government Area, and a member of the PDP, said that the party will continue to occupy the INEC office until Friday, stressing that if INEC wants to release any material to any political party it must be through a joint inspection. He said that his party wants to avoid a situation where a party would go and doctor the results and they want to avoid a repeat of what happened in Imo State where a candidate who came fourth in an election became the governor of the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Nwanosike said, “We are insisting on joint inspection of election materials. We want to avoid a repeat of what happened in Imo State where the number 4 candidate in an election became number 1, we won’t allow them to doctor the result sheets.” POLL On how the violence started yesterday, Nwanosike said, “Tonye Cole started the violence. Our people were at the waterside, polo club, and we made our position known to the Rivers people. Cole came in with two trucks of military and police men and was going to run over the PDP woman leader in Rivers State. “When the woman asked why he wanted to run over her, he slapped her. It was at that point that the people who were there started throwing things at him. The woman is a grandmother and Cole slapped her,” he said. On the way forward considering the time-sensitive nature of the material needed for use at the tribunal since joint inspection may not be feasible, he said, “Nobody can say it is not feasible. INEC should declare a date for all the parties to come here. Cole doesn’t need to be here. Our candidate is not here. We want to end all these suspicions and shenanigans. Let all of us come for joint inspection,” he said.