DAMATURU – Yola Electricity Distribution Company YEDC consumers on central primary school transformer, Potiskum town of Yobe State are now groaning over poor electricity supply in the area. Some of the residents who spoke to newsmen over the situation lamented that they had expected the situation to improve but regretted that the supply of electricity has continued to be epileptic within the area. The residents said that although they had been experiencing power outage, the situation had worsened since the beginning of the fasting month despite complaining to the YEDC management in Potiskum town. Areas mostly affected include are residential and business area.The residents complained of erratic power supply adding that the situation had deteriorated in the last two months. A tailor, Malam Ibrahim said that inadequate power supply had crippled his businesses as he had lost many customers of his customers especially in the sallah festive season. “The tailoring business we operate is a lucrative one, but inefficient power supply has made us to lose a lot of customers. Some of the customers cannot afford the cost of using a generator, so they just leave when I charge them extra because of fuelling of the generator”. “Here in Potiskum town, the most annoying part of the YEDC staff is how they treat their consumers, they don’t listen to voice, show I don’t care attitudes in carrying out their primary assignment. Imagine your customers begging you for just 2hrs light a day. This is pure wickedness”, he alleged.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On her, Fatima Mohammed , said “we did not have light since the beginning of the month of fasting”, and accused the company of non challant attitude. POLL She said: “When are we going to ever experience light again in central primary school transformer? It is obvious that this company is above it’s consumers. I’ve been saying this for over three weeks now and all you say is rubbish cos nothing is done”. Also, a resident, said the community had experienced a power outage for the month of fasting and called on the company to rectify it. However, efforts to get reactions from the Chief Marketing Officer of YEDC and Technical Officer, were futile.