What a joyful day! What a glorious day!! Today is a day of Resurrection and Celebration!!! Concerning this day, the Psalmist declares in Psalm 118:24, “This is the day the Lord has made; let us rejoice in it and be glad.” Child of God, be ready to celebrate! Your period of Lent is over! Your period of sorrow and mourning is over! God has come to deal with your sickness. Premature death and even untimely death is about to be destroyed! I repeat, be ready to celebrate! Death is the worst thing that can happen to anyone. Death can terminate people’s dreams and aspirations. It can even terminate people’s life here on earth. Nobody has been able to solve the perennial problem of death. And nobody has consciously died and came back to life. The world of the dead remains a mystery in most people’s mind. Jesus Christ of Nazareth is the First and only One that tested death and came back to life. This is what Easter Celebration is all about! At Easter we are celebrating the Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ from death, after being buried for three days. We are celebrating His victory over death. With Jesus Christ, we are equally celebrating our victory over bondage and captivity. We are celebrating our victory over the kingdom and forces of darkness! We are celebrating our victory over the reign of satan and his agents. Above all, we are celebrating the resurrection and restoration of our lives, our health and of our lost glory. Before His Crucifixion our Lord Jesus Christ told his fellow Jews, “The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised the third day” (Luke 9:22). Jesus was destined to suffer in order to identify with our suffering world. His rejection by His fellow Jews has brought solution to our own rejection. If Jesus could be rejected that means anyone could be rejected. Moreover, his rejection did not stop his glorification. The more He was rejected by humans the more He was accepted and celebrated by the Most High God. Human rejection attracts Divine Acceptance and Divine Glorification. On Good Friday Jesus was crucified on the Cross for a crime He never committed. He was crucified for upholding the truth. He was crucified because He healed the sick on the Sabbath day. He was falsely accused of breaking the Sabbath law. He was crucified because the powers that be saw Him as a threat. Herod was the figure head king but people respected and celebrated Jesus as their King. The gospel of John 20:1-9 presents the story of Jesus’ resurrection. In this passage Mary Magdalene was the first to see that the Stone which they used to cover the entrance of the Tomb were Jesus was buried has rolled away mysteriously. She ran and announced the Good News to the Apostles, who came to the tomb and confirmed that the stone of death has been rolled away. Imagine! that heavy stone could not stop Jesus from resurrecting. Even the Soldiers who were guarding the tomb could not prevent Him from rising. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Child of God, with the resurrection of Jesus Christ, you are unstoppable! Nothing and nobody will ever stop you from rising to your greatness. With Jesus, you shall rise again! Your family shall rise again! That your marital life and vocation that is shaking will surely rise again! Your business shall rise again. POLL Right now, I command every stone blocking your womb in the name of fibroid to start rolling away! Every obstacle and stumbling blocks are hereby cancelled, in Jesus name!