ABUJA – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has denied allegations that its personnel compromised the just concluded supplementary governorship election in Ad­amawa State. Festus Okoye, National Com­missioner and Chairman, In­formation and Voter Education Committee, was reacting to a statement by candidate of one of the political parties, accusing the commission of undermin­ing the integrity of the process that produced Ahmadu Umaru Fintri as Adamawa State gover­nor-elect. The accuser had alleged that the commission’s personnel paid a discreet, nocturnal visit to the Government House in Yola, os­tensibly with a view to compro­mising the outcome of the poll, a claim INEC strongly challenged. Insisting that no such visit took place, Okoye said doing so would have out rightly under­mined the oath of neutrality sworn by staff of the commis­sion. He reminded the public that it has been a standard practice for the commission to deploy national commissioners or res­ident electoral commissioners from nearby states to support their colleague during off cycle elections, noting that it was not strange that the commission followed the pattern during the supplementary election in Ad­amawa. Okoye’s statement read in part: “Ordinarily, the commis­sion does not join issues with par­tisan actors, particularly where no evidence has been proven. “To set the record straight, no such visit or meeting took place let alone the compilation of any purported list of collation and returning officers. Such a meet­ing would have been contrary to the oath of neutrality that we all swore to. Moreover, every con­scientious observer would have noticed that the commission ap­pointed and retained only one re­turning officer for the governor­ship election who also doubled as the state collation officer for the presidential election (SCOPE).‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Like all returning officers nationwide, he was issued with a letter of appointment by the commission and the resident electoral commissioner (REC) in Adamawa State was duly informed. The list of collation officers was also forwarded to the state with every page of the list personally endorsed by the chairman of the commission well ahead of the arrival of the national commissioners. POLL “Similarly, the same press statement created the impres­sion that the national headquar­ters of the commission specifi­cally targeted Adamawa State in its deployment of national commissioners and other offi­cials with the sole intention of influencing the outcome of the supplementary election held on Saturday 25th April 2023 and sidelining the REC. Nothing can be further from the truth. “For the record, it has been the standard policy and practice of the commission to deploy national commissioners, RECs and other staff from the head­quarters or neighbouring states for supplementary or off-cycle elections where doing so is con­sidered necessary. “In the case of Adamawa State where supplementary governorship election was held in 69 polling units, two national commissioners were deployed while for Kebbi State involving 142 polling units, three national commissioners were deployed. “Similarly, one national com­missioner each was deployed to Sokoto, Zamfara, Imo, Rivers, Ek­iti and Ogun states. This has been the standard practice of the com­mission of which all RECs are informed in advance. Therefore, Adamawa State was not specifi­cally targeted. In all other states, the RECs worked cooperatively withthenationalcommissioners except in Adamawa State for rea­sons that are now obvious to all. “The public is advised to dis­countenance these insinuations as nothing more than a claptrap. We also advise those behind the mischief to desist forthwith as such fabrications have endan­gered the lives of our officials (both ad hoc and regular) en­gaged in legitimate election duties. We expect well-meaning citizens to act within the bounds of propriety and decency”.