*As Death Toll Hits 130 MAKURDI – Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has suspended the operations of the State Livestock Guards for a period of two weeks to pave way for herdsmen that are within the state to move out. The Governor said he took the decision to suspend the operations of the Guards as part of the fallout of an Emergency Security Council meeting that was held in the state on Tuesday to finds solution towards checking the recent upsurge of killing of peasant farmers in the state by herdsmen. He also lamented that the death toll occasioned by the herders’ attack in under two weeks hit an all time high of 130 deaths recorded. While Governor Ortom reiterated that the Benue State Ranches Establishment and Open Grazing Prohibition Law would not be repealed during his tenure, he advised Fulani herdsmen who were not ready to comply with the law to move to states where the law was not in existence. He said, “Recently within a short period of 10 days we have recorded over 130 killings in Benue state and we are still counting. “This is not acceptable to the Security Council but we commend the security agencies for their prompt responses to distress calls; they have not relented despite the obvious challenges they face.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We commend the support of the Community Volunteer Guards who are directly under the supervision of the Nigerian Police and urge them to continue to be of good behaviour and patriotic in carrying out their responsibilities. POLL “We equally condemn the unholy alliance of some of our youth here in Benue state with Fulani terrorists joining hands and sometimes rustling cattle and conniving with some indigenous youths to slaughtered or dispose them, we condemn that unholy alliance. “And we also condemn; though a rumour and subject to investigation, some traditional rulers and stakeholders on various communities who are also aware of this. We condemn these acts. “We have charged security agencies to apprehend anyone that is found wanting as far as disobeying the law is concerned. Whoever you are, and whatever tribe you come from, it does not matter you will be apprehended.” He further explained that “We allowed the suspension of the operations of the Livestock Guards for two weeks to allow those who came with their cattle into Benue to return back and allow our people to live in peace. “And so I want to urge our foreign brothers who believe in open grazing to go to other states where there are no laws to do it, but here the opportunities are still there for you to establish your ranches and keep your cattle and live a peaceful life and coexist with others. But anything short of this for now is not allowed. “So the security agencies are there to enforce the law against anyone that preaches any form of dissolution of the law. So all those coniviving with Fulanis for the purpose of rustling cattle, security forces have been mandated to apprehend them and bring them to book. “And let me also commend the President; it’s out duty to also encourage and commend him because in the recent massacre he sent condolence messages to Benue people and also directed security agencies to ensure they apprehend the perpetrators of this killings.” Governor Ortom also charged the people of Benue from politiking with security issues, which are capable of leading to chaos in the state. “We have allowed the suspension of the operations of the Benue State Livestock Guards for two weeks so that those Fulani herdsmen who came into the state with their cattle can go back to where they came from and allow our people to stay in peace”, Ortom said. According to him, “For the people of Benue State, we want to admonish, especially politicians to know that if the State is not there, they cannot politik. Election have come and gone, those who have gone to the Tribunal are still exercising their rights and legitimate rights for that matter. Let us be peaceful. “Let us be guided and be mindful against making inflammatory statements that will cause chaos, anarchy and lawlessness. Let us not encourage evil and I want every indigene to remember that I am still Governor of the state, until May 29th, 2023 and whether you are elected or not, you should be law abiding. “My advise especially to those who have won elections, if the State is no longer there, who will you preside over. So you just need to be patient, because in the next six weeks or so when you take over the mantle of leadership you can decide on what policies you want and nobody will question you, even as a former Governor, all I can do then is to advise. And if the policies are not good and you want to repeal laws, you can. “But today we are not repealing any law including the Benue State Ranches Establishment and Open Grazing Prohibition Law”, he insisted. However, Governor Ortom stresses that “We are committed to the unity of the state and the Security Council is committed to protecting everybody in Benue state that is engaged in legitimate business in Benue state. No one will be intimidated irrespective of where he comes from. “Whatever your ethnic or religious background you have right to practice here in Benue state as long as you do it within the ambits of the law, you are permitted. No one should ever be harassed for whatever reason. And we implore our people to be law abiding. “Where you have issues with your neighbours you should report to security agencies. That is why they are there and they are ready to work with you. All we are saying is that nobody should take the laws into his or her hands no matter the provocation. Two wrongs will never make a right. “So the security agencies are there to enforce the law against anyone that breach the provisions of the law”, he noted. End