LAGOS – The Nestlé Livestock Development Program (NLDP), a Nestlé Nigeria Plc initiative, started its journey in 2019 to empower pastoralists and smallholder farmers through cutting-edge technology to Create Shared Value in the dairy industry. Nestlé Nigeria has improved cooperative dynamics, and herd health, as well as promoted hygienic milk collection and handling practices through this mutually beneficial relationship via the NLDP. As of December 2022, NLDP has increased its milk collection and cooling capacity from 1500 litres to 6,500 litres per day as well as empowered 4,391 milk producers and smallholder farmers in the dairy value chain. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations (UN), billions of people worldwide consume milk and dairy products every day. FAO in a book titled, ‘Milk and dairy products in human nutrition, reviewed global trends in milk production and consumption, and discusses challenges for sustainable and inclusive dairy-industry development and food safety. The book explained that milk and dairy products are not only a vital source of nutrition for humans, but they also present livelihood opportunities for farmers, processors, shopkeepers, and other stakeholders in the dairy value chain. Empowering Pastoralists, Increasing Milk Volumes Consequently, NLDP in partnership with CBI Innovations Limited, a social enterprise, is implementing a five-year dairy development project that aggregates smallholder dairy producers to improve the productivity of the local dairy industry in Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Confirming this, Victoria Uwadoka, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager, Nestlé Nigeria, said, that Nestle has worked with CBIiL since 2019 to empower Nigerian pastoralists and smallholder farmers in the dairy value chain. POLL Uwadoka explained, “The partnership was built in 2019, while physical activities started on the ground in December 2020 with stakeholder engagement, in 2021, the training, building of infrastructure, etc commenced in full swing.” Interestingly, she said, the NLDP project, supported by International Fertiliser Development Centre (IFDC-2CALE), witnessed a milestone of 2,500 litres (L) of fresh milk per day from only 200 litres collected on the first day of milk collection on June 1, 2021. Independent Newspapers learnt that the collaboration between Nestlé Nigeria, ‘CBiIL’, and 2SCALE, NLDP delivers 1,500 L/day at Paikon Kore Grazing Reserve and 1,000 L/day at Kachia Grazing Reserve. The project which kicked off with the first Milk Collection Centre and Point in Paikon Kore has today expanded to two milk collection and cooling centres and three milk collection points. Uwadoka further said explained that the collection of 2,500L/day was made possible by 25 cooperatives comprising over 625 households milking between 4,000 and 6,000 cows every day. These cooperatives have been trained and nurtured for over 18 months to achieve the good quality fresh milk now produced through the project, Uwadoka elaborated. “With the inauguration of the centre in Kaduna, December 2022, we currently have two milk collection and cooling centres and three milk collection points.” She further said, “The total milk collection and cooling capacity of Nestlé’s Dairy Development Programme increased to 3,500 litres at the milk collection centre in Paikon Korebefore the inauguration in Kaduna. In December 2022, the Nestlé Nigeria Milk Collection Centre was inaugurated at the Ladugga Grazing Reserve in Kachia LGA, Kaduna State.  With the inauguration, we added an additional 3000litres, bringing the total capacity to 6,500litres per day.” Uwadoka noted that the achievement of milk volumes in Nestle’s dairy development project is made possible by the engagement and empowerment of 77 cooperatives and 31 aggregators in the Ladugga Grazing Reserve community. The project has also made significant investments in improving herd health, improving infrastructure including the provision of water, and the establishment of cool chain infrastructure, added the Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager The visibly excited Uwadoka said, “We are proud of the progress we have made since the first engagement with the Kaduna State Ministry of Agriculture which culminated in the start of operations here in Ladugga Grazing Reserve in 2021.” “Nestlé Nigeria’s dairy project is built on three pillars: Better Feed and Fodder, Quality Milk Products, and Resilient communities. We have made significant progress on these three pillars and the opening of this Milk Collection and Cooling Centre will help us to consolidate this progress which has yielded year on year increase in milk volumes month on month. We can safely increase the 1,396L/day we are currently collecting in Ladduga, thanks to the increased collection and chilling capacity with the launch of the facility,” she said during the launch in Kaduna. Developing Dairy Sector Uwadoka reaffirmed Nestlé’s commitment to contribute to the development of the dairy sector in Nigeria through investments in farmer capacity building, infrastructure improvement, and cutting-edge technology to create sustainable routes to market for pastoralists. To reach more pastoralists, Nestlé has started the installation of solar-powered “Milk Banks” within a 300 km radius of the communities where the pastoralists move to in search of fodder and water, she said. “One is already installed at Crossing, near the Ladduga Grazing Reserve. “The technology, equipped with a single-phase compressor to achieve low power consumption to store and chill the milk collected at the source, is the first of its kind in Nigeria. “We will continue to scale up our milk collection efforts significantly by increasing our footprint, leveraging our Milk Banks,” Uwadoka assured. “We are pleased with the work that our implementation partner, CBI Innovations Limited (CBiIL) is doing on the ground to deepen and accelerate an inclusive business model within the project,” she added. “NLDP is a project within the company’s Creating Shared Value initiatives. NLDP supports the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP), designed to accelerate an ecosystem for livestock production that ensures peaceful coexistence, economic development, and food security.” Nestle’s Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager elaborated on the values which the NLDP has created in the dairy sector. She said, “Nestlé has helped improve cattle health within the NLDP by deworming and vaccinating over 6,000 cattle against Foot and Mouth Disease. They were also treated against Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) in collaboration with the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS). The 6,000 cattle also received vitamin and mineral blocks (salt licks). “Another significant investment by the NLDP is the provision of Better Fodder which includes sufficient clean water, balanced pasture, silage, and hay. Over 250 hectares of Napier Grass and Bracheria have been cultivated and five Industrial boreholes built and commissioned. Three of the boreholes are fitted with drinking troughs for the cattle and taps to provide potable water to the communities. To further boost milk production, Nestlé is providing Cotton Seed Cakes which have the potential to increase milk productivity by up to two litres per cow. “To maintain milk quality from milking to the processing centre, milk must be handled carefully and kept at a temperature of about two degrees Celsius. Each of the 23 aggregators employed under the NLDP project is trained to maintain these quality standards. They test for spoilage and adulteration at the collection point. A motorbike, milk churns, and lactometers are also provided to facilitate their work. “The aggregators get the milk to the Milk Collection and Cooling Centres (MCCC) in the shortest possible time for cooling and bulking at the requisite temperature after a four-step quality check. “Nestlé equips the MCCCs with modern laboratory equipment to ensure food safety is maintained at industry standards. The staff are trained and issued the right gear to conform to the set safety standards,” Uwadoka said. “In line with Nestlé’s commitment to protecting the planet for future generations, the NLDP has also adopted climate-friendly practices: A 30KVA solar power system has been installed to reduce the fossil fuels used at the MCCC in Paikon Kore. The industrial boreholes in Paikon Kore are also solar-powered. “We will continue to work with the Kaduna State Government and all stakeholders towards achieving Nestlé’s purpose of unlocking the power of food to enhance the quality of life for everyone, today and for future generations,” she assured. Contributing, Bola Audu, Corporate Communications Specialist, Nestle Nigeria Plc said, the NLDP trains producers in modern Milk Handling and Milking Hygiene techniques to help them produce to industry standards, thereby opening more routes to market. “Nestlé pays a premium above the market rates in addition to helping the families increase production and improve the quality of their products,” Audu added. The Communication Specialists itemised the project benefits to farmers which include,       access to a structured market for milk, capacity building, linkages, access to water (11 boreholes), access to herd health services (vaccination, medication), and access to feed/fodder, etc. He also said, “The project provides a consistent supply of fresh milk to processing companies to produce yoghurt, cheese, etc for Nigerians. “It provides employment opportunities, local sourcing of inputs, equipment, etc and contributes to the Nigerian economy growth.” Commenting, Prof Wasiu Afolabi, President of the Nutrition Society of Nigeria, said, “Empowering rural dairy farmers will not only boost milk and dairy products but will also generate income and wealth for the rural farmers and improve the nutrition of rural farm families, especially women, and children as more milk will be available for consumption and increased income for food and other family needs.” Nigeria as a country will also benefit as foreign exchange otherwise used for milk importation will be conserved and food and nutrition security will also be improved, Afolabi noted. He urged the government to set aside a fraction of the budget for agriculture specifically dedicated to dairy development. “Interested Youth farmers should be recruited and trained in modern dairy farming techniques and should be granted loans and provided with required facilities for dairy production.” Similarly, Prof Matthew Oluwatuyi Akinola, Professor, Agricultural Extension, communication, and rural development expert, called for empowerment/capacity to boost local milk production through different measures.  Akinola told Independent Newspapers that this includes adequate training of farmers on modern dairy farming systems, encouraging ranching as opposed to the open grazing and transhumance system, and development of grasslands with nutritious n milk-boosting grasses. Akinola, current lecturer, Department of Agricultural Extension and Rural Development, Faculty of Agriculture, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria, also advocated for the development of modern milking parlours and technologies as well as the establishment of commercial dairy farms through cooperatives and public-private partnership (PPP).  According to Akinola, there is a need for complementary approaches where imported breeds are used to cross local breeds for better performance and introduction of milk-boosting drugs like Bovine somatotropin(BST).” He concluded, “The rural dairy farmers are predominantly the Fulanis, and their level of milk production is too low to meet the needed requirements. It’s been estimated that Nigeria’s dairy sector is currently able to supply less than 10 percent of its demand. There’s therefore an urgent need to empower rural farmers to boost milk production to bridge this supply-demand gap.”