LAGOS  – The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has called on the Federal Government to shift focus to equity financing, divestment or shedding of its equity holdings in state-owned enterprises, real estate, and infrastructure to reduce its debt commitments and improving its fiscal situation. Dr. Chinyere Almona, Director-General of LCCI in a statement said both capital and interest payments on borrowed sums expose the country’s fiscal vulnerabilities. “Also, the government should, as a matter of urgency, emphasize strategies on revenue growth while blocking leakages. Importantly, the government may want to consider the need to deregulate the downstream subsector of the oil industry to block a major drain on revenue. “Between 2013 and end-2022, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) notes that public debt rose by 360.47 percent, from N10.04 trillion in 2013. As a result, we are deeply worried by this development in the face of insignificant revenue growth, large presence of decaying infrastructure and the unsustainable burden of oil subsidy overhang. “Although, a decline in debt service appears positive but the ratio of debt service to government revenue at about 90 percent remains alarming and unsustainable”, she said. She noted that following the commendable launching of the restructured Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI) as the arrow head of Nigeria’s efforts to optimize national assets by President Muhammadu Buhari on the 1st of February 2023, the LCCI urge that copious references should henceforth be made to the growth in the stock of financial assets that Nigeria owns in corporate equities, real estate and infrastructure spaces and the returns Nigeria is generating on them, each time Government of Nigeria is providing updates on the growth in the stock of the financial liabilities that Nigeria owes and the costs it is incurring on them, to provide local and global observers a balanced picture of our financial evolution. “This would motivate national asset managers, led by MOFI, to grow our assets and the returns on them as well as motivate our national liability managers, led by DMO, to minimize our liabilities and the costs we incur on them, with equal vigor.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒