LAGOS – Antonet Uzoka, Executive Director and founder of Foster Paradise Orphanage, has appealed to the Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, the First Lady of the state, Dame Edith Okowa, and other well-meaning Nigerians to call on and prevail on Oghenekevwe Agas, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Women Affairs to return the 22 children that were abducted from her orphanage home since April 2021. Uzoka, while speaking with Daily Independent, said the Permanent Secretary came in the company of some people to the home two years ago to shut down her orphanage home on the premise that she was not registered. “I did my full registration with the ministry and I have my CAC registration, even during the COVID-19. The ministry brought 1\4 bag of Garri for us; so if we were running illegally why did they bring the food items to us? “I have since registered the Orphanage with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) in 2011 and applied to the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development in 2014 for state approval they had visited and inspected the home and facilities severally and certified us qualified but still denied me the approval. “This is a passion that God gave me and nobody can kill my dream. I have written to the First Lady severally; they should return my children to me; I am running the home legitimately. There is no child in that home that does not have extract. I don’t know what I did to the Permanent Secretary that she has refused to return my children to me. “I got information that the First Lady, Dame Edith Okowa, has instructed her to return the children to me but till now she has not returned them, I don’t know what happened, I labored so much on those children. They even asked the security officers to come and check our home and they did, another department in the ministry, Humanitarian Department, came to inspect my home too. “My lawyer wrote several letters to the Commissioner to give me my certificate and also return my children. I put in more effort and we finished our new building with the help of God. I wrote the ministry to come and inspect the new construction, but to my surprise, the PS did not reply the letter only for me to be alerted that she came behind me without my notice to inspect the new building. It was people that saw them around that called my attention to it. I have complied with all the requirements but still, nothing has been done.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Since I have met the entire requirements, they have not returned my children; my lawyer has written a series of letters but till now nothing has been heard from the ministry. POLL Speaking further, she said she was told that the children were kept in separate homes, stating that the 11 boys were at an orphanage in Ugehili and the other 11 girls were kept in another home in other places. “My children were well cared for; I registered them in good schools and I have private teachers and qualified artisans to teach them skills when they were all with me, but when I recently visited them where they are now; they are unkempt and I don’t like the way they are, they are not looking good at all. “My appeal is that they should please return my children to me; I have labored so much on them,” she added.