The people of Ologbo N’Ugu Community in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State have lauded the leadership and members of the Neo Black Movement of Africa (NBM), Belgium Chapter, following the provision of borehole facility in their locality by the NBM. The people who trooped out in their large numbers in estacy during the official commission of the project remarked that the borehole would go a long way to alleviating the water problem being faced by them School children in the community were not left out as they danced around the community in wild jubilations. Pa. Abraham Emweinogbon Isere, while speaking on behalf of the community Head (Odiowere), commended the Belgium Chapter of the NBM for coming to their aid in the area of providing water. He remarked that the people in the locality have been having challenges in accessing water, expressing joy that the borehole facility provided them by group would bring an end to their suffering. “We are so happy about this project done by the Belgium Chapter of the NBM in our community and we want to appeal to them to continue in their good work for humanity. “Because we are aware of how they have affected lives positively both within the country and in the diaspora’, he noted.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In their separate remarks, Godwin Isoghanenogwovhankhan, Uwoghiren Monday and Mercy Igunbor, appreciated the group for their project, just as they appealed for more projects in Orhionmwon and environs in the state. POLL Earlier in his brief welcome address, the Edo Regional President of the NBM, Mr. Felix Ewodi, said that the group is committed to putting smiles on peoples’ faces. Mr. Felix admonished the beneficiaries to make good use of the project, just as he disclosed that the NBM has its branches across the world. Speaking on behalf of leadership and members of the donor, the National Officer representing Belgium Chapter, Mr. Lucky makinde Aghahuwa, disclosed that the project is part of the Chapter’s Corporate Social Responsibilities to humanity. He maintained that the Belgium Chapter of the NBM has also lined up other projects for communities around Orhionmwon, adding that schools would not be left out of the humanitarian gesture of group.