Renowned professor of history, Obaro Ikime, is dead. He died on Tuesday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. He was 86 years old. His bosom friend, AM Ak­pieyi made this disclosure in a short message announcing the passage of the world acclaimed historian. “I am deeply saddened to announce that my mentor, my Head of House and Head of School, internationally re­nowned Historian, Prof. ( Ven­erable) OBARO IKIME ( GCU 1950 SEPTEMBER SET) tran­sited today to glory at about 05: 30pm in Ibadan. Mark Nwagwu, poet and re­tired Professor of Cell and Mo­lecular Biology at the University of Ibadan also confirmed the death of the erudite and distin­guished Professor of History on his Facebook page thus: “I’ve just received a message from Mazino, his son. Uncle Mark your friend and brother Oik is gone yesterday about 5 pm “I’m devastated. “Prof. Obaro Ikime, whom we fondly call Oik, is one of the finest gentlemen of our genera­tion, No. 1 Citizen of Kuti Hall, UCI, 1957-61, an epitome of all that’s worthy and wholesome. I’ll write about him. May his dear soul rest in peace. Amen.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Nwagwu also posted a photo from his 86th birthday which was held in December 2023. POLL Obaro Ikime is a retired pro­fessor of history, a fellow and former president of the Histor­ical Society of Nigeria. The retired priest of the An­glican Communion and former member of the University of Ibadan Governing Council was born in 1936 in a village called Anibeze in the Erohwa clan in the Isoko South Local Govern­ment Area of Delta State. Ikime attended Government College, Ughelli, then known as Warri College (1950-1956), and the University of Ibadan, grad­uating BA (1961) and PhD (1965). He was a Lecturer in History at Ibadan from 1964, becoming Professor in 1973. In 1975, he was Visiting Professor first at UCLA, then at Berkeley, and later at Harvard. In 1981-82 he was Vis­iting Professor at the University of Benin. He has contributed chapters to twelve books and is the Edi­tor, Groundwork of Nigerian History, first published by the Historical Society of Nigeria in 1980, and co-Editor with Mi­chael Crowder of West African Chiefs Their Changing Status Under Colonial Rule and Inde­pendence. While at Ibadan, Ikime served as Director, Institute of African Studies; two times as Head of the Department of History; and as Dean, Faculty of Arts. He was President, History Society of Ni­geria, March 1984 – April 1988. While at Ibadan, Ikime was at different times Visiting Profes­sor of African History, Univer­sity of California, Los Angeles, and at Beckley; Harvard Uni­versity Summer School and the University of Benin. He was National Secretary, University of Ibadan Alumni Association, November 1975 – November 1983. After retire­ment, he served as Professor of History (on contract), Bayelsa State University, Wilberforce Island, for three years.