ABUJA  – The Nigerian Meteorologi­cal Agency (NiMet) on Mon­day dissociated itself from an advisory purportedly is­sued by the Nigerian Light­ning Safety and Research Center (NLSRC), alerting Nigerian public to the pos­sibility of lightning strikes across Nigeria in the month of May. In a statement signed by Muntari Yusuf Ibrahim, NiMet’s General Manager, Public Relations, the agency clarified that at no time did it authorise NLSRC to issue any such weather forecast to the public, even though it is the statutory function of the Nigerian Meteorological Agency. According to the state­ment entitled, ‘Disclaim­er’, the agency stated that “NiMet is not responsible or liable in any way for any con­sequence(s) resulting from reliance or acting upon the said weather information issued by NLSRC or any meteorological/weather information obtained from any source outside of its ap­proval/authorisation”. NiMet further urged the public to totally discounte­nance the information is­sued/disseminated by the NLSRC. “It has come to the no­tice of the Nigerian Mete­orological Agency (NiMet) that there is a publication purportedly issued by the Nigerian Lightning Safety and Research Center (NL­SRC) to the Nigerian public, alerting them to the possi­bility of lightning strikes across Nigeria in the month of May, 2023. “NiMet wishes to inform the public that at no time did it authorise NLSRC to issue any such weather forecast to the public, as this is the stat­utory function of the Nige­rian Meteorological Agency. “NiMet is statutorily mandated under sections 7 (1) (a) and (i) of the Nigeri­an Meteorological Agency Establishment Act, 2022 (NiMet Act), to advise the Federal Government on all aspects of meteorology and to collect, process and dis­seminate all meteorological data and information within and outside Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “NiMet is also the sole au­thority to prescribe and is­sue the meteorological data and information required for all sectoral activities in Nigeria (Section 7(2)). POLL “Further to the above stated provisions, any per­son who collects, uses or dis­seminates weather forecast or any other meteorological information obtained from any other source outside the approval, licence or author­ity of the agency for com­mercial or public purpose, commits an offence and is liable upon conviction to a fine or a term of imprison­ment or both (section 30 (2) of the NiMet Act). “Consequently, the public is hereby advised to totally discountenance the informa­tion issued/disseminated by the NLSRC as stated above, as well as any meteorolog­ical information issued or to be issued by this body or from any source outside of the Nigerian Meteorological Agency or the agency’s ap­proval/authorisation. “NiMet is not responsi­ble or liable in any way for any consequence(s) result­ing from reliance or acting upon the said weather infor­mation issued by NLSRC or any meteorological/weather information obtained from any source outside of its ap­proval/authorisation. “The public is hereby ad­vised to obtain all weather related information/warn­ing from NiMet headquar­ters, Abuja, NiMet official website @ www.nimet.gov. ng, any duly authorised publication or any NiMet li­censed/authorised body, in line with the requirements of the law, as this will help ensure the accuracy and reli­ability of such information. “The public is further advised to promptly report any observed unauthorised dissemination of weather/ meteorological information to the agency through the office of the Director-Gen­eral/CEO or send an e-mail to info@nimet.gov.ng”, read the statement in part.