All through human history, the factor of leadership has always been a major determinant in the success or failure of civilizations. Starting at the family level, there must be someone, usually the male parent, who assumes the role of the leader and from whom the rest of the household derive their inspiration and security. A well-led nation will always prosper while a poor­ly led one will surely falter and fail and that is exactly what Chinua Achebe meant when he emphatically concluded that the embarrassing state of Nigeria was simply that of leadership. Since humanity abandoned the “State of Nature” through the famous Social Con­tract under which some of the powers and responsibilities of the individual members of society were conditionally transferred to the State for the purpose of providing for the welfare and security of members of the society in return, the locus of lead­ership in society became the responsibility of the State usually executed through the government. Recruitment into Government is usually sourced from the elite pool of the society. The key qualification for membership of that class is that would-be members must have so distinctively distinguished them­selves in their various callings and voca­tions that the rest of society would intui­tively trust their judgments and capacities on leadership matters to always be altruis­tic, progressive and patriotic. Accordingly, every effort is made to ensure that those who are so elected are sourced from this distinguished class of men and women. My attention was recently drawn to this critical aspect of our national failing by re­cent discussions that sought to interrogate the fact that when President Jacob Zuma of South Africa was democratically removed from office there was not a single voice in that country pointing to the ethnic origins of the beleaguered ex-President unlike as it would most certainly have been in Nigeria. Were President Zuma a Nigerian, the Zulu tribe to which he belongs, a majority ethnic group at that, would have risen in defense of dear “their son”. The simple explanation for these dif­ferences in approach between Nigeria and South Africa on matters affecting the collective interests of the nation is that whereas in Nigeria we select our lead­ers on the basis of ethnicity and other primordial considerations, South Africa elects theirs on the basis of their indi­vidual qualifications and commitment to party policies and ideology. That explains why it is usually not considered improper for leaders to loot the Nigerian State the same way it is offensively viewed if anyone steals from his community’s fund, because while State’s resources are considered as “no man’s property”, community assets on the other hand, are seen as “theirs” and should therefore be safeguarded. Going back to the theme of our dys­functional elite class, we should note that at about the same time that Singapore re­cruited Lee Kwan Yew, a Cambridge gradu­ate, as its pioneer leader, Nigeria strangely settled for Tafawa Balewa as her pioneer Prime Minister, a man who was not formal­ly educated beyond the Teachers Grade 11 certificate level. In comparison, there was no way both men would have had the same quality of vision about nation-building, be­cause you cannot give what you don’t have. Even today, the constitutionally prescribed qualification for national leadership is just “education up to school certificate level” which practically means you really don’t have to be well-educated to be recruited into leadership position in Nigeria. As if that was not bad enough, we were further afflicted by a series of military coups very early into nationhood which brought to power soldiers who were evi­dently ill-prepared for the level of leader­ship that was required for the emerging complex world that the new nation of Ni­geria was just entering. They could only govern within the limits of their ability. Being grossly bereft of any guiding ideol­ogy or enduring values, they proceeded to enlist the services of civilians who were willing to accept the unconstitutionality of military for their own selfish reasons.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ That unfortunate military incursion into politics marked the beginning of the rapid fall of genuine elitism in Nigeria and it also serves as a perfect reminder of Lord Acton’s famous statement that: “There is no greater heresy than the saying that the office sanctifies the holder….” The fact that a nonentity is by any means appointed into a high political office does not automat­ically transform him into an elite in the proper sense of the word. It is the same logic that has promoted armed robbery, 419, kidnapping and money-making rituals into national reckoning, a perverted inlet into pseudo-elitism – success through the backdoor. POLL The resulting sharp collapse in govern­ing standards naturally extended to all fac­ets of society. In fact, hard work became a veritable limitation as people quickly learnt to cut corners into affluence, star­dom and, eventually, power. That is why today not all our professionals can genu­inely demonstrate the requisite expertise in their supposed fields of study as scam­mers and counterfeits have taken over. With plenty cash to show off with, anyone could join the most exclusive social clubs in the land, assume any title, inhabit the most expensive highbrow district and min­gle freely with the high and mighty. Because Nigerian post-colonial politi­cians and the military were fundamentally ill-prepared for the leadership roles they assumed, the quality of leadership rapidly degenerated into some form of glorified banditry and, like vandals, they proceeded to destroy all that was good in governance which resulted in the steady deterioration of national institutions and values. Ascen­dance to leadership was no longer based on the achievement of the individual but how much he has accumulated in his bank ac­count and where he comes from and which religious faith he professes; a complete negation of the Aristotelian postulation about the Philosopher-King. I was pondering over this national di­lemma last week while strolling through Central Park, NY, a forested area of Man­hattan that was wisely set aside by the city elite more than a century and a half ago. Just imagine for a second that such a qual­ity real estate was located anywhere in Ni­geria. The so-called ruling class would have since greedily allocated it to themselves leaving nothing for the City’s aesthetics and environmental health. Anyone famil­iar with FESTAC Town in Lagos would readily get the point that I am making. Be­cause our so-called elite are comprised of uneducated social vandals, they proceeded to recklessly and corruptly allocate all the Playgrounds and Parks that were original­ly set aside in the Master Plan meant for the enjoyment of residents to themselves, cronies and girlfriends. It was the same vandalistic mentality that led President Obasanjo’s adminis­tration to prodigally sell off key national monuments and assets like Apo Legislative Quarters, Abuja, to themselves and their cronies for peanuts as if after their reign there would be no more Nigeria. Just imag­ine if successive Presidents of the United States have been selling off parts of the US capital City like Obasanjo did in the desperate pursuit of his unconstitution­al “Third Term” bid, where would those national monuments that are elegantly gracing the skyline of Washington DC be today? It is at this juncture that we can seri­ously hope that the incoming Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s Presidency, even though an off­shoot of a not-too-stellar administration, would for once, abandon the present unpro­ductive path to national development and embrace a truly patriotic and forward-look­ing leadership in which the present and future wellbeing of Nigeria would be con­sidered as paramount. If President-elect Tinubu’s monumental records as a Gover­nor in Lagos State is anything to go by, such a hope cannot be baseless. Maybe the time has finally come for the nation to change the gear into something positive in terms of leadership.