CHIBUIKE CHUKWU The wild celebration that greeted the election of Labour Party (LP)’s Alex Otti as the governor of Abia State showed how much Abians have craved for a change of guard and enthronement of good governance over the debilitating and strangulating grip of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) under whose watch the ‘God’s Own State’ has ingloriously gone down as one of the worst managed states in Nigeria since 1999. Despite being among the Nigerian Delta Development Commission (NDDC) states with attendant accruement of certain financial and infrastructural benefits, Abia State is virtually at the lowest ebb in terms of development, with Umuahia, the state capital, being one of the least developed in Nigeria. It has also been reported and truthfully that Abia State does not have a substantive state secretariat and government house despite huge sums of money that have been accrued to the state all these years. Whatever reasons that could be adduced for such level of underdevelopment presently starring Abia at the face have been dwarfed by what Governor Dave Umahi has achieved in Ebonyi State. In spite of the fact that Abia State could understandably generate and earn more money than Ebonyi, with its NDDC status and its commercial leanings with Aba as the epicentre, Governor Umahi has showed that it goes beyond earning but has a lot to do with the commitment to deploy resources for the benefit of the citizens, with massive infrastructural activities littering the neighbouring state. Abia’s unfortunate level of decay is no more a campaign issue as it is crystal clear even to non-Abians that Abia is not working and has never worked since the start of the present republic. It is now commonplace to see even non-Abians discussing the rot in the state. In the last days of his campaign while speaking to the people of Oloko at the Oloko Central School, Otti pointed to the rot in the state. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I can see, without you even saying it, that you need roads. Look at the environment where we are. I believe this is a secondary school. Look at the buildings, how dilapidated, overgrown with grass. I attended public school here in Abia many decades ago and it was not anything like what you have here. POLL “At this third attempt, the Siege Is Over!’ With your votes and the collective will of the people, we have ‘broken the gates of hell and cast its bars of iron asunder’. As recorded in the holy book, the kingdom of hell shall not prevail against us. “I want to assure you that your ideas and dreams that are consistent with building a virile Abia state shall come to fruition under my watch. I therefore invite all of you to join hands with our administration in order to serve Abians who have been victims of several years of maladministration and state capture,” he assured. An astute banker and economist, the former managing director of Diamond Bank is not new to Abia politics. Given that Abians have for long yearned for a change, in 2015, Otti was almost coasting home to victory until they allegedly ‘manufactured’ votes from three local government areas. In the 2015 governorship election, humongous figures suddenly sprouted up in three local government areas of Obingwa, Isiala Ngwa North and Isiala Ngwa South which were areas that both international and local observers held in their reports that elections did not hold in that 2015. So this time, Abians repeated the election with close monitoring and given the Peter Obi factor in the LP, it was easy for the retired banker to coast home, even though the Obingwa factor was almost rearing its ugly head again. So obviously a lot is expected of the governor-elect and this is particularly so given his background as a banker of repute who saw it all in the financial world with prudence as their watchword. It is understandably clear that Aba has never lived to its full potential as the commercial nerve centre of the eastern states, and Abia State as a whole ranks least in several development indices. The reason for such an ugly state of affairs is because the state government policy formulation and implementation have most often been characterised by a great deal of arbitrariness, inefficiency, lack of transparency, accountability and outright failure. Abians have, since 1999, watched and still watch in consternation as their state became the object of ridicule amongst south easterners. Abians became bemused as the state debt profile, which ballooned in 2015 and kept piling up to the extent that it is estimated to be in the region of N150 billion as at date. They watched helplessly at the mismanagement of the N27 billion world bank loan, secured to take care of the road and flood problems around Uratta Road, Obohia Road Port Harcourt Road and Ngwa Road, among others, all in Aba, the state’s commercial hub. Abians watched helplessly as the public sector workers went months after months without any prospect of having their emolument paid to them. The same was also the situation with the pensioners. The same was also in the area of infrastructure. A source working in the Abia State Government in Umuahia, told our correspondent that the level of decay and shortsightedness bedeviling Abia State is monumental. Speaking on anonymity while in a chat, the source said dating back to the time of Orji Uzor Kalu as the governor between 1999 and 2003, and traversing the time of former Governor Theodore Orji, both of whom are now sitting senators, the hawks in the state, cutting across political appointees and kitchen cabinet members, prey on the state’s monthly allocation from Abuja. He noted that the various commissioners of finance appeared helpless as monies are allegedly shared for various projects in the state, when in actual fact nothing is on ground to show any effort. “Abia State is not seeing actual development because of activities at the government house and it didn’t start now because the baton has always been handed over to a new governor by the incumbent. “If you take a look, you will realise that some of the trusted aides of the governor, he inherited from past administration and it has been like that with no idea to turn the stage around. “Whenever federal allocation comes, it will be a beehive of activities at the relevant agencies responsible until everything is shared for one project or the other and when you look, you hardly see anything on ground to prove this, and it has been like that.” Buttressing this position, Daily Independent check reveals that while state workers and pensioners are groaning under non-payment of salaries for months, some make-shift agencies of government created to ‘settle’ boys and manned by aides of the governor are getting their monies which are, in most cases, not accounted for. One of such, it was gathered, are the workers employed to manage outdoor advertising, being supervised by some of the aides in their various council areas; they are being paid regularly as their salaries are credited even before the month ends. Incidentally, such monies, it was gathered, are not adequately accounted for to propel development in the state. In Abia State, abandoned projects, some started by the NDDC and some by the state government, littered the place, particularly in some rural communities. This is particularly seen in council areas like Ohafia, Umunneochi, Arochukwu and Ukwa, among others. The healthcare is almost comatose as under the present administration in the state, the NUC withdrew the accreditation of medical faculty of the Abia State University Teaching Hospital, and this is particularly sad given that the sitting governor was a lecturer before. However, while congratulating the governor-elect, Professor Gregory Ibe, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) governorship candidate in Abia State, who contested against Otti, challenged him to live up to expectations as the push to liberate the state is a huge one. “I want to congratulate my brother Dr Alex Otti, candidate of the Labour Party for his consistency so far in the battle to liberate Abia from the shackles of under-development and well-deserved victory at the polls.” A pensioner, Madam Felicia Eme Kalu Ijem from Ohafia, while in a chat with Daily Independent, charged the governor-elect to do something differently, saying pensioners are the happiest for this change of guard in the state. She noted that the first task before Otti would be to ensure adequate verification of pensioners and their grades in order to pay them adequately. “I retired as a grade fourteen worker and even when they wanted to pay me, they paid me as grade thirteen because over the period of five years, there has not been any exercise on this. “The outgoing governor did not try at all; so many pensioners are not being paid and even when they want to pay some, they will pay them once in four months. “It is very terrible and now ask what they are doing with the money? If you go to Ebonyi State, you will understandably spit on Abia and governance. “I wish the new governor well and congratulate all Abians,” she said amidst a voice that showed happiness. Orji Uzo Kalu, Senate Chief Whip, while saying Abians had spoken in the election of Otti, said given his background, Otti would come good for Abia. “The people of Abia State have spoken with their votes, and as such, Abians, regardless of party affiliation, must rally support for the governor-elect. “Judging from his antecedents in the private sector, I am optimistic that Otti will bring to bear his administrative acumen in piloting the affairs of Abia State. “I urge Abia people to be steadfast, positive minded and peaceful during this period,” Kalu said. Generally, stakeholders believe that the challenge before the governor-elect is a massive one that requires him to put on his ingenious cap. While he may not be able to clean the Augean Stable in one fell swoop, it is expected that given his background, he should leave a legacy that will form the bedrock from where Abia will be fully liberated.