LAGOS – Corps members deployed to Imo State for the 2023 Batch A. (Stream ll) Orientation course have been urged to remain resolute, focused and committed to the promotion of national unity, cohesion and integration. Addressing a total of 1,722 Corps members scheduled to undergo the three weeks orientation course and the official commencement of the exercise at the NYSC Permanent Orientation camp in Eziama Obaire, Nkwerre Local Government, His Excellency, Sen. Hope Uzodimma, the Governor of Imo State said that the concept of unity is very crucial to the growth and development of any society. This he affirmed provides strength, power and courage working as a team rather than operating individually. “As future leaders, I enjoin you all to first put the nation’s interest, be patriotic, dedicated and committed at all times”. The Governor represented at the Swearing In ceremony by Mrs Chioma Ibezim, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youths and Sports, equally encouraged to the young graduates to get involved in national assignments for instance, the forthcoming Census while commending them for the tremendous role they played during the elections. On Skill acquisition, the governor admonished the Corps members to pay rapt attention to the the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development programme of the NYSC to learn a skill that will help the actualize their dreams and have a livelihood. The NYSC Imo State Coordinator Mrs Rachel Idaewor in her introductory address, expressed her profound appreciation to the State government for the unflinching support to the Scheme. She informed the Corps members that the essence of the orientation course is to ensure that the Scheme’s quest for national integration, unity and sustainable national development borne out of the noteworthy contributions of the Corps members are achevied. POLL Idaewor urged them to seize this unique opportunity and participate actively in all activities of the exercise. Strive to uphold the ideals of selfless service, patrioticism, diligence and hard work while distinguishing themselves right from camp to be called up for Honours award. The Corps members were sworn on oath before the Chief Judge of Imo State ably represented by Hon. Justice Mike Onyekachi who administered the Oath of Allegiance to the Prospective Corps members.