The founder and primate of the Evangelical Church of Yahweh Worldwide, Theophilus Olabayo, has warned against post-election violence in Nigeria. While fielding questions from the media on the outcome of the 2023 Presidential elections in which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared All Progressives Congress (APC) Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu the winner and President-elect, Primate Olabayo warned of possible “chaos and unrest” by those who do not want the transition of power from President Muhammadu Buhari to President-elect, Tinubu. He stated: “Some people are planning to create chaos and unrest. They really do not want a transition of power to Asiwaju and that is why they are trying to form an interim government. If they succeed, it will take the nation backward and there will be grave consequences.” Speaking further on the accuracy of his pre-election prophecy in which he had rightly predicted that Tinubu would win, Primate Olabayo said he had prophecied the same thing to the President-elect years back when he met him in America. He said: “Before the Presidential Election, I inquired from the Lord who would be the next President of this country. God told me that amongst all the Presidential contestants, Bola Tinubu would emerge. “Years back when I met Tinubu in America, I told him that the time will come when he would one day be President of this country. I have no personal relationship with him and I only met him back then at my member’s house. I don’t follow people’s opinion, but only what God tells me.” On the current campaign by members of the opposition who have threatened to stop the swearing in of the President-elect, Olabayo confirmed that indeed there are persons who are planning to stop the swearing-in but that the President-elect would be sworn in according to what God has shown him.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On opposition parties like the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP), the cleric enjoined both parties and other aggrieved political parties and politicians to take the electoral loss in their strides and move on as losses are a valid part of the democratic experience. POLL He stated: “Opposition parties, PDP and especially LP, are part of democratic experience. You win some and lose some, so whatever they do must be in the overall interest of the nation. Remember that my predictions about Lagos, Oyo, Ogun, Abia, Enugu, Benue, Rivers and Delta gubernatorial elections came to pass and the losers are not calling for blood. Olabayo also debunked prophecies of unrest and outbreak of war due to the election but warned that there may be incidents of assassinations. He admonished politicians to beware of their utterances, saying “There will be no war. Politicians need to be careful about their utterances. Hate speech should not be encouraged. Though, I foresee political assassination amongst the politicians, as some people try to create chaos that will lead to civil unrest. Speaking on the posture of the outgoing president, Olabayo enjoined him to be a “father to the nation”. He said: “President Buhari should be a father to the nation. There was a peaceful transition of power from President Goodluck Jonathan to him. He should also ensure a peaceful transition of power to the president-elect.”