Italian giant AC Milan is in its first European semi-final for 16 years, and it intends to strengthen its squad in the summer, with one of its targets being a current Liverpool midfielder. Milan faces city cousin Inter in the last four of the Champions League next month, and the money generated from the run to the semis will be used to reinforce a young team ahead of next season. One of those high on Paolo Maldini’s list is Liverpool midfielder Naby Keïta. Keïta is out of contract at the end of this season, and the 28-year-old is still garnering attention from many across the continent, despite hardly kicking a ball for Liverpool this season. According to Italian source Corriere dello Sport (via MilanNews), Milan views Keïta as someone who can bring experience to the team, but someone who is relatively young. The prospect of signing Keïta on a free transfer is also appetizing for the Milan hierarchy. Interestingly, Maldini could also seek to sign Kyle Walker of Manchester City. Walker, is into the final 14 months of his contract at the Etihad, and Pep Guardiola could decide to move Walker on this summer while Manchester City can still get a fee for him.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Milan has history of signing out of contract Liverpool stars, having signed Divock Origi last summer when his contract expired with the Reds. Keïta could be reunited with him — as well as potentially enjoying a surprise link-up with Walker, having competed against him for so long. POLL Liverpool.com says: There doesn’t seem to be a lack of suitors for Keïta across Europe, if reports are to be taken at face value, despite the Guinean barely playing for the club this season. Yet Milan and Maldini need to be wary of signing out of contract Liverpool players, as Origi’s stint in Serie A has been labelled as a ‘flop’ already, with only two goals scored and more time spent on the sidelines injured. Walker has had some fitness issues with Manchester City this season, too, although that deal would seem on its face to be more of a coup for the Italians.