LAGOS  – Managing Director of NIPCO Plc,Mr. Suresh Kumar,has offered Nigeria panacea to sustain planned removal of fuel subsidy in the country. He advised the Federal Government to increase utilization of indigenous natural gas in order to reduce the burden that would be associated with the eventual removal of fuel subsidy in the country. The act, which he said should be executed through Piped Natural Gas,PNG,Compressed Natural Gas,CNG and Auto Compressed Natural Gas,will also reduce importation of other fossil fuels thereby saving towards exchequer. Kumar,who spoke at a joint news press briefing with MD NIPCO Gas ,a wholly owned subsidiary of the company,Mr Nagendra Verma in Lagos at the weekend,said gas is fast becoming the preferred energy fuel across the world . Kumar said NIPCO had been at the forefront of campaign for harnessing of the abundant gas resource to ensure healthy economic growth. He also advocated the need for increased monetization of indigenous natural gas in order to boost the nation’s economy and reduce unemployment therein. He said:”With the intentions of the federal government to do away with fuel subsidy, natural gas by CNG and AutoCNG are bound to be a preferred “fuel of choice” due to safety, environment, economic and abundant availability reasons in Nigeria. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “NIPCO Gas feels that increased monetization of indigenous natural gas will surely contribute heavily in betterment of economic situation and employment in Nigeria”. POLL He expressed optimism that the federal government’s declaration of 2020-2030 as a “Decade of Gas” with an aim to target gas-powered economy of Nigeria by year 2030 bundled with Nigeria Gas Expansion Program (NGEP) will certainly improve the utilization of Indigenous fuel viz. natural gas and play a major role in improving Nigeria’s economy. Kumar spoke on the the utilization of Liquefied Petroleum Gas,LPG,otherwise known as cooking gas in the country,saying its penetration in Nigeria is still being hampered by certain factors which falls short of the population of the country. According to him,foreign exchange scarcity in recent times was responsible for the skyrocket cost of cooking gas in Nigeria,adding that the government should explore avenues to nip this in the bud with a view to enabling more Nigerians to consume the product. NIPCO,Kumar,said would continue to play preeminent roles in the country’s oil and gas sector and offer suggestions on how best to leapfrog the industry among its peers in the global market. He added:”NIPCO is ready and desirous to align with government’s policies with a view to improving the sector as the company remains resilient on tapping enormous growth opportunities in the Nigerian economy”