ABUJA  – Ahead of May 29 handover to a new administration, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited highlighted progress made so far on the construction of Aja­okuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas Pipeline and Stations Project which was flagged off June 30, 2020. NNPCL said it has spent over $1.1 billion on the proj­ect to date so far, reassuring stakeholders that the project is well on course to deliver on schedule. “Since the flag-off of the project by His Excellency, the President and Command­er-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muham­madu Buhari, in June 2020, we have recorded significant feats and we are pleased to update the nation that the project is well on course to deliver on schedule. “Overall engineering de­sign for the linear section of the two segments of the proj­ect stands at 93.48%. “The overall procurement for the linear section for the two segments is at 88%. “94% of the total line pipes have been manufactured and 90% already in-country. “Construction activities on both segments are ongoing. We have completed 400km of the linear section/mainline welding, representing 68% of ROW from Ajaokuta in Kogi State to Kano.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Also, on-going are sever­al special constructions like Direct Pipe Installation (DPI) across the River Niger in Kogi State and other Horizontal Di­rectional Drilling (HDD) across River Robo, Pai and Shika Riv­er in Zaria, Kaduna State. POLL “Also, several back-end activities have commenced including field joint coating, trenching and lowering, tem­porary cathodic protection and talks of pre-commission­ing of some sections have equally commenced”, stated NNPCL in a statement put out on Monday. The scope of work for the project, according to NNPC, includes the construction of a 40” × 614KM linear section from Ajaokuta in Kogi State traversing FCT, Niger and Ka­duna states and terminating in Kano as well as 24” × 15KM spur line to Abuja Terminal Gas Station. It also includes the construction of four (4) terminal gas stations, 22 block valve stations, intermediate pigging stations with other ancillary facilities. “The pipeline has the ca­pacity to transport two billion standard cubic feet of natural gas per day to three proposed Independent Power Plants in Abuja, Kaduna, Kano, and other gas-based industries as well as other identified and proposed commercial off-tak­ers along the entire pipeline route. The project has the po­tential of greatly improving the nation’s power generation capacity and the economy as a whole through industrialisa­tion as well as other economic uses.”