LAGOS – The International Air Transport Association (IATA), on Wednesday, 12th April 2023, formally presented Ibom Air with its Operational Safety Audit Certificate. The certificate was received by the Ibom Airlines Limited management team, led by the CEO, Mfon Udom, at the Ibom Air headquarters in Uyo, Akwa-Ibom state from IATA representatives Dr. Samson Fatokun, Area Manager, West & Central Africa, and Jennifer Aisha Yeates, Assistant Director Operations, Safety and Security, West & Central Africa. Established by IATA in 2003, IOSA uses internationally recognized quality auditing principles to assess the operational management and safety controls of airlines to certify them consistently. As a result, IOSA has become accepted as the international standard for airline safety and operational evaluation. The IOSA audit of Ibom Air was conducted in the second half of 2022, just over three years after the airline commenced commercial operations. Ibom Air’s effort was championed by the airline’s Quality and Safety Team, led by Engineer Edem Essien, Group Manager, Quality and Safety. Responding to the presentation on behalf of Ibom Air, the Chief Operating Officer of Ibom Air, Mr. George Uriesi, first commended the Ibom Air team for the landmark achievement. He expressed the leadership’s appreciation for the continuous efforts by staff to make the airline the World Class African Regional Airline as contained in the company’s Vision Statement. He stated: “Ibom Air’s achievement of the IOSA Certification at this time is very much in line with our continental aspirations, as we move to position our airline strongly on the African continent. Our strategy to spread our wings across Africa includes establishing multiple interline agreements and excellent cooperation with partner airlines. Being IOSA certified is a pre-requisite for this.” The certification validates the airline’s high operational and safety standards and is an essential milestone as the airline positions itself for regional operations and collaboration. POLL It stands to also move the airline further on course to deliver on its Mission; to build a safe, service-focused, and profitable Airline. Ibom Air Ibom is a limited liability company wholly owned by the Akwa Ibom State Government. The airline aims at setting the standard as an airline of choice for passengers by focusing on schedule reliability, on-time departures, and excellent service. It has a fleet of seven aircraft: five Bombardier CRJ 900 and two Airbus A320-300S, covering seven destinations and nine routes. 