LAGOS – The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has bemoaned the recent call and agitations for the interim government in the country. In a statement signed by CACOL’s Director, of Administration and Programmes, Tola Oresanwo, the organisation’s Chairman, Mr. Debo Adeniran lamented that in the last few weeks, there had been calls by some unprincipled and dishonourable group of people for the interim government to be installed instead of the democratically elected members of the executive arm of government. Comrade Adeniran recalled that recently, Nigeria’s secret police, the State Security Services (SSS), announced that some key players were plotting an unconstitutional interim government for Nigeria. The DSS alarm, Adeniran added, confirmed an alarm that had been raised weeks before the general elections, stressing that CACOL considered the plot as an “aberration and a mischievous”. He maintained that the call if allowed, would be a way to set aside the constitution and undermine civil rule as well as plunge the country into an avoidable crisis. He recalled further that the SSS had said: “The planners, in their many meetings, have weighed various options, which include, among others, sponsoring endless violent mass protests in major cities to warrant a declaration of State of Emergency and to obtain frivolous court injunctions to forestall the inauguration of new executive administrations and legislative houses at the federal and state levels.” The CACOL boss added that from all indications, it could be noticed that those calling and planning for the installation of the interim government are enemies of the state who are bent on setting the nation on a backward spiral.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “Anyone who calls or agitates for or supports the installation of interim government would be working against the principle of democracy, which the President has vowed to uphold. POLL “Since the conclusion of the presidential election on February 25, 2023, and the winner of the election has been declared, it is illegal, unconstitutional and unlawful to call for the installation of any illegitimate government except the one known by the law of the land. “We had earlier called on all aggrieved members of the society to approach the court of competent jurisdiction for proper adjudication of all matters resulting from the elections and allow peace to reign. “We at CACOL see the call for an interim government as a joke taken too far. The call is divisive, senseless and a call to anarchy. “We would like to use this medium to call on the government to arrest and prosecute anyone that may want to cause crises that would lead to the setting up of an interim government on May 29, 2023.”