Kogi will be net exporter of skilled Manpower. Ahead of the April 14 APC primary elections in Kogi state, a frontline Governorship àspirant, Dr. Sanusi Ohiare has appealed to the delegates to vote for a youth with capacity and competencies with tract records of previous assignments to sustain the gains the party has recorded in the state. Dr. Ohiare, who is popularly called DSO said, the appeal became imperative as a fallout of the mode of voting pattern in the last presidential and state elections in which the youths spoke with one voice for who will stand to advance their cause of development. Ohiare, who is the immediate past Director, Rural Electrification Agency, made the appeal on Wednesday at the Nuj media Parley for the Kogi state governorship election, coming up later in the year. He noted that as a youth with relevant experience and education and wide networks across the globe he remains the best candidate that will reinvigorate the APC and Kogi state, stressing that the last election outcome has thrown up challenges for the party to heed to, if it is to remain relevant for a long time.He added that the youths across the state have reiterated their support for one of their own who will be empathic to their challenges and have willy nilly formed a chorus to re-enact the last elections voting pattern in the state , asking the delegates to do the needful by voting for him in order for the party to win the governorship election. ” We are just lucky that the PDP, LP and NNPP did not pull their acts together. The voters who were mostly the youths did what they did to register their disenchantment. “We must as a Party put sentiments aside and go for a candidate that has the appeal of the Youths , women and indeed all the electorate. My assignment at the REA has brought me closer to the youths and the rural dwellers. As one of their own, I know their pains and I’m adequately positioned to change the narrative. There is no communities across Kogi that does not have our signature tune. I’m conversant with their burden and we worked to solve their energy needs.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We supply rural electrification to most hard to reach areas in the state. We have provided solar power infrastructures, we are connecting some communities in the east who have suffered epileptic power supply to national grid. We are doing the same across Kotonkarfe axis and we are confident that when we are through, poor energy supply will be a thing of the past in these areas.’ POLL While promising to making functional education, youth empowerment and to arouse the skills embedded in the youth , through sound implementation of Science Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Stem, the cardinal objectives of his administration if elected, vows to making Kogi the net exporter of skillful graduates. He, therefore, called on the leadership of the APC at all levels in the state to work closely with delegates to vote him as he remains the bridge between the youth and the older generation. Dr. Sanusi Ohiare, a graduate of Economic, a Master’s Degree in Energy Economics and a PhD in Rural Electrification, is a son of Senator Mohammed Ohiare from Adavi LGA Kogi State.