LAGOS – FBNQuest, the investment banking and asset management subsidiary of FBN Holdings Plc, recently hosted its first edition of its innovation fireside chat series themed ‘’Maximising Partnerships for Value Creation’’. The choice of the theme is a result of partnership and innovation being key pillars of the organisation. The discussion was centered on encouraging partnerships for strategic business growth and increasing the value that the organization can potentially create. The series is aimed at bringing together subject matter experts within the digital ecosystem to explore important themes of high-impact entrepreneurship, innovation, and economic development, while showcasing their expertise through thought-provoking conversations. In addition to the inspirational learning experience, the fireside chat also provides a platform for employees within the firm to learn, interact and progress in their careers. The interactive session, which featured Lola Aworanti-Ekugo, Chief Digital Officer, FBNQuest and Favour Ori, Founder/CEO, Payday provided an avenue for the speakers to discuss how strategic partnerships can help businesses thrive by identifying the gaps, challenges, and potential opportunities for growth. Favour Ori also shared insights on how businesses can grow either as a startup or a large corporation by harnessing value offerings and benefits from key partnerships. The conversation also focused on how Payday is digitally committed to helping Africans transact globally with the emergence of innovative solutions geared towards simplifying automated transactions. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Commenting on the session, Lola Aworanti- Ekugo, Chief Digital Officer, FBNQuest, stated that “At FBNQuest, we are committed to creating an immersive experience that amplifies important messages and facilitates engaging discussions, that encourage employees to think creatively, and enhance productivity to deliver more innovative solutions to our clients. POLL “We look forward to hosting more insightful conversations that will spark further interactions where participants will be equipped with information on how to make strategic decisions in their career journey and leverage the transformational power of technology and innovation”.