AWKA – Patron of the Anambra State Amalgamated Traders Asso­ciation (ASMATA) and Presi­dent-General Building Materi­als Ogidi International Market, Chief Jude Nwankwo says traders in the state are solidly in support of Soludo’s government. Nwankwo, who stated this during an exclusive interview with our correspondent, ex­plained that Gov. Soludo has ex­tended a hand of friendship to traders in the state. He said the governor has made the business environment very conducive by abolishing all manner of obnox­ious levies imposed on traders by miscreants and harmonised taxes and levies to ensure uni­formity. He said the relationship be­tween traders and the govern­ment is very cordial and that government treats traders well, adding that the state govern­ment has been friendly to trad­ers in Building Materials Ogidi International Market. Nwankwo said before the ad­vent of the current state govern­ment, Anambra State was like a war front with insecurity every­where and customers could not come to the market to patronise them. That the environment was not business friendly due to incessant and indiscriminate dumping of refuse everywhere. But according to him, a lot of things were being done at the mo­ment to ensure as well as guar­antee the security of lives and properties even as he observed also that government approach to the environment is yielding posi­tive results as there are no more refuse dumps along the roads. He said traders in the market always paid their taxes and de­velopment levies as at when due and equally voted massively for APGA candidates in the recent past State Assembly elections in order to show unalloyed support and solidarity to Soludo’s admin­istration. Nwankwo told our corre­spondent that at the inception of the present administration, loading and offloading of vehi­cles in the market was auctioned but when the company that bought the right to collect IGR from loading and offloading of vehicles came with touts to ter­rorise traders, traders paid the company 30 Million Naira off to enable them to collect the IGR by themselves and pay directly to government.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ That thereafter Gov. Soludo dissolved activities of revenue agents in the market and since then traders have not been pay­ing for loading and offloading. POLL He said it was not true that government recruited armed robbers and kidnappers as rev­enue agents because he believes too that government cannot be securing lives and properties on one hand and on the other hand, bring criminals to come and col­lect revenues in the market.