***Chants Abure Remains Nat’l Chair ABUJA – 28 States Chairmen of Labour Party (LP) on Friday overpowered a detachment of men of the Nigeria Police Force, Utako Division, Abuja, and forcefully took over the party secretariat. The party executives who arrived in a White Coaster Bus with registration number, YAB 294 BP, refused to be cowed by the stern looking, gun wielding officers, some of whom were in civilian clothing, and others in police uniform. The law enforcement officers led by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Utako, Gregory Victor, had taken over the party secretariat and chased out private security guards suspected to be loyal to one of the factions. But the Chairmen forced the locked gates open, and chanted solidarity songs as they made their way into the facility. Leaders of the group who addressed the press passed a vote of confidence on Julius Abure, insisting that he remained the authentic national chairman of the party. They also said that any attempt to remove him from office must pass through a court of competent jurisdiction or through the National Executive Committee (NEC).‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Those who spoke, the Kwara, Kano and Enugu States Chairmen maintained that the troublemakers in the party, namely Abayomi Arabambi the former National Publicity Secretary and the Rivers State Chairman, Favour, as well as the former Youth Leader, Anslem Eragbameh, were allegedly compromised by the All Progressives Congress (APC) against Peter Obi’s petition at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal. POLL First to speak was the Chairman of Labour Party Kwara state Kehinde Rotimi who said, “We got information an hour ago that some hoodlums have invaded our national secretariat at Utako, destroyed so many property, carted away documents and chased our staff away and committed a lot of atrocities that are not in tandem with the rule of law. “We heard that they went to court to take a particular order but they did not allow the court to determine the motion on notice, and they took laws into their hands to come and destroy our secretariat. “That is why we as a very important organ of NEC, the council of Chairmen in the whole country,, which constitute alongside the the National Working Committee of our party, have decided to come to do an on the spot assessment. “And on getting here, we discovered that this set of people, some of them are suspended and are no loner members of the party, some of them have sold the party to other political parties, which the party is still investigating. But to our surprise, they have violated our rights, as a political party. “We are saying we cannot be intimidated, we cannot be harassed, that LP has come to stay in Nigeria, and we want to advise all political parties to leave us alone. We want to tell security agencies not to be political party members. They should do what is right according to the rule of law. You cannot be a judge in your own case. “Some of the people causing this problem are being sponsored but Julius Abure remains our Chairman. It is only a court of competent jurisdiction and the National Executive Committee that can remove him, and that cannot be done behind closed doors,” he said. On his part, LP Enugu State Chairman, Casmir Agbo noted, “what is happening here is very unfortunate because the Labour Party is a party of the rule of law and our principal has maintained that we must be guided by constitutional provisions of this land and the rules of the party. “It is very unfortunate that those who have managed this party are doing acts of brigandage and criminality. You cannot take laws in your hands. “In our constitution, the mechanism of conflict resolution is very clear. In our constitution we have to exhaust that mechanism before going to court. And you went to court to obtain an order and you came back to enforce the order by yourselves. Its really very unfortunate. While affirming his confidence in Julius Abure as the national chairman, he stated “it is quite clear that some people are doing anything possible to make sure that the Labour Party does not regain its mandate given to it by Nigerians and we are referring to the APC known for acts of criminality and brigandage. APC should leave the Labour Party alone.” Labour Party Kano State Chairman, Mohammed Raji also passed a vote of confidence on the embattled National Chairman Julius Abure, as he condemned attempts to unlawfully remove the Labour Party National Chairman by persons reportedly suspended from the party.