JOS – The All Progressive Congress (APC) leaders under the aegis of the North Central APC Forum has Organized prayer sessions for the success of the forth coming inauguration of the nation’s president-elect, Bola Tinubu, on May 29. Speaking on behalf of the forum in Jos the Plateau State capital after their post Easter and Sallah meeting as well as their strategic action plan towards the inauguration ceremony, Chairman of the Forum Alhaji Saleh Mandung Zazzaga, said the prayer sessions have become necessary following the imagined and unfoseen threats against the success of the ceremony. He said the forum’s Muslim members, including himself, who went for prilgrimage to the holy land of Saudi Arabia and just returned a day or two ago has already commenced a preliminary prayer sessions for the country generally and the smooth transition process, while their Christian members back at home were equally observing their own prayers. However, he said, the official commencement of the prayer sessions among their members and accompanying supporters would be on Saturday, April 29 which would be exactly one month to the inauguration. “Prayers for a hitch-free transition process and the eventual inauguration of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, come May 29 has become imperative following forces and other perceived threat working against it. For instance, there are several suits against Tinubu which mischiefmakers are trying to use that to obstruct the occassion. “Again, there is the threat from several quarters calling for an interim government, and the security agencies themselves have acknowledged such threats. With all these threats and unforeseen others, we have decided to commence this prayer sessions among the adherents of the different faiths so that the inauguration will come and go successfully and the new government can take off on a sound footing,” he said. Zazzaga pointed out that with prayers Tinubu will also have divine direction in his administration, particularly in the area of selecting the lieutenants he will be working with, as making wrong appointments is the fastest thing that could mare his administration.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In view of this, he stressed, the forum is again calling the President-elect to pick the Director General of his presidential campaign, governor Simon Lalong as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). POLL The group said appointing Lalong as the SGF will also ensure equity and fairness in the incoming administration appointment and that all sides will be motivated and stimulated, adding that Governor Lalong has done a lot for the APC, the North, as the Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, Plateau State and the emergence of Tinubu as the president. He said apart from Lalong’s sacrificed for the APC, the North, the nation at large and the emergence of Tinubu as the president-elect, he (Lalong) is a man of peace, an achiever and a detribalized leader, among other developmental progresses recorded.