Nicholas Felix, All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant and Deputy National Youth Coordinator, APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) in this interview on Arise TV, speaks about the prospect for Nigeria with the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as President-elect, Tinubu’s plan for the youths, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What can you say about Tinubu’s emergence as the President-elect? Tinubu is a man that believes in diversity and I can picture his cabinet to be filled with young men and women, youths, talented people who can drive the economy. This reminds me of what happened in Chatham House, how he called the other members of his team to contribute. I will never forget that experience because he is a great leader. First of all, you can trust the people that he is going to pick, and is able to delegate to them. I believe that is what he is going to do as the President. We are going to be looking at a very robust cabinet, talking about Muslims, Christians, women, men, old, and young are going to feel Asiwaju’s impact. He is a man that knows how to pick talents. This is not going to be a cabinet as usual. We are expecting to see something totally different. I believe that as soon as Asiwaju is sworn in as President, things will begin to change. I am expecting to see great cabinet members. You said that he is going to pull out the subsidy, how quickly will he do that? I don’t think that he is going to pull out the subsidy immediately. I think he is going to have to do some consultations especially with his cabinet members. I am not scared because when Tinubu was Governor of Lagos State even when the then President withheld his federal allocation, he was able to keep Lagos State running even without receiving money from the federal government. Things are very tough in Nigeria and that is why I am glad that Nigerians picked a man that is very experienced, a man who understands how to run an economy. I know that as soon as he is sworn in as President, he is going to get working. For the fuel subsidy, I don’t expect him to just pull it off immediately, it is going to take time. I think fuel subsidy withdrawal will be done in phases. When he is sworn in he will put heads together with his cabinet members to decide when he will do that. What is your take on how young people fared in the election, and what do you think will be looked at in future in terms of deepening youth participation in politics? He has been an advocate of youth empowerment in politics. In this election youths were very active in voting. During my campaigns there is something that I said, which is that my focus is beyond 2023. My focus is looking at the next election when we will have so many youths to be voted for and not just to vote. We will have youths voted for at various levels, from the president to the governor, Senate, House of Representatives etcetera. I am looking forward to having youths in governance. If you listened to the speech of our President-elect the day he was given his certificate of return, his speech was so much about the youths. He talked about the youths becoming president, and youths in governance. I was excited because even after he had won it was not just a political statement that he made. It is not about empowering youths, it is about what the president really wants to do. It is a clarion call to the youths out there, it is not enough to just be in social media abusing people, the election is over, and the next phase of election is around the corner, it is time for us to get to elective offices. It is time for us to strategise about what to do. It is time for us to start strategising to get enough candidates in the next general elections, and that has been my desire. In the just concluded elections youths were energetic to go and vote but in the next election, youths need to be on the ballot. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ A lot of people have complained that this election was marred with irregularities, violence, people arediscontentandtherearecasesincourt, what do you think that this incoming government will do in terms of electoral reforms which a lot of people have seen the need for, considering the lastelection, andcanthiscabinetpushtogivelegal backing to most of the recommendations of the Uwais report? POLL Asiwaju, President-elect is a democrat. I believe he means well for Nigeria, and that is why I supported him and went all the way in backing him up and I am glad that he won. I want Nigerians to get ready for a surprise. Many Nigerians who have thought that APC has nothing to offer, there will be a surprise because Asiwaju will come and get things done. He is somebody that believes in democracy, so every bill that will be passed in the House that has flaws in this election, I am sure Asiwaju will make sure that they are corrected and the bills are passed. I want Nigerians to know that this is the time for us to come together and I believe that Asiwaju will deliver. As soon as he is sworn in, we will begin to see changes and those of us who had a different mindset will begin to understand that all that Asiwaju said were not just political statements. He has the capacity and most importantly the political will and boldness to get things done. One thing that some political leaders do is try to please too many people without putting their feet on ground to do things that will benefit the average Nigerian, and that is why I believe in Asiwaju, the man that is fearless, and the President-elect is that man. We expect great things will begin to happen and the economy that has stalled for a while will begin to grow. Asiwaju promised a lot to the youths, and I am very expectant that was why when I heard him on that day that he collected his certificate, he prayed for the youths. I will not be surprised if Asiwaju decides to hand over power to the youths. I am looking forward to that. Let us be expectant because the incoming administration will cause Nigerians to smile again. We saw a lot of lobbing to be part of the cabinet, some people have told members of their communities to say that Nigeria cannot move forward if this person is not given a position at the federal level, which is why I will ask you what kind of cabinet would you like to see, should Asiwaju have a cabinet across political parties, a unity kind of government, oryouthinkthatmembersofyour party having worked so hard to get to this point, should be rewarded first? Looking at his administration, what he did and how he was able to put his cabinet members together in Lagos State, we expect him to do the same and even better. Of course members of the party will be rewarded. Asiwaju is a man who rewards loyalty, he rewards hard work. Yes, there are Nigerians who are not members of our party who are talented, but that doesn’t mean that he will look beyond his party, APC, and then he will start picking those who are out there. I am also sure that he can stretch his hands and say he wants to build a government of national unity, if you are in PDP, Labour Party, or other parties, we are all Nigerians. I did say that if a president is elected, it is expected that every Nigerian should join hands with the president to work together, except the person is just there for his or her selfish interest. If you really love Nigeria, whatever you have to offer, you have to present yourself. He is not going to be running after people, he said, come let us talk. Asiwaju’s door is open for anybody who wants to join hands with him. It is not just to him, but up to those in opposition to approach him as the president-elect. We are expecting that Asiwaju is going to have a great cabinet. What will this administration do to reverse the painful trend of insurgency and insecurity in the country which is a big problem? When you talk about insecurity, it is one of my biggest strengths. No country will progress economically if insecurity is not checked. The security situation in Nigeria is such that sometimes you ask yourself whether it is that the military or the police are not capable. There are things that need to be done. Asiwaju, the President-elect during the campaign, talked about employing more military officers. I remember the day he gave the speech people were wondering whether he would hire youths into the military, yes, that is exactly what he meant. The manpower is very low, we don’t have enough equipment, yet no manpower.