The group, therefore, called on Governor Biodun Oyebanji to come up with a legal instrument to protect and preserve the sites. The call was made after the successful hosting of the Hike Ekiti Mountain Safari 5.0 which attracted fun-seekers from not less than 10 states in Nigeria,including Lagos, Abuja, Delta State Gombe, Kwara, Plateau, Ondo State and Oyo . The  Mountain Safari  held on Easter  Monday , April 10th 2023 where  Tourists across the Nigeria explored the Seven Wonders of Nature on Esa Cave, along New Road,  Iyin-Ekiti, Ekiti State, Nigeria. Tagged  “5th edition of  Hike Ekiti Mountain Safari, Let’s Rock Esa Cave” the  founder   and lead organizer of the annual Hike Ekiti Mountain Safari Event, Michael Peculiar Ekiran  appreciated governor Oyebanji ,the Oluyin of Iyin-Ekiti, and some prominent indigenes of the community fir their supports . He explained  that the  vision of the annual Hike Ekiti Mountain Safari event was  to showcase, project and market Ekiti  Tourism  Potentials to the world as a choice destination for mountain tourism adventures and since 2019 we have been committed to this course The toursm promoter said  the success recorded in the 5th Edition would not have been astounding and remarkable without the strategic collaboration with Iyin Ekiti Youth Forum under the leadership of the National President Hon. Abayomi Ogundipe Ibrahim (Agarawu) He specually appreciated the Traditional Custodians of Esa Caves  Rt. Hon (Cheif) Posi Omodara, the  Oisagan of Ibedoyin quarters, Iyin Ekiti and The Olujoro  of Ijoro Quarters in Iyin Ekiti Cheif Adedayo Oladunjoye James for their support towards the success of the event‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He specially acknowledged  the noble roles played by  the Minister of Trades and Investments, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, former security adviser, Israel Adesokan and  Iyin -Ekiti Youth Forum . POLL He appealed to Ekiti State Government to officially declare the destination for Hike Ekiti Mountain Safari 5.0 Esa Caves and Mountain in Iyin Ekiti as a Special Tourism Zone. According to him,if this is backed by law, it would go a long way in conserving the wonder  area for future Mountain Tourism Development He promised that the group would intensify  advocacy with relevant stakeholders on community based  Tourism Development with a view to  ensuring  that Esa Cave get the necessary attention it needs for sustainable Tourism development He equally lauded the support of  the founder of Isreal Adesokan Foundation Hon. Adedeji Adesokan (Jaru) . “Our collaboration with Iyin Youth Forum  and the support of Israel Adesokan Foundation  towards the 5th edition of  Hike Ekiti Mountain Safari really help the event to become a  bountiful exercise and an unforgettable inspiring experience for participants “At Discover Ekiti Tourism Club,we believe mountain tourism could be the next white oil. Ekiti has a strategic destination advantage that can be globally branded as one of the best destination for Mountain Tourism Exploration if well developed Ekiti can have one of the best mountain tourist resort in the world, its patronage if well packaged and promoted  will lead to socioeconomic development of host communities and increase in Ekiti IGR” Peculiar said . Addressing newsmen at the site, the Former SSA on Internal Security stated that Ekiti state has tourism potentials that could yield enough income for the state and also generate employment if private investors and corporate bodies collaborate with the BAO administration to develop the tourism sites. Jaru said the present Ekiti State Governor, BAO has already shown a great interest by starting from his hometown Ikogosi warm spring where serious work is on going in order to build the tourism industry of the state to become a revenue-generating sector in the state. This shows a resopnsive and responsible leader. ESA CAVE is next. Olumorock is nothing compared to what we have here in ESA CAVE, Iyin Ekiti I challenge the Ogun state government. According to him, a country like Kenya relies so much on tourism to drive thier economy, 200,000 British visitors come to Kenya each year. Britain is Kenya’s second largest export partner, with trade worth Ksh130bn a year, and home to half of the top ten tax-paying companies in the country. There are many UK companies operating in Mombasa, Kenya including Seaforth, BG Group and Tullow Oil and over 14 British companies are involved in the $50million English Point Marina project. Jaru boasted Kenya does not have as much as traditional elements and tourism sites compared to what we have in Ekiti, that when harnessed, will bring enough fund to the state, partnership with the developed countries and boost her IGR.