LAGOS  – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Lily-Pond Command, has said that it processed non-oil export with a total tonnage of 118,184.96. The Command disclosed that available trade statistics showed that the it processed export goods worth N86,426,279,070.59. This, according to the Customs Area Controller, Lily-Pond Command, Comptroller Babandede Mohammed was equivalent to free on-board value (FOB) of $204,656,119.04. The Customs boss, who disclosed said that all these were achieved in the first quarter of 2023, vowed that Lilypond Export Command will continue to facilitate their legitimate trade. According to him, the items processed are agricultural produce such as cocoa beans, cashew nuts, sesame seeds, hibiscus flower, soya beans and ginger. He said that other items exported are mineral resources such as Lithium ore, manganese ore, and zircon sand among others. Compt. Babandede also disclosed that manufactured goods exported are instant noodles, cosmetics, cigarettes and beverages. He said: “It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Lilypond Export Command of the Nigeria Customs Service for the unveiling of our score card which captures our activities for the period from January 2023 to March 2023. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The Nigeria Customs Service in collaboration with the Nigerian Ports Authority approved the establishment of Export Processing Terminals (EPTs) with the mandate to undertake stuffing, examination, and document processing for non-oil export cargos accessing the Lagos Ports by road, rail and barges. POLL “This establishment is geared towards fast-tracking export businesses for quick turnover, ensure proper documentation and repatriation of export proceeds back to the country; decongest the ports and all the roads leading to the ports.” He said that to achieve this, Lilypond Export Command was created and commissioned on November 1, 2022. “Within the period under review, the command has processed non-oil export with a total tonnage of 118,184.96. “Available trade statistics show that the command processed export goods worth N86,426,279,070.59 which is equivalent to free on-board value (FOB) of $204,656,119.04. “The items processed are agricultural produce like cocoa beans, cashew nuts, sesame seeds, hibiscus flower, soya beans and ginger. “Other items exported are mineral resources such as lithium ore, manganese ore, and zircon sand to mention but a few. “Manufactured goods exported are instant noodles, cosmetics, cigarettes and beverages.” Enumerating the other achievements of the Command, Babandede said Lilypond Export Command, despite being a new Command had recorded many achievements which include drastic reduction of delay in export processing, which makes the business of export effective and efficient since all agencies are domiciled in one place as a one stop shop. “It has reduced congestion along the access roads to the port and also inside the port terminals, giving space for Import containers, reduced cost of export business; reduced the issue of contract cancellation.” The Customs boss averred that the issue of pilfering of cargo has been eliminated; adding also that released containers can access the port within 48hrs for loading on to awaiting vessel. “The command in collaboration with shipping lines has reduced the turnaround time of a vessel which decreases the cost of shipping. Lilypond Export Command has completely erased the issue of rejection and return of our agro-produce which is usually caused by delay and lack of requisite phytosanitary certificates.” On the area of inter-agency collaboration and stakeholders’ engagement, the CAC said: “In Lilypond Export Command, we have an excellent inter-agency collaboration with other government agencies. I want to appreciate the Nigerian Ports Authority for coming up with the concept of Export Processing Terminals (EPTs) and by providing all the necessary support to the Command. “I also want to commend the patriotic role of our sister agencies who have always partnered with us in our quest to effectively perform our statutory functions in compliance with extant laws.”