ENUGU – Some Political Pundits and right Activists in Enugu State have said in the interest of justice and fairness the Senate President in the 10th National Assembly (NASS) should come from South East. They said this in Nsukka while speaking to newsmen on the need to zone 10th NASS. Senate President to South East. They agreed that, if the zone was allowed to produce Senate President, it would not only give Igbo a sense of belonging in the country but would go a long way to compensate Ndigbo. Prof Jonah Onuoha, Director, of the Centre for American Studies, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) said that allowing the South East to produce the next Senate President would ensure equity, fairness and justice in the country. Onuoha urged political stakeholders in the zone to endorse Sen Orji Kau, the former Governor of Abia State and incumbent Senate Majority Wip as the consensus candidate for the South East. ” Kalu has been a strong member of APC in the country and particularly in the southeast, in spite of strong opposition against the party in the zone he stood his ground. “This is the best time to reward his resilience and royalty to APC by electing him as the next Senate President.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Electing Kalu as the next Senate President will not only boost APC’s image in the SouthEast but will also help to pacify Ndigbo and reduce the clamours for secession over alleged marginalisation,” he said. POLL Onuoha, who was the immediate past Head of the Department of Political Science in UNN, urged all senate members in the zone irrespective of political party affiliations to rally around Kalu for the position. “Kalu as the former governor of Abia State, a successful businessman, an employer of labour, a ranking senator, a detribalised Nigerian and the current Chief Whip of the Senate, has all it takes to be good Senate President. “I have no doubt that, if he is elected, he will not only ensure robust legislations but help to move the country forward.,” Onuoha said. Also speaking, Prof Ifeanyichukwu Abada, the present Head of Department, Political Science, UNN said electing Kalu as the next president of the Senate, would give Ndigbo a sense of belonging and a testimony that the country has embraced inclusive government. “For some time now Ndigbo has been marginalised, but we should know that Nigeria is not complete without the Igbos. The incoming Federal Government will achieve more in embracing government of national unity and inclusiveness by carrying every geopolitical zones in the country along without discrimination. “Sen Kalu by all standard is the right man for the job based on his experience, as former governor, ranking senator, a royal party member and the currently Chief Wip of the Senate,” he said. Abada urged Ohaneze Ndigbo, to see that the Senate president position was not only zoned to the southeast but ensure Kalu was endorsed as the consensus candidate for South East. Also speaking Mr Innocent Amuzie, a Lawyer and a Rights Activist said that it was the turn of South East to produce Senate President, as it would help to percify and compensate the zone for long time marginalization. ” If the South East produce the 10th NASS Senate President, it will be a palliative to Ndig6 because many years of marginalisation. “Sen. Kalu in my own view is the right man for the job being former governor , a successful businessman, ranking senator and detribalised Nigerian and one who believes in the unity of the country, ” the activist said.