Barrister Emeka Iheonu, Imo State-born Lagos lawyer, is a public affairs commentator and member of the African Bar Association (ABA). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on some of the issues arising from the 2023 general elections, the crisis in some of the political parties, as well as the coming November 11 governorship election in Imo State. Excerpt: How do you see the controversies that trailed the 2023 general elections? The controversies included economic, human, and political issues that were discussed prior to and during the general campaign period from the end of the primary period in June 2022 and the final day of campaigns in February 2023. Several controversies trailed the 2023 elections. Before the elections, however, civil society reports from January 2023 had it that the most of the campaigning was not based on policy issues as personality politics, identity politics, and negative campaigning overtook policy discussion. The controversies included the insistence on Muslim/ Muslim ticket by the All Progressives Congress (APC) despite agitations from within and outside the party and the refusal of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chairman to step down despite popular demands since a Northerner had emerged as the party’s presidential candidate. Some of the controversies also included various threats, intimidations, riggings in connivance with corrupt Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) staff and ad hoc staff, acts of violence, looting, killings, breakdown or non-usage of Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) machines in some polling units, failure of the INEC officials to immediately upload already counted number of votes via the iRev, etc. All these combined to mar the 2023 general elections, thereby destroying the great expectations of Nigerians, especially on the integrity of the elections. What could be attributed to the pitfalls of the elections generally? The deteriorating security situation nationwide contributed to the pitfalls experienced in the elections. While further advances in the fight against terrorists in the North East led to thousands of refugees being able to return to their communities, the situation in the rest of the nation became increasingly worrisome. The continued proliferation of kidnapping and mob violence along with an epidemic of security force brutality affected the entire country and led to increasing reliance on vigilantes and public anger at the perceived indifference of the administration. Due to the security crisis, civil society groups noted the possibility for electoral violence stemming from pre-existing violent groups. During the primaries and early general election campaigns, several notable attacks were also reported. How would you say ethnicity and religion affected the outcome of the polls and the hatred engendered in some parts of the country? Although political questions on identity are often based on region and religion, ethnicity also affected the outcome of the polls. The three major candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Labour Party (LP) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) each came from the three largest ethnic groups as Bola Tinubu is Yoruba, Peter Obi is Igbo and Abubakar Atiku is Hausa–Fulani. As the Igbos are the sole group of the largest three ethnicities to have never produced an elected executive president, Igbo groups like Ohanaeze Ndigbo called for an Igbo to be elected president and protested when the major parties nominated Abubakar Atiku and Bola Tinubu. The group also condemned the Igbos who accepted the vice presidential slot, a direct slight to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vice presidential nominee, Ifeanyi Okowa. For Bola Tinubu’s part, prior to the primary, he claimed that it was ‘the turn of the Yorubas’ to lead the country in a fiery Yoruba language campaign speech in Abeokuta. Coupled with controversy over Abubakar Atiku’s northern origins was the fact that he is an ethnic Fulani, just like our-going President Muhammadu Buhari. During the campaign, Abubakar Atiku was intensely rebuked by civil society organisations and opposing campaigns for stoking ethnic divisions in an October speech where he said that ‘Northerners did not need Yoruba or Igbo candidates.’ The direct appeal to ethnic jingoism also may have violated Section 97 of the Electoral Act 2022 and led to fears of ethnic-based electoral violence. Later that month, ethnicity again rose to the forefront of the campaign as Afenifere – an influential Yoruba socio-cultural organization – became deeply divided over whether to support Bola Tinubu or Peter Obi. By December, Abubakar Atiku tried to change his ethnic rhetoric, referring to himself as “the stepping stone to an Igbo presidency” in an attempt to win back Igbo support. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ How would you explain the leadership crisis that erupted in PDP and Labour Party after the elections? POLL I believe the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leadership crisis mainly occurred before the elections. What has happened thereafter is a sort of resolution whereby it was reported that the erstwhile Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, who had refused to step aside before the elections has finally been replaced. The crisis is not really over so long as his successor remains a Northerner, which is the crux of the crisis in the first place. Leadership crises erupted in the Labour Party (LP) recently, as some members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party led by its Deputy National Chairman (South), Lamidi Apapa, attempted to take over the party’s headquarters in Abuja. The action led to a rivalry war between group loyal to Julius Abure, the incumbent National Chairman, and those loyal to Apapa. The Apapa-led group said they were acting on court judgment restraining Julius Abure and three others from parading themselves as national officers of the party. Lamidi said he is now the Acting National Chairman of the party, while Saleh Lawan is the Acting National Secretary. According to him, Abure and the three others must vacate the order of the Federal High Court retraining them before further action can be taken on the leadership of the party. Abure, on his part, and his supporters also obtained a court order from a Benin High Court restraining anyone from tampering with his position, while there have been protests by the parties and the issue of who is in charge of the Labour Party (LP). That this crisis is raging as the party is pursuing its case at the Presidential Petition Election Tribunal and other outstanding supplementary and off season elections is indeed worrisome. For instance, the crisis at the national level has led to the emergence of four governorship candidates of Labour Party for the November 11 governorship election in Imo State. Going by antecedents, do you think that either the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or Labour Party (LP) presidential candidates can get a different outcome from the Judiciary other than what the Independent National Election Commission (INEC) announced) In other words, can the judiciary nullify the announced victory of APC’s Bola Tinubu who has since been presented certificate as the President-elect? Having experienced some unpopular Supreme Court political decisions in recent years, I doubt if PDP and Labour Party will succeed in their petitions against the All Progressives Congress (APC). Even a respected Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Olisa Agbakoba, recently expressed doubts on the quality of recent Supreme Court decisions and the level of independence with respect to their Lordships. A lot of horse trading is presently going on over the National Assembly leadership. What is your take on this bearing in mind that the incoming administration, if it gets the backing of the Judiciary, is running a Muslim/Muslim and a South West/Northern ticket? In an ideal situation, there should be fairness in zoning various leadership positions in the incoming National Assembly bearing in mind the Muslim/Muslim and South West/North West situation in another incoming All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidency. However, knowing the typical Nigerian ‘politricks’ and midnight settlement meetings, fairness and justice will be relegated to the background. As an Imo indigene who is interested in what happens in the state, how do think the coming November 11 Imo State governorship election will go, especially with the determination of Hope Uzodimma to retain power and the reported withdrawal of Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the race and the growing popularity of Labour Party (LP) and entrenchment of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in South East? Most Nigerians already know how the incumbent governor replaced Chief Emeka Ihedioha who had already been sworn in as Imo State governor. Recall that the governor had placed fourth in the election results that year, but was later adjudged by the Supreme Court to be the winner. If Chief Ihedioha had not reportedly withdrawn, I would have been optimistic that he would defeat the incumbent governor in the next election in November this year. However, with the usual Nigerian electoral mumbo jumbo, I feel that the incumbent governor will retain his seat.