LAGOS  – Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), Lagos has commended the management of United Nigeria Airlines Company Limited for achieving the International Air Transport Association Operational Safety Audit (IOSA), two years after it commenced operations. In a letter addressed to Prof. Obiora Okonkwo, Chairman, United Nigeria Airlines, BASL said it was proud to be associated with the airline, which it described as “a distinguished airline.” In the letter signed by the duo of Oluwatoyin Onalaja and Oluremi Jibodu, Head, Corporate Communications and Head, of Aeronautical and Cargo Services respectively, respectively, BASL said the IOSA certification was a “remarkable achievement” by United Nigeria Airlines, adding that it was proud to have such a distinguished airline operating within its terminal. It said: “Being recognised in this way is a testament to United Nigeria Airlines’ commitment to safety, service and excellence” adding that “it is truly an honour to work alongside such a respected and accomplished organisation.” The terminal operator also lauded United Nigeria Airlines for the contributions it made to the success of the MMA2 terminal, noting that its dedication to providing top-notch services to its passengers was evident in the interactions with the airline’s team. The operator said, “We are grateful for the positive impact you have on our passengers’ travel experiences.” IATA had last month certified United Nigeria Airlines as IOSA compliant after a thorough and rigorous operational audit. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Mr. Nick Careen, IOSA’s Senior Vice President, Operations, Safety and Security, who conveyed the outcome of the audit to the management of United Nigeria Airlines, had said in his message that: “IATA is proud to recognize that United Nigeria Airlines Company Limited has been successfully registered as an IOSA Operator under the IATA Operational Safety Audit Programme (IOSA), in accordance with the provisions of the IOSA Program Manual.”