Once again, the need to strategically implement family planning as a human right and tool for countries to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), FP2030, and Universal Health Coverage was the focus at the recent ICFP2022. Discussion about the demographic effects of population explosion at the International Conference on Family Planning (ICFP 2022) in Pattaya, Thailand followed the United Nations (UN)projections that the global population has surpassed eight billion. In certain respects, the global population expansion was celebrated by experts at ICFP2022, who saw it as proof of important advancements in public health that had lowered mortality rates and raised life expectancy. From another viewpoint, they bemoaned the disparities in access to needs despite global population growth, while issuing a warning against making decisions based on demographic trends in population increase. It is a clarion call for mankind to look beyond the statistics and fulfill its shared responsibility to protect people and the planet, beginning with the most vulnerable, according to UN Secretary-General António Guterres. “Unless we bridge the yawning chasm between the global haves and have-nots, we are setting ourselves up for an 8-billion-strong world filled with tensions and mistrust, crisis and conflict.” Similarly, At the most recent ICFP2022, Dr. Natalia Kanem, Executive Director of UNFPA, emphasized the significance of respecting reproductive health rights. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Kanem said, “A world of eight billion is a milestone for humanity – the result of longer lifespans, reductions in poverty, and declining maternal and childhood mortality. Yet, focusing on numbers alone distracts us from the real challenge we face: securing a world in which progress can be enjoyed equally and sustainably,” said UNFPA Executive Director. “We cannot rely on one-size-fits-all solutions in a world in which the median age is 41 in Europe compared to 17 in sub-Saharan Africa. To succeed, all population policies must have reproductive rights at their core, invest in people and the planet, and be based on solid data.” POLL In addition, Lucky Palmer, Country Director, Ipas Nigeria said in an interview with Independent Newspapers during the ICFP2022 in Thailand that experts believe demographics are a sign of strength and progress. But, he cautioned that it’s crucial to make sure family planning and reproductive health services are provided from a rights-based perspective. The Ipas boss stressed that the goals and values of family planning goes beyond population contrlivep Palmer explained, “Family planning is about the woman, and the quality of life she can live. It is also about empowering her with early, correct, and consistent information to make informed choices about her reproductive health. But importantly, family planning is about how these choices impact her health and her ability to meaningfully contribute to the development of her family and community.” According to projections by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the world’s population will reach 10.4 billion in the 2080s, however growth is generally slow. The world is more demographically diverse than ever because of the vastly different population patterns that different countries are experiencing, ranging from development to decline. Currently, two-thirds of the world’s population lives in low fertility regions, where the lifetime fertility rate is under 2.1 children born per woman. At the same time, the population explosion has moved to the world’s poorest countries, the bulk of which are in sub-Saharan African countries, including Nigeria. Therefore, the UN must ensure that all countries, regardless of whether their populations are growing or decreasing, have the resources required to uplift and empower their most vulnerable inhabitants. Prior to launching the Family Planning 2020 (FP2020) campaign in 2012, which aims to increase access to contraceptives internationally, family planning was widely believed in Nigeria to be a Western plot to depopulate Africa and make its people permanently sterile. These are some of the factors which contributed to Nigeria’s failure to reach the FP2020 objectives. However, with the unveiling of the country’s FP2030 Commitment in 2021, Nigeria reaffirmed its commitment to the FP2030 collaboration. Yet, many women still refuse contemporary contraception ignorantly, citing cultural and religious prejudices among other myths. These family planning conspiracies still exist today, which prevents many people from accessing contraceptives and their advantages, leading to unexpected and unplanned pregnancies across Nigeria. Family planning was unanimously endorsed as a health strategy that, when used effectively, may aid in the development of countries at the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo. Latest research has shown that the advantages of family planning go beyond just preventing unintended pregnancies and, consequently, induced abortions and maternal deaths. They also include improved child health and easier access to schooling for children around the globe. In addition to empowering women in the workplace and other spheres like politics, family planning also promotes gender equality. It does this through fostering economic growth and raising people’s standards of living, which both contribute to eradicating poverty. As a result, it not only advances the eight Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 but also facilitates the attainment of Universal Health Coverage (UHC). Despite the overwhelming evidence of its advantages, there are still societal, cultural, political, or religious impediments that result in an unmet demand for family planning in the nation. Such constraints hinder people from experiencing healthy sexuality and do not respect their freedom to determine for themselves how many children they want. If Nigeria is to meet its commitments to the SDGs, FP2030, and Universal Health Coverage, it must take action now.