JOY ANIGBOGU Why the gubernatorial primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State may have come and gone and a winner emerged that will fly the flag of the party in the November 2023 gubernatorial election, the crisis generated by that election has continued to deepen. It is true that the election which was conducted on April 14 and a winner in the person Ahmed Usman-Ododo emerged as the party’s governorship candidate, some of the aspirants have disagreed with the process and conduct of that election, and one of the aspirants even went further to say that no election held on that day. Senator Smart Adeyemi, was very vocal on the need for a power shift to the Kogi-West. He has also disagreed with the conduct of the primary which he referred to as a kangaroo exercise. He stressed that no election ever took place in the 239 wards of the state. The lawmaker noted that the reason for which Ododo was chosen was because he is a cousin to the governor. Adeyemi said, “Refusing power shift to the western senatorial district will reduce the people to slaves in their own land. We are not slaves. We have equal rights and stakes in Kogi. We supported Bello in 2019 on the premise that he would support a power shift to the West in 2023. “Let me say that there was no election at all conducted. In the whole state, there was no election. What they did was a selection, a sham, a manipulation of people, and a deceitful act. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This is a rape of democracy. It is a treasonable offence. It is manipulation in the highest order. It is deceitful and an ungodly act, unconstitutional, and undemocratic. What they did was to hand over the electoral materials to all the local government chairmen who in turn went to their comfort zones and handpicked about 200 people to line up in their offices or nearby schools and they counted them and took photographs to create an impression that there was an election. POLL “I can assure you that if APC should go ahead with their plan, the next governorship election will not be as easy as they think because we are going to educate our people… An election is not going to be ‘It’s our party’, the election is going to ‘Who is the candidate? Where is he coming from? What are his antecedents?” He challenged the APC leadership and the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Kogi to explain to Nigerians if there was actually a primary election held in the state on April 15. “The primary election was not conducted. All of us mobilised our members. Behold, none of the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and even the panel that was to conduct the election was there. “The chairman of that panel, the Governor of Zamfara, Bello Matawalle, by the constitution of the APC, was expected to announce the result. He came and we saw him. But Matawalle was unhappy with the way and manner, so he left. By the constitution of APC, if the chairman of the panel fails to announce the result, the secretariat is supposed to send another chairman, not the secretary to announce the result. There is a guideline, but the secretary went ahead and announced the result. The primary election in Kogi was just allocation of votes.” Adeyemi was not alone in his resolve that Ododo was never elected as the flag bearer of the party in the November election, as Alhaji Murtala Ajaka from Kogi East, an aspirant in that election was quick to reject the outcome of the election and went further to claim that he was actually the winner in that election. His kinsmen under the aegis of Igala Mandate Group (IMG) mobilised and expressed displeasure at the outcome of the election, insisting that Ajaka won in the election. In a statement signed by its Director General, Yakubu Ugwolawo, the group rejected the announcement of Ododo as the winner of the APC governorship primary election in Kogi State. IMG said, “After an emergency meeting of the leadership of this organisation held early this morning in Igala House Anyigba, the following statements are hereby issued: the announcement made by Mr Patrick Obayagbon purportedly declaring Mr Ahmed Ododo as the winner of the governorship primary election of the APC in Kogi State is unacceptable and it is hereby rejected in its entirety. “The victory of Alhaji Murtala Ajaka (Muri) on April 14, 2023, remains unassailable as he received the overwhelming mandate of the eligible electorate of the party across all the 239 wards in the state as the governorship of the APC in Kogi State. We consider the not announcing Muri’s result by Governor Bello Matawalle and his team as reckless, illogical and an anti-party stance. Matawalle and his team cannot unilaterally exclude Muri from the contest since no law gives them that power. “It is an indiscretion and impunity carried too far in order to satisfy Governor Yahaya Bello’s political appetite to perpetuate himself in power by handing over office to his stooge. The Matawalle team and the destabilising agents from Government House Lokoja must not plunge the APC into unnecessary crisis and confusion. They should perish their plans against the APC and Kogi people. Some of the aspirants accused Governor Yayaha Bello of favouring an indirect mode of primary so that his preferred candidate would gain the upper hand. This generated a lot of controversy which compelled the leadership of the party to deny that the governor wanted to adopt an indirect mode of primary to enable him to impose a candidate on the party. Again the state chairman of the party, Abdullahi Bello, absolved the Governor of any wrongdoing, and stressed that the allegation that the governor had a plan to impose a candidate on the party was false. He encouraged the members and promised them that every member would be given an equal chance and there would be a level playing field. According to him, Governor Bello would be ready to support whichever mode of primary election the National Working Committee (NWC) approved because he is the leader of the party in the state. From the look of things it appears that the leadership of the party are not thinking of any form of reconciliation of the aggrieved members as Governor Yahaya Bello in the company of Ododo has visited the national chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as though all is well. Report has it that Ododo, in company of Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, was warmly welcomed by the party national chairman, who congratulated the party’s fag bearer and expressed his delight at the party’s prospects for success in the November 2023 gubernatorial election in Kogi State. In his response, Ododo, promised not to disappoint the party and the people of Kogi State, and stated that he would build on the legacy and achievements of the current administration of Yahaya Bello when elected. “I want to thank you and the leadership of our great party for the peaceful conduct of the party’s primaries in Kogi, which I won, and others in Bayelsa and Imo states, respectively. “I promise to consolidate on the gains of the present administration of His Excellency, Governor Yahaya Bello, and it is our collective belief that we shall win the November 2023 gubernatorial election for our party. “I want to use this singular privilege to seek your fatherly prayers as we move closer to the general election,” Ododo said. Recall that 17 aspirants across the three senatorial districts of the state signified interest to contest in that election, and nine of them are part of Bello’s administration. They include the deputy Governor, Edward Onoja, a strong ally of the governor. He is from the Kogi East Senatorial District. He was once the Chief of Staff to the governor until 2019 when he replaced Simon Achuba who fell out with the governor and was eventually impeached. Also from the eastern senatorial district is an NWC member of the APC, Alhaji Muritala Ajaka; a former Minister of State for Labour and Productivity, Prof. Stephen Ochen; and Alhaji Shuaib Audu, who is the son of the late Abubakar Audu regarded as the pillar of Kogi politics. The state Auditor General, Alhaji Yakubu Okala, is also a strong ally of the governor. Aspirants from the Kogi West included Asiwaju Asiru Idris, former Commissioner for Finance, Budget, and Planning; three-term senator representing Kogi West, Smart Adeyemi, and a Lagos-based businessman, David Jimoh. The Executive Director of the Rural Electrification Agency in the presidency, Dr Sanusi Ohiare, was also in the race. He is from Kogi Central and the son of former Senator Mohammed Ohiare, a political bigwig in Okene. Another aspirant, Alhaji Ahmed Ododo, who is also from the Central Senatorial district as the governor, was until now the Auditor General of Local Governments in Bello’s administration. Not minding the agitation for a power shift to the Kogi-West, Ododo was eventually elected and subsequently ratified at a special congress held on Saturday, April 15 at the Muhammadu Buhari Civic Centre, Lokoja. According to the secretary of the primary election committee, Patrick Obahiagbon, Ododo scored 78,704 votes to beat his rivals. Shaib Abubakar Audu got 763 votes, Stephen Ikani Ocheni scored 532 votes, Sanusi Ohaire polled 424 votes and Senator Smart Adeyemi got 311 votes, while the breakdown shows that 83,419 party members were accredited for the election.