LAGOS – The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Idowu Owohunwa has called on all parties to the lingering Isheri-Oke land dispute to eschew peace and avoid the breakdown of law and order. It will be recalled that an attempt by the claimants to enforce the judgment of the High Court Lagos caused apprehension in the area as offices, shop owners, artisans and commercial vehicle operators hurriedly vacated the area for fear of being caught in the ensuing protest. The CP made the call following an early morning protest and breakdown of law in the community that led to the invasion of the palace of the Olofin Chieftaincy family of Isheri which led to the destruction of the palace and injuries inflicted on the palace staff. CP Owohunwa whose first point of call was the Isheri Police Station stopped at the Olofin Palace and was received by Oba-elect, Prince Jamiu Lateef Odunsi who narrated his ordeal and level of destruction in the palace. The CP commended restraints by the Olofin palace against the invasion by the protesters alleged to be followers of Chief Saheed Paseda who is also a party to the disputes and called on the residents of the area to respect the intervention of the state government and the Police in the matter. Earlier, Prince Akintunde Kudoro, Secretary to the Olofin-Isheri Chieftaincy family, who spoke on behalf of the family, appealed to the Commissioner for the safety of their lives and property, saying the invasion of the Olofin palace by youths in the community leaves much to be desired. He explained that the hired hoodlums and youths in the community attacked the Sheriffs of the High Court of Lagos State who were in the community to serve notice based on the Appeal Court judgment no. CA/L362/2010-Lasisi Kudoro & Ors (on behalf of the Olofin of Isheri Chieftaincy family) over the parcel of land measuring 151.656 hectares.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to Prince Kudoro, the hoodlums armed with cutlasses and dangerous weapons, without provocation, invaded the palace pelting stones and objects at the palace building shattering windows and vehicles packed within the palace as they were prevented from gaining access in the arena. POLL He told the Police Commissioner, Owohunwa, Area H Commander, ACP Sanusi Mohammed and Chairperson of the Ikosi Isheri LCDA, Hon. Abolanle Bada that five members of the palace sustained injuries of various degrees caused by the invaders who hauled bottles and stones on the palace. However, he sought police action in preventing any act or conduct that may further lead to a breach of peace in the community and an attack on the palace. Earlier in a mediatory visit, the Area Commander accosted by the LCDA Chairperson and the Isheri Police DPO, Amuda Rasheed visited the office of Chief Saheed Paseda, Osunkeye of Isheri-oke land and High Chief Albert Oluwole Bankole, the Baale of Isheri-Oke. Chief Paseda and Baale Bankole denied knowledge of the Appeal Court ruling, saying that the matter is still pending at the Supreme Court following an appeal filed by the defendants. Hon. Abolanle Bada sought the support of both Chief Paseda and Baale Bankole regarding the need to maintain peace in the community, their grievances are already receiving the attention place the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Deputy Governor, Dr. Babafemi Hamzat that mandated her to embark on the maiden mediatory role. Baale Bankole and Chief Paseda in their offices addressed the youths to eschew violence and assured both the Area Commander and Hon. Abolanle Bada to maintain peace in the area pending the intervention of the Governor in the matter.