Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State Governor has on Friday 31, commissioned the reconstructed Oba Sekumade Road in Ipakodo, and the sectional rehabilitated T.O.S Benson road, both located in Ikorodu in fulfilment of his first term campaign promises. Sanwo-Olu commissioned the infrastructure, to provide easy access to residential and industrial areas in Ibeshe, Igbogbo-Baiyeku, Ebute Ipakodo, Ikorodu town and Ipakodo Mega Jetty Terminal, while the rehabilitated failed sections of T.O.S Benson Road, covering about 500 metres will ease vehicular congestion. The commissioning excercise was the first to be carried out by the Governor after winning his re-election bid two weeks ago, using the occasion to also thank the electorates in Ikorodu for the massive votes given to his party; the All Progressives Congress (APC), that won him the last gubernatorial election. He said: “Today, we have come back to Ikorodu Division to show our appreciation and say big ‘Thank You’ to Ikorodu residents for keeping faith with our Government. This town has been good to our party with its outstanding voters’ support during elections. What else can we do to demonstrate our appreciation other than to come to this important base of Lagos heritage and hand over a gift of infrastructure that will bring huge benefits to the people. “The commissioning of Oba Sekumade Road and the rehabilitation of T.O.S Benson Road point to another demonstration of what purposeful governance is all about. These projects reflect our commitment to deliver dividends of democracy and ensure that development touches every nook and cranny of Lagos. These projects are strategic to strengthen various interventions initiated to improve traffic management on this axis. The hardship being experienced by drivers has been resolved, as we have enhanced connectivity and reduced journey time.” Sanwo-Olu said Ikorodu Division would further reap more infrastructure benefits during his second term, stressing that the State Government had gotten the assurance of contractors to accelerate construction work on other infrastructure projects being constructed in the area. The Governor particularly mentioned the ongoing construction of Agric-Isawo Road, which the contractor had pushed to 60 per cent completion. He pledged there would be improvement in the pace of work on Ewu Elepe-Gberigbe Road, Igbogbo-Bola Ahmed Tinubu Road and Adamo-Agunfoye Road construction.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He also charged Lagos State Public Works Corporation to race up the work on Igbogbo-Baiyeku Road in order to improve connectivity within the axis. POLL Sanwo-Olu said the traffic interchange being developed at Ita Elewa Roundabout will change the transportation landscape of Ikorodu when completed. The project, currently at 55 per cent completion, will open a new BRT corridor within Ikorodu. He said: “What we are about is ensuring that the next four years come with bigger dividends delivered faster than we have done in our first tenure. There will be accelerated development across the city in next dispensation. Ikorodu is part of the Greater Lagos that is rising. “In the next couple months, we will be doing groundbreaking for the Fourth Mainland Bridge, which will cut across major sections on Sagamu-Ikorodu Expressway before finally opening to Lagos Ibadan Expressway. We are committed to delivering this project in our second term to completely open Ikorodu to the world.” In her welcome address Engr. Aramide Adeyoye revealed that the 2.5 kilometres road was originally concieved in the early eighties by the federal government to provide access to the Ikorodu lighter terminal at Ebute Ipakodo area of Ikorodu with Ibeshe, Igbogbo and adjoining communities benefiting from its construction. She said, “Consequent upon the conversion of the Ikorodu lighter terminal to a container terminal, the attendant increment in truck volume and axle loads caused a rapid deterioration of the pavement as well as a complete collapse of the drainage system that was occasioned by the low lying nature of the road alignment. “Arising from several complaints by commuters on the condition of the road coupled with the perennial flooding experienced by the adjoining communities due to the inadequate road drainage system, the present administration decided to take the bull by the horn.” She added. Engr. Aramide believed that with the rehabilitation and upgrade of the road, the challenge of flooding will become a thing of the past, translating into improved traffic flow, reduction in travel time and enhanced value for properties in the area. Oba Bashiru Shotonwa, Sekumade of Ipakodo, described the development as ”historic”, noting that the road remained significant for socio-economic development of Ikorodu. The traditional ruler said the road condition worsened due to the influx of manufacturing companies and residential development, which mounted pressure on its usage. “Mr. Governor, by fulfilling your promise to us today, you have written your name in gold in the history of Ipakodo. We will continue to remember your name for good,” Oba Shotonwa said. In his remarks, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, Member representing Ikorodu II in House of Assembly, said the huge votes turned out from Ikorodu was to reciprocate the Governor’s gesture towards renewing infrastructure in the town. The lawmaker said the rehabilitation of TOS Benson Road was an icing on the cake, as it was not part of the original project. “These roads have brought huge relief to commuters on this axis and we can now say goodbye to flooding of our streets” Agunbiade said.