LAGOS – The All Progressives Congress (APC) United Kingdom Chapter has elected new leaders to pilot the affairs of the party. Mr Jacob Ogunseye, the Publicity Secretary, APC UK, made this known in a statement on Monday in Lagos. The election saw the emergence of Mr Joseph Adebola as the Chairman of APC UK, while Dr Mustapha Abdullahi became the Deputy Chairman. Ogunseye said that the election was observed by Hajia Zainab Abubakar Bello, the Deputy National Women Leader and the party’s National Working Committee from Abuja. According to Ogunseye, the election was also officiated by Prof. Gbenga Oduntan of the University of Kent and Chief Olu Alakija. He said that Adebola was until the congress, the Chairman of the Interim National Working Committee of the party. He added that Alhaji Dauda Adams, Hajiya Rekiya Abubakar and High Chief Chris Onumonu were elected the Vice Chairman, South West; Vice Chairman, North; and Vice Chairman, South East, respectively.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Also Mr Oluseun Baiyewu emerges the General Secretary, Mrs Carolyn Adelakun, treasurer; and Mr Jacob Ogunseye, Publicity Secretary. POLL “Other executive members are: Otunba Ade Adeshina, who is the Organising Secretary; Mr Joseph Fadele, Financial Secretary; Hajiya Jamila Zanna Mohammad, Women Leader, “Lady Edith Nwachukwu was elected the Welfare Secretary, Mr Olumide Awoyemi, Youth Leader; Mrs Rukayat Basharu, Deputy Youth Leader; and Mr Tolu Oluwatuyi, Legal Adviser,” he said. On his part, Bello counselled the newly -elected leaders to swing into action and work together for the success of the party both in the UK and Nigeria. She also urged the newly-elected executives to do their best for the chapter. According to her, the executives should carry every member along in the affairs of the party, while assuring them of the support of the national headquarters. Similarly, APC Chairman, U.S. Chapter, Prof. Adesegun Labinjo, who attended the congress with some of the chapter’s executive members, said that the time had come to begin developing Nigeria via the diaspora chapters. Labinjo lauded APC UK for steadfastness and dedication toward developing the party. In his acceptance speech, Adebola said that the newly-elected executives would see their elections as a call to greater service. He pleaded with the members who lost out in the contest to keep faith with the party as there were opportunities where they could serve. He pledged to run an open and all-inclusive party. Ogunseye said also present at the congress are; the Chairman of APC UK South West, Mr Kenny Ojutalayo and Chief Awofidipe, Chairman APC UK Osun State, Lady Ifeoma, Nwankwo, Secretary of the Diaspora Directorate APC PCC, Lady Lola Salvador, National Deputy Organising Secretary, APC USA, Mrs Khariat Animashaun-Ajiboye, Deputy Publicity Secretary, APC USA, Mrs. Elizabeth Olagunju, National Women Leader, APC USA.