ABAKALIKI – Ohanaeze Ndigo said Chief Em­manuel Iwuanyanwu’s recent emergence as the new President General of Ohanaeze Ndigo is too old, unfit for the tasks waiting to be tackled by the leadership of the group in the current state of the Nigerian nation, more so the Igbo race. The socio-cultural group ex­plained that the ranks of Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu should rather be playing advisory roles than be used for the political in­terests of a few persons against the overall interest of Ndigo and Nigeria. In a press statement issued in Abakaliki yesterday by Mazi Okechuwu Isiguzoro, Secre­tary General of Ohaneze Ndigo Worldwide noted, “We believe that being over eighty years of age, Iwuanyanwu is too old for this. Firstly, being a member of the Imeobi Ohanaeze for over three decades, a one-time Chairman of the highly respected Ohanaeze Strategy and Planning Com­mittee and as well involved in various Ohanaeze constitution drafting committees, he should not allow himself to be dragged into illegalities by adversaries of Ndigbo”. “His parading himself as President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo or even claiming to have been so selected by Imo Council of Elders is contrary to Articles 11,12 and 13 of the Ohanaeze con­stitution. In Imo State, none of the known members of Imeobi/ Ohanaeze elders like Prof Uzo­dinma Nwala, Dr. Joe Nwaorgu, Prof Chidi Osuagwu, Archbish­op AJV Obinna, Chief Mike Aham, SAN was present at the so-called Imo elders meeting where Iwuanyanwu was selected. This implies that those there were hand-picked by Douglas House to run errands and are therefore on their own”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “If Iwuanyanwu was such a fantastic choice for the office, why did Douglas House snub him to pick Late Prof George Obiozor as his candidate? Again, why does he want to answer Ohanaeze PG through the back door? Is he afraid to stand for election at the Ohanaeze General Assembly be­cause he is the most unpopular Ohanaeze member from Imo State alive today based on his un­enviable track record as a typical Nigerian politician rather than an Igbo Patriot? His parading himself earlier on as Chairman of the Ohanaeze Elders Council is contrary to the Ohanaeze con­stitution which expressly states that the President General shall be the Chairman of/ preside over all organs of Ohanaeze. POLL “Moreover, the office of the President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo is not a retirement home for tired Igbo politicians. Rather, at this turning point in the histo­ry of the Igbo nation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo needs a PG who has the soundness of mind and body and as well as the goodwill and integ­rity to lead from the front. It is for the above reasons that Ohanaeze stakeholders and affil­iates including Ala-Igbo Develop­ment Foundation (ADF), Global Igbo Leaders(GIL), Njiko Igbo, etc have rejected him”.