LAGOS – Kenny Kujore an affable and sky-focused screen bird has described acting as a lucrative profession once a new entrant is able to hit the right deal of role through the right tutelage. The multi-talented model and actor, however, deplored the overbearing presence of sex-for-role which, according to her, has become a monster confronting the majority of characters across genders in the Nigerian acting industry otherwise called Nollywood. The soft-spoken screen delight expressed her dismay at the fact that talent and proficiency are increasingly being traded off for the good face, good physical structure and, on top of it all, the personality connection by which an upcoming actor enters the industry before being assigned any reasonable role to play in a movie. “The issue of sex-for-role is real in Nollywood and it’s very unfortunate. I don’t think it should be so. The auditioning and selection of actors should be based on the talent and the latent ability that such an actor must have exhibited. “I can tell you that acting is very lucrative and the industry is quite large but unfortunately, it’s about whom you know; not what you have in terms of talent. ” I don’t know people and this has been affecting me a lot. “This sex-for-role thing is a real monster in Nollywood and it has been a major challenge for many upcoming actors.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL “I have been a victim of sexual harassment. So I know what I am talking about. A director once told me point-blank that I should forget about being assigned a role in a particular movie if I don’t succumb to his sexual demand. I refused bluntly and indeed, true to his threat, I lost the role even after having gone far preparing well for the job. Yes, it hit me hard but I have kept up the faith; not been discouraged ever since then. “Mind you, sexual harassment is a common thing all over the place in Nollywood even across the genders. There is male-to-female harassment; there is male-to-male sexual harassment. You see a much older female actor being interested in a much younger male actor and since the Oga Madam is in charge of the role appointment the poor young actor either succumbs to her advances or he loses out. Simple. “This, I believe, should not be so but unfortunately, it is the reality on the ground in our dear industry. “Long and short, the Nollywood industry is a very challenging hustling ground.”; the frank-talking Kujore submitted. Kujore has been in the industry for well over a decade, part of which she spent no less than six years playing roles in the popular TV series, Tinsel. Kenny Kujore is one of the beautiful twin daughters of the late Juju music star and Soko exponent, Prince Dayo Idowu Kujore who passed away in December 2021. Kenny revealed that she fell in love with acting right from her growing-up days as a daughter of an actor-mother who was always playing host to many of the reigning Yoruba movie stars, prominent among whom was the late Babatunde Omidina, (Baba Suwe). According to the articulate multi-talented entertainer, her mother has also been her chief role model who has been in the movie industry for quite an age now. “Apart from my mother, I have other role models that I admire in the industry. For example, I like to work with Kemi Adetiba, Toyin Abraham and many more. I have enjoyed the privilege of working with Mide Martins. Well, I would have also loved to work with some men out there too but my experience with one of the big guys is not encouraging at all. At the first contact, I was confronted with sexual harassment. This is damn discouraging”; Kujore lamented. ” On the international scene, Kris Jenner is my role model. In fact, I  will like to build my children up in the entertainment industry as Kris has done hers. She guided her children to big success in the industry” When challenged why would she now complain of not knowing people or lacking strong connections in the industry even with her mother as a veteran, Kenny explained that her mother is of the Yoruba genre of Nollywood whereas she (Kenny) has always been passionately fascinated to the English genre, which she concurred is more paying and exposing. “As I noted earlier, acting is very lucrative if you are lucky to hit it right but it is especially so in the English version. The Yoruba genre is also lucrative but to make it big out there, you must have worked yourself into popularity and remained there for quite a long time to the extent of hitting big business sign-ups such as being an ambassador to big business brands. I am talking about big names like Odunlade, Femi Adebayo and many others. “Basically, I want to be seen and be known in the industry on the basis of my talent and what I can offer the industry; not how fine or how shapely I look. “I want to be part of 80% of the English role over the Yoruba genre. “Talking about the experience, Tinsel has really helped my growth and advancement. I am grateful for that but I am still very much looking to hit the sky in the industry. I am looking forward to the day I will be signed up with a multinational as an ambassador”. 