MAKURDI – Eche Akpoko, Chairman, Apa Development Asso­ciation of Apa Local Gov­ernment Area (LGA) of Benue State, has cried out that no fewer than 89 persons were killed in separate attacks carried out by herdsmen on the communities in the LGA in the last three months. Akpoko lamented that government has failed in its responsibility of protecting lives and property in the area. The association’s chairman who was flanked by officials and mem­bers of the group, warned that failure to protect them, the people of the area might be compelled to defend themselves. Speaking at a press confer­ence held at the secretariat of the Correspondents’ Chapel of the NUJ, Benue State Council on Wednesday, Akpoko observed that the herdsmen attacks affected 31 communities in the area. He said, “It’s with heavy heart that Apa Development Associ­ation, a socio cultural umbrella body of the Apa people, rises to speak to the world about the pre­carious and volatile security situ­ation of her people since January, 2023 to date. “Apa people and indeed the entire Idoma Land has been un­der siege by the renewed and sus­tained Fulani attacks in the area. The people have suffered colossal human and material damages from sustained attacks in the area. “The under listed communi­ties have been sacked, with hous­es burnt to rubbles and leaving scores of indigenes dead. “They are Ope-Ikobi, Ochi-Iko­bi, Olugwu-Ikobi, Inowa-Ikobi, Olegoncha-Ikobi, Ijaha-Ikobi, Ima­na-Ikobi and Oleoke-Ikobi, leaving 40 people dead.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Others are Ebugodo-Edik­wu, Ankpali-Edikwu, Olegi­jamu-Edikwu, Olekele-Edikwu, Ukpogo-Edikwu, Edikwu-Icho, Edikwu-Oladoga, Okwiji-Ediki­wu and Ojecho-Edikwu, with 20 persons dead. POLL “In Oiji-Ipole, Oiji-Efu, Oiji-Jos, Oiji-Oshodi, Oiji-Highlevel, and Oiji-New Jerusalem, five persons were confirmed dead. “At Ugbobi, five persons were killed including the Village Head. In Odugbo, eight persons were shot dead while five persons were killed at Olegogba, and one person each was killed at Akpete and Opaha respectively. “Akpanta and Iyapu were also attacked and two persons each were killed. May their souls and the soul of the faithful departed rest in perfect peace and may their killers know no peace in their lives and remain wanderers until they are consumed by amalgam forces,” he prayed. Explaining further, Akpoko noted that “The deceased victims of the attacks suffered carnage in the most dastard, gruesome and inhuman manner. In spite of these barrage of attacks on the innocent/defenseless people, the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) failed to give it the desired attention that would yield a long lasting solution to the lawlessness. “The trigger-happy marauders are usually shielded and never brought to book by the FGN; the rampaging marauders raped, maimed and kill innocent/de­fenseless indigenes of Apa LGA in their homes and farms using guerilla or asymmetric warfare with the intent of taking over their common patrimony.” He also seized the opportunity “to debunk the narratives making the rounds in some quarters that the attacks on the good people of Apa LGA were as a result of chief­taincy/land disputes. This claim is merely speculative, spurious and baseless as its intended to divert public attentions from the real issues on ground. “Contiguous Local Govern­ments to Apa such as Agatu, Otukpo and Gwer-West have also suffered similar attacks. We main­tain that the rationale for these un­provoked attacks on the people of Apa LGA is a clear case of Fulani invasion and forceful occupation of their land!