ENUGU – Overwhelmed with joy and full of immense gratitude, 793 residents of Enugu State, who underwent a six-week free training on skill acquisition programme under the sole sponsorship of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s administration, graduated yesterday, smiling home with a seed money of N150,000.00 each to start up business in their respective areas of training. The training which was coordinated by the office of the Commissioner for Special Duties and Focal Person, State Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Hon. Mrs. Mabel Agbo, was targeted at empowering youths and women in various skills such as solar energy installations, soap making, tailoring, cosmetology, bakery, video editing, among others. Presenting dummy cheques to some of the beneficiaries symbolically, Hon. Mrs. Agbo disclosed that the trainees will receive their money through banks, adding that the training was held simultaneously in the three senatorial districts of the state. The commissioner, who stated that the skill acquisition programmes of the SDGs are fundamentally a joint partnership venture between the federal government and Enugu State government, explained that Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration solely sponsored the training of the 793 residents of the state following the inability of the federal government to pay its counterpart funds. Mrs. Agbo disclosed that Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration at the end of 2017 paid the state’s counterpart fund, waiting for the federal government to make its own payment to no avail till date. She pointed out that “what we used to organise this training is the counterpart funds from the state alone. So the man, Governor Ugwuanyi is to be appreciated. He always has the feelings of the masses at heart.” The commissioner maintained that the training was rewarding, result-oriented and knowledge-driven, expressing optimism that it will go a long way to improve the fortunes of the beneficiaries economically and otherwise.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Mrs. Agbo, therefore, implored the elated beneficiaries to utilise the inherent gains to actualise their goals as well as the set objective of the state government towards empowering the youths and women of the state. POLL In their separate remarks, the Commissioner for Budget and Planning, Dr. David Ugwunta, the Managing Director, Enugu State Rural Water and Sanitation Agency (ENRUWASA), Engr. Frank Omeje, representatives of SGDs, Abuja, Mr. Nnamdi Titus Oduzu and Mrs. Tessy Enekwechi, the woman in charge of the training, Mrs. Jacinta Eduzor applauded Governor Ugwuanyi for his steadfastness to the wellbeing of the youths, women and vulnerable groups in spite of the state’s lean resources and nation’s economic challenges. They enjoined the beneficiaries to work hard in justifying the sacrifice made by the governor and his administration to avail them the training opportunity and the startup grants. Reacting, the excited beneficiaries thanked Governor Ugwuanyi for his magnanimity in assisting them to be self-reliant, revealing that the skills they acquired and startup funds are major breakthroughs for them. Mrs. Maureen Okonkwo said that Governor Ugwuanyi has transformed her from being a job seeker to an employer of labour, stating: “We are sincerely thanking our great father, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Dr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. We are giving our huge gratitude to him for what he has done for us cannot be quantified.” Another beneficiary, Mrs. Evangeline Agbo stressed the governor’s interest in the welfare of the vulnerable groups, saying: “I didn’t believe this was true until I came and discovered that the whole gesture was real. Our governor has come to our rescue, he has given us hope and I pledge to uphold this his noble gesture by becoming self-reliant. Today I am a maker of chin-chin.” Corroborating their statements, their male counterpart, Mr. Kingsley Aneke equally appreciated Governor Ugwuanyi for empowering the youths through various programmes and urged his fellow beneficiaries to utilise the grants and free training offered to them by the governor to transform themselves positively.