After a nine-year break from the screens, seasoned broadcaster, actress, Public Relations and Management expert, red-carpet host and philanthropist, Layole Oyatogun is set to launch a new project, ‘Layole’s Lounge’. The daughter of late veteran broadcaster Walter Oyatogun, Layole, who worked with Silverbird TV for seven years said that the programme, which will air on DStv from Saturday, May 6, noted that the essence of the programme is to sell Nigeria to the rest of the world while countering the negative impression held about Nigerians in western countries. Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday, April 19 at Oriental Hotel, Lagos, the broadcaster said that the programme has been in the works for the past 10 years. According to her, ‘Layole’s Lounge’ is a dream come true. “Layole’s Lounge’ is something that I thought about, dreamt about and I have actualised it. and this is the first of many productions. Our reputation outside the country is so bad that they don’t think anything good can come out of Nigeria. “The essence of this show is to change the perception of people about Nigeria. Nigeria is not just about 419. There is much more to us. So I decided to do a show about the most stylish African stars, not just Nigerian stars. “‘Layole’s Lounge’ is about what you don’t see. It is what goes on behind the scenes, the anxieties when they are getting ready for the red carpet, that craziness. I want you to see it. I also wanted to put the spotlight on the fact that the fashion industry is huge, it’s blossoming, and it’s great,” she added. A graduate of Mass Communication from the University of Lagos, she started her career co-presenting an entertainment show called ‘Star Dust’ with her younger sister Mofe Oyatogun on MITV. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ After leaving Silverbird Television almost a decade ago, she established her Public Relations and Management company (LOPR) where she represents celebrity clients like Iyabo Ojo, Priscy Ojo, Segun Olusemo(Sheggz) and many others. POLL “Layole’s Lounge is a journey into the world of glamour and glitz of Celebrity fashion. It is a Fashion Reality Series that captures the magic of Celebrity dress-up and transformation from fit to finish. It is a look at what happens behind the scenes of a Red Carpet appearance; the anxiety, fun, frustration, happiness, and stress that goes into creating the perfect Red carpet look,” she added.