In about five weeks from now President Muhammadu Buhari will hand over power to a new government, and Nigeria’s most uninspiring leadership will come to an end, for good or ill. Ironically, on May 28, 2015, when the same Buhari returned to power as a democratic president, the expectations had been almost the highest most Nigerians had known. If Buhari’s eight years in the saddle benefitted any persons or group of persons, it is the nomadic Fulani, mostly from Niger and Chad. His rise to power saw the herders pouring into the country and amassing never-before-known powers to obliterate whole communities and be protected for doing this. Aso Rock has offered only verbal condemnations of their blood spills and intensified its protection over them. While farming communities are disarmed, the herders are armed and rearmed. It has proved an unequal combat for targeted communities. The Middle Belt of Nigeria, once the food basket of the nation, is now the Blood Belt of Nigeria. Today, even on the eve of Buhari’s exit from power, communities in Benue and parts of Kaduna are being razed with sworn consistency. Ditto for Zamfara and Niger states. The herders have, perhaps, carried out more savagery in the North than the Boko Haram terrorist group has done, especially since March, this year, but Aso Rock has been caught flatfooted each time horrendous attacks are launched against farming communities. On Wednesday, March 4, 2023, Umuogidi community in Otukpo Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State was attacked and 46 persons, including a policeman, were killed. Three persons were killed in the same community the previous day, which was Tuesday, March 3. Thus, the community lost 49 persons within 24 hours. A source from the community told journalists that while the villagers were burying the three persons killed earlier, gunmen invaded the village again and started shooting. So far, the death toll from those two attacks has hit 51, excluding earlier pogroms in the last few months. Stunned by the seeming invulnerability of the attackers and the helplessness of his people, the paramount ruler of the Idoma tribe, Ochi’Idoma, HRM Dr. John Odogbo, summoned a meeting of Idoma sons and daughters over the escalating herders’ attacks in the Idoma-speaking Benue South district. In the invitation letter, the monarch said: “We must rise to the occasion by taking our destiny in our hands since there is a visible failure on government’s part to protect our lives and property.” He added: “The Idoma nation in the last few months has been invaded by an influx of ravaging marauders who are going about killing our people in their homes and farms with a demonstrated intention to sack our people out of their ancestral motherlands. “As of today, communities in Agatu, Apa, Ohimini, and Otukpo have been ruined, and our wives, mothers, and sisters have had their horrid taste of this. Our fathers and young men have suffered extinction in the most gruesome manners. Just yesterday, a beaded chief of our gracious kingdom was forcefully evicted from amongst us by these marauding herdsmen. “These people have stolen our peace and murdered our sleep, but our spirit must remain unsubdued! This premeditated onslaught is going on in almost every nook and cranny of Benue State, albeit unabated. As it stands, it is either we go to the mountain or the mountain comes to us.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The above lamentation by the royal father just about summarises the horrid plight of the farming communities and their inevitable conviction that the federal government’s military might exists more in the breach – as a cover for the invaders. The lamentation reflects a scary apocalyptic reality for the autochthonous dwellers. But this is not without justification as the pillaging of the farming communities has become more brutal each passing day. POLL Two weeks ago, an unspecified number of persons living at the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp situated at the LGEA Primary School, Mgban, in Nyiev Council Ward of Guma Local Government Area of the state, were killed by suspected herders. Nathaniel Ikyur, Chief Press Secretary to the state governor, Samuel Ortom, who confirmed the attack, said about 35 corpses were recovered from the scene while several persons were seriously injured. Alongside the Middle Belt, some parts of Kaduna, in the North-West, have also become theatres of war, with the killing growing just as relentless. Last week, at least eight people were reported killed during an attack in Zangon Kataf Local Government Area, Kaduna State. The President of Atyap Community Development Association told reporters in Kaduna that the gunmen invaded the community from a nearby bush and began a shooting spree, killing eight people in the process, adding that security operatives arrived at the scene after the gunmen had fled the area. Zangon Kataf in Southern Kaduna is one of the areas suffering the malaise of terrorism cum banditry, both of which evils operate in the same vicious manner. Similarly, on Saturday, last week, the Kaduna State government confirmed yet another attack by gunmen in the Runji village of Zangon Kataf, revealing that several people were killed in the attack. In a typical modern day Nigerian postscript to atrocious mass murders, Samuel Aruwan, the state’s commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, said: “While waiting for a detailed report, Governor Nasir El-Rufai, who received the preliminary report in the early hours of Sunday, has condemned the killings as unacceptable and unjustifiable. The governor condoled the families that lost their loved ones and prayed for the repose of the victims’ souls. He also prayed for the speedy recovery of the injured. The Kaduna State government will update the public on the incident as soon as detailed reports are received from the security agencies.” As you should already know, this is how the matter ends. So far, the death toll from bandits’ attack at Runji Village in the Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State on Saturday, last week, has risen to 33. Chairman of the council, Francis Sani, who disclosed this, said over 40 houses were burnt by the attackers while seven persons sustained injuries and were presently receiving treatment at the hospital. Imagine living permanently in horror in a country that is not in a declared state of war! This is the real situation in the Middle Belt, and it calls for more serious concern and responses than have so far been accorded the debilitating development. The spectre of daily foreboding is meaningless only to those who have never suffered the misfortune of enduring ruthless invasions and dehumanization. As for Aso Rock, the bizarre happenings in the Middle Belt have been, more or less, minor infringements – that is what, in my opinion, its routine military responses to the tragedies signify. But how come the herders are able to maintain a steady flow of arms while the targets are denuded of all forms of defence? Who supplies arms to the herders? Are their armouries invisible? How are they able to strike and vanish into thin air with devilish aplomb? And finally, are there any sincere plans to end this mad desire to displace the indigenous farming communities? These are questions the present government can help answer in its last days even though we know that the administration completed its blundering attempts at governance a long time ago. On Wednesday, the Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-Rufai, warned that bandits could take advantage of the current transition period to launch bloody attacks in the country. He, therefore, advised that security operations against bandits be increased in the remaining days of the present administration and beyond. The reviewed 2022 annual and first quarter 2023 security reports from Kaduna indicated that 1,266 persons were killed while 4,973 persons were kidnapped in 15 months. In just one state. Attacks on Nigerians by criminal gangs have intensified since this year but the president whose administration is blindly winding up has long exhausted the patience to look up and behold the blood flows and listen to the cries of agony in beleaguered villages – his gaze is on Daura, his hometown. While addressing guests on Friday at the Villa, the president said: “I can’t wait to go home to Daura. If they make any noise to disturb me in Daura, I will leave for the Niger Republic. I deliberately arranged to be as far away as possible. I got what I wanted and will quietly retire to my hometown. In spite of technology, it will not be easy to get to Daura.” That was a confession of mission accomplished by President Buhari. Need anyone say more? Unfortunately, he is leaving behind the stench of corruption, worse than could come from the mythical Augean Stable, and a mentally and physically tortured nation. This is Buhari’s legacy and the direct responsibility of the incoming government. My sympathies to whoever is rushing to Abuja to pack the cow dung of epic misgovernance reaching up to the sky in Aso Rock. It will be a pretty much sordid soiling that could take some four more years to cleanse, and the soon-to-be-besmeared inheritors will need to channel the Rivers Niger and Benue to accomplish the task. How they would do it, I wouldn’t know, but that should be their headache not mine.