INNOCENT OWEH; TONY EZIMAKOR; VICTORIA OJUGBANA President Muhammadu Bu­hari has condoled with the family of former Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Prince Bola Ajibola (SAN), who passed on at the age of 89 on Sunday. While commiserating with the legal community in Nigeria and worldwide, President Buhari noted that the outstanding lawyer and eminent jurist used his God given knowledge, intellect and talent to advocate for justice, fairness and equity in all his undertakings within and out­side Nigeria. The legendary arbitrator was at different times, the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (1984-1985); Pres­ident, The World Association of Judges; Chairman, Body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria, and President, World Bank Administrative Tribunal, among other notable accom­plishments. President Buhari averred that the late Ajibola, having risen to the pinnacle of his ca­reer, took his brilliance in law practice to the International Court of Justice at The Hague, where he served meritorious­ly between 1991 and 1994. He was also the Nigeria’s High Commissioner to the United Kingdom from 1999 to 2002. “His contributions to the development of our legal system cannot be overstated, serving as the Attorney Gen­eral and Minister for Justice at a critical period in the nation’s history. His patriotic inclina­tions, integrity and passion for service and advancement of humanity will continue to resonate after him,” the pres­ident said. President Buhari also sym­pathised with the government and people of Ogun State as they mourn this illustrious cit­izen for the educational and so­cial development he brought to his community and environs.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He prays that the Almighty will grant him Aljannah. POLL Prince Bola Ajibola’s Contributions Will Written In Gold — Tinubu Similarly, President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinu­bu, has expressed profound sadness over the demise of eminent elder statesman and international jurist, Prince Bola Ajibola, noting that late legal icon made important contributions to the country’s political development and na­tion building. In a condolence message issued by his Media Office, Asiwaju Tinubu placed on record that late Prince Ajibo­la served the country merito­riously as Attorney-General and Minister of Justice in the military administration of General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida. While expressing his sym­pathy and condolences to the family of the legal luminary and founder of Crescent Uni­versity Abeokuta, Asiwaju Tinubu acknowledged Prince Ajibola’s important contri­butions to Nigeria’s political evolution and nation-building, legal profession and interna­tional jurisprudence. The President-elect said: “I received the news of the passing, on Sunday, of Prince Bola Ajibola, SAN at 89, with profound sadness. “The former Nigeria’s Min­ister of Justice and leader of the Bar was an eminent states­man and legal icon whose con­tributions to national progress and development will be writ­ten in gold. “During his earthly so­journ, Prince Ajibola didn’t just serve his country with his gift of extraordinary bril­liance as a lawyer, he served the world as a Judge of Inter­national Court of Justice in The Hague and member of its Permanent Court of Arbi­tration (PCA). “As ICJ Judge, Justice Aji­bola made his mark as one of the brightest legal minds in the world in many decided cases involving state actors across the world. Through his excellent performance, he brought honour and dignity to Nigeria.” Ajibola’sDeathGreatLossToNigeria — Sanwo-Olu Equally, Lagos State gover­nor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has mourned the passage of the former Judge of Interna­tional Court of Justice, The Hague, Netherlands, Prince Bola Ajibola, describing his death as a big loss to the legal profession, the education sec­tor, Ogun State and Nigeria as a whole. Governor Sanwo-Olu de­scribed Prince Ajibola as a renowned jurist, seasoned administrator and philanthro­pist who served his country and the world meritoriously at different levels. In a condolence message is­sued by his Chief Press Secre­tary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, on Sunday, Governor Sanwo-Olu commended the ex-ICJ Judge for his legacies, sacrifice and dedication to nation-building and service to mankind. Governor Sanwo-Olu also praised Prince Ajibola’s con­tribution to the judiciary and education sectors as a lawyer, World Court Judge and found­er of one of the foremost pri­vate universities in Nigeria, Crescent University, Abeoku­ta, Ogun State. The governor also commis­erated with Ogun State gover­nor, Prince Dapo Abiodun and the entire people of the state, especially, indigenes of Owu Kingdom, on the demise of their illustrious son and elder statesman. He said: “On behalf of the government and people of Lagos State, I want to express my sincere condolences to the family, friends and associates of Prince Bola Ajibola on the demise of our elder statesman and renowned jurist. “Prince Ajibola lived a ful­filled life having made positive impacts during his lifetime. The elderly and wise coun­sel of the jurist will be sorely missed not only by his family but the entire people of Owu Kingdom and OgunStatewhere he played active roles in their development for many years before he passed on. ­ “I want to urge the late Prince Bola Ajibola’s family, friends, ju­diciary and education sectors and the entire people of Owu Kingdom to immortalise the good name of the late lawyer and educationist. “I pray that God will grant him eternal rest and give his im­mediate family, friends and the people of Ogun State, the forti­tudetobeartheirreparableloss.” Abiodun Says Ajibola’s Legacies Would Never Be Forgotten Correspondingly, the Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has commiserated with the family of former Justice at the International Court of Justice, The Hague, on the death of the former Attorney General and Minister for Justice, Prince Bola Ajibola. Describing the death as a big loss to the nation and its judiciary, Governor Abiodun said his legacies in the judiciary, philanthropyandtheeducation­aldevelopmentof Nigeria would never be forgotten. Gov. Abiodun said as the chief mourner, he extends his condolences to all Nigerians on the loss of a global statesman, jurist and diplomat who gave his all to humanity. Abiodun, who also commis­eratedwiththeOwuRoyalFam­ily of the late former Attorney General, his friend, President Olusegun Obasanjo, as well as members of the Baptist Boys’ High School Old Students Asso­ciation, described the legal icon’s death as saddening, devastating and the end of an era. This was contained in a state­ment issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, on Sunday in Abeokuta. The governor said: “The death of this illustrious son of Ogun State, a celebrated jurist and judicial activist, public in­tellectual and elder statesman, is a severe blow to all of us who knew him. “Words cannot adequately convey my heartfelt sorrow over Papa’s death, for he was a kind and beautiful soul who spread love to all who encountered him. “He was a jewel of the law profession and an accomplished judicial officer of pro digioushue. Baba was a go-getter who deliv­eredonanyassignmentcommit­ted to his hands because of his belief that services should always come first. “Besides, he was a great re­ligious influencer and philan­thropist who established the faith-based Crescent University in his hometown, Abeokuta. “He not only supported but funded some other altru­istic projects and promoted research and scholarship through his establishment of an Islamic co-educational insti­tution, Crescent University, in Nigeria in 2005, and he served as the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Muslim Ummah of South West Nigeria (MUSW­EN). He was also the High Commissioner of Nigeria to the United Kingdom from 1999 to 2002”, the statement stated.