The Nigerian military has once again assured of seam­less handing over to a new civilian administration on May 29. The military high com­mand said it will work with the police and intelligence community to nip in the bud all threats to national security. It was reacting to calls by some individuals for an interim government and threats by terror groups to halt the transition period. Director, Defence Media Operations Maj.-Gen. Musa Danmadami conveyed the assurances of the military high command on Thursday during a briefing at the De­fence Headquarters, Abuja. He said: “As far as the internal security of the na­tion is concerned, the police is the lead agency. We are only providing assistance to civil authority and civil power. Just like the gener­al elections came and gone and winners have been an­nounced, the transition of power will also come and go peacefully. People are just being apprehensive and sit­uated that are not there. “You will recall that there was a United States (US) travel advisory and up till now we are still waiting for the consequences. People have been predicting that the country is finished but nothing has happened up till now. As members of the armed forces, like I always tell you, we are not resting on our oars to ensure that peace and security are sus­tained in this country. “I equally assure you also that the intelligence community are working round the clock just as the Armed Forces are working to ensure there is peace and tranquility. And I can assure you that there are a lot of follow-up operations going on round the clock. Every day people are being arrested. People who are on the verge of committing crimes are being arrested, and people who are moving weapons from one point to the other to go and commit crimes are being arrested every day as reflected in to­day’s briefing.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “So both the intelligence community and members of the Armed Forces are work­ing round the clock to make sure we nip these things in the bud and if it happens, we respond to it appropri­ately. So people should not be afraid that when the pres­ent administration hands over there will be calamity all over the place. I can as­sure you that we are ready to address whatever securi­ty challenge that comes up. So people should go about their normal duties and for­get about the unnecessary apprehensions that people are causing to put Nigerians on their head. No cause for alarm, everything is under control.” POLL Tinubu Announces 13-Member Presidential Inauguration Com­mittee Meanwhile, the Presi­dent-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has announced a 13-man Presidential Inau­guration Committee. The committee, which comprises distinguished Nigerians is expected to plan a week-long presiden­tial inauguration event that will usher Tinubu and his vice president-elect, Senator Kashim Shettima, in as the President and Vice Presi­dent of the country. Tinubu, in a letter to the Secretary to the Govern­ment of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, made it known that a former sen­ator representing Borno North and current National Deputy Chairman (North) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abubakar Kyari, will be Coordinator and Director of Finance and Budget of the commit­tee. Stella Okotete, the Ex­ecutive Director (Business Development) at the Nige­ria Export-Import (NEXIM) Bank, will serve as the head of Secretariat, Planning and Monitoring, while Ma­kinde Araoye, an ex-APC governorship aspirant from Ekiti State will serve as the Director of venue, parades and swearing in for the week-long event. The APC Presidential Campaign Spokesperson, Bayo Onanuga, will serve as Head of Media and Publicity, while the Cross Rivers State Commission­er for Health and current National Women Leader of the APC, Betta Edu, will coordinate the medical team for the inauguration committee. Col. Abdulazeez Yar’Ad­ua, a younger brother to the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, will act as the Head of Security and Ceremonial Parade for the inauguration while Zainab Buba Marwa will coordi­nate the pre-inauguration dinner and gala night for the committee. Other members of the committee are: Samira Saddik (Children’s Day), Abuh Andrew Abuh (Ac­commodation), Danladi Bako (Inaugural Lecture), Hajiya Hadiza Mohammed Kabir (Transportation and Logistics), Donald Wokoma (Protocol and Invitation), Bishop Adegbite (Church Service) and Imam Faud (Jumat Service). Recall that the Presi­dent-elect, Tinubu, had ini­tially forwarded the names of Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and former Lagos State Commissioner for Finance, Wale Edun to Boss Mustapha to be includ­ed as his representatives in the Transition Committee. Tinubu is expected to be inaugurated as president on May 29, 2023.