ABUJA – The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) on Wednesday announced that the fourth edition of the Nigerian Oil and Gas Opportunity Fair (NOGOF2023) will hold May 17th to 19th 2023. Mr. Simbi Wabote, the Executive Secretary, of NCDMB, said the theme of this year’s NOGOF is ‘The oil and gas industry: Catalyst and fuel for the industrialization of Nigeria, stressing that the goal is to use NOGOF as a platform to promote objective that would drive growth and development across the Nigerian oil and gas value chain. Wabote recalled that the tirst and second editions of the biennial event were hosted in Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa states respectively while the third edition was hosted virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, this 4th edition is scheduled to hold at 18th and 19th of May 2023 in Bayelsa State, while delegates registrations will start on the 17th of May followed by a welcome cocktail event same day. “We are also raising the bar at this year’s event by expanding our focus to include the linkage industries and extending our reach beyond Nigeria to the entire African content” he said. Wabote said NOGOF since inception in 2017 has made significant gains, providing a platform where players in the industry speak on the existing opportunities for stakeholders to take advantage of, adding that this time, the NOGOF has expanded to include linkage industries and extending the reach beyond Nigeria to the entire African content. According to him, as a result of the introduction of NOGOF, 50 per cent of the activities being done in LNG is being done by Nigerians because NOGOF provides prior information to enable Nigerians prepare themselves ahead of opportunities in the industry.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Giving insights into what informed the concept of NOGOF the NCDMB boss said:“NOGOF is a biennial event being championed by NCDMB. And how did we come about NOGOF? Here is just a bit of the background POLL “When we were looking at strategy on how to develop Nigerian content, that is local capacity to provide services to the oil and gas industry. We went through a gamut of activities and things we needed to do in order to enhance the participation of Nigerians in the oil and gas industry. One of the things that stood out during that process was that they did not even know what opportunities are coming in the future. “So they came back to us and say look by the time these opportunities materialize, we are not ready to take advantage of them. And we are always on the back foot. How do we get onto the front burner so that we are aware of these opportunities and we prepare ourselves in anticipation of when these opportunities will come? “So it was out of that request by stakeholders that we looked it and said okay, provide a platform where you will tell them a five years look ahead of opportunities in the industry. Such that people would begin to prepare themselves. And my colleague told you about some of the successes recorded. One of the greatest success that we did record in this is that, we you look at NLNG Train 1to 6, during it’s construction phase, if you go and check the level of Nigerian participation, it was near zero because LNG technology was alien to us and the activities there activities there, everything practically was done outside the country.“But with the advent of NOGOF, today, 50% of the activities on NLG Train 7 is being done by Nigerians. It’s because we on provided prior information which enabled them to prepare themselves to participate in that project. And I sincerely believe that if we want to build another train of an LNG, I can assure you that almost 70% of it will be done by Nigerians and in-country. So that’s one of the very significant benefits that we brought to bear with NOGOF” he said.