LAGOS – There was real excitement in the air at the Chilis Bar, Owerri on Tuesday when Real Madrid sealed their place in the semifinal stage of the UEFA Champions League (UCL). The Heartland State was agog with the Heineken ‘Cheers to All Fans’ Campaign’ as the Premium beer brand was on hand to make the UCL night a memorable one for the scores of fans and loyal consumers that made it to the exquisite Chilis Bar, Owerri. With Real Madrid coming into the second-leg tie with a two-goal advantage, the odds were readily stalked against Chelsea. However, smart fans from all walks of life who found their way to the Chilis Bar were glad about their decision as they enjoyed an unforgettable viewing experience with the Premium beer brand from the stable of Nigerian Breweries PLC. Chelsea fans and Real Madrid supporters as well as consumers of Heineken thronged the Chilis Bar where they soaked in the fun even after the 90 minutes of action was over at Stamford Bridge. After a barren first half, Rodrygo’s brace in the 58th and 80th minutes ensured the reigning champions ease their way to the last four without much sweat. Despite the fans’ mix of fulfilment and disappointment at the end of the regulation time, they had a night they would continue to relish courtesy of Heineken’s ‘Cheers to All Fans Campaign’ Top entertainer, DJ Bliss and hype man, Mr Barango, treated the fans to the best of trending Nigerian and international hit songs all night as fans who were on the edge of their seats while the game lasted soon switched into the party mood. POLL DJ Bliss the crowd controller kept the fans of both teams and consumers of Heineken’s mouth agape throughout with different tunes he made available before, at halftime and after the explosive tie.Though Real Madrid fans went home happier with their resounding victory, Chelsea fans were consoled with the improved performance by Frank Lampard’s men. In the end, everyone was a winner with plenty of Heineken merchandise freely given out to the fans and loyal consumers. One of the winners, Ikenna Chilaka, a Chelsea fan who got the prediction of the halftime and full-time results got a classic power bank, bag, T-shirt, and face cap among others thumbed up by Heineken. “It was a time filled with mixed feeling emotions for me but Heineken wiped that feeling of sadness with the gifts I won. I so much had fun and the fact that fans, friends, and families were able to come together to watch and support their clubs while sharing bottles of Heineken and still having fun while answering questions, winning branded gifts, and the DJ’s wonderful renditions gave us something to relish. Some of the other winners on the night were Ngozi Enwerem, Dayo Arowolo (water bottle), Anthony Nsofor, Ijeoma Ogbuibe, Chuks Henry (faze cap), Dica Divine (Speaker, T-Shirt, Water bottle) and many more. After the explosive night in Owerri, Heineken’s Cheers to All Fans Campaign will be taking Warri and Abuja by storm when the attention shifts to the second-leg semi-final games. Up next are mouth-watering semifinal pairings Milan derby between AC Milan and city rival, Inter Milan compete for a place in the final match and will meet the winner of Real Madrid and Manchester City which is a repeat of last season’s semi-final paring that saw ‘Whites’ went all the way to win the cupThe climax of the campaign, the UCL final in Lagos, promises to be an unforgettable experience for fans.