YENAGOA – Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, the Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, has expressed concern over the quietness of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) and other legal bodies in the country over the unprofessional conduct of the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Adamawa State, Hudu Yunusa-Ari Ari. Yunusa-Ari, a lawyer by profession, was reported to have unilaterally declared the APC governorship candidate for Adamawa, Aisha Dahiru, also known as Binani, winner of the supplementary polls while the collation of results was yet to be concluded. Ewhrudjakpo expressed the concern when the Bayelsa State chapter of the FIDA led by its chairperson, Mrs Deme Pamosso, paid him a courtesy call at his office in Government House, Yenagoa. The deputy governor, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Doubara Atasi, lamented that the legal profession was in a serious crisis in Nigeria at the moment due to the brazen manner with which some legal practitioners violate the laws they are supposed to defend. He said he was saddened by the silence of the NBA and its affiliate associations over the Adamawa saga and other unprofessional issues, stressing that such portended a grave danger to not only the nation’s democracy but the legal profession as well. Ewhrudjakpo, also a lawyer, said he had expected the NBA to come up with a public statement concerning the unprofessional and despicable conduct of the Adamawa REC, noting that if such bodies refused to speak out in times as these, they would inadvertently become accomplices. He maintained that absence of integrity among many practising lawyers was worrisome, as legal practitioners nowadays were ready to break the law in defence of partisan or primordial interests.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said, “There is indeed a short supply of people with integrity and character in this country. Look at what the Adamawa Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) did a few days ago. POLL “As far as I’m concerned it is an embarrassment to every lawyer who is worth his or her salt. He (REC) is not a greenhorn in the profession. He is somebody that has practised the law for a reasonable number of years. “I believe the FIDA and other affiliate bodies of the NBA must take a position on this. Even as I’m really saddened that up till now the NBA has not made any statement about the unbridled and treasonable action by the Adamawa REC.” Ewhrudjakpo, who commended FIDA for protecting and promoting the rights of women and children over the years, urged them to extend their enlightenment campaigns against child abuse and divorce to the rural areas. He also called on the female lawyers to employ arbitration to save troubled marriages and homes bedeviled by one form of marital crisis or another.