The Lagos State Government has expressed readiness to confront emergencies, include sustained clearing of drains to reduce the flooding of its roads in the 2023 rainy season. Road users across the country, especially in the coastal city of Lagos, have every reason to be apprehensive about the rainy season which has just begun. This is due to the horrendous experience many go through from the massive flooding within the period, leaving behind flooded roads, and pools of water in potholes on the roads. Ordinarily, the rainy season should be appreciated for the abundance of agricultural harvests that comes with it; it’s cooling effect on the atmosphere, and the rejuvenation of the ecosystem into lush greenery that could be seen permeating the entire landscape, projecting a soothing ambience. Mr Tunji Bello, Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, gave insight to the plans of the state government to control flooding this year at a news conference on the year 2023 seasonal climate predictions and its socio- economic implications for the state on Thursday 30, March in Lagos. Bello said that it was the tradition of the state to annually alert Lagos residents of the predicted rainfall patterns and its socio-economic implications. The commissioner noted that the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET) had on Jan. 24 released the 2023 Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP), a forecast of the expected rainfall and temperature patterns spanning the entire country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We will put all emergency response organisations, traffic management organisations, and other emergency-related organisations on high alert to help lessen the detrimental effects of thunderstorms and associated rains in the state,” he said. POLL On the issue of flooding, Bello said that it was normal to have occasional flash floods when it rains, which will percolate or drain off rapidly. He said that it was only when flooding remains on the roads for hours that we can report that the place is flooded, “Another contributory factor to flooding which everyone should be cognizant of is lagoon level rise. Anytime there is high tidal movement, it may “lock up” the discharge points of drainage channels and until it recedes, there will be no discharge. The commissioner said that densely built and fully paved ground surface areas typical of Lagos have distorted the normal hydrological cycle in the state and given rise to increased surface runoff resulting in flood incidences. “Hence, our Ministry is introducing Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems (SUDS). “SUDS mimics nature, using man-made features such as soak-aways, ponds and gently sloping channels to attenuate and treat urban runoff. “It focuses on prevention of runoff and source control rather than end- of pipe solutions. “The beauty of the application of SUDS lies in the fact that if every tenement can manage its generated storm water, then there will be little or no need for costly public drainage system,“ Bello said. The commissioner appealed to Lagos residents to refrain from acts that can lead to flash flooding, warning against indiscriminate dumping of refuse in unauthorised places, clogging of drains with or construction materials, erecting building structures within and around drainage right of ways and setbacks. ”Residents are advised to report cases of drainage blockages, dumping of waste into canals and other unauthorised places to our Resident/Drainage Engineers and zero tolerance offices that are available in all our 57 LGAs and Local Council Development Areas to attend to all drainage related matters during and after the rainy season. It is however, worrisome to note that flooding in the Lagos metropolis and around the country usually occurs during the rainy seasons, affecting a substantial percentage of the population and causing considerable loss of road portions to flood waters. Funsho Layishimo , a resident and commercial driver in Ijagemo community in Ojo Council of Lagos State have lamented the deplorable state of roads in the area and its attendant hardship on the people, especially on inner city cum community roads which are dotted with wide and deep potholes. The state of these roads has become a serious challenge for motorists, motorcyclists and residents. Anytime it rains, the road is usually flooded, making them difficult for cars, buses and motorcycles to ply, adding that the rainy seasons affects their businesses and livelihood in different ways. Town Planner Lasisi Ajeigbe, Senior Partner with Adlab Estate Managers and Surveyors, said absence of drainage, poorly designed and badly maintained drainage systems have dire consequences on roads in the state, including compounding the already chaotic traffic situation, reducing the lifespan of cars, and fast-forwarding infrastructure decay. “From Lagos Island to the mainland, the absence of a good drainage system is evident on the many roads that have been washed away, and the craters left behind, as is the case in many other parts of the country. “A sustainable drainage network must be covered, with maximum vents to allow for effective draining of the excess water, and restrict debris from falling into and blocking the drain. Standard drainage systems manage the water quantity to avoid flooding, control water and pollution. He maintained that sustainable drainage must be of paramount concern when designing any project like roads, buildings, estates, city layouts, airports, and others, as a means to protect the projects from flooding and its consequences. Muyeez Oladejo, an engineer with China Civil Engineering Construction Company, CCECC, said: “Drainage is the central and most important aspect of design, construction and maintenance of any road, including unsealed roads. “Poor drainage will reduce the life of the pavement and have serious environmental impacts if left unchecked. During the rains, part of the rain water flows on the surface and part of it percolates through the soil mass as gravitational water until it reaches the ground water”. On his part, Busari Ibrahim, an engineer with Maikano, said: “Run-off is the quantity and volume of water flowing into the drain from the road pavement after a rainfall. The quantity of water to be drained will depend on a number of variables, i.e. the intensity, duration and frequency of the rainfall, together with the size and type of the drainage. “With a lot of Nigerian roads across the country having inadequate drainage systems, deterioration often begins with the origin of cracks or pot holes on the road pavements either at the edges or along the driveway which differs by their shapes, configuration, and amplitude.” Engineer Busari added. A staff of the Works Department of the Ifako Ijaiye, Local Government Area, said: “When erected structures and facilities such as drainages and road pavements are poorly maintained, which reduces their service lifespan is drastically, with our poor maintenance culture you find drainages, gullies and gratings being blocked with dirt, weeds, silts, sand with some having growth of vegetation inside and around the side drains resulting into total failure of the side drains. “The worst effect of blocked drains or lack of it on Nigerian roads, especially in Lagos, reduces the lifespan and durability of constructed road networks and the deterioration of repairs carried out on bad spots of the roads within a short time”, he added. Apart from poor drainage as a major cause of flooding, there is also a man-made element to the floods. The Lagos State government has continued its program of ‘reclaiming’ land from the Atlantic. In addition private operators have continued the illegal activities of dredging and reclaiming land from the sea around the lekki-Ajah axis, including places like Ikorodu, Navy town, Epe, Okokomaiko and other coastal places of the state. Experts say beyond displacing thousands of liters of sea water, these projects have also reduced the options available for rain water that would ordinarily run into the Lagos Lagoon and eventually, the Atlantic. The government should carry out strict monitoring of dredging activities that could displace large volumes of water into the mainland via drainage outlets, enforce the control against dumping of refuse into drainage paths and ensure the de-silting of major drainages ahead of the full raining season that is about to commence. The seriousness of the Lagos state government in ensuring that the roads in the state does not remain flooded after each rain could be the reason for the statement made by Joe Igbokwe in 2022 that, “The state would embark on innovations to rid the state of flood in 2022.” The special adviser, who was represented by Olalekan Shodeinde, Permanent Secretary (Office of Drainage Services) said it became necessary to review the 2021 SCP and seek better ways to tackle challenges recorded. “The state is thus open to new partnerships and improved synergy with relevant organisations which will help to improve the knowledge base and bring forth new ideas in the technology to combat flooding.” ‘’We also ensured the flood was promptly curtailed by empowering resident engineers to attend to all flooding matters in the 57 LGAs/ LCDAs. ‘’A total of 72km and 289.08km of primary and secondary drainage channels were cleared and maintained during the year and more hydraulic structures were built to mitigate flooding.” Shodiende said. To show its commitment to having a clean and effective drainage system to suck the expected heavy rainfall expected in the year 2022, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor, approved the creation of Tertiary Drains Squad, TDS, in the 57 local governments and local council development areas in the state. According to Igbokwe, the squad will complement the Emergency Flood Abatement Gang already existing at the state level, to ensure that tertiary drains are properly discharge into primary and secondary drains. He added that there is no straight-jacketed approach to implementing the directives of Mr Governor, but each council must adopt the strategy that suits it.