BARNABAS MANYAM; SAMUEL OGIDAN The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday fi­nally declared incumbent Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the winner of Adamawa governorship election. Announcing the result of the elec­tion, in Yola, following the conclusion and collation of the results of the 69 polling units across the various local government areas of the state after Saturday’s supplementary election, the returning officer of the election, Prof. Mohammed Mele, who is the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Adminis­tration, University of Maiduguri, re­turned Governor Fintiri as the winner of the election, having scored 430,861. He said the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate, Senator Aishatu Da­hiru Ahmed, also known as Bi­nani, scored 398,788 votes to come second in the election. Others are Dr. Umar Ardo of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), who came third in the election, and followed by Mo­hammed MC Tahir of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), who came fourth in the guberna­torial election. Mohammed Mele said the PDP governorship candidate has met the constitutional re­quirement and thereby returned as governor of the state. “I, Professor Mohammed Mele, hereby certified that I am the Returning Officer for the Ad­amawa State governorship elec­tion. The election was contested. That the candidates received the following votes,” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “That Ahmadu Fintiri of the PDP having satisfied the require­ments of the law is hereby de­clared the winner and is returned elected.” POLL It would be recalled that on March 20, INEC declared the March 18 Adamawa governor­ship election as inconclusive. The collation officer had announced that Fintiri scored 421,524 votes while Aishatu Da­hiru Ahmed polled 390, 275 votes. He said the margin between the two top candidates was less than the total number of poten­tial voters — 37,016 — in 69 poll­ing units where elections were cancelled. After the election was declared inconclusive, INEC fixed April 15 for the conduct of the supplemen­tary election. On April 15, the supplemen­tary election was conducted in Adamawa. The Adamawa State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Yunusa Hudu-Ari, in the early hours of Sunday, sneaked into the state governorship collation centre to declare Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed of the All Progressives Congress winner of the gover­norship poll. However, INEC immediately declared null and void the pur­ported declaration of Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed as winner of Saturday’s supplementary gov­ernorship election held in Ad­amawa State. The commission, through its National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Vot­er Education, Festus Okoye, said the declaration made by Hudu Yunusa-Ari, the Adamawa State Resident Electoral Commission­er, was contrary to the law. According to Okoye, the res­ident electoral commissioner usurped the powers of the re­turning officer in the guberna­torial election, who is statutorily empowered to declare the result. A statement signed by Okoye read: “The attention of the In­dependent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has been drawn to the purported declara­tion of winner in the Adamawa State governorship election by the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mr. Hudu Yunusa-Ari. “The action of the REC is a usurpation of the power of the returning officer and therefore null, void and of no effect. Conse­quently, the collation of the result of the supplementary election held yesterday 15th April, 2023 is suspended forthwith. “The REC for Adamawa State and all other officials involved in the process are hereby directed to report immediately to INEC headquarters in Abuja.” On Tuesday, INEC resumed collation of the supplementary election results held in Adamawa State last Saturday. Present at the INEC state colla­tion centre for the resumed exercise were the National Commissioner, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, and the returning officer, Prof. Mohammed Mele, among others. PDP, Atiku, Governors Congratulate Fintiri Meanwhile, the PDP, the par­ty’s presidential candidate, Ati­ku Abubakar and the governors on the platform of the party, on Tuesday, congratulated Ahmadu Fintiri as the winner of Adama­wa State governorship election. Reacting to the victory of Fin­tiri, PDP described it as a momen­tous triumph for democracy and the will of the people of Adama­wa State over tyranny and des­perate manipulative forces which sought to take over control of the state illegally. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon, Debo Ologunag­ba, said, “Spontaneous jubilation of citizens in Adamawa State and across our nation at the official declaration of Governor Fintiri as the rightful winner of the elec­tion irrespective of the nefarious schemes by the rejected All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), is a confirmation that the PDP and its candidate are indeed the choice of the people. “Governor Fintiri’s over­whelming victory is a validation that the will of the people cannot be subdued no matter the plot by a tyrannic, domineering and power-grabbing few who, with over-bloated ambition, desperately sought to subvert our democracy, scuttle the electoral process, com­promise the judiciary, subjugate the people and impose an uncon­stitutional regime in the polity.” The PDP salutes the courage, resilience and determination of the people of Adamawa State in resisting the defeated APC and compromised INEC REC, Mal­lam Ari, in their bid to destabilise the state. “Our party also lauds the Ad­amawa State Returning Officer, Mohammed Mele, for his courage in standing on the side of justice, due process and democracy in the discharge of his duty. “The PDP salutes the roles played by the international and domestic election observers, the media, organized civil society and indeed all well-meaning Ni­gerians in ensuring that the man­date of the people of Adamawa State freely given to the PDP and Fintiri was not hijacked by APC supplanters. “The PDP congratulates Gov­ernor Fintiri and the people of Adamawa State and urged the governor to continue in his land­mark transformational delivery of democracy dividends to the people in line with the manifesto, pro­grammes and policies of the PDP.” Also congratulating the Ad­amawa State governor, the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, in his Twitter account, said Finti­ri deserved reelection as governor of Adamawa State. He thanked the people of Ad­amawa and men and women of goodwill for staying the course in resisting coupists and enemies of democracy from having their way. Atiku said: The lesson from this exercise and others is the need for Nigerians to be vigilant and never give in to anti-demo­cratic forces whose objective is to snatch, run with and undermine the mandate of the people as free­ly expressed in their votes. “By the way, it is not yet uhuru as we still have one more major mandate to reclaim, and together as one, we shall accomplish the task for the good of our country and its people.” The PDP governors on their part, congratulated Fintiri on his reelection, adding that it was a hard fought and hard won vic­tory not just for him, but also for Adamawa State, democracy and due process in Nigeria. The governors under the ae­gis of PDP Governors’ Forum, in a statement by its Director General, CID Maduabum, said, “Indeed, Nigeria has just been rescued from descent into the abyss. We have just has dodged another bullet. “We commend INEC for re­deeming itself and hopes that this is a harbinger of things to come. It is in this regard that the com­mission is requested to promptly re-visit all other elections where infractions have been identified. “Where the matters have been taken to the tribunal, INEC should assume a garb and toga of neutrality and inform the tri­bunals of the actual events that transpired in the elections. “It has been shown by today’s development that INEC can re­verse itself where mistakes have been made. “We call on Gov. Fintiri to con­tinue to justify this huge mandate and trust of the people of Adama­wa State.”