AbdulMajid Danbilki Kwamanda is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with journalists in Kano, he warns that the leadership of the party should not zone the Senate President position to any region, saying that Senators have the responsibility to choose their leader. AHMAD TIJJANI ABDUL brings the excerpts: You seem to be challenging the position of the party on the choice of a Senate President, who then is going to select the Senate president? The Senators are supposed to be the ones to make their choice of leaders. They are legislators and have the capacity to choose the right person to lead them according to the laws guiding them. PDP had attempted imposing a leader on the House of Reps but failed when Tambuwal became the Speaker. If you remember, the party leadership had their choice while the Reps wanted Tambuwal and he won. If it is left for the Senate to choose its leader, I am sure, Barau Jibrin is the most qualified. Even the leaders of our party are aware of this. This is the choice of the Senators and they will exercise their choice. They know Barau Jibrin and they know him even more than we do. It will therefore be a big mistake for the party leadership to come out and act in the contrary and we don’t want the party to act wrongly. We don’t want to face crises in that direction. You briefly mentioned the issue of Muslim-Muslim tickets, can you speak more on that? On the issue of Muslim-Muslim tickets, there is nothing wrong with Muslim-Muslim tickets. Whatever is given to us is a result of our contribution. It is Muslim-Muslim ticket that brought this government to power. So what, if as a result of our contribution some seats are occupied by us? Why did they on their part found their own party and even used their worship places to promote it? Had it been they won the elections the story would be different and they would not consider us in any way. It is only what they like that they will give to us. Now that we have won the election some selfish people are out there telling us to consider this and that for the sake of peace. You can’t say that the seat of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation should be given to them for the sake of peace. If they wanted peace why didn’t they join hands with us to contribute to the success of the party? They went and did something different. You are talking about unity, there is no such thing. They are the ones that turned away and did something else. We will not submit to any form of intimidation by any group of people from any region or inclination. We are the true seekers of peace and unity. We in APC are the true peace lovers. Some of them even threatened that the election will not be held. Now that they have lost they are coming back to threaten us to get an appointment. There is nothing like federal character here. If they want to participate they should wait until 2027 join hands with us to participate, win and be rewarded for their contributions. This is our government and we will not submit to any intimidation. What then is your call to the leadership of the party in this regard? We are calling on the leadership of the party to be watchful and careful. In this kind of situation, the party leadership should remember what happened when David Mark, a Christian, became the Senate president, his deputy was Ekweremadu, and also a Christian and Ete was also a Christian in the leadership of the Reps. We never complained as Muslims because we were after unity and understanding. Why then will anybody begin to complain using religion because it is now our turn, using Muslim-Muslim tickets as an excuse? This is a wrong way to do politics and this will bring the downfall of the APC in the North. And I believe our President-elect Bola Tinubu won’t allow our party to fall because he has the experience and political capacity to understand and solve a problem where there is one. That is why we are advising him and his vice, Kashim Shettima not to accept any idea of zoning the Senate president seat. After all, even those seeking the seat have skeletons in their cupboards. They have a lot of allegations against them, so it is wrong to consider them. Barau Jibrin is clean and has no allegations against him and he is qualified because he has the experience, and has led a very big committee and has strong connections across the country as well. We say no to zoning of the Senate president seat. The Senators should be allowed to choose who their leaders will be. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ What more would you like to mention on this issue? POLL We are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC leadership not to allow crises in the APC, even though it is clear that president Buhari does not give a damn if the party is shattered to pieces because he has come to the end of his road and is retiring to either Daura or Kaduna, we wish him all the best. However, the truth is that our party loyalists have not benefited in any way with the Buhari regime. We started everything together many years ago but today the government now belongs to his friends, family and relatives. They were the only ones that benefited from the regime. We are saying this not because we are afraid of anybody. The regime has come to an end and yet they are nothing better than us. In fact we are better than then because the people still respect us. We are free and nobody is pointing accusing fingers at us. We are rightfully, members of the APC, we established it from the beginning and we are still part of it. We therefore will not watch anybody bring our party down whosoever, he is and whatsoever position he occupies. We therefore pray the leadership will not engage in what will not be possible. Let the party stick to what is possible and what is implementable. Whether the APC leadership accepts or not, the Senators have their guiding rules and will certainly vote in the right person to lead the Senate, even if the party leadership accepts or not. This has happened in the past when David Mark emerged as Senate president, it happened when Bukola Saraki emerged as well and also Ete. These are signs warning against any form of forceful imposition on us by anybody within the party and the country at large. I finally reiterate this call to our President-elect Bola Tinubu not to attempt wooing Kwankwaso to our party. We don’t want his contribution in any way. After all, we succeeded and won without his support. If he makes any attempt to pull him to APC he should be assured of crises and rejection by political leaders from the North. We will also turn our backs on him. Peace and progress of the party is for you to avoid wooing Kwankwaso to our party. We will certainly turn our backs if you attempt that, the way we turned our backs on Buhari when he derailed. We are no political boot leakers. What would you say about the recent seeking for forgiveness by the President and other politicians leaving office? It is part of human weakness to hurt others, whether deliberately or by mistake. Sometimes he is aware that he is hurting the feelings of the people and is acting deliberately, when it comes to the end, he will then begin to seek forgiveness, just like what governor Ganduje did. They are aware that they have wronged the people. It is now left for the people to see if they can forgive them. It is also their own prerogative to refuse to forgive them as citizens who have suffered injustice and oppression perpetrated by the rulers. A lot of them are aware that the people will not forgive them for the mistreatment they suffered under them. They should stop deceiving themselves thinking that the people will forgive them, they will not be forgiven. Imagine the hardships, redesign of currency, lack of fuel supply, insecurity, poor road networks and the rest of them. The eight years of this administration is as good as nothing in some of the sectors. Can you tell us the measures you intend to take should the APC leadership fail to heed to your call? The measures to be taken are also political. It has to do with disloyalty where loyalty is needed. They will instruct and we will refuse to comply. These are things we have learnt as young politicians in the past. Therefore we are definitely going to take measures if they insist on implementing the wrong plans. We are the link to the grassroots and we mobilised the public for them and the people accepted them because they trusted us and voted for them.