LAGOS – The Lagos Waste Management Authority, (LAWMA), and the state’s Ministry of the Environment, have paid a field visit to Polysmart, a wholly indigenous multimillion dollar plastic recycling facility, located in Aiyetoro, Lagos-Ibadan expressway, to explore areas of partnership, towards solving plastic pollution challenge in the state and across the country. The firm which began production in 2021, is into complete recycling of used plastic bottles, from collection to the production of six million food grade pet bottles on daily basis. Mr. Ibrahim Odumboni, the Managing Director/CEO of LAWMA, while speaking during the facility tour of the factory, noted that the establishment of that firm was a dream come through, in actualization of the uncommon diligence and determination of the management team of the firm. He said:” This is a strong indicator that LAWMA is making all best possible efforts at ensuring plastic pollution is tackled in the state and here we are with Polysmart. “I could remember vividly the day I met with the MD and we discussed on the possibility of having a collection system for solid waste. I must commend you and your team for your resilience”. “In a state where we have about 12 million of used plastic, if Polysmart collects 7million on a daily basis, gradually, plastic pollution will go off and we will have a plastic free environment. That is why LAWMA is advocating the two bin system for the collection of waste and sorting of recyclables”, he stressed. Odumboni, however, challenged the firm to work with LAWMA Academy, to boost knowledge of waste management among the children and youth in the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Dr. Omobolaji Gaji, the permanent secretary of the Office of Environmental Services of the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, also Speaking, expressed delight in the company’s initiative, stressing that the emergence of Polysmart will no doubt help the ministry and LAWMA to provide a lasting solution to plastic pollution epidemic in Lagos State. POLL In his words: “This is a testament that some people still believe so much in Nigeria and to see this coming from a Nigerian, it is a great motivation. From all that have been said and seen, it is obvious that this will curb the deposition of plastics in our drainage channels and the environment. “It will serve as a source of income as well as employment for people, who will be involved in the sorting and collection process. While pledging his support to the company, Gaji also promised that the Lagos State government will work with other stakeholders to support the company’s vision. Mr. Wasiu Balogun, the Managing Director of the firm, who conducted the visitors round the facility, noted that the firm was established with the primary aim of solving the plastic mess and for employment generation. He disclosed that the facility, which is first of its kind in Africa, would have a daily requirement of about 7 million used bottles, for non-stop running of the plant, which he disclosed, was wholly coupled by Nigerian engineers and technicians, without foreign assistance. Balogun promised total cooperation with LAWMA and the state government, to increase the cost per kilogram of used plastic, harvested by households in the state and beyond. The field visit involved the entire LAWMA management team, including the Executive Director of finance, Mr. Kunle Adebiyi.