ABUJA – The Federal Government has unveiled the National Geodata Centre and released the Electronic data facility that is expected to be responsive and serve the needs of current or potential investors. This according to the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arch Olamilekan Adegbite is aimed at improving the attractiveness of the Nigerian Mining sector, as a driver for economic diversification, for long-term private sector investment in the exploration and production of minerals to create a global competitive sector capable of contributing to wealth creation, providing jobs and advancing our social and human security. Adegbite made this known when he unveiled and launched the Nigeria National Geodata Centre to the investment communities, both for domestic and international on Thursday at the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency Headquarters in Abuja. His words: “It is a common knowledge that Mining companies have many countries from which to select when deciding where to spend their limited exploration budgets’. Investment decisions are therefore based heavily on acompany’s analysis of available GeoData. Companies will always find other jurisdictions if GeoData is not available and/or difficult to obtain. “Without good GeoData, the country is disadvantaged. This accounts for a significant number of World Bank loan agreements being put in place to modernise and reform the recipient country’s mineral sector. “When looking at investment in mining, investors want tominimise risk while maximising return. To make decisions,investors will look at geological potential (how prospective a country is) as well as the country ‘risk’ (stability, certainty, tenure, transparency and tax). “The GeoData Centre project will create a modern, digital, accessible infrastructure for the delivery of Nigerian Geological Data. It has a particular focus on data relevant to the Minerals sector with the aim of improving access by investors to the data and information holdings of Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL “The National Geodata Centre is established in the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) with an arm atthe National Steel Raw Material Exploration Agency (NSRMEA) because The Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) and the National Steel Raw Materials Exploration Agency (NSRMEA) have statutory responsibilities, both to carry out geological investigations and to be a place of deposit for the results of geoscience explorations. As a result, they are responsible for generating, accepting, curating and distributing large volumes of data. Currently this data can be difficult to manage because of the way it is held because of concerns about data security”. He continued: “The aim of this project is to establish a “complete and comprehensive national electronic GeoDatabank” which “will assist in quick and effective informationbmanagement and investment decisions” “The objective of the project is to bring together existing data within NGSA and NSRMEA, scanning, digitising and reformatting where necessary. The project will make data available in standard digital formats, and amalgamate it with new data deposits where appropriate. “The project includes assisting NGSA and NSRMEA in thegeneration and uptake of new policies, new ways of working, and the successful adoption of new IT systems and processes. An important part of the project is to ensure historic Nigerian geoscience data held in the BGSin the UK, much of which is still relevant to the project goals, is scanned and the digital copy transferred to NGSA in Nigeria. “Sustainability of the GeoData Centre beyond the lifetime of the project is also extremelyimportant. The outcome will be a Geoscience Data Centre able to hold data securely, apply modern digital workflows to capture, store, manipulate and visualise the data, as well as making the data accessible to customers via modern delivery systems, inside and Outside NGSA and NSRMEA”. He thanked the MinDiver Project for supporting the establishment of the National Geodata Centre and the BGS for providing excellence technicalassistance on this sector high priority activity. Also speaking, the Permanent Secretary of Mines’ Ministry, Dr. Oluwatoyin Akinlade, who was represented by the Director Human Resources ,Muhammad Kabiru Sulieman said the National GeoData center was convinced as a national, reliable ,repository of digital geoscience of Nigeria. It was designed to be robots, comprehensive and easy to find and readily accessible due to its importance as one stop shop for Geoscience data and information. She added that the BGS was contacted to establish this level of infrastructure that provides security, resilience, access to mining investors, researchers, development experts and the general public. The data center provided a modern digital flow consisting of dara capture, storage and dissemination. Akinlade added that, theMinistry of Mines and Steel Development Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification (MinDiver) World Bank Assisted Project) ensured that staff from the two agencies were trained to manage the system, BGS was tasked to import Nigeria historical colonial geological data from archives and establishment in United Kingdom (UK) into the new Nigeria geodata center. Meanwhile, the British Goelogical Survey (BGS) Team Lead, Dr. Joseph Mankelon said in August 2019, the BGS commenced a project with the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development to establish a National GeoData center for Nigeria. It was Developed in association with the National Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) and the National Steel Raw Materials Exploration Agency ( NSRMEEA). The objective of BGS engagement was to establish a complete and comprehensive national electronic GeoDatabank that will assist in quick and effective information management. In his closing remarks, the DG NGSA Dr. Abdulrazaq A. Garbasaid under my stewardship has anchored its programs on three major platforms namelyGeosciences Data Generation for Economic Diversification and Natíonal DevelopmentInfrastructural Development and tools acquisition to support data acquisition/mining development Capacity Development for professional output and in line with international best practices across board. He added that, the centre will host over 100 years of national geoscience knowledge and datagenerated by NGSA which can be easily accessed. This will be highly essential In showcasing Nigeria’s geoscience data and mineral potentials to the world