Say Minister Progressing With ‘Buhari’s’ Warped, Illogical, Incongruous Concept Maintains INEC Behind Controversy Surrounding Outcome of Election Few days after it said President Muhammadu Buhari lied in his remarks on the outcome of the 2023 presidential election, the Labour Party has taken another swipe, this time at the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, for agreeing with the President’s statement on the poll. LP acting National Publicity Secretary, Obiora Ifoh, on Sunday lambasted the Minister over what the opposition party described as “heart-wrenching to hear the Honourable Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, still progressing with that warped, illogical and incongruous concept”. In a statement obtained by Daily Independent, LP described the recently concluded presidential poll as massively rigged, and any short of free, fair and credible. The statement further read, “We would rather not join issues with a man who is famous for constantly prescribing doses of expired and ineffectual propaganda to Nigerians. “His ill-fated and hugely failed trip to the United Kingdom and United States where he attempted to redeem the grossly battered democratic credentials of this present administration; spending millions of taxpayers money to defend an indefensible action is yet another tragedy of President Buhari’s 8 years leadership.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is only the blind that will continue to insist that the 2023 presidential election which was massively rigged was free, fair and credible. POLL As we have said earlier, the opposition “political parties lost the election because the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC jettisoned the electoral act, having not uploaded the result from the polling unit in real time as promised and in so doing, created room for riggers to have a field day. “The election witnessed unprecedented magnitude of violence, ballot snuffing, snatching and manipulations of result from the collation centres using thugs, security agencies, which included police, army amongst others. “All these issues and a lot more were captured, well documented and have been taken to the appeal tribunal and the matters are ongoing. Mr. Lai Mohammed need not preempt the tribunal as his actions are contemptuous and could be used against him. We just want the Honourable Minister to know that by rigging the 2023 general election, himself, his party, All Progressives Congress and the leader of the party, President Buhari have murdered sleep and they do not deserve peace”.