BENIN  – Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has been blamed for the state’s bottom position in the latest sub-national ease of doing business ranking con­ducted and published by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC). The report which was published earlier this week to coincide with the 5th PEBEC awards, ranked the perfor­mance of all the states, includ­ing the FCT, in providing a friendly environment for busi­ness through six key indicators. The indicators include in­frastructure, secure and stable environment, transparency and accessibility of informa­tion, regulatory environment, skills and labour and economic opportunity. Edo State was ranked 37th in the recently published edition, indicating that it posted the worst performance in all the aforementioned areas of all the states in the entire country. SME owners and other crit­ical business stakeholders who contributed to the data used in the report lamented poor infra­structure and other structural challenges limiting smooth op­erations and scalability in the state. According to Prince John Mayaki, an All Progressive Congress (APC) Chieftain in the state, the report is one of several indictments illustrating the poor managerial skills of the governor and the setbacks recorded in the state since his emergence nearly seven years ago. “We now have a situation where business owners and investors find greater comfort and structural support in states recovering from war-like situa­tions than they do in Edo State, because of the horrible leader­ship of Obaseki. “Under his watch, the state has suffered serious setbacks in the critical areas of infrastruc­ture, capacity building, smart and stable policymaking, and growth-focused regulation. POLL “He has taxed small busi­nesses to death in Edo State to fund his frivolous pursuits and maintain the elaborate patron­age network he established for self-serving partisan goals. “The State Assembly, which ought to make independent laws and assure would-be inves­tors of the state’s commitment to the rule of law, was reduced to little more than a congregation of his lap dogs. “He denied representation to duly-elected lawmakers consid­ered to be against his partisan agenda and compelled the lop­sided assembly to sit and delib­erate on issues under his thumb in the State House. “It is no surprise then that businesses continue to suffer and investors are fleeing the state in drove under such cir­cumstances. High-risk inves­tors who may in fact brave the odds in search of profits are further turned off by Obase­ki’s tendency to send in the bulldozers to flatten the homes and establishments of entities who refuse to bow at his feet and kiss the ring,” he said.Mayaki concluded.