LAGOS  – The private sector may experience low credit extension in 2023 as against credit to the government, a report on Tuesday by FBNQuest said. According to the CBN’s most recent data on monetary aggregates, private sector credit extension (PSCE) grew 16 per cent year-on-year (y/y) in February 2023. The growth is a deceleration from the 18 per cent y/y registered the previous month. Private sector credit extension growth has been trending downwards since December 2022 when it increased by 19.5 per cent y/y. According to analysts at FBNQuest in a note titled, ‘A moderation in PSCE growth in February 2023, they said, “It appears that the Monetary Policy Committee’s (MPC) aggressive stance has begun to filter through to Private sector credit extension. “Supportive of this is the fact that on an annualised basis, PSCE grew by just +0.2 per cent year-to-date in February 2023. “Most banks have not yet released their first quarter 2023 results. However, loan growth for United Bank of Africa (UBA) and Stanbic IBTC, which have released the first quarter 2023 earnings results, was flat (-0.5%) quarter-on-quarter for the latter and increased by 5 per cent quarter-on-quarter (q/q) for the former. “Going by the CBN data, we expect most banks within our coverage to report more subdued loan growth numbers for Q1 ’23 relative to the corresponding quarter of the prior year”, the analysts said. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Broad money supply M3, and money supply M2 showed strong y/y growth of 19 per cent and 18 per cent respectively. POLL However, on an annualised basis year-to-date, their growth rates are more modest at 13 per cent each, indicating that rate hikes by the monetary authority are starting to permeate through the economy. Despite the apparent moderation seen with other monetary aggregates, credit growth to the government continues to grow strongly, both on a y/y and year-to-dated annualised basis. As of end-February 2023, credit growth to the government increased by 93 per cent y/y and 92 per cent on a year-to-date annualised basis, indicating that credit growth to the government may be crowding out credit extension to the private sector. While the moderation of other monetary aggregates is positive for inflation, the sustained rise in credit growth to the government may continue to fuel inflationary pressure. The latest inflation reading for March showed that inflation is still elevated at 22.0 per cent. As such, we see the MPC raising the policy rate by 50 basis points at its next meeting in May.