LAGOS – The Team Lead and CEO of the Nigerian foremost destination management company, UfitFly, Evangelist Ajibola Ogunkeyede has applauded the Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Ifechukwu Onyema and the entire management of the aviation firm over its milestone achievement of the inauguration and the first flight of Air Peace airlines to the holy land of Israel. Ogunkeyede whose brand (UfitFly) is reputed for the highest transporter of Christian pilgrims from Africa to the holy land of Israel and Jordan made the call while speaking during the inaugural takeoff of a direct flights from Nigeria to Tel Aviv via Lagos and Abuja, held in Lagos on April 20, 2023. He described the development as a catalyst that will uplift the face of pilgrimage in Nigeria and as well foster a more profiting bilateral relationship between Nigeria and Israel while thanking the Air Peace management for considering a partnership with his brand. His words: “We are delighted and honored to be considered for this amazing event that we believe will uplift the face of pilgrimage in Nigeria and as well foster a more profiting bilateral relationship between Nigeria and Israel. “I want to, especially appreciate and applaud the Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Ifechukwu Onyema and the entire management for counting us worthy at Ufitfly to partner and witness the inauguration and the first flight of Air Peace airlines in the Holy land of Israel. “I cannot curtail the Joy and gladness of meeting with important dignitaries and giants of industries from Nigeria and other nationals which includes His Excellency, David Nweze Umahi CON, the Ebonyi State Governor, The honorable minister for women affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, Hon. Ekumankama Joseph Nkama, Minister of State for Health and the C.O.O of Air Peace Mrs Toyin Olajide among others”, he noted. The UfitFly boss however added that “this wonderful offer and invite is such a golden opportunity which I dearly appreciate.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We will continue to represent the travel industry in good faith and we won’t relent in serving you an unbeatable pilgrimage experience.” POLL Speaking in the same vein, the Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission, (NCPC) Dr. Yakubu Pan also described the historical feat of Air Peace as the beginning of a new song while addressing the stakeholders in Lagos. The Ambassador of Israel to Nigeria Michael Freeman was also part of the dignitaries that witnessed the event and applauded the management of Air Peace.