Dr. Victor Mathew is the Executive Director, Kingdom Advocacy Network (KAN) as well as a security expert. Dr Mathew, a past Vice Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Ikeja chapter, Lagos, and the State Secretary, Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG), Lagos State, the political arm of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on some of the fall-outs of the 2023 general elections and the aftermath. Excerpt: A lot is being said by Nigerians about the alleged plot to foist an Interim Government on the people. Do you think that such an allegation could be real? Well, the rumour is everywhere that some persons are plotting to truncate a smooth transition of power to the President-elect. The news is magnified when even the Department of State Service (DSS) said the same thing. One is therefore constrained to believe the existence of such a nefarious plot. However, there is no provision for an Interim Government or arrangement in our constitution. So, I wonder how that can be achieved. But In Nigeria where anything can happen, one cannot just wave away that possibility. We are a country governed by laws and only constitutional legal pathways provided by our laws should be followed. Following the announcement of the alleged plot by the DSS, which was also harped on by the Minister of Information, a section of the ruling party and the government started to point accusing fingers on the Labour Party (LP), its presidential candidate and his running mate who are already in court over the election. What is your take on this situation? I do not hold brief for Mr. Peter Obi and his running mate. But, I don’t think they are the main promoters of an Interim Government because they cannot achieve it. They have filed their petition at the tribunal and to the best of knowledge, none of them is seeking an Interim Government. Going by history, would you say the Presidential Election Tribunal and the Supreme Court will ever give a different ruling from the declaration of the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) as it concerns the presidential elections in this country? Also do you think they can conclude the case before the May 29 hand over to the new administration? I am not a lawyer but, as I have told people, especially the Obidients, I do not expect any ruling nullifying the presidential election as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). I do not share in such optimism. I don’t see it happening, maybe because it has not happened before. I do not see anything tangible that will make this case different from the past cases. Apart from the short time frame, I don’t think that the tribunal and the Supreme Court can overturn the Presidential election result. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ People see the coming 10th National Assembly as different, going by its composition by members of several political parties, unlike in the 9th Assembly which is a two-party affair. Will you say that this new Assembly will perform better than the 9th Assembly which many believe is a rubber stamp and a toothless bulldog which they say is subservient to the Executive? POLL Well for the Senate, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has the majority and the opposition has a sprinkling of other political parties, apart from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In the Lower Chamber, the opposition combined is in the majority. For me, the outgoing National Assembly is a rubber stamp for the Executive. Judging from the past experience, lawmakers across political divides tend to behave alike when they get into the parliament. Political parties in Nigeria are not ideologically structured. You will hear such phrases like ‘we are Progressives’. I begin to wonder what is ‘Progressive’ about their actions. Instead, what normally plays out in the National Assembly are regional alignments as opposed to any other consideration. So, for the 10th National Assembly, I must be sincere, I do not expect anything too different from their predecessors. As it happens during any incoming administration, a lot of horse trading is presently going on for leadership positions in the National Assembly, with caucuses holding meetings, even with the President-elect over the issue. Do you think South East can make it to the top in both Chambers bearing in mind that the APC and the President-elect did not get very many votes from the zone? It is normal for the jostling for positions in the National Assembly. For the South East, getting anything can only be possible in the Senate because from what we are hearing, the Speakership position in the House of Representatives has been zoned to the North Central, though it is not official yet. For the Senate Presidency, they have to fight for it to be zoned to the South East. Just as it is happening in the National Assembly, politicians from different parts of the country are also jostling for positions in the new All Progressives Congress (APC) government. What type of cabinet should Nigerians expect from Bola Ahmed Tinubu? Nigeria is today on the ground. The country is so divided along ethnic and religious lines. The debt profile is so huge and bad. Nigeria is the poverty capital of the world with a very large percentage of the population being multi-dimensionally poor. So, with these very deep challenges, the incoming government needs to assemble a crack squad of core professionals who need not be professional politicians. Unlike Buhari, who took six months to appoint ministers, within the maximum of two weeks, the ministers should be named, awaiting Senate confirmation. I know people who assisted the government into power need to be compensated. But, that can be done in other areas. I don’t know if the President-elect can deliver on his Renewed Hope Agenda. What is your take on the long drawn battle between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State over the governorship election? Anywhere you have choleric leaders like Governor Nyesom Wike and Rotimi Amaechi, this kind of crisis is inevitable. Though Mr Amaechi was not on the ballot, he is leader of the APC in Rivers. The fight did not start today. Maybe with Wike stepping down as governor, future political temperatures will come down. But for now, political tension in that state will remain high. Come November 11, the Imo people will be filing out to elect a new governor. How do you think the election will go? Well, it is for the Imolites to decide. The election will be a referendum on the incumbent administration of Hope Uzodimma. The way he emerged as governor has remained a sore point for the judiciary. I know he is a rugged politician who will not relinquish power without a fight. We are keeping our fingers crossed. The November 11 Imo State governorship election will be interesting. How do you see the current leadership crisis in both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP)? The crisis in both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour Party are very unfortunate. For the PDP, the crisis has been there, but the problem has only snowballed into further fractions and fragmentation. The Labour Party crisis to me is externally orchestrated to weaken the party because the party threatened the established parties during the last elections. The struggles within these parties are due to the fight to gain control of the parties in the build-up to the 2027 general elections. Many Nigerians who are tired of the situation in the country have been in the forefront of the Obidient Movement. But, with the turn of events, what is your advice to the followers of Peter Obi? The Obidient family has to be a bit less antagonistic and more open to divergent views and opinions. Any right thinking Nigerian with a noble conscience desires a better society. Sometimes change is gradual. I will therefore advise them to keep pushing for a better society. What is your view on the crisis that erupted during the Adamawa governorship election? All I can say is that the crisis that followed the Adamawa governorship election is very unfortunate and a dent on Nigeria’s fledgling democracy. The authorities concerned should ensure that it is well handled to prevent a repeat in future.