LAGOS – The All Progressives Congress (APC) national youth leader, Hon. Dayo Israel has commended the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu over the inclusion of more youths in the presidential transition committee. According to Israel in a press statement on Monday, over 60 percent of the names of progressives who made the 14 members transition committee leadership submitted by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to the Presidential handing-over committee headed by the Secretary to the Federation Mr Boss Mustapha are youths who have proven track records in state and national assignments. The APC National Youth Leader expressed his appreciation to the President-elect and commended him for inculcating vibrant and resourceful youths into Presidential Transition Committee (PCT). In an appreciation note he personally signed and sent to the President-elect, Dayo said that the inclusion of youths in the President Transition Committee is a reflection of Tinubu’s agenda of providing more opportunities for the youth in the development of Nigeria. He described the former Lagos State Governor as a visionary and passionate leader with foresight and impeccable track records of grooming talented young Nigerians, irrespective of religion, tribe, and ethnic affiliations. Dayo also used the opportunity to congratulates all those who made the list while urging progressives Nigerians to rally round them for the success of the task before them. According to the statement, the National Deputy Chairman (North) of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Abubakar Kyari, will serve as committee’s finance and budget director, while Mr. Bayo Onanuga will serve as Head of Media and Publicity in the 14- member list President-Elect forward to the chairman of the Presidential Transition Committee. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We congratulate All our young leaders Makinde Araoye, Awokola, Stella Okotete amongst others who have been honoured with this opportunity, while we also celebrate the young at heart and friends of the youth,  Senator Kyari, an ally of the youth on the National Working Committee and Senator-Elect Musa AbdulAzeeez Yar’adua who we have no doubt will also be a youth ally in the 10th National Assembly, Senate.” POLL Meanwhile the national youth leader of APC, Hon. also expressed optimism for a qualitative and top-notch handing-over of power ceremonies. He urged Nigerian youth to look forward to a prosperous nation under the leadership of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.