In 2021, State governors and local government chairmen in the 36 states of the Federation collected over N375 billion from public cof­fers in the name of security vote, an act not provided for in the Nigerian consti­tution or any known law in the country. This amount excludes those the presi­dent and other top government officials collected in the same year, nor does it in­clude what is appropriated for internal security or the budget of the police and security agencies. The security vote, of­ten provided in cash to governors, is not subject to legislative oversight or inde­pendent audit and therefore disbursed at the Governor’s discretion. Regretta­bly, despite the enormous sums of mon­ey they collect from the public treasury, state governors have been incapable of stopping wanton killings, kidnappings, inexplicable security breaches and oth­er criminal activities in their states. Security vote is a monthly opaque allowance allocated to state Governors to fund non-classified security expen­ditures within the states. The monthly fund runs into billions of Naira and varies based on the level of security intervention required by the individ­ual state or the level of influence the Governor wields over the legislature. Some states collect as much as 24 billion annually, and others less. The level and quantum of security vote is a function of the perceived security cum political threat a state is exposed to. The gover­nors are not alone. Chairmen of local government areas also collect security votes that they treat as personal entitle­ment or funds. The worrisome aspect of this practice is that there is no limit to, or regulation of what governors may spend as a security vote, and, sadly, the amount involved may be appropri­ated. However, the expenditure is nev­er subject to legislative scrutiny or ac­countability. Instead, the allocation and use of the amount involved are usually shrouded in secrecy. In fact, the Court of Appeal in the case of FGN versus Jolly Nyame posited that failure to give an account of security votes amounts to stealing or criminal misappropria­tion, akin to genocide. Prevalent data shows that in one year, this in-cash, opaque spending ex­ceeds 70 per cent of the annual budget of the Nigerian Police, more than the Nigerian Army’s annual budget, and more than the Nigerian Navy and Ni­gerian Air Force’s annual budgets com­bined. This excludes the personnel cost of the military services. For instance, the 2018 budgetary allocation to defence headquarters was N145 billion, while funding to the Ministry of Interior was N63.26 billion—the total falls short of N241.2 billion the governors spent un­der the amorphous subhead “security vote” in that year. Admittedly, the secu­rity agencies’ budget has spiked in the past three years, driven by multiple factors. Last week I read both in the conven­tional and online media about a meet­ing with anti-corruption agencies, at the instance of the Nigerian Governors Forum, to discuss the issue of security vote. The motive was unclear, especially coming at a time of transition to new governors. It might not be unconnected with outgoing governors looking for a shield from being harassed by anti-cor­ruption agencies after leaving office on May 29. We cannot dispute that the “se­curity vote” is more of a myth, mystery, or tale than a public interest issue. It is the most shrouded secret expenditure in government circles. However, the funds are public resources, so the peo­ple deserve to know how every Naira is spent and the value derivable. There are two schools of thought on the issue of security votes. On the one hand, the hypothesis is that in third-world countries, absolute transparency is impossible in government. We must do certain expenses under the table to ensure societal stability, and we cannot capture such expenditures done in the public interest by the Governor within any accountability framework. A sec­ond and opposing school of thought contends that public money is at stake, so it must be accounted for. And those public funds, if not accounted for, will always be subject to abuse. Both schools raise pertinent issues for interrogation, and this has become more urgent just before new governors take over the reign of governance and continue with a convention that has yet to serve any purpose. At a time, we are witnessing gover­nors withdraw several billions in cash, state accounting books not being tidy, some states spending as much as 10- 15% of the annual budget on security votes without any form of accountabil­ity, and services nosedive in states yet security votes keep rising, the need to balance public interest, practical reali­ty and abuse becomes imperative. One condition that has inadvertent­ly worked for the Governors is that people prioritise increased security over transparency and accountability in the face of high levels of insecurity. Therefore, we subordinate the need for accountability in finance to the desire for improved security. Without accountability and transparency, it is not difficult for governors to exploit the concept of state security to pilfer from the public purse. This is undoubtedly true in many states in Nigeria, where the deteriorating nature of the secu­rity of individual lives and property has ensured the existence of little or no public opposition to all manner of government proposals aimed at im­proving state security.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In turn, high levels of crime and disorder have facilitated the balloon­ing of security vote, the abuse of which is achieved by creating a black box around the concept of state secu­rity under the pretence that absolute secrecy is required when it comes to the allocation and spending of resourc­es to tackle insecurity. The abuse and misuse of security votes in Nigeria have grown alarmingly in Nigeria’s 23 years of democratic interregnum. The tendency among Nigerian politi­cians, particularly the executive arm at the state levels of government, to manipulate security issues for politi­cal and economic gains is widespread. A former EFCC Chairman alleged that some governors deliberately fuel inse­curity in their states to provide oxygen for more security votes. POLL Pertinent rhetorical questions arise: Is the security vote of governors a statu­tory stipulation? Is it provided for in the constitution, the financial guidelines, or general orders? How much should it be as a percentage of state GDP, pre­sumed security needs of individual states, and population? Who audits and controls security vote appropriations? Should governors have access to state funds above the requirements of public accountability? Although governors have no re­sponsibility for the country’s security apparatus at the state level, the consti­tution recognises them as chief secu­rity officers of their respective states. However, the worsening security situation in the country has justified governors to demand an increased role in the security of their states. Some gov­ernors have argued that the legislature should amend the constitution to give them more control and power over se­curity issues within their state. Because the entire budgeting pro­cess and operating mechanics of se­curity votes are shrouded in secrecy, a consequence of the rentier nature of the Nigerian state and its underdevel­oped democracy, there is little pressure to justify such expenses and subse­quent increases to the electorate. The secrecy surrounding issues of state se­curity and the nature of security votes provide an alibi for state governors in their attempt to evade allegations of corruption and disguise their pilfering from the public purse. EFCC has recently expressed con­cern about states hiding under secu­rity votes for all sorts of infractions, including using state money to sponsor violence against her people, using state funds for personal projects and siphon­ing funds for other political and party interests. The critical issue is how do we justify the continued relevance of security votes, a carry-over culture from the military regime when all se­curity agencies are under the federal government? How do we construc­tively balance public interest, proper accountability framework, probability of abuse, and practical reality without compromising general security? Is it high time we tackled this issue of se­curity votes before the next set of gov­ernors sacrifices tangible development on the altar of security votes? In some quarters in Nigeria, the perception that governors should not account for security votes needs to be revised. This is so because the Nigeri­an Constitution invests the legislature with the power to oversee the audit of all government accounts, including security votes. The fact that the legis­lature has failed to do this in the past because of incompetence or compro­mise does not change this fact. Security votes have become a convenient tool for disguising these governors’ looting of the public purse. This lack of account­ability has continued unabated even though the 1999 Constitution contains sufficient safeguards to prevent such abuses. The problem is rooted more in the rent nature of the state than the inadequacy of the laws and constitu­tional provisions to mitigate it. Granting that there will be expen­ditures incurred by governors outside the budget provisions, how do we ac­commodate these? Issues like the emer­gency medical evacuation of notable citizens, emergency distress assistance, and donations to good causes need to be provided for since they will always come up. We must create a core sub­head for these in each Governor’s of­fice so that expenses can be retired, and due accounting processes observed. The term’ security vote’ is, therefore, a misnomer. We should create a new terminology to cover the financing of emergencies of the state, including support to security agencies that are accountable and not open to abuse. The Nigerian states should critically examine how states in matured democ­racies deal with budgeting for emergen­cy expenses that are accountable and legal. The legislature constitutionally granted the oversight role against the executive must reconsider the security vote and either remove them entirely or allow a reasonable amount (about 1% of the budget) for emergency secu­rity issues. And the governors must account for it.