LAGOS – The pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has warned against any act that can jeopardize the handing over of power to elected officers on May 29, 2023. Even as it cautions against the threat to democracy and call for the institution of an Interim National Government (ING) A press release on Monday, signed by the organisation’s National Publicity Secretary,Comrade Jare Ajayi, noted that the release was prompted by reports that steps are being taken that may be prejudicial to the swearing-in of winners of the just concluded elections come May 29th. “Such steps included the attempts to rubbish the outcome of the said elections especially the presidential election that took place on February 25th, the resuscitation of the calls for the formation of an ING and protests or rallies being conducted especially in Abuja and the United States of America against the result of the said election. “Afenifere felt so concerned about the untoward development because of how it is gaining currency in the country and even outside the shores of the land. “It would be recalled that the Directorate of State Services (DSS) last week confirmed that moves were indeed on to scuttle the planned inauguration. “The DSS, stated as follows: “The planners, in their many meetings, have weighed various options, which include, among others, to sponsor endless violent mass protests in major cities to warrant a declaration of a State of Emergency.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Another is to obtain frivolous court injunctions to forestall the inauguration of new executive administrations and legislative houses at the Federal and State levels”. POLL “The DSS, which is the country’s secret police, described those behind the move as people with ‘entrenched interests’ who are working on foisting an illegality that is “totally unacceptable in a democracy and to the peace loving Nigerians”. Afenifere reminded those who are fanning embers of non-inauguration to be aware that the monster being courted would affect not only the presidency to be headed by the winner of the election, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. “The disruption will affect all other tiers of government as well, governors at the state level, the legislatures at the national and state levels and perhaps the local government areas. “There is therefore the need to exercise a lot of caution. The laws of the land created avenues to seek redress when we are aggrieved. We enjoin those who may not be satisfied with the outcome of the concluded elections to seek redress through the established channels and not through any other means. It is also important to let members of the public realise that anything short of following due process, particularly in the swearing-in of winners of the just concluded elections, constitutes grave dangers for the country. This must not be accepted or encouraged at all because of its dire consequences” Afenifere stated. Afenifere also called on the judiciary not to entertain cases that may derail the hard-earned civil rule and thus scuttle democracy.