The final stretch of the Premier League cam­paign starts this week­end. From this point on, there are no more international breaks to halt momentum or al­low teams to recharge and reset. It is the final stretch to the end, and the next matchday that kicks off this mad dash could prove pivotal for all the teams involved. This weekend, Man City-Liv­erpool, Newcastle-Man United, Brighton-Brentford and Crystal Palace-Leicester are all huge fixtures that could have major implications for each team. But with just two months of the sea­son left to run, everything is still to play for. The title race has come down to Arsenal and Manchester City, while as many as six clubs are battling it out for the final two Champions League spots. There is also the congested battle for European qualification and the relegation fight sees nine teams separated by just four points. With so much at stake, what can we expect during the final two months of the season? For the title, Arsenal have built an eight-point lead at the top with 10 games to play. Reign­ing champions Manchester City have 11 games remaining, but their hopes of winning a third successive title are likely to rest on the outcome of their clash against the Gunners at the Eti­had on April 26. It is a game City must win. The Gunners have been so formidable this season, win­ning 22 of their 28 games, that they’ve given themselves margin for error in their pursuit of the title. During their final 10 games, they have two obvious hazards to overcome — the game at Man City on April 26 and a visit to Liverpool on April 9. Fixtures against Newcastle and Chelsea may also carry some danger, but if Arsenal can avoid defeat at the Etihad and Anfield, they can start to celebrate Arsenal’s first title since 2004. For Man City to win the title again, they realistically must win all of their final 11 games and hope Arsenal slip up along the way. City’s best run so far this season is their current streak of five successive Premier League wins, so it will be a tall order to win the rest and make it 16 straight victories.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ All of that is to say: Arsenal simply need to hold their nerve. If they do, the title should be­long to them. For Arsenal now, it’s about keeping their nerve; continuing to do the things that have got them into this position. POLL They have some difficult games coming up, not least the trips to Liverpool, Manchester City and Newcastle. But they have faced those types of challenges already this season and more often than not, they have managed to come out on top. They have won at Chelsea, they have beaten Spurs home and away and they have over­come Liverpool and United at the Emirates. So, they don’t need to fear what is to come over the next 10 games; they need to relish it. They have led from almost the first kick of the season and now the finishing line is in sight. The next in the race is the bat­tle for Champions League places. Manchester United looked set for a third-place finish and Champions League qualification in early January, but a haul of 18 points from their last 10 games has seen them drop back towards a chasing pack that includes as many as five other clubs. Sunday’s trip to Newcastle will be hugely significant in the race for the Champions League spots. If Manchester United win at St James’ Park, they would move six points clear of Eddie Howe’s fifth-placed side and give themselves a buffer zone, but a defeat — combined with Totten­ham picking up at least a point at Everton on Monday — would see Man United drop out of the top four instead. Man United, Spurs and New­castle are separated by three points and appear the likeliest teams to scrap it out for two spots, but Liverpool, Brighton and Brentford are all seven points adrift of fourth-placed Spurs with games in hand. Spurs face Man United at home on April 27 in another potentially decisive fixture, but much depends on this Sunday’s game at Newcastle in terms of whether Man United are dragged into the top-four battle or if it be­comes a five-way fight for fourth place. The fight to avoid relegation is likely to run until the final day of the season and could even go down to the last kick of the campaign due to so many teams being in danger of the drop. Crystal Palace are in 12th position, but it is anything but mid-table safety for the Eagles, who sacked manager Patrick Vieira before the international break and replaced him with 75-year-old ex-boss Roy Hodgson. Without a win in any competi­tion in 2023, Palace are now three points above the bottom three and in real danger of sliding into the relegation zone. Of the eight teams below them, Wolves, Leeds and Everton appear to have enjoyed a bounce under their new managers, Julen Lopetegui, Javi Gracia and Sean Dyche. Those teams have positive momentum. Nottingham Forest and Leices­ter have slid towards the bottom three after a run of poor results, while West Ham are now in the relegation zone after winning just once in the league since the turn of the year. Meanwhile Bournemouth and Southampton occupy the bottom two positions, but Southampton are just two points adrift of safety despite being rock bottom. This weekend sees some huge fixtures in the relegation battle with Palace facing Leicester, Wolves travelling to Forest and West Ham at home to Southamp­ton. If any of those games gen­erates a winner, the three points will be massive. Adapted from espn.com