Nigerian youths have been urged to invest in self-development to prepare for the future of work and career growth. This was the submission of speakers during the Rose of Sharon Foundation’s (ROSF) bi-annual Youth Empowerment Programme (YEP) convened by Apostle Folorunso Alakija in Lagos recently. Dr Ndudi Bowei, the Country Manager of the Foundation, while delivering her opening remarks stated that “The Youth Empowerment Programme is geared towards building the capacity of young people and provide them leverage as they seek opportunities to become entrepreneurs or employees.” According to Bowei, this edition of YEP was targeted at offering pathways for career progression and transition for the youths. She cited that the teeming Nigerian youth would have the opportunity to learn how to build skills that would impact their self-development, to help them to access economic opportunities, and remain relevant in the job market. “This edition of YEP was intended to avail youth with the knowledge needed to improve themselves as they seek opportunities in the job market or as entrepreneurs – and employers of Labour. “In addition to gaining invaluable insight from our speakers who are top industry experts, we will also be rewarding some of the participants with a fully paid 6-weeks tech-based course,” she said. She stressed that the programme had, over the years, consistently helped to reinforce the unique opportunities in Nigeria while also preparing youths for the jobs they really need. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ \“Thriving as an Entrepreneur in Uncertain Times”, Chief Vision Officer, Bosworth Marketing Consulting, Mrs. Bukola Majekodunmi, urged aspiring entrepreneurs to always create room for contingency plans regardless of how their businesses might turn out. POLL Majekodunmi, who gave tips on what must be done to succeed in business, charged the youths to be open to mentorship and build quality relationships and networks. “When you are facing a complex situation, you must respond with clarity. In a crisis situation, it is better to keep building. Uncertainty is not necessarily bad news. You must embrace uncertainty, and create room for it in order to insulate your business against shock. Identify new ways of thinking and doing things differently”, she said. Chief Executive Officer, Lifecrest Medical Services Limited, Dr Ogonnaya Ndupu, in her remarks, stated that for young people to be highly productive in the workplace, there is a need to ensure mental health balance. Dr. Ndupu, who is a behavioural professional and consultant psychiatrist, said it is the responsibility of every youth to take care of their mental health, noting that mental health is not a mental illness. She further noted that maintaining good mental health was fundamental to career development and vice versa.