LAGOS – The United Nations (UN) has commended the United Nations Association of Nigeria (UNAN) for taking relevant action in supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to curb poverty and hunger in Nigeria, saying, it would strengthen ties with civil society. Specifically, the UN restated its commitmentto collaborate with UNAN in its efforts to increase greater understanding and involvement of the Nigerian public in its mandate for SDGs. This includes providing quality education, clean water, and sanitation, as well as economic growth in the country. Making the commendation and commitment for UN in Abuja, on Wednesday was Matthias Schmale, its Resident-Coordinator, when the leadership of UNAN visited his office. In addition, Schmale stated that his organisation was ready to deepen its ties with UNAN in order to raise Nigerians’ awareness of and participation in UN activities in Nigeria. The UNAN team comprised of Dr Joan Agha (President); Dr Omopeju Afamu (Secretary-General) and Ms. Ijeoma Nweke (Vice President), while the Resident Coordinator was joined by Oluseyi Soremekun, National Information Officer, UN Information Centre (UNIC). The visibly excited UN Resident-Coordinator, stressed that he was pleased to have connected with the leadership of the UN Association of Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Schmale further tweeted on his Twitter handle, @matzschmale, “Delighted to meet UN Association of Nigeria leadership. Good to learn about their relevant action on #SDGs 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8. We are keen to deepen partnership with @unanigeria to achieve greater understanding and engagement of Nigeria citizens with @UN_Nigeria work.” POLL Commenting, Dr. Agha, President, United Nations Association Of Nigeria, elaborated that her organisation’s work is focused on SDGs 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 among other issues. The SDGs 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 target to eradicate poverty, hunger, provide quality education, clean water, and sanitation, as well as decent work and economic growth. Contributing, Nweke, replied Schmale on her Twitter handle, @NWEKEotudich1, noted, “It was indeed a wonderful time with you sir. You are so passionate for the good of the people, especially in Nigeria where you are the Resident Coordinator. Great spirit for us to work together to achieve the SDGs in our country, touching lives and changing communities, leaving no-one behind.”UNAN is the recognised civil society arm of the United Nations. The Nigerian chapter was founded by Prof. Babs Fafuwa in 1959 and since then UNAN has been fulfilling her civil service responsibility roles. Now UNAN is poised to mobilise, motivate and educate the entire civil society of Nigeria to the realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGS).