JOS – Ahead of the November governorship election in Kogi State, Former Minister Chief Gabriel Aduku has charged the people of the Igala Kingdom in the state to unite if they want to regain political relevance in the forthcoming Governorship contest in the confluence state. The Former Minister of State for Health, Arc Gabriel Aduku in an interview with newsmen on what the Igalas should do to get the governorship seat irrespective of their diverse political parties, said Governor Yahaya Bello, has been trying to reduce the Igala kingdom to nothing politically by his actions, advising that the people of Igala kingdom must close ranks and shun selfishness. Aduku, who is also the Chairman of Ukomu Igala Organization (UIO) as well as the Chairman of Aggregated Igala Elders Platforms, said the Igalas attempt to try to get the governorship, but the system has not allowed it, and that is how the system will continue to plunge the state into more and more trouble because of the way Governor Yahaya Bello wants to manipulate the political process in the state . Chief Aduku said the problem with some of his Igala kinsmen is betrayal because of cash inducement, stressing that money is the major challenge working against the unity of the people of the kingdom. “This forthcoming election is another test for the Igala people to be united, and to be clearly seen to be united. And by that, we can save our kingdom. Those of us who are elders in this system now are willingly giving our time and other contributions and continue to appeal to the people to realize that the objective of Bello in particular is to reduce the Igala nation to nothing. That is what he wants to do. He will not succeed, and that is why the people need to know that we will all be steadily destroyed if such is allowed. “But the thing is that the people must all work together, and not that along the line some persons will retreat and begin to destroy the system because of cash inducement. In fact, it is money that is the problem working against the unity of the kingdom,” he said. According to the former minister, their outlook in the election also is for opportunities to be opened up to other parts of the state so that they can all participate equitably and work properly towards the election with all seriousness.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒