GOMBE – The two local government area party officials of Akko and Yamaltu-Deba that makes up Gombe Central Senatorial zone have endorsed the expulsion slammed on its Senate representative, Mohammed Danjuma Goje from the All Progressive Congress (APC) over antiparty activities. Senator Goje, a stalwart of the APC and former Governor of Gombe State, was last Tuesday (18/04/2023) slammed an expulsion order from the party by his Kashere Ward executives following his disloyalty to the party during the just concluded general elections. Addressing newsmen seperately at their Local Governments party Secretariats in Kumo and Deba, the two APC LG Chairmen said they stood by the action taken by the Kashere Ward officials and thereby endorse the expulsion. In Kumo, headquarters of Akko Local Government Area, the party Chairman, Alhaji Usman Ahmed, while addressing Journalists alongside other executives, said the Local Government party officials met and endorsed the action taken by the Kashere Ward executives of the party. According to him, “Our Senator, Mohammed Danjuma Goje, has done a lot of antiparty activities. He was called three times to come and defend himself over the allegations but he refused to turn up. “What we are saying is that Senator Goje is not a member of the APC and any member who is disloyal or indulge in antiparty activities will face the same consequences”, he stressed. In Deba, Secretary of the APC in Yalmatu-Deba LGA, Birma Haruna, said the endorsement of Goje’s expulsion from the party was sequel to a meeting Chaired by its chairman Ali Ismaila, adding that the party would not tolerate any act capable of subverting the interest of the ruling party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Haruna disclosed that Goje’s anti-party activities were obvious to residents of the state, stressing that the action of the Kashere ward officials was in order. POLL According to him, “We, the Yalmatu-Deba Executives of All Progressives Congress decided to endorse what they (Kashere ward officials) had done. we also hope that the state chapter will endorse what we have said now.” Explaining further, the Legal Adviser of APC in Yalmatu Deba; Barrister Abdullahi Waziri, said the expulsion of Goje from the party was the best option following the failure of Goje to honour the five-man committee’s invitation. “The party was left with no option but to take drastic measure even in his absence, we believe what they have done is what was expected of them by the party,” Waziri said. Reacting to why the party expelled Goje despite alleged exparte order he obtained from an Abuja High court, he said, “We heard about the action taken by the Senator that he has already taken the matter to court and that he has already filed an exparte. Exparte is an action taken without putting the other person on notice, we are just hearing it because we have not been served to appear and defend yourselves,” Waziri added. The party officials in Yamaltu-Deba also endorsed the suspension of member, representing Yamaltu-Deba Federal Constituency from the party by his Lugbo Ward executives. He was also alleged to have been found guilty of antiparty activities during the general elections by the Ward executives in Lugbo.