LAGOS  – The Nigeria Infectious Disease Society’s (NIDS) President, Dimie Ogoina, was one of the Nigerians and among the five African’s who was listed among Time magazine’s 100 most influential people of the year 2023. TIME, an international magazine, releases the list of the world’s most influential people every year on Thursday. Ogoina, a Professor of Medicine and Infectious Diseases at the Niger Delta University (NDU), Baylesa State, was named on the list of 15 Innovators alongside French footballer Kylian Mbappe, CEO of the Walt Disney Company, Bob Iger, among others. Following its tradition where a renowned person writes the profile of individuals on the list, Anne Rimoin, a professor of epidemiology at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) wrote Ogoina’s profile. Rimoin described Ogoina, an infectious-disease physician, as “a passionate champion for global health equity”. Why did the 100 most influential people in the world include NIDS President in its 2023 list. Who is he and how did he get there? Ogoina, who studied medicine at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Kaduna State, told The Lancet Infectious Diseases that he attended high school in Lagos where he discovered his aptitude for mathematics and sciences. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The NIDS boss did his residency training with Geoffrey Onyemelukwe, a Professor of Medicine and Immunology at ABU, and taught medical students at ABU. The Nigeria Infectious Disease Society’s president worked as a lecturer/consultant physician at the Bingham University Teaching Hospital (BHUTH), Jos, Plateau State before moving to Niger Delta University (NDU) and the NDU Teaching Hospital (NDUTH) Bayelsa where he is currently the Chief Medical Director of NDUTH. He is also the current President of the Nigerian Infectious Diseases Society. POLL Ogoina, along with his team at NDUTH, diagnosed and managed the first reported case of monkeypox in Nigeria in 2017, which was the first reported case in the country in nearly 40 years. “In 2017, when Dr. Dimie Ogoina sounded the alarm on a new presentation of Monkeypox (formerly known as monkeypox) that he was seeing in his home country of Nigeria, the world wasn’t ready to listen.” The NIDS helmsman persevered, documenting the possibility of sexual transmission of monkeypox and publishing the information in high-impact scientific journals, realizing the significance and potential effects on global spread, reported TIME. As the global Monkeypox outbreak unfolded in 2022, Dimie’s insights became critically important to developing better strategies to prevent and control outbreaks. “Ogina is also a passionate champion for global health equity. He has often made the point that Monkeypox is not a new disease and that had the world paid attention sooner, we could have avoided a global outbreak. It is this drive that has led Ogoina to make significant contributions to the field through his advocacy, leadership, and research,” according to TIME. His documentation of data which helped develop strategies to combat the global spread of the virus in 2022 earned him global recognition and a place on TIME 100 list of Most Influential People of 2023. “Recognising the importance and potential implications for global spread, he persisted, documenting the potential for sexual transmission of Mpox and publishing the data in high-impact scientific journals. As the global Mpox outbreak unfolded in 2022, Dimie’s insights became critically important to developing better strategies to prevent and control outbreaks.” Rimoin, the UCLA professor of epidemiology, wrote in TIME. Ogoina has won numerous accolades from around the world over the past 12 months, including the TIME 100. He received the Infectious Diseases Society of America’s Fellows designation in August 2022, joining 175 other doctors and scientists (FIDSA). He was listed in Nature’s list of the top ten figures who influenced science in 2022 in December of that year. Ogoina joins the group of Nigerian doctors whose achievements in science and medicine have brought honor to their country and elevated it to a global stage. In 2021, Nigeria’s Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, the epidemiologist and public health physician who led Nigeria’s fight against COVID-19 in 2020, was appointed the pioneer head of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Hub for Pandemic and Epidemic Intelligence in Berlin, Germany. Ihekweazu, who was named on Newsroom 100 list in 2020, left his position as the Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in 2021 to join the WHO as Assistant Director-General for Health Emergency Intelligence. In 2016, Prof Oluyinka Olutoye, a pediatric surgeon, became a global reference point in medical excellence, after leading a team of fetal surgeons to operate on a 23-week-old fetus. The