ABUJA – The 36 state governors, under the aegis of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), have appealed to President Muhammadu Bu­hari to transmit to the National Assembly the draft of the new revenue formula before May 29, 2023. According to the governors, the Revenue Mobilisation Allo­cation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) handed over the draft of the new revenue for­mula to President Buhari. Aminu Tambuwal, the Sokoto State governor and Chairman, NGF, gave the hint while fielding questions from journalists at the end of the NGF meeting in Abuja which extended till late night Wednes­day. The NGF boss said the gov­ernors discussed other issues including the financial regu­lations guidelines by the Ni­gerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), progress made on primary healthcare, and the need to reward states that have attained some milestones with awards, among other things. “We discussed about the guidelines by the NFIU on financial regulations that is working to ensure that Nigeria is taken out of the grey list of financial taskforce. We also dis­cussed about primary health­care and the progress made so far. Also, during our induction course the states that have at­tained some milestones are going to receive some awards for their performance. “And we also discussed about the new revenue formula that has been submitted to the president by the Revenue Mo­bilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission and the need for us to really approach Mr. Pres­ident, and the need for him to present the draft formula to the National Assembly before this administration winds up. “We also discussed about stamp duties that are being owed to both the Federal Gov­ernment and states that is be­ing warehoused in the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). We are working to make sure that that is released to both Federal Gov­ernment and states”, he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Tambuwal further said that a lot of achievements have been made in the Forum, maintaining the unity and cohesion of governors, and non-partisanship, making sure that the governors put Nigeria first in all they do before their various states. POLL It would be recalled that the Director-General of the NGF, Asishana Okauru’s invitation letter stated that there was going to be a 2023 valedictory meeting as the leadership of the current chairman comes to an end. According to Okauru, af­ter the chairman’s brief and few parting remarks, the floor would be open for valedictories from members. 17 governors are leaving the Forum, having completed their terms of office, while plans have reached an advanced stage for the on-boarding of the new governors at the up­coming NGF induction for new and returning governors, which comes up between May 14 and 17, 2023. The meeting, according to NGF boss, effectively ends the Governors Fayemi/Tambuwal leadership of the Forum. Another chairman will, in due course, emerge from among the governors of the majority party. First termers are ineligible to vie for the chairmanship of the Forum.