Honourable Noble Abiaso Atulegwu is the Imo State Commissioner for Lands Survey and Physical Planning. Recently, he spoke with some journalists in his office on the vision, giant strides and projections of his ministry which was coordinated by the Special Adviser (Networking) to Governor Hope Uzodinma: Onwuzuruike Chantel, Chinyere Adanna. Anolu Vincent brings the excerpt: As the Commissioner in charge of this ministry, what are your vision, pros­pects and challenges? First of all, I am grateful to God and to Governor Hope Uzodinma who discovered my talents and ability to handle this ministry and assigned it to me. I was earlier in charge of the Ministry of Entrepre­neurship before I was redeployed here. I have been here for four months as a Commissioner and we have been able to create a number of new layouts where people can build houses. Before this adminis­tration came on board, some people were building houses in unautho­rized places but we have rectified this anomaly. Governor Hope Uzo­dinma is somebody who believes in due process and the rule of law. That is why he keeps an eagle eye on all aspects of Governance. In­discriminate building of houses on illegal and unapproved places was the order of the day during previous administrations, but to­day the government of Senator Hope Uzodinma has sanitized the system. Before buying any portion of land, people should be diligent enough to verify its authenticity and genuineness. The Internally Generated Revenue (NGR) of the state government has continued to go high because we are prudent and careful in this regard. As I said earlier, the governor is watching all that is happening in this state and this is why I insist that our people should queue into the Shared Pros­perity Agenda of His Excellency. Imo is now bubbling with growth and development and I do not see any threat or challenge and I am not a fraud of anything neither and am I guilty of anything. Can you give us an idea of what your ministry makes for the state govern­ment monthly? Before this administration came on board, the revenue accruing to the state was minimal but now it has gone up to at least 80% but we are targeting 100%. The bosh of yesteryear has become a thing of the past and I am here to change the narrative for the good and better­ment of our people. Land allocation is now based on clear due process and the rule of law for people who need land for development from the state government. Can you tell us how many plots/acres of land were illegally acquired by individu­als in the past but which have now been recovered by the state government and returned to their original owners? As I said earlier, we believe in due process and the rule of law as directed by the governor to correct the abnormality perpetrated in the past. We are resolving issues like this and a lot of those whose lands were either annexed or appropriat­ed by greedy individuals who used their privileged positions to commit such atrocity are coming forward and we attend to them because we believe that Peter should not be robbed to pay Paul. We implement the ruling of the court on land mat­ters but if in any agrieved individu­al kicks against it or appeals against it, we wait for the final ruling of the court.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Can you explain what land Enumeration is, especially when it has to do with the World Bank? POLL As a government, we partner with institutions who are interested in land allocation for development. We issue them Certificates of Occu­pancy (C of O) after making lands officially available to them. On our Giant Strides, we have achieved a lot such as mapping out many lay­outs – Ekwema layout, Unity lay­out, Shared Prosperity layout and we have Okuku new city and we are working in all the layouts with robust relationship with the host communities. We are also working with Oil pipelines at Assah in the Ohaji Egbema Local Government Area and if we do not have critical relationship with these communi­ties, we cannot achieve the much we have achieved. What are government’s efforts to tackle land racketeering in the state? When I assumed duty four months ago, I took time to restruc­ture this ministry to ensure that it is no longer going to be business as usual for some people. It is either you work or you go because I do not cut corners. I have installed the necessary machinery to check fraud and as of now, it is no longer the usual practice for some people to whatever they like so long as I am in charge. On land allocation, it may sound strange for me to say that I do not even own a single plot of land in Owerri and I do not allo­cate land into myself just because I am the commissioner for lands. For you to get land allocation, just buy the firm, pay the official fee into the TSA, show your tax clearance and we will evaluate if you have met all other requirements. If yes, you get the allocation. You must ensure that your tax clearance is genuine and not fake because if I discover that you have played a trick along the line, I cancel it. On payment of compensation for land acquired, there is officially estab­lished process for this and once you adhere to this, you do not have any problem at all. We are carrying the people along. We are in search of interested people to develop the Onitsha Road Industrial layout. We will acquire more lands and make them available for Civil Servants who want to build their own homes based on due process. I advise such Civil Servants who are interested to apply because we will not discrimi­nate or segregate against anybody. All Imo indigenes are free to apply. I am very happy and I thank God that I am part of the Senator Hope Uzo­dinma led administration. I thank God for making Senator Hope Uzo­dinma a governor. This is the first time in our state that a governor has brought a major World First Class Construction Company to build to roads.