ABUJA – Members of the George Uboh Whistleblowers Network, on Tuesday protested at the main entrance to the National Assembly, accusing the Hon. Mark Gbillah Ad-Hoc Committee of the House of Representatives of complicity in the theft of 48 million barrels of crude oil later said to have been sold to China. The protesters led by Ambassador Joseph Peter Umoh, carried banners and placards with inscriptions denouncing the setting up of the House of Representatives Ad-Hoc Committee, when the crime involving US$2.4billion, is already in court. In a written statement, Ambassador Umoh said that “as Whistleblowers they blew open the stolen crude oil and illegal sales in China to Hon. Mark Gbillah and Nigerians generally”. However, rather than carry them along in the planned investigation, the Lawmaker, they alleged decided to do it alone, raising suspicion of vested interests. Amb. Umoh continued, “The Whistleblowers who furnished Hon. Mark Gbillah, the information germane to the 48 million barrels of crude oil stolen, did not file any petition to the National Assembly for any investigation or hearing, neither were they called as witnesses to testify during the hearing. “Because Gbillah did not follow this sacrosanct due process, the purported public hearing by the Ad-hoc committee is a sham predicated on unilateral action driven by greed. “Therefore we, the whistleblowers at this protest, authoritatively assert that the National Assembly does not hear or deliberate on any matter in court .‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Two different competent courts of jurisdictions, are already handling the case filed against the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited ( NNPCL), Mele Kyari to account for proceeds from the stolen crude oil which are roughly estimated to be $2.4billion at $50 per barrel and $4.8billion at $100per barrel . POLL “Hon Gbillah led Ad – Hoc Committee of the House of Representatives , should therefore hands off the matter by not sitting or carrying out any public hearing on it “. When told that the Ad- hoc committee was not set up by Hon Gbillah himself but the leadership of the House of Representatives, he said the protest was staged for the leadership to know the futility of its action on the committee.