UYO: The All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives candidate for Abak/Etim Ekpo/ Ika Federal Constituency in Akwa Ibom State, Mr Clement Jimbo has alleged plans to scuttle the supplementary elections scheduled for April 25. Addressing newsmen during a press conference in Uyo on Wednesday, Jimbo queried the rationale behind plans to conduct the supplementary elections in 25 out of the 386 polling units of the constituency. The APC Reps hopeful alleged that some staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were planning to scuttle the supplementary elections in favour of his main contender and candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Mr Aniekan Umanah. He said he scored majority of the lawful votes cast with a margin lead of 2,962 votes after the February 25, 2023 House of Representatives elections, and wondered why INEC declared the constituency election inconclusive as a result of election cancellation in some polling units. Jumbo stated that alongside his lawyer, Barr. Inibehe Effiong, he has petitioned the INEC Chairman to investigate into the allegations and stop the plans to scuttle the supplementary elections. In his words “We are minded to alert the public of ongoing devious efforts by compromised elements within the Commission, acting in collaboration with some corrupt leaders and interested persons within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State, to engage in dubious, sinister and illegal efforts and actions which are geared towards manipulating the forthcoming supplementary election in our federal constituency, with the singular agenda of concocting inflated, fraudulent and fictional figures and votes in order to suppress, surpass and undermine the existing wide margin of 2,962 in favour of the APC and give the PDP the leeway to steal the election. “As part of this fraudulent scheme, a plan has been hatched by some officials of the Commission, acting in concert with their sponsors in the PDP, to illegally increase the number of polling units where supplementary election is to hold in the federal constituency.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This fraudulent scheme has now been substantiated by a worrisome publication on the Commission’s website to the effect that the April 15, 2023 supplementary election for Abak/ Etim Ekpo/ Ika Federal Constituency will be held in 25 polling units. POLL “We have undertaken a rigorous verification and investigation of the listed 25 polling units as published by the Commission. We found to our chagrin, that the Commission has not offered cogent and verifiable reasons, on the basis for isolating the said 25 polling units for supplementary election. “Our fears have been further confirmed by the fact that some of the polling units listed in the publication were added arbitrarily, despite that election took place in the units and votes were scored, counted, recorded, declared, signed by agents of various political parties and even transmitted to the INEC Result Viewing Portal (IReV),” he stated. The APC candidate therefore called on the INEC Chairman and the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Akwa Ibom State to initiate measures to scuttle plans to truncate the supplementary elections. He urged that in line with the dictates of Section 24 of the Electoral Act 2022, polling units where elections had taken place and results already uploaded on IReV should be excluded from the supplementary exercise. He also demanded the removal and replacement of the Electoral Officer (EO) of Etim Expo Local Government Area, Mr Edet Eyo Effiong, saying the neutrality of the EO has been undermined. When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Commission, Mr Odaro Aisien said, “This particular issue you are referring to is being examined by the commission. In order word, there are specific polling units and wards where the supplementary polls will be conducted. “INEC national headquarters, Abuja, and the commission office in Akwa Ibom are both working on the matter. So because the matter is being considered, we cannot make any concrete statement now”.