NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, CHIBUZOR EMEJOR ABUJA – Commodities and services markets in the country is about to get a new boost if plans by Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to develop roadmap and operational framework for growth of Halal Industry in Nigeria is anything to by. The industry, essentially, is a global chain comprising Halal food, Halal cosmetics, Halal pharmaceuticals, Muslim friendly tourism, Halal logistics and supply chain, Modest fashion, Halal media and recreation, and other markets targeting to fulfill the needs of Muslim consumers globally. Mallam Farouk Salim, Director General/Chief Executive Officer (DG/CEO) of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), while expatiating on this recently in Abuja, said that his Organisation is fully committed to continually drive initiatives that promote the development of Halal Products Standards in line with internationally accepted Standards for both domestic and foreign consumers. He stated this at the Validation Meeting of the Final Draft Report on the Roadmap and Operational Framework for the Development of Halal Industry in Nigeria held at the nation’s capital. Salim, represented by the Head, Halal Desk; Mrs. Amina Haliru, emphasised the crucial role of standardisation to achieve the set goal. He further revealed the steps taken by SON to ensure that globally accepted standards are developed or adopted for the Nigerian Halal Industry as well as ensure that products and services meet the right specifications as well as deliver on consumers’ expectation, which will allow for access and acceptance in the international markets. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to Salim, SON has constituted a team to interface with relevant agencies and stakeholders to develop an operational framework for the kick-off of the Halal industry in Nigeria. POLL He further explained that the roadmap and milestones outlined by the committee in order to get a functioning Halal industry in Nigeria will open Nigeria to the world with the ripple effect of boosting Nigerian economy, in view of the fact that the Halal Global Market is valued at trillions of dollars. The SON boss further stated that the Organisation, has established a Training Center in Kano where all trainings on Halal Certifications have already taken effect so as to have Nigerian businesses and industries partake in the Halal Sector. Also speaking, Ambassador Maryam Katagum, Minister of State for Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, applauded the committee on the strides achieved so far. She noted that the kick-off of the Industry would be a useful tool in the Ministry’s mandate of facilitating trade and growing the Nigerian industrial sector. The participants at the event included representatives from the Federal Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment (FMITI); Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC); Nigeria National Accreditation System (NINAS); National Board for Technical Education (NBTE); Federation of Agricultural Commodity Associations of Nigeria (FACAN); other SON officials among others. Malaysia currently leads the halal industry globally and considered to be the global halal hub amongst three Muslim majority countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, and Brunei). Simultaneously, the market is growing tremendously in other member countries as well. It has been realized that a number of driving forces are responsible for boosting the expansion of Halal industry globally. While there are a number of factors accelerating the growth of the Halal industry, there are many limitations and challenges that are hindering the market expansion.