…As Uzodimma Pledges To Implement Imo Charter Governor Hope Uzodimma has promised that the government under his watch will religiously help to implement the recent Imo Charter of Equity as proposed and endorsed by the Imo State Council of Elders at its first quarterly meeting on April 13, 2023 in Owerri. The Governor gave the assurance when he received in audience a delegation of the Imo Elders Council led by the Chairman, HRM Eze (Dr.) Cletus Ilomuanya, at the New Executive Council Chambers Government House, Owerri on Wednesday, April 29, 2023. Members of the Imo Elders Council had come to formally present to the Governor the communique on the outcome of their meeting with regard to the Imo State Charter of Equity and to also present to him their choice, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, as the replacement for the late President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof George Obiozor. Governor Uzodimma thanked the Elders for proposing and adopting the Charter of Equity which he strongly believes “Is a road map towards political stability, peace and inclusiveness of all the zones in Imo State.” He said he is convinced that the Imo Charter of Equity will ensure equity, help douse political tensions and ensure peace and promised to help to ensure it is applied to the letter. “The Charter of Equity is not intended to muscle the political ambition of any person, rather it is to ensure harmony, peace and it will enlarge the political space for all.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He then assured that his administration will work with the Elders Council and other Imo State stakeholders to achieve the principles of the Charter of Equity, and pleaded with all political stakeholders to endeavor to give the Charter of Equity the space to succeed, noting that “it does not in any way go against the tenets of democracy.” POLL Furthermore, the Governor added that “beyond the South East, like in the South-South Delta State, the Charter of Equity has been adopted and implemented to reduce political tensions and bickering.” Governor Uzodimma, therefore, reassured that with him at the helm of the 3R Government, he will do everything to ensure the objective of the Imo State Charter of Equity as adopted by the Elders Council is realized, adding that “it has enough space to accommodate all political interests in peace and harmony.” Earlier, Governor Uzodimma had expressed delight over the visit and the opportunity to host the Elders and congratulated Chief Emmanuel Iwuanuyanwu for his choice and adoption by the Imo Elders to be the next President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide wide. He acknowledged that “Iwuanyanwu is well–known, not only to the Igbos and Nigeria but all over the world with impeccable credentials and high-level pedigree.” The Governor noted that he was happy that the stakeholders of Ohanaeze Ndigbo were able to discover somebody who can appropriately fit into the vacuum created by the demise of the former President General, Prof. George Obiozor, and emphasized that “the choice of Iwuanyanwu is a right one that no individual/group can fault.” He expressed gratitude to the Elders and Imo citizens for believing in him, and showing him love at all times, particularly on January 5, 2023, at the Stakeholders meeting when Imo people invited him to run for a second tenure. Governor Uzodimma recalled the barrage of endorsements that came after that of Imo stakeholders, recalling that on Friday, April 15, 2023, members of his political Party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), unanimously endorsed him as their Sole Candidate for the November 11, 2023 governorship election. “Today the Imo State Elders Council has adopted me to continue in office for the second tenure and then lead in the implementation of the ‘’Charter of Equity’’ as proposed.” He added: “I feel humbled by all these endorsements but that of the Elders Council with the caliber of members involved is the highest I have received. It is the icing on the cake and I will not take the endorsements for granted.” In his address earlier, the Chairman of Imo State Council of Elders, Eze Ilomuanya said the members did not only come to present Chief Iwuanyanwu as “the consensus candidate of the Council for the post of President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo,” but also “the Imo Charter of Equity to His Excellency, Dist. Senator Hope Uzodimma the Executive Governor of Imo State.” He described Chief Iwuanyanwu as a dynamic, versatile, purpose-driven, and broad-minded personality of impeccable pedigree and appealed to the Governor to grant his seal of support and approval to his adoption by the Council. Eze Ilomuanya equally explained that the Imo Charter of Equity, unanimously adopted by the Council, “is a panacea to the rancor and heat usually associated with the quest for the Governorship seat of Imo State.” “It is to ensure peace, equity, fairness, and justice to all the political zones in the State.” In his acceptance speech, Chief Iwuanyanwu described his adoption and the role he is to play as President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide as a “sacred duty.” He expressed happiness in accepting the position and said it was also a surprise that Igbos can unanimously accept that one person leads them without struggles, noting that he believes that God will lead him through. Chief Iwuanyanwu appreciated the Governor for his numerous achievements, particularly in the areas of road infrastructure, health, and education in the State. He said his plans for Ohanaeze Ndigbo will include making the body financially self-sufficient, improving the agricultural sector in Igboland, setting up a Council of academics in the area of education, and generally, ensuring that Igboland becomes an industrial hub. Highlights of the visit were the presentation of the document on the Imo Charter of Equity to the Governor and the observation of one-minute silence in honor of the immediate past President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. Obiozor. Present at the visit were; the Deputy Governor, Prof. Placid Njoku, the Secretary to the State Government, Chief Cosmas Iwu, Chief of Staff, Barr. Nnamdi Anyaehie, and Members of the Expanded Executive Council. From the Traditional Institutions were the Chairman Council of Traditional Rulers, HRM Eze (Dr.) Emmanuel Okeke and his two Deputies, HRH Eze Eddy Okeke and HRH Eze Thomas Obiefule of Okigwe zone and Orlu zone respectively.