Ms Ronke Kosoko, the Chief Executive Officer of Employment Clinic, in this interview with select media practitioners called on the President-Elect, Asiwaju BolaAhmed Tinubu and the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to pay adequate attention to maritime economy. ANDREW UTULU was there for Daily Independent. Excerpts: Some of us do not know you. Can you please tell us about yourself? My name is Ronke Kosoko. I am the CEO of Employment Clinic. Employment Clinic is an employment solutions company. We bridge the gap between the demand side and the supply side. That is, we meet employers of labour, who hires workers. We also work with young people. In the last 12 years, if you listen to part of my foundation, I have maritime journalists, if all of you should retire today, are there people that all of you have trained? In the next 24hours, if I need 50 media persons, do we have them because maritime journalism is not general journalism? If you are talking to a general graduate of journalism or media and communications, when the person hears CVFF, when person hears ship owners, tug boats, all those technical terms, only you understand this. I have experienced this because I have worked with —for 12 years. So, we are coming here with this maritime conversion program. When you are working with employers of labour, who does not have skilled manpower, and they are not in business for charity, they have manpower that are not trained, we train them. We give them the opportunity to work and gain experience and those who are already in the field. After that, we take them back to where they are supposed to be. Where are they supposed to be? They are supposed to be, if they are supposed to be in the industry, we send them there. IF they are supposed to be on their own, we help them start their own journey. That is not just on only maritime industry, but as some point, we have to domesticate because maritime solution, specifically for that purpose. So, we’ve been solving that problem on micro level. Now we took it to a larger level because maritime Solution that takes care of that scheme. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In another scheme, we have 5,000 graduates. Like I said, we now have the support of the Federal Ministry of Transportation who has ask us to interface with the Agencies. POLL We did not leave it in the hands of the Agencies. We did not want something that will not really achieve its purpose. We are just in the phase 2 after the launching. Are you a middle man between job seekers and employers of labour or you are here to make the noise and thereafter go away? If we are here just to make the noise, like I earlier say, I wouldn’t have called you. What we are doing today, is to set myself up. I brought myself before the media, to listen to what we intend to do. This is March, so that you can be our police. To say Madam, you said you wanted to do this and that, so if I had wanted to make noise and go, I will not be here in March, after the program we did in October last year. So just calm down, you will see more. Since last October when you had program, what has been the response of the public on the job creation and as a person connected with the government and politicians, what is your advice to the in-coming government about the maritime sector on maritime economy and appointment of key officers in the sector? Like I said, I am not connected to anybody. I am just a civilian. But you have asked a critical question that is important to me as an individual. On this, I have worked extensively behind the scenes, and I am not advising Asiwaju. Like I said, I also set his administration up in such a manner that he cannot say no to this industry. But, because the man at the top, you need to understand how government works. It is what we want them to fear, that they fear. Which is why, I personally, have broker some conspiracy theories. And I am hoping you people will capture my right word and don’t misquote my word. I told you some six months ago that I brought someone that I know can report to him directly the truth. And he is not somebody that will hold his hands behind because he wants job and say Bola, I saw problem. Which he has told me and say so-so person is doing this thing and say, let her continue. We did not leave it as balanced as it is. We have been talking to people that we know are going be key drivers in his administration. Like I said, behind the scene. Why sir, when you get there, these is the problems, these are the issues. And they are listening. Now the point where you told me I don’t have control over, you should know that appointment has always been political. What I am trying to do is, we are not saying let it not be political, if the person is political, but knows what he or she doing, we are fine. If not, apart from even appointments, like I said, the Minister asked us to interface because he saw as an industry person, though he came late, about six months ago, he was NIWA, so humble, he talks about how he takes boat to Flour Mills in Apapa and thereafter take bike. That was how I started my career too. Given his experience, we want people who are experienced like that, who are not garrulous, who are not off the reality, you understand, not who before you say one, they will write two, three, four, because the problem like you said, they bring in people who after two three years, they are still learning, trying to understand, and you people, the experienced ones are the ones briefing them. By the time they want to start working, it is over. In my own little way, working with Asiwaju’s name behind the scene, I can tell you that we have moved far. But I cannot tell you this is who they are going to appoint as Director General of NIMASA or NDLEA. I do not have power over that. But I am here with all of you, like I said, to start a journey; we are going to be interfacing with the next administration. To ensure the economy grows, block loopholes where you are supposed to make money but not making it. It is a whole lot. It is a long journey and that is why I called you. From day one, we want you to be part of the journey. That is why we have positioned. And that is why we are calling you media; you are very powerful. From day one, we want you to be part of the journey. The one that does not concern you, we are taking care of it, but you are important, sometimes it will concern you because you are the ones to report. So, I am not connected to anybody, what I am doing is behind the scene job. When the industry works, it will work for everybody. We want the industry to grow to the status it is supposed to be. What we are doing is more of coordination and getting ready. So, when you ask the right question, we can say sir, the world is waiting for you. I have spoken to DG NIMASA, we are going to interface with them, when we are going there, listen very well, the minister mandates them to interface with us. We are starting almost immediately. We want some of you to be part of it. So, when we are going to NIMASA, when we are asking questions, you should be there. It is not only Ronke. Since you started the one million job project, can you tell us the number of people you have secured jobs for or trained? I am not creating jobs; we did not start the training and we are just about to start. Like I said, in beats, we have done it over the years. This is the very first time that we are moving to the government, to be part. Remember the Lekki saga, the ENDSARS in 2020, you remember they burnt NPA, they were getting into Tincan already, I was almost trekking to Alausa. However, this is not a new project; it is a project we have been championing on our own for over 10 years, though private sectors have always been supportive including SIFAX. But for Lagos, in 2018 was when it was supposed to take off. When we finished negotiating with companies, they start talking about experience. But, who will give them the experience. When I send a child to go and gain experience, it means I have negotiated with a company, and the company has accepted. But who pays the transportation? When we get to certain stage, we call on the government. Lagos is the land where you have Lekki port, where you have Apapa ports. I don’t know if any of you is running his business here in Apapa, because to get into Apapa is a problem, this shipping house that used to bring people together, all the people have disappeared, many companies have gone, how do you bring them back? How do you ensure that some of them that are dying are no longer dying? It is not only job creating but knowledge transfer. Transferring knowledge from the older generation to younger generation. Kindly recap on the major areas you want to highlight? First, I want to congratulate the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, congratulate the Governor of Lagos State, and connect the doors of how those two, the entire maritime industry is looking forward to them towards addressing the issues facing the maritime industry. Why, there has been dichotomy between the state and the Federal. Now, we want to ensure the Centre aligns at some level with state, because if Lagos works, Apapa for instance, is affecting the whole nation, if it works, if Lekki works, other states will work. That was the reason some people look forward to Asiwaju as the President. It is because of the work he did in Lagos. If he can unplug Lagos from …. of the Federal government, he can do it. So, the maritime economy, like I said, they did not change anything, from impact to legacies and to new frontiers in maritime economy, we have individual power houses that say they did this or that, but maritime economy is still suffering. Employment thing is a segment, infrastructure is a segment, policy issues is a segment, if those things are not fix together, maritime economy is not going anywhere. The President elect and the Governor of Lagos State, should understand they have to pay attention to maritime economy.