It has been revealed when Frank Lampard will lead his first training session as Chelsea caretaker boss. The Blues have been heavily linked with various managers following Graham Potter’s dismissal on Sunday evening but, with Todd Boehly keen to replace Bruno Saltor, the 44-year-old looks set to be at the helm until a permanent successor is appointed in the summer. football.london understands that the west London outfit have reached an agreement in principle to bring Lampard in as interim head coach until the end of the season. Chelsea struggled to put points on the board under Potter, with the club slipping into the bottom half of the Premier League table. Boehly will be hoping that Lampard can rejuvenate the Blues and ignite a late – and ambitious – last-ditch attempt to secure a Champions league qualification place. And, it seems as if the former England international’s mission will commence this weekend. Chelsea are set to lock horns with Wolves at Molineux on Saturday afternoon, leaving Lampard little time to work his magic at Cobham training ground. According to The Telegraph, the former Everton boss is expected to take his first session as interim boss on Thursday afternoon. The Blues then travel to the Spanish capital just days later to face Real Madrid in the Champions League quarter-final first-leg. The fixtures come thick and fast this month, with Brighton on April 15, Los Blancos in the second-leg on April 18, Brentford on April 26 and Arsenal on April 29. Despite the vast number of games, Lampard has been backed to transform Chelsea’s fortunes. Speaking on Sky Sports, Jamie Redknapp said: “I was at the game [against Liverpool on Tuesday evening] last night and I saw him in the crowd and he looked like a guy that hadn’t just gone there for a few drinks. He watched it in a very studious way and I started to think maybe they [Chelsea] might like at Frank as an option because there’s not many other managers right now. “There’s a few managers they’re talking about. Obviously Nagelsmann’s had a mention but he looks like he wants some time away. This might make sense for the owners just to have a bit of breathing space and give Frank the opportunity to get back in the game. He’s got unfinished business at Chelsea, he loves the club, nobody cares about that club or knows it better than he does.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I think this is a complete no brainer if Chelsea were to go for him and he’d take the job. I think it would be brilliant for him. Obviously the players haven’t had good results, or many goals but you can see that there are real signs at that club and they’ve got a Champions League game to come at Real Madrid. POLL “People will say it’s impossible. But Roberto Di Matteo did it, he won it as an interim manager. Stranger things have happened in football.”