All things being equal, there are strong indications that majority of the opposition Members-Elect of the 10th House of Representatives will vote for Rt Hon Aliyu Muktar Betara as the Speaker when the National Assembly is convened in June. Already, group alliances are being formed across the opposition political parties to smoothen the endorsement within the various parties in favour of the legislator. Betara, Borno State born fifth time member of the green chambers is contesting the position alongside the current deputy Speaker, Plateau born Idris Wase and few other legislators. Members of the opposition political parties which include the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Labour Party, LP, New Nigeria Peoples Party, NNPP, All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, Advance Democratic Party, ADC, Social Democratic Party, SDP, currently made up the combined simple majority of about 163 while the ruling All Progressives Congress, Apc has 162 with some seats awaiting run off. Some ranking members and new legislators who confided in our correspondent said as it stands today, Betara is good to go going by the personal resolution of the opposition Members-Elect. “I want to tell you categorically that if the election into the office of Speaker is conducted today on the floor, no one will beat Betara. He enjoyed the support of majority of his returning colleagues and the new members. We are also excited about his candidature because of what we got to know about him.” “As new members familiar with the workings of the National Assembly having worked there severally, we can confirm to you that Betara has a very high acceptability rating among the members. What members want is someone accessible, respectful, intelligent, knowledgeable, humble and kind. Members are looking up to an individual who is a bridge builder across political, religious and ethnic divides and who has the stuff to bring us together. We don’t want someone who will be more on one side than the other.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Betara has been a true friend of his colleagues. He is generous and compassionate to a fault. As a fifth termer, he understands the intricacies of the apex legislature and what drives the institution and its players. He has an excellent working relationship with his party and those to head the executive. Betara has an excellent relationship with all the former Speakers, principal officers and members that served with him from the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th assemblies and all these are assets to his favour.” POLL A ranking member who pleaded not to be named added that” we are going to vote for Betara. The fact that he is from the north east with the Vice President elect is not an issue at all because there is a precedent. If I were the APC I will not zone the office to anywhere because Members-Elect are going to do what is called the ‘ House Project’ to elect someone they prefer as leader to lead them. No room will be given for imposition. We are all matured here and especially those coming from the state assemblies, they also know the consequences of imposition and the gains of respect for separation of powers. When we elect our leaders the house becomes stable and sound but where imposition takes place there has always been instability or docility. I am speaking the minds of those we think and talk together “. Investigation also reveals that the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is not averse to zoning, but believe that the two chambers should be allowed to make their leadership choices considering the sensibilities of the nation at this time. To him, any attempt to zone or impose someone will create negative impressions that may take time to heal and that will not augur well for the legislature. ” As members of the opposition parties we are waiting to see what the Apc will do. As far as we are concerned the Apc as a party should read the handwriting on the wall and not allow some of its selfish and greedy leaders to abuse this goodwill. You know that if the opposition parties get the joint majority and deploy that to one person, the work load has tremendously reduced for whoever will emerge. In this case, I can confirm to you that majority of our people, both new and old are queuing behind the easy going Chairman of Appropriation Committee, Hon Betara”, another member added. It is observed that while some aspirants to the office of Speaker are relying on zoning as the only advantage to add value to their campaigns, Betara’s qualities are speaking for him anywhere he goes. Whether the ruling party adopts zoning or not, we are going to do the needful to bring out the Peoples Speaker for the parliament and the nation” another legislator vowed.