BENIN – Edo APC Chieftain, Prince John Mayaki, has urged Nigerians to support President-Elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and shun actions capable of undermining the country’s democracy and stability, noting Sudan’s slide into violent chaos as a timely warning about the dangers of empowering anti-democratic forces riding a populist wave to power. Mayaki, in a statement, said the nation must heed Tinubu’s call for post-election healing and reconciliation, with every citizen playing their part to contribute to the emergence of a peaceful and positive atmosphere conducive to progress and renewal as the country experiences another transition of power. Sudan, a country in Northeast Africa, has been roiled by escalating violence for days after forces loyal to two military warlords who came together to execute a coup in 2019 clashed in the streets over disagreements about integration and power sharing. Several Nigerians residing in the country are reportedly trapped in the chaos, even as foreign countries, including the United States, scramble to evacuate citizens and their diplomatic corps. According to Mayaki, “the tragic events playing out in Sudan should end the delusion of those who either because of their youth or forgetfulness are flirting with the dangerous idea of the interruption of our democracy just because they remain dissatisfied that their preferred candidate lost. “Hopefully, the misguided Obi-dient youths who stormed military headquarters to plead for a coup can now see the errors of their ways and repent by supporting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in his quest to unite the country, and bring about greater prosperity and development through the implementation of his Renewed Hope manifesto. “It is hoped that their naivety is cured by the realization that the United States of America and Britain that they are quick to call to breach our sovereignty and meddle in our internal affairs were the first to close shop and flee Sudan, leaving the citizens to their fate. “Those who remained, particularly Russia, are allegedly stealing the country’s gold and other resources, continuing the shameful trend of foreign powers destabilizing a country to gain cheap access to its resources.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Nigeria is the only country we can all truly call home and as such, we must always strive to protect her peace, democracy, and stability. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has won the election and will now preside over the country for the next four years. The duty of all patriots, opposition and supporters alike, should be to help his administration succeed. POLL “It is in our collective interest if Bola Tinubu’s agenda to expand gainful opportunities to young people, provide sustainable social safety net to the aged and underprivileged, defend the country against insurgents, and grow our economy by double-digit is actualized.” he declared.