Arsenal will battle it out with Liverpool for the services of 21-year-old Brighton defensive midfielder Moises Caicedo.According to Football Insider, Arsenal and Liverpool are keen on signing Moises Caicedo. The 21-year-old has been on their radar for a while now and they are expected to push for him in the summer. Meanwhile, Brighton are expected to demand £70 million for their star. The Gunners have been interested in the Ecuador international over the past few windows. They pushed for him in the winter transfer window. But saw a £70 million bid rejected as the Seagulls were not ready to sell him bid way through the season. Post the January transfer window Brighton decided to pen down a new deal with the 21-year-old. His new contract at the club runs until 2027. While his new contract suggested that he might not be available for a transfer in the summer, the reports suggest that it was done to preserve his transfer value. Caicedo joined Brighton from Independiente del Valle in 2021 for a fee of £4.5 million. Initially, he was sent out on loan to gain first-team experience. He has gone from strength to strength since returning from his loan. And, he has impressed one and all in his first full season in the Premier League. The 21-year-old has featured in 31 matches in the ongoing season and has 2 goal contributions. Caicedo has been a rock in the centre of the park. And, his consistent performances led to the interest of multiple big clubs in the winter. They are set to return to his services in the summer. And, as per reports, Brighton will be willing to accept a bid of £70 million. Arsenal and Liverpool are two of the biggest club willing to go up against each other for his services. The Gunners might have signed Jorginho in the winter but Arteta is still on the look for a new midfielder. He wants to add a world-class player into the ranks before returning to the Champions League next season. And, Caicedo is a high priority for him.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ However, they will face competition from the Merseyside club who are also interested in the 21-year-old. Jurgen Klopp’s men are expected to do a midfield overhaul in the summer as they look to revive themselves. Caicedo is considered an ideal candidate who could easily fit into the German manager’s system. Meanwhile, with two top clubs interested in the Brighton midfielder it will be interesting to see who comes out on top.