Natasha had earlier told her best friend of the homecoming of her fiancé and begged her to accompany her to pick him from the airport. Unknown to her, her best friend was hatching evil thoughts in her mind, to snitch on her. Loaded with her friend’s secrets, she unashamedly went to pick her best friend’s fiancé from the airport alone against their earlier agreement to go together. From her story, the guy believed what her friend told him about her, he refused to see her or speak to her. “I had a friend who knew my secrets. I shared a lot of my life secrets with her, including my relationships. She also shared hers with me. She practically knew everything about me. We were like two pear pods, very closely knitted. “Because of our closeness, she knew guys I had a thing with. And she also knew I had a guy I was dating aside from my fiancé, though my relationship with that particular guy was not a serious one. I was just dating him to make myself happy while I waited for the return of my fiancé. “When I started dating my fiancé, she knew about it. He was based in Germany and we had been together for four years, and in those years he had been abroad we communicated only through phone. “I shared with my bestie everything about my guy, even how he sent money to me and how he cared for me. I didn’t hide anything from her. “Last week my guy called to tell me he would be in Nigeria. As usual I told my friend. She owns a car, so I told her she would take me to the airport to pick my fiancé. On the day of his arrival I was waiting for my friend to come and pick me so that we could pick my fiancé, she never showed up, unknown to me that she had gone ahead without me to pick my guy. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Meanwhile, I was calling her line and she was not picking up. I was at home when my guy called me and asked me where I was. I told him I was at home. He said someone told him I was in a man’s house and that was why I couldn’t pick him up from the airport. When I asked him who told him, he mentioned my best friend’s name. POLL “I later learnt she even booked a hotel for my guy but he refused to go with her to the hotel and went his way. “My guy has refused to see me, nor talk to me. Out of annoyance, I fought with my friend and wounded her with a sharp object. She still had the guts to call the police to arrest me. “I am still very angry with her because she has ruined my life. I don’t know why my friend chose to betray me. She was my friend and we did things together.” Dear Natasha, you must have given your friend too much information about yourself and your guy for her to take such treacherous action against you. As much as I want to sympathise with you, I think you are to blame for what happened. Also, violence has never solved any problems, fighting her won’t undo what she has done, and can even dent your image further. Your man is supposed to trust you and not believe just anything anybody told him without listening to you first. For him to react this way, it can only point to one thing: he doesn’t trust you and was probably looking for a reason to do away with you. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.