WARRI – HOUSE of Representatives member-elect for Isoko Federal Constituency, Pst. Jonathan Ukodhiko, has called on Nigerians to re-dedicate themselves to unity, mutual co-existence and respect irrespective of tribes in the country as Christians mark the Easter celebration. Ukodhiko made the appeal in his Easter goodwill message to Christian faithfuls in Nigeria on Saturday, stating that, “Easter is all about the commemoration of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.” According to the PDP’s Isoko federal lawmaker-elect, “there was no better time than now for Nigeria as a nation to unite, and thrive in peace. “For us to achieve sustainable national development, then it is imperative we all work in the spirit of togetherness and promote good neighborliness. “Yes, a new united and prosperous Nigeria is possible only when we eschew divisive tendencies and stop all forms of religious and ethnic sentiments.” Ukodhiko, a former Delta Energy Commissioner, commended Christians for their abiding faith and hope in God Almighty despite the daunting challenges being faced in the country. “However, I must urge Nigerians to imbibe the virtues of love, peace, compassion, charity, self-denial, sacrifice, selflessness, humility, and perseverance as exemplified by Jesus Christ.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As Christians, it is very important, we live Christ-like life, and pray fervently with patience for the unity, peace and prosperity of our beloved country, Nigeria. POLL “Let’s be encouraged that all will be well with our nation, Nigeria. Let’s be hopeful as the economic hardship and worsening insecurity being experienced in the country will soon come to an end. “When inaugurated in June, I’ll hit the ground running by working hard with my colleagues to bring reprieve to all Nigerians through good legislation. “On behalf of my family, political associates and the people of Isoko Federal Constituency, I felicitate with Christians all over the world as they celebrate the 2023 Easter” Ukodhiko added.