The Royal Place Ministries International, a Christian worship centre with over ten branches globally will be staging its annual programme tagged “FESTIVAL OF FIRE” a firebrand crusade meant to enhance the manifestation of the Holy Ghost and the love of God in the lives of people in this modern age. The three-day programme is scheduled to hold from Friday 26th till Sunday, 28th May 2023. The power-packed programme will kick off at 5:00 pm on Friday 26th and continue also at 5:00 pm on Saturday 27th. On Sunday 28th of May, the grand finale will begin at 10:00 am at the Sheraton Hotel, 300 South Charles Street, Baltimore 21201, USA. Speaking on the impact and importance of the event, Bishop Blessing Samuel, the chief host hinted: “The much-anticipated programme will be bringing Men of Integrity, Character and Excellence. Ministers that God is using in this dispensation to demonstrate His power. Men with an unusual anointing for transformation to bless participants. We have carefully selected men that are steadfast in the Lord and over the years demonstrated exemplary lives to minister in the programme. “We are inviting people to be part of this life-changing and turnaround event. It is going to be a three-day event and we encourage anyone around the world to come and tap from the Grace and move of God. There will be an outpouring of the Holy Spirit, demonstration of power and answers to prayers”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Among the eminent ministers invited are Bishop Isaac Idahosa, one of the presidential running mates to Dr Rabiu Kwankwaso during the last election; Revd Natasha Carmel, a firebrand minister that the Lord has used to touch lives across the globe; Minister Sinach, the praise worship diva and songstress who has used her melodious voice to bring light to many souls around the world. POLL Other music ministers are Jumbo Anne and Empraize. Also ministering, Henshaw Daniel Ikpe, Sylvia Ajayi, Baby Melody and Royal Voices. They will all be bringing down God’s presence with electrifying praise and worship sessions to bless everyone. The host, Bishop Blessing Samuel is fully prepared, a man of God with a mighty, divine anointing, a prophet of God to nations will be on the ground with the unction to proffer immediate solutions to problems. Among his residential pastors too. It’s a Revival conference like no other as the host reiterates to everyone to get set to experience the Word,  Prophecy, Deliverance, Worship, Praise and Impartation. It promises to be massive and explosive. Hotel Rooms are available for booking using the link below..https://book.passkey.com/e/50455068?utm_source=295&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=290696093&trkid=558609510&linkid=2807400079.