ISAAC ASABOR If there is any quote that is by each academic session of the universities finding relevance in the minds of parents and guardians concerning the higher institutions their children will attend, it is unarguably the one that is credited to Robert Orben that says, “If you think education is expensive, try ignorance.” The foregoing view cannot be said to be erroneous when analysed from the perspective of the fact that in a country where tuition fees charged in public universities is comparatively as low as N45, 000. For instance, the University of Jos charges fees for as low as N45,000, the University of Lagos charges N55,500, the University of Maiduguri charges as low as N33,000 and the University of Nigeria, Nsukka as low as N72,300, depending on the course. Despite the relative affordability of school fees being charged per session in public universities, some parents and guardians still prefer to sponsor their wards and children alike in private universities where tuition fees range from hundreds of thousands of naira, and in some cases more than N3m. As gathered, a peep into public universities and the tuition fees charged by them shows that courses offered at the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta cost N30,250.00 for new and N42,000 for old students. At Ahmadu Bello University, fees for new students (UTME and Direct Entry Candidates), depending on the Faculty cut across as follows: N40, 500 for students studying courses under the faculty of administration, Agriculture N40, 500, Art N39, 500, Education N39,500, Engineering N43,500, and Environmental Design N40,500. Others are Law N40, 500, N23, 000, Medicine N44, 500, Pharmaceutical Science N44, 500, Science N44, 500, Social Science N39, 500 and Veterinary Medicine N44, 500. In the same order, as listed in the forgoing, returning students (200 level to 500 level) are charged N23, 000.00 with the exception of Engineering courses which attract N24,500, Medicine which attracts N27, 000, Pharmaceutical Science which also costs N27,000, Science N27,000, and Veterinary Medicine where Returning students are charged N27,000 as tuition fees per academic session. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In a similar vein, the University of Lagos charges fresh students’ N55,500.00 for science and language courses while those admitted to offer non-science and non-language courses are charged N53,500.00. POLL The trend of relatively affordable tuition fees in public universities, no doubt, prevails across the University of Benin, Bayero University, University of Calabar, National Open University, and University of Abuja (FCT). In spite of the fact that affordable fees are charged in public universities, some parents and guardians who rightly or wrongly think that the more expensive the tuition fee is, the more academic value it will imbue to anyone that passes through such institutions have seemingly not been openly exhibiting a feeling of regrets as to the huge amount they will literarily cough out at the beginning of each academic session. As widely known, good things come at a price, and besides the arguably better quality of education, private universities charge exorbitant fees compared to state and federal universities. For instance, students of private universities pay higher tuition/school fees compared to their public school counterparts as federal university students pay tuition below N100, 000 while state university students pay tuition that ranges from N100, 000 to N300,000. At this juncture, it is germane to ask: Why do some parents and guardians prefer private universities to public universities despite the wide disparity that exists between the two categories of universities? The foregoing, no doubt, was the question that was put forward to respondents by Daily Independent at a media parley. Seen from the context of their responses, the answer to the question cannot be farfetched. Mrs. Isioma Udeh, in her view, said: “Considering the rot in Nigeria’s education sector, most parents who are well to do, and they prefer sponsoring their children through private universities which were primarily established with the aim of giving students a better deal than public institutions of higher learning.” Mr. Kayode Onadeko said: “With recurring strike actions which undergraduates in public universities usually experience, many parents and guardians that have the financial means would prefer their children and wards to be educated in private universities.” He added that the frequent strikes being embarked on by lecturers in public universities is one of the major reasons why parents and guardians prefer their children and wards to be educated in private universities irrespective of the exorbitant tuition fees that are charged. Mr. Hope Aigbedion, in his view, said: “No parents that want good things for their children would deny them the conducive learning environment that private universities are characterised with.” He said looking at it from that perspective that it is worth the while paying a huge amount for tuition in such schools; provided parents can conveniently afford it without struggling to pay at the beginning of each academic session. Ostensibly influenced by the fact that Church-owned universities are probably the most popular private universities in Nigeria, Emmanuel Ibekwe said: “Parents and guardians that subscribed to the Christian faith, and who are rich, prefer to send their children and wards to private universities as they expect them to be religiously grounded during their studies in the university, and to a large extent, graduate as responsible and God-fearing graduates”. To Mr. Peter Abegunde, “Most parents that are elitist see private universities, despite the pricey tuition fees charged by them, as a way of expressing their social statuses or wealth. Most of them will see a reduction of the fees charged by these universities as a deflation of their collective social status, and would surprisingly prefer to send their children to universities in Europe or America. They will not want their children to be in the same class as the children of those they see as “ordinary Nigerians.” To them, a reduction in the tuition fees of the educational services rendered by private universities in the country may make them less attractive because it would no longer be seen as socially exclusive and indicative of social standing. Private universities in Nigeria are like Veblen goods that are often used as a sign of social and personal status. Don’t forget that the reason most of them sent their children or wards to private universities is to assert their statuses. It is also their own way of “keeping up with the Jones”. The quality of tutorial that is inherent in such a move may give little actual utility apart from the pride of having their children or wards graduate from such universities with prohibitive tuition fees. According to Mr. Polite Ayebatari, “An investigation some years ago by a reputable organisation sought the views of parents regarding private and public universities. A mere 20% said they wanted to send their children to public universities, partly because only these institutions offer professional courses in medicine, pharmacy, and to some extent engineering, which are capital-intensive and demand highly skilled and scarce personnel. According to the organisation, the great majority of parents, around 70%, said that if cost were not an issue, they would want their children to obtain degrees from private universities. And 10% of parents would like their children to study abroad. Mr. Dominic Iweka, in his view, said: “Most employers prefer graduates of private universities to their counterparts that graduated from public universities”. Against the background of Iweka’s view, Daily Independent gathered that the reports somewhat contradict his views. For instance, according to the 2018 Nigerian Graduate Report by Stutern in partnership with Jobberman and BudgIT, Covenant University, with an 83.70% employability rate, ranked as the first among institutions that have more employed graduates, while 13 federal universities, 4 state universities, and 3 private universities made the list. As captured in the report, Bowen’s employability rate stands at 60%, Babcock at 52.70%, UNN at 68.18%, UI at 61.76%, FUT Minna at 60.61% and Unilorin at 60.61%. Others are OAU at 59.30%, UNIBEN at 58.51%, LASU at 58.49% and UNILAG at 58.13%. Be that as it may, Mr. Okezie Roberts said “Universities; whether public or private, should always strive for excellence even as parents and guardians should be well guided in considering the tertiary institutions they would want their children or wards to be educated in as “All that glitters is not gold”. On the employability of Nigerian graduates which has also become the yardstick which parents have adopted in determining the tertiary institution their children will attend, he said that ways to solve the problem include creating secondary skills development and acquisition programs as well as government investment in job creation schemes.