The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), on Friday, inducted a total of 1,029 Corps members of the 2023 Batch A Stream II for a three-week orientation course in Ebonyi State. Out of the 1,029 Corps Members, a total of 532 are males while 497 are females. The induction took place at the Scheme’s permanent orientation camp, Old MacGregor College, Afikpo North Local Government Area of the State. Addressing the new Corps Members, the NYSC State Coordinator, Mrs Bamai Mercy, cautioned them against indiscipline of any sort in the camp. She, however, expressed happiness over their conduct since they arrived at the orientation camp. Mrs Bamai recalled that the NYSC Scheme was established by decree (now act) Number 24 of 22nd May 1973, in furtherance of the Federal Government’s post-war policy of realizing the needed National unity and integration among all the tribes of Nigeria. To achieve this, according to her, the service has been carefully planned and segmented into four cardinal programmes including orientation, primary assignment, community development service; and the winding up and passing out. POLL She explained that the Corps members’ three-week-long orientation exercise would be regimented and packaged to instil in them the disciplined mind and sense of self-reliance needed to face the challenges ahead, during and after the service year. The NYSC Coordinator warned the newly inducted Corps members that “no act of indiscipline of any sort will be tolerated in this camp,” and advised them to read the NYSC Handbooks issued to them for a better understanding of every aspect of the service year. She appreciated the State Governor, Engr David Umahi for his numerous support and attention to the NYSC Scheme especially in the area of the renovation of camp infrastructures, and installation and maintenance of the street lights among others. She also appreciated the NYSC collaborating agencies and the camp officials for their contributions towards the success of the orientation exercisesin the State. The camp orientation exercise was declared open by the State Governor, Engr David Umahi, represented by the Commissioner for Sports and Youth Development, Charles Akpuenika after the Corps members were sworn in by the State Chief Judge, Justice Elvis Ngene, represented by Justice Nicholas Nwode at the camp’s parade ground.