Following petitions at the election tri­bunals, especially for the presidential election, Matthew Kukah, Catholic Bishop of Sokoto, has told judges that the future of the country depends on how they arrive at their much awaited judgment. In his Easter message on Sunday, Ku­kah said Nigerians are saddened that the judges’ sacred temples have been in­vaded by the political class leaving the toxic fumes that now threaten their rep­utation as the last hope for all citizens. He said it is sad that their hard earned reputation is undergoing very severe stress and pressure from those who want justice on their own terms. “Nigerians are looking up to you to reclaim their trust in you as the interpreters of the spirit of our laws. The future of our coun­try is in your hands. You have only your consciences and your God to answer to when you listen to the claims and counter claims of Nigerian lawyers and have to decide the future of our country. “We pray that God gives you the wisdom to see what is right and the strength of character and conscience to stand by the truth. You have no obligation to please any one. Our future depends on how you arrive at your much awaited judgment”, he said. Kukah asked President Muhammadu Buhari that as he prepares to return to Daura or Kaduna, after handing over power on May 29, whether he feels fulfilled or that he met the tall dreams and goals he set for himself such as: ending bandit­ry, defeating corruption, bring­ing back our girls, belonging to everybody and belonging to no­body, selling off our presidential fleet and travelling with us etc? According to him, “You (Bu­hari) may have followed my engagement with you through these messages over the years. You publicly referred to me during one of our visits as your number one public critic with a huge smile. I commend you for the fact that you have known that none of this was done out of malice but that we want the best for our country. May God guide you in retirement while we all embark on the challenge of reclaiming the country we knew before you came.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He advised President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, that the most urgent task facing the country is not infrastructure or the usual cheap talk about divi­dends of democracy, noting that “these are important but first, keep us alive because only the living can enjoy infrastructure”. POLL “For now, the most urgent mission is to start a psycholog­ical journey of making Nigeri­ans feel whole again, of creating a large tent of opportunity and hope for us all, of expanding the frontiers of our collective free­dom, of cutting off the chains of ethnicity and religious big­otry, of helping us recover from the feeling of collective rape by those who imported the men of darkness that destroyed our country, of recovering our coun­try and placing us on the path to our greatness, of exorcising the ghost of nepotism and religious bigotry”, Kukah said. Bishop Kukah saluted the en­ergy and courage of the youths, saying that during the elections they fought a good fight across party lines. According to him, “Your en­gagement and involvement sub­stantially changed the contours of our politics. Things will never be the same again. However, the youth do not belong to any single party, no matter the temptation. “You must look at the mis­takes of the past and avoid them. Note that your actions today will shape tomorrow. Learn the rules of good sportsmanship, know rules, know your roles, know when to fight, what to fight for and know when to walk away so you can embrace other fights. “In all, most of you did well, but some of your colleagues lost their lives in the hands of mem­bers of your own groups. Keep the dreams, but know the con­tours of the long road ahead.” He prayed that that God will guide the country’s transition to a new dawn, “banish evil and insecurity from our land. Give us the spirit of forgiveness and heal us from our infirmities, that blindness which makes us forget that we are brothers and sisters, children of One Father.”