LAGOS  – Following the increase in the risk of disasters in Africa and other parts of the globe, Nige­ria has been advised to heed cautions against the very chal­lenging threats by taking early warning systems seriously. A professor of political Insti­tutions, governance and public policy in the Department of Political Science, University of Ibadan, Remi Aiyede, gave the advice at the grand-opening of the Gen. Leo Irabor Early Warning Systems Centre at the Nigerian Institute of Inter­national Affairs (NIIA), Lagos, on Tuesday. In his keynote lecture at the event, Prof. Aiyede noted that the early warning systems centre and defence architecture delivered at the NIIA is very apt, adding that “Disasters are very challenging and we should take early warning systems se­riously. The risk of disaster is increasing in Africa.” He said that the early warn­ing systems centre generates alerts and cautions against crisis situations, adding that “This can only be meaningful when it is directed at the right place and managed by the right people. It must be effective and have capable hands to man it.” According to Prof. Aiyede: “The centre is supposed to re­spond to the needs of Nigeria, of the friends of the country and the entire African conti­nent.” He said that technology has evolved to address early warn­ing systems, such as tracking cyclones, among other disas­ters. “Disasters threaten our comfort, strength and social stability. We need to know when and how to intervene whenev­er there is a disaster, as well as know what should be done,” he added.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Prof. Aiyede called on all stakeholders to collaborate to promote the centre. POLL Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, represent­ed by Foreign Service Officer at Nigeria’s Ministry Of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Max Ogbede, said that the Gen. Leo Irabor Early Warning Systems Centre will help Nigeria, Africa and others to “begin to nip in the bud insecurity situation, even as we can mitigate and prevent insecurity when we get the early signs.