LAGOS – The management of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), on Sunday, announced a reschedule of its Mock-Test earlier planned to hold on Thursday, 30th March, 2023. It would be recalled that the test that was earlier conducted in 725 centres across the country ran into some technical hitches in some centres thereby denying some candidates the opportunity to sit the examination. The Board’s mock examination was designed to test its preparedness and that of its partners for the UTME as well as allow prospective candidates to have hands-on experience of the CBT test environment. JAMB’s. Head of Public Affairs and Protocol ( AD/PAP), Fabian Benjamin, in a statement made available to Daily Independent explained that the rescheduled Mock-UTME will hold on Tuesday, 18th April 2023. The statement read, “It is, therefore, to give those candidates, who were unable to sit the examination owing to no fault of theirs, the opportunity to take the examination that the mock examination had been rescheduled to hold on Tuesday, 18th April, 2023. Similarly, candidates who were present and screened for the examination but could not sit the examination have been rescheduled to retake the mock examination on Tuesday, 18th April 2023. Also, the Board announced that the result of the candidates who successfully took the mock examination on 30th March, 2023, has been released.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Similarly, the Board explained that it has brought forward the conduct of its 2023 UTME which was earlier scheduled to hold from Saturday, 29th April, 2023, to Tuesday, 25th April, to Tuesday, 2nd May, 2023. POLL “The adjustment in the date of the UTME is to accommodate some other major and critical national assignments. By so doing, the Board hopes that no citizen would be denied the opportunity of exercising their civic responsibilities. “It should be noted that the Board does not have the liberty of shifting forward its examination as other public examinations are billed to commence their exercises in the early part of May 2023. Yet another factor is the need to accommodate those institutions with stable academic calendars to resume as scheduled”. The Board assured Nigerians of its resolve to continue to partner with relevant agencies of government to ensure that its candidates get the best. It, therefore, solicits the understanding of all as it delivers on its critical mandate.