IBADAN – A police officer yet to be identified has been reportedly shot dead during a clash with Yahoo Boys in Moniya, Akinyele local government areas of Ibadan. Daily INDEPENDENT reporter who was at the scene of the sad occurrence for on-the-spot report gathered from some Okada Riders in the area that the incident occured while some policemen that were on stop and search duty along Ijaye-Iseyin road were chasing some suspected yahoo boys who refused to wait for policemen order. The eyewitness who pleaded anonymous said, “As those Yahoo boys were held in a traffic at Moniya Garage area, a policeman shot at them but his shot was misfired causing him serious injury which later led to his death.” Okada rider who pleaded anonymous said. The eyewitness also confirmed the incident said that those Yahoo boys later escaped unhurt from the scene. He maintained that the Policemen in an attempt to scare the onlooker and also to calm down the situation started firing gunshots and tear gas canisters into the air and in the process one old man was hit by a stray bullet but it has not been confirmed if the he’s dead or alive. The eyewitnesses, who are mostly Okada riders lamented over alleged assault and extortion by policemen in the area. They said, “In most cases, these policemen always extort us, harass us, mistaken us and our innocent customers for Yahoo boys, it is sad this is happening and it’s not new here.” However, a reporter of Silverbird Television, John Alabi who was at the scene was arrested and assaulted by policemen. Though the state Commissioner of Police, CP. Adebowale Williams has ordered discreet investigation into the arrest of the journalist. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The state Police Public Relations Officer, SP. Adewale Osifeso through a press statement confirmed the incident. Osifeso in a copy of the statement made available to Daily INDEPENDENT stated that, “Today, being Tuesday 25/04/2023 at about 1015hrs, Operatives attached to Moniya Area Command under the Oyo State Police Command while on lawful intelligence led Stop and Search around a Major Black-spot were attacked in the line of duty. Preliminary Investigation reveals that, the Patrol team while acting on credible intelligence through visible policing duties extended their presence around major black spots, highways and major roads under Akinyele Local Government Area Axis in a bid to deter criminal elements from settling and establishing dominance within the location. In furtherance of the above, the team of operatives on patrol led by one Inspr Stanley Ikhine, flagged-down an Ash colored Lexus 350 Jeep with a faintly inscribed worn-off number further arousing suspicion from the Officers on watch. In the process, the vehicle initially slowed down in compliance with the directive before eventually picking up speed and dashing off to evade the officers on duty. This action led to a chase by the officers in a bid to establish further clarity of facts. A few meters away from the initial stoppage point, the Lexus Jeep veered off the road to a nearby garage, driving directly into the waiting hands of hoodlums who were also collaborators in the criminal process, thereby not only obstructing the officers from discharging their duties but as well aiding the escape of the SUV and its Occupants. Consequent on the above, the hoodlums attacked the Officers unprovoked and attempted forcefully dragging a rifle from one of the officers which led to a shot been discharged from the barrel during the process of the struggle. Sadly, the gallant officer paid the supreme price, suffering a heavy blow to his skull inflicted by one of the hoodlums while preventing them from dispossessing him off his firearm. The body of the deceased have since been deposited at the State Morgue for Post-mortem while (7) Seven persons have been arrested alongside (12 ) Twelve Motorcycles impounded in connection with the incident. In another development, while re-iterating the Command’s respect and cordiality for the Fourth Members of the Estate of the Realm, the CP has ordered discreet investigation into circumstances that led to the arrest of Mr John Alabi, the Oyo State Correspondent of Silverbird Television who was allegedly apprehended by operatives in the heat of the Incident. Penultimately, the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal Investigation Department (DC SCID) has been assigned to take over the case for detailed investigations. Lastly, residents are advised to go about their lawful businesses without fear of harassment or molestation. Updates would be provided accordingly, please. Lastly, in cases of emergencies, the Command can always be reached through these emergency control room numbers: 615(Toll free) (Oyo State Security Trust Fund), and Oyo State Police Command Emergency lines 07055495413 and 08081768614. Osifeso stated. As at the time of filling this reports , economic activities in the community have been paralyzed as a result of the incidence, shops were locked up while residents stayed at their homes because of the fear of arrest or hit by stray bullet.