LAGOS  – Nigeria’s event industry without a doubt has been considered to be one of the fastest growing industries creating employment for hundreds of young men and women in the country annually. The industry’s progress, however, is not without the creative strides being made by exceptional players like Abosede Abisagboola, who through her brand has made immense contributions. Abosede Abisagboola is the Creative Director of 2A’s Events Ltd, a brand she started around 2009 providing planning, coordination and decorations to her highly valued clients. She’s a graduate of Event School, London, a certified member of the Association of Professional Party Organizers and Event Managers of Nigeria (APPOEMN) and has had the privilege to serve as Public Relations Director of the association. Speaking on how the journey into entrepreneurship began for her, she said: “Passion and a desire to give my creativity full expression brought me into this industry. When I started out a few years ago, I was solely into decoration. My love for beautiful spaces, locations and creativity inspired me to stay hooked and build a business around my gift. “Today, the brand has gained ground in the industry and the knowledge gained from Event School, London, has in no small measure influenced our growth.” Describing 2A’s brand offerings, she said her brand is very hands-on providing excellent services to top-notch clients in the area of event planning, decorations, coordination, vendor sourcing among others. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On the practical steps she has taken to develop herself and her brand over the years, the event expert stated, “Well, I have been privileged to develop myself through local and international training, as well as educational conferences that give exposure and networking opportunities. POLL “As part of my professional development, I have been intentional in joining event industry associations as well as other professional bodies where I consistently hone my skills as an event expert and entrepreneur. “All these have positively influenced my brand over the years, with our team achieving great feats in delivering excellence in event services that gives clients best of value as per their needs,” she added. Describing core solutions she has brought to clients as a professional service provider, Abisagboola mentioned excellent curation of events theme to achieve clients’ goals, quality vendor sourcing that suits clients budget. “I have also been involved in volunteering on different platforms, mentorship programmes, and developing relevant publications to share experience and knowledge. I have also facilitated travels for exposure for industry experts to gain global awareness and resourcefulness as professionals both locally and international. For about five years I coordinated the Nigerian delegates to IMEX America, an international gathering of event professionals,” she added. Abisagboola gave some useful advice to colleagues and those prospecting to come into industry.