LAGOS. -Teaming populace in the Medium, Small and Micro Enterprise (MSME) sector, and others in the informal segment of the economy have been told that the safest, smartest and most prudent place to keep your money is in the formal banking system. Bello Hassan, Managing Director and Chief Executive of NDIC, said this in his address at the NDIC day at the ongoing 34th Enugu International Trade Fair in Enugu. He said money with the banks is safe because the NDIC protects bank deposits. “Such deposits also enjoy the benefit of effective regulation and supervision of relevant authorities, and take people’s hard earned money beyond the ambit of illegal fund managers and loan sharks that currently awash the investment landscape and fleecing unsuspecting members of public. “However, as the unscrupulous elements get more and more creative in their ignoble acts, and as the NDIC and other regulatory bodies device more ingenious approaches to tackling their menace. It is pertinent for the Corporation to continue to sensitize the public on their expected roles towards protecting their bank deposits”, he said. He advised depositors to ensure their phones have strong password and do not share their bank mobile app password with third parties; ensure no one is watching when they enter their PIN to perform transactions; ensure their token is secure and other parties do not have access to it; and ensure their debit card number and CVV are not exposed to people. “Equally important is the need to avoid investment offers with quick and arbitrarily high returns”, Hassan added.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ While congratulating the leadership and members of Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry Mines and Agriculture, Hassan acknowledged the tireless efforts to collaborate with the government in encouraging trade and investment, not only in the South East geo-political zone but the country in general. POLL He said: “I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the executives and members of the Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry Mines and Agriculture on yet another achievement. “The fair’s theme “Harnessing Nigerian Human Capital Resources for Global Economic Advancement” speaks volumes about how your programs and vision match with the government’s priorities in this regard. “Also for us in NDIC, it is instructive to note the strong relationship between our mandate and the theme of this year’s fair. By discharging our public policy objectives of protecting depositors in the event of bank failures and further offering a measure of safety for the banking system, thereby creating an enabling environment for the financial system to appropriately support the economic advancement of our great nation”. Speaking on the importance of the corporation, Hassan said, “The NDIC was established in 1989 as a critical component of the nation’s financial system safety-net. The four broad mandates of the Corporation are Deposit Guaranty, Banking Supervision, Failure Resolution and Bank Liquidation”. The Corporation, he said, adopted participation in the Enugu International Trade Fair over the years, as platform for continuous sensitization of depositors, and the general public on the existence of the Deposit Insurance Scheme (DIS), its advantages, and its limitations. “This is significant to us as it will enhance public confidence in the financial system. We want the general public to know, and reflect always, that their deposits are safe and that in the unusual event of a bank failure, a government agency, the NDIC, is here to protect the depositors, especially the small savers. “The corporation protects depositors through the discharge of its mandate in four critical ways namely: by guaranteeing deposits in banks; by supervising the banks in conjunction with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to ensure that they are run in safe and efficient manner in line with extant laws and regulations; by resolving issues of distress in banks to reduce instances of failure; and by ensuring orderly and efficient liquidation of failed banks to prevent disruptions to the payment system.”