Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State has described the state’s governor-elect, Senator Bassey Otu, as the best material for the state. The governor spoke at the State Executive Council Cham­ber of the Governor’s Office in Calabar while receiving Prince Otu, his deputy, Hon Peter Odey, the national and state Assembly members-elect of the APC who came to show him their certifi­cates to return. According to Ayade, “in tra­ditional Nigerian politics, you install your boy, a puppet so that you can control him afterwards, but here in Cross River, we went for the best; our governor-elect, (Prince) Senator Bassey Otu is the best.” The governor insisted that credit for the success of Sen­ator Otu at the governorship election should go to God “be­cause all praise belongs to Him on this victory. Let us give God the praise. I give my gratitude to God for being able to have a suc­cessor, not just a successor but a successor from the Southern Senatorial district. “We came out victorious even when people stood against our Back to South agenda.” He said his fervent wish and prayer for the incoming gover­nor is for him to outperform and outshine him in office. “I know Bassey Otu has a good heart. I know he has a spirit of enterprise, the power of in­novation, so, l encourage him to be a super shining star so that Ayade would just look like a joke where you are.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I believe that we have got a very good man in Senator Bassey Otu. Otu is the finisher, the polisher of the solid founda­tion we have laid; he has the un­derstanding of the gargantuan master plan of Cross River State. POLL “It is my wish to see you do much more than I have, while l sit back to provide any kind of support you so wish. “You have to prove that the Back to Back agenda was not political but spiritual. I wish you much better the circumstances of service which l went through. I don’t wish you to be a governor with the circumstances and fi­nances that l met”, the governor said. Further admonishing the governor-elect, Ayade said: “I be­lieve that we have gotten a very good man in Senator Bassey Otu. Ayade’s regime would come to nothing, Otu is the polisher and finisher and has the un­derstanding of the gargantuan master plan of Cross River State. “You must show that all of us that put our destinies in your hands made the right de­cision.” Earlier, the governor-elect told the governor that he and other elected politicians on the platform of the APC “are here to thank you for standing by us. For all you have done, Your Ex­cellency, may God continue to bless you.” Senator Otu who once repre­sented Cross River South in the Senate assured that his adminis­tration would complete projects the outgoing administration would leave behind.