ABUJA – Following months of preparation, the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), officially kicked off the conduct of the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) on Tuesday. The Board had revealed that over 1.6 million candidates registered to sit for the examination nationwide. The entry level examination which began on Tuesday, April 25, 2023 will run till Wednesday, May 3, 2023. On a visit by our correspondent to a centre in the nation’s capital, the Global Distance Learning Institute, Abuja, candidates spotted were seen in high spirit and were seated by their computer set as early as 8am waiting for the commencement of the examination. Prior to the commencement, the JAMB authorities had extended the closing date for the ongoing 2023 Direct Entry (DE) by one week. The extension was announced by JAMB’s Spokesperson, Fabian Benjamin earlier. Benjamin had noted that the DE registration exercise, which commenced on Monday, 20th March, 2023, and billed to end on Thursday, 20th April, 2023, had been extended by one week starting from Friday, 21st April, 2023.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He explained that the extension was partly to give all holders of Cambridge A/Level Certificates, who were unable to register for the exercise on account of some issues associated with the verification of their certificates, another opportunity to do so, as well as accommodate others, who wish to register but were unable to do so within the stipulated time. POLL The Spokesperson had noted, it should be noted that in its bid to ensure that the Cambridge A/L Certificate was onboarded in the verification process, the British Council was partnering with the Board and, as such, would be providing a verification portal for the seamless verification of its Cambridge Certificates as obtains with other categories of A/Level certificates. He added that, it was this provision of a verification portal by the Council that informs the Board’s decision to reconsider its earlier stand on non-inclusion of Cambridge certificate for DE registration. Consequently, he directed all holders of Cambridge Certificates, who desire to register for the 2023 Direct Entry, can now proceed to any of the Board’s offices nearest to them to register for the exercise. The JAMB Spokesperson had explained that, the consideration did not in any way include candidates awaiting Cambridge Certificates as “Awaiting Results” would not be accepted. The JAMB management under the purview of Prof. Ishaq Oloyede prides itself to have drastically reduced the number of fraud and infractions associated with the conduct of the examination in the past.