Well, this controversy has been left in the hands of Lawyers and Judges as the only Nigerians capable of interpreting sections 133, 134, 179 of our constitutional rights in our electoral laws. I am not a lawyer, but there are certain issues that need a thorough understanding and wisdom rather than mere legal jargons, and luckily for Nigeria, most Nigerians are not all that fools to the extent of not comprehending certain basic inferences in our laws and regulations. Do you need to be a lawyer or a judge to know the punishment of a second degree murder in Nigeria? Laws are not made for legal procedural interpretations, but for the citizens to understand the ‘dos’ and ‘don’t’ in the society. The problem with most Nigerian laws is the ambiguity of phrases or clauses coined in certain legal terms, but even at that, every law or regulation of a nation should be well crafted in such a way that it is comprehensible to the ordinary people. Why should a Constitution of Nigeria drafted in a way that every four years, we must line up in the courts, awaiting interpretations? The simple answer is that, from inception, it was a dubious document,  drafted and imposed on Nigerians by the military juntas. Why must we use certain technical terms to adjudicate a case that ordinarily should have been made clear from the crafting of the constitution. The answer is obvious, most Nigerians are not thorough when executing federal government critical policy assignments. The 1999 Nigerian Constitution was hurriedly drafted with no inputs from Nigerians. In fact, it was at the swearing in ceremony of OBJ at the Eagle Square that a draft of the constitution was wrapped and handed over to OBJ. We have had 9th NASS sessions, and none was able to boldly address the deformed constitution that was handed over to Nigerians. The corruption in Nigeria has made the constitution amendments the most viable form of senseless money laundering amongst those NASS members who ought to amend the constitution. It has become a jamboree sort of, and I hoped that the 10th NASS session will do everything to ensure that this deformed 1999 constitution is either dropped or a total overhaul amendment embark on immediately they assumed office. “When a nation failed in its fundamental laws by dubiously enacting a law with ambiguous falsehood, the citizens will be under the spell of legal procedural interpretations and judges manipulative judgements.” – DSM.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Many Nigerian lawyers are behaving as if they are gods, whose interpretations of laws must be sacrosanct. The inferno of FCT 25% requirement for a would-be president of Nigeria is not as cumbersome as all the legal jargons tend to portray to most of us who are unlearned.In this vein, I beg to defer from the distinct view that our constitutional provisions are subject to the lawyers and judges interpretations. As an unlearned, I am trying to delve into it and may be some of my fellow unlearned will look at this particular subject matter with a view to unravel the secret of 25% FCT votes requirement before a president is declared as a president-elect. POLL Let’s Go: If FCT is to be treated as a State as many of our learned men have advanced, why didn’t we conduct a Governorship and State House of Assembly elections In Abuja?If FCT is administered by a federal Minister, my problem here is, ‘who appoints the Minister of FCT?’ If the answer is Mr. President of Nigeria, expressly, impliedly and legally, FCT is under the control of Mr. President and not the Governor. To this end, FCT has a special status and cannot be in the same governance system as the States. The terminology of FEDERAL CAPITAL TERRITORY (FCT) distinguishes it as the melting pot of the presidential seat, and no state in Nigeria will be referred as a Federal Capital territory (FCT) other than Abuja. Comparing FCT to a state is like comparing a state capital with a local government headquarter. Each controls its sphere of influence, and as such, states cannot descend so low to be a local government area. The governance overviews of all the local government areas are under the purview of the state governments control and management as at now, hence, even the LGAs elections are being conducted by the states Resident Electoral Commission, fully controlled by the states. In the case of a presidential election, the overall controlling institution is resident in Abuja, being the seat of federal government. The dictates, laws, regulations and electoral guidelines are all initiated and implemented in FCT, thereby, making Abuja a distinct governance status than a state. A simple example is, while the states elections results, especially the governors and state house of assembly, are being collated, coordinated and announced in States Capitals, the presidential and NASS elections are exclusively collated and declared in FCT. A higher dominant position than the states. To this end, FCT is higher in governance status appraisal than the states. A President is higher than a Governor in Nigeria’s government hierarchy, and hence, a president must obtain 25% as an assurance for his acceptability in FCT. There’s no single reason why FCT should be referred as having the same governance status as a state, except if we are equally dubious in our interpretations. It becomes very important that a president must obtain 25% of the Votes cast in FCT just as a Governor is expected to gain the confidence and majority votes in his or her state. How can you be a president when the territory that you ought to superintend, the citizens there don’t have confidence in you? Secondly, if a university admission requirement says that you must obtain four credits AND Mathematics before you are giving an admission according to the course applied. As a layman, it means that your admission won’t be considered even if you have 8 ‘As’ without a credit in Mathematics. It means that a credit in Mathematics is impliedly compulsory. The requirement is not ambiguous but straightforward. My main problem with lawyers is that they want an issue so glaring in interpretation to be debated just to justify their legal proceedings. Even when a culprit admits that he committed a crime, the legal procedural compliance standard must be exhibited in the court. The argument may not be on the crime already admitted, but the ‘how, why, what and when.’ A long process to prove a crime already admitted. So, I am not surprised at the long ‘tories’ in legal terms of the constitutionality of a president-elect obtaining 25% of FCT votes. Remember that I am just an unlearned. I don’t want to bother us with the long constitutional draft of section 134 as the core electoral laws… but let me paraphrase: “In case of an election with only two candidates, Section 134(1) of the 1999 Constitution states that a Presidential candidate shall be deemed to have been duly elected where he has “the majority” of votes cast at the election, and has not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in each of at least two-thirds of all the States AND the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. But, in a case where there are more than two Presidential candidates, Section 134(2) provides that a candidate shall be deemed to have been duly elected where he has the “highest number” of votes cast at the election, and has not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in each of at least two-thirds of all the States in the Federation AND the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.” Looking at the above, there seems to be no problem because as I have analyzed earlier, the clause suggests that the FCT is of special status, probably because, it’s the seat of power to Nigerians and to the president of Nigeria.Critically, FCT, if we are talking about ranking, is more important than a State. The entire federal government of Nigeria security and civilian administrative hierarchical authority is located in FCT. It must have a special status. This confusion wouldn’t have arisen if an appropriate use of the word,  “INCLUSIVE ” of FCT, rather than, “AND” was expressly stated. Thirdly, if A + B =C, it means that A or B alone cannot be equal to C. For example, if A is 5, and B is 5, and you are asked to find C in the sum total of A and B.The simple answer:5 + 5 = 10. A or B is a stand alone to each other because none is a constant except C. A and B are variables, and cannot be conjectured. Each variable cannot be superimposed on one another because they’re distinct. In my little conclusion, there are many factors why a state cannot be misconstrued to be a federal capital territory.Basically, the states are being controlled by the Governors with House Assembly members. The Governor appoints all the commissioners who are screened by the States House of Assembly.In the case of FCT, the President appoints the Minister just as other Ministers that he or she superintends. The screening of the Ministers is done by NASS, resident in FCT. Equally of note, the Tax regulations in FCT are different from what are obtained in the states. To this end, the 25% exclusive vote mandate in FCT is very critical before a president is declared as a president elect. The truth about why Nigerians don’t trust our Justice System is because of the low ratings in most of their corrupt infested past judgements. In as much that I am unlearned, no Nigerian is assured of the outcome of the elections tribunals, especially with the recent allegation of CJN’s disguise to meet BAT in London. The arrogance of APC and INEC in calling PDP and LP to go to court despite all the elections mutilated observations left most Nigerians in disbelief for a credible justice dispensation. And because of this expected judgement of global disaster, I am appealing to every Nigerian intellectual, especially the unlearned like me, to study this dracula sections 133, 134, 179 of the electoral laws and let’s prepare ourselves in case of what Olisa Agbakoba said about the lopsided judiciary judgement happened. Hear him, “I’ve lost a bit of confidence in what the courts have been doing lately. There was a time you could say, on the facts and the law, this is the likely outcome. Today you cannot, because there’s been all kinds of silly decisions.” He expressed doubts about the ability of the judiciary to dispense incorruptible  justice as politicians and their parties resort to the courts to address the grievances arising from the just-concluded general election, especially as it concerns the judiciary interpretation of section 134. As a matter of fact, his comment made me to study this sections of the Nigeria Constitution, and at least, I was able to add value to the intellectual discourse on legal profession even as an unlearned Nigerian. Don’t forget that you need not be a lawyer to read and comprehend certain laws and regulations of Nigeria, and hence, I want you to go through my submission with a broad view of intellectual discourse even as I come in PEACE. Dr. Sunny Oby Maduka (DSM), is an Author, Resource Personality, Management Consultant/ Trainer, Chartered/Certified – Au d i t o r / A c c o u n t a n t , Financial Compliance Expert, Economic/Political Analyst Strategist, Marine Expert and Motivationist)