The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Oyo State chapter, has described a call on the electorates ahead of Saturday’s rerun election in two federal constituencies; Oluyole and Ibadan South East/North East, by the All Progressives Congress, APC, as fallacious and wishful thinking by a group of unpopular and overrated politicians. The Publicity Secretary of PDP in the state, Akeem Olatunji made the disclosure on behalf of the ruling party in a press release made available to journalists today in Ibadan. Arising from its expanded state executive council meeting, the Oyo state chapter of the APC had earlier on Wednesday appealed to voters in the two federal constituencies to honour the president-elect in the February 25 presidential election, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu by voting for its candidates in the rerun election on Saturday, April 15. Olatunji while flaying the APC’s call said the opposition party has again proven to the world that it has zero integrity, political pedigree and reputation to sell its candidates to the electorates and as such has resorted to conducting itself similar to lost chicks that had gone astray while searching for food. Olatunji said: “We defeated APC with a 15,000 vote margin in the Governorship Election in Oluyole while in Ibadan South East/North East federal constituency, we defeated them with over 30,000 vote in the same election. “PDP won the four poling units in the two Federal Constituencies where Saturday rerun is taking place by wide margin in the recently concluded governorship and House of Assembly elections. What that means is that APC is dead in Oyo state as far as our local elections are concerned,” Olatunji said. The PDP Spokesman in the state also said, it was evidently clear by the APC call on voters ahead of Saturday that the questionable electoral victory recorded by its national assembly members on February 25 was a fluke and product of Tinubu tsunami stressing that the former Lagos state governor is no longer contesting and as such can not save APC candidates in the two federal constituencies from what was called ‘inevitable defeat’ on Saturday.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Olatunji who described presidential and national assembly elections as nationalistic stressed that only Governorship and state assembly elections can determine the popularity and acceptability of a political party at the grassroots. POLL While calling on the voters to ignore the APC call on them to honour Tinubu with their votes, Olatunji stressed that it’s candidates; Hon. Abdulmajeed Mogbonjubola (Oluyole) and Abass Adigun (Ibadan South East/North East) popularly known as Agboworin would win convincingly with landslide margin on Saturday. He also stressed that the areas where rerun will take place on Saturday in the two federal constituencies are PDP strongholds noting that it was for that reason APC in a desperate move to win at all cost orchestrated and hatched its plans which eventually disrupted the electoral process and led to the election being declared as inconclusive by INEC. Olatunji disclosed that the ruling party has gathered credible information about how the APC candidates in both federal constituencies were going about exploiting uneducated and ill-informed electorates by offering them cash in exchange for their voters card ahead of Saturday’s in a desperate bid that would lead to voters apathy. He warned APC and its candidates to prepare to face the masses on Saturday at the polls with its undemocratic moves and disposition to the election stressing that no amount of gimmicks can save the opposition from staying opposition as far as Oyo state is concerned as every attempt to truncate the successful conduct of the rerun election will be met with fierce resistance. “With the statement by the APC yesterday calling on the electorates to honour Tinubu by voting their candidates on Saturday, it was clear and evidently so, that the APC in Oyo state has absolutely nothing left to sell her candidate in an election other than the newly introduced game of deceit by using Tinubu’s name to solicit votes. “All along, they were going about using late Chief Obafemi Awolowo being a sage, to sell their party and candidates in previous elections but because they realized that the people are now politically clever, wiser, and sophisticated, and as such they’re making more informed decisions at the polls in choosing their political leaders which has evidently thrown APC in the state off balance. “Hence, the newly device deceit of using Tinubu’s name but they are showing their political delusionment too early because the unprecedented March 18 Governorship and state assembly elections result; 31–2, is enough clear message that Oyo state belongs to PDP because of the many wonders of the people’s governor, Engr Seyi Makinde. “The voters are also well aware that both candidates of PDP in Oluyole and Ibadan South East/North East federal constituencies are core political disciples of Governor Seyi Makinde and could not deviate from the good governance under his leadership if elected as House of Representatives members of Saturday. “We can not afford to risk anything at this crucial period anymore more especially with political neophytes with zero political integrity and would waste an entire four years mandate only to return during election period with a Tinubu’s name to whip up cheap sentiments to curry votes from unsuspecting members of the voting public. “Saturday is already a done deal, APC stands no chance and we will wait for them if they try to repeat the same political brigandage to truncate this rerun in  desperation to win at all cost,” Olatunji stated.