LAGOS – Air Peace on Thursday became the first Nigerian carrier to operate direct flight flight from Lagos and Abuja (Nigeria) to Tell Aviv in Israel. The airline commenced the new route with a two weekly flights and planned to increase its frequencies in the future. A statement by Stanley Olisa, the Spokesman of the airline said that the inaugural flight at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja was well-attended by the Nigerian and foreign dignitaries. Speaking on the flight, Mr. Allen Onyema, the Chairman, Air Peace, said that history had been made in the bilateral relations between Nigeria and Israel through the commencement of direct, non-stop flights from Lagos and Abuja to the city of Tel Aviv. Onyema said the airline was delighted particularly because this new route would provide huge respite to Nigerian travellers who, henceforth, do not have to travel to Israel through other countries, spending over 20 hours in stopovers whereas a direct flight is less than 6 hours. He said: “This is undoubtedly a big milestone as, for the first time, a Nigerian airline is connecting both countries directly through scheduled commercial flights. “Our entry into Israel today will open up more layers of opportunities and possibilities socially, and economically, and advance the implementation of the Bilateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs) between Nigeria and Israel. The connectivity will boost ‘religious tourism’, especially factoring the numerous Nigerians who embark on pilgrimage trips to Israel.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He stressed that the airline was familiar with the Israeli airspace as it operated evacuation flights to the country in 2020, following the COVID-19 pandemic. POLL Onyema expressed gratitude to the Israeli Government, especially its Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Michael Freeman, the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and other stakeholders whose efforts he said made this launch possible. Amb. Freeman expressed joy over the new connectivity, stressing that it would help deepen bilateral ties between both countries and promote mutually beneficial economic engagements. Also Engr David Umahi, the Governor of Ebonyi State, commended Onyema for his strides in aviation.He added that the growth of Air Peace had shown that a Nigerian could make sustainable global inroads in aviation as Air Peace was solidly representing Nigeria in the international aviation community. He emphasised the socio-economic impact of the new route, especially in ‘religious tourism’.Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, represented by Mr. Hassan Ejibunu, Director of Air Transport Management in the minisyr, reiterated the support of the government to indigenous airlines and promised government’s continued assistance to Air Peace in its route expansion drive. The airline now has five international destinations, including the recently launched Mumbai, 20 domestic(with Maiduguri launching on April 21, 2023)and 7 regional routes.