Today, First Sunday after Easter, is the feast of Divine Mercy. We are celebrating Our Merciful, Our Loving and Caring Father. We are celebrating our Lord Christ, the Divine MERCY Incarnate. We are celebrating the Liberating Power of Forgiveness. We are celebrating Love in Action! Today’s Responsorial Psalm presents God as a Merciful Father. In Psalm 118:2 the Psalmist declares, “Give Praise to the Lord for He is good; His Mercy endures forever!” Indeed, God’s goodness, His Love and Mercy endures everlasting. Psalm 145:8-9, further declares, The LORD is gracious and full of compassion, Slow to anger and full of mercy.” This is what Divine Mercy is all about! In 1 Peter 1:3-9 St. Peter highlights the Mercy of God in Christ Jesus and what we stand to benefit through God’s Mercy, “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! By His great Mercy 1) We have been born anew through the Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Child of God, as long as the Resurrection of Christ is concerned, you are a new creature! Old things have passed away. The book of Acts 2:42-47 presents Love in Action among the Disciples of Christ. All who believed were together and had all things in common; they sold their possessions and goods and distributed them to all according to their needs. Is this not amazing! Imagine how this world will be if we share what we have with one another. May God restore the Spirit of Love and sharing in our Society, especially the church! In the gospel of John 20:19- 31 as the disciples locked themselves in a room for fear of the Jews our Lord Jesus Christ appeared to them and greeted them, saying, “Peace be with you.” That was the end of fear in their lives. Child of God, who are you afraid of ? What is that thing that is frightening you? Today our Lord Jesus Christ has come to take away your fears. I cast out that spirit of fears in you! I release the Spirit of Peace and boldness upon you! I restore your inner peace! Be calm in Jesus name! After restoring their peace Jesus said to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven; if you retain the sins of any, they are retained.” This is Divine Mercy in Action! Forgiveness is a powerful force. It is the only force that can bring down the walls of violence, hatred and hostility in our world today. To sin is human but to forgive is divine. Forgiveness is the channel of Freedom and inner peace. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Child of God, as you receive the Holy Spirit, your sins and forgiven! All the charges they are bringing against you are hereby canalled! As Romans 8:1 declares, there is no more condemnation for you that is in Christ Jesus! POLL Today Jesus has come to deal with your doubt. Thomas doubted the Resurrection of Christ. Eight days later Jesus appeared to his disciples. He told Thomas “Put your finger here and place your hand in my side; doubt no longer but believe.” Thomas answered him, “My Lord and my God!” Jesus said to him, “You believed because you have seen me. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe.” Child of God, as you renounce the spirit of doubt, your faith is hereby restored! As you continue to believe in Christ Jesus, it shall be well with you in Jesus name! Happy Feast of Divine Mercy from Fr. John Damian Adizie, PGB.