***Say His Victory Triumph For Democracy, Will Of The People …Salute Nigerians, Electoral Observers, Media, Others ABUJA  – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the party presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar and the governors under the platform of the party, on Tuesday congratulated the Ahmadu Fintiri as the winner of Adamawa state governorship election. Recall that Adamawa governorship election has been trailed with controversy, to the extent that Resident Electoral Commission (REC), Mallam Hudu Yunusa Ari, almost marred the election. Reacting to the victory of Fintiri, PDP described it as a momentous triumph for democracy and the Will of the people of Adamawa State over tyranny and desperate manipulative forces which sought to take over control of the State illegally. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon, Debo Ologunagba said, “spontaneous jubilation of citizens in Adamawa State and across our nation at the official declaration of Governor Fintiri as the rightful winner of the election irrespective of the nefarious schemes by the rejected All Progressives Congress (APC), is a confirmation that the PDP and its candidate are indeed the choice of the people. “Governor Fintiri’s overwhelming victory is a validation that the Will of the people cannot be subdued no matter the plot by a tyrannic, domineering and power-grabbing few who, with over-bloated ambition, desperately sought to subvert our democracy, scuttle the electoral process, compromise the judiciary, subjugate the people and impose an unconstitutional regime in the polity.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The PDP salutes the courage, resilience and determination of the people of Adamawa State in resisting the defeated APC and compromised INEC REC, Mallam Ari in their bid to destabilize the State. POLL “Our Party also lauds the Adamawa State Returning Officer, Mohammed Mele for his courage in standing on the side of justice, due process and democracy in the discharge of his duty. The PDP salutes the roles played by the International and domestic election Observers, the Media, Organized Civil Society and indeed all well-meaning Nigerians in ensuring that the mandate of the people of Adamawa State freely given to the PDP and Fintiri, was not hijacked by APC supplanters. The PDP congratulates Governor Fintiri and the people of Adamawa State and urged the Governor to continue in his landmark transformational delivery of democracy dividends to the people in line with the manifesto, programmes and policies of the PDP. Also congratulating the Adamawa state governor, the former Vice President, Atiku, in his Twitter account, said Fintiri deserved reelection as governor of Adamawa State. He thanked the people of Adamawa and men and women of goodwill for staying the course in resisting coupists and enemies of democracy from having their way. Atiku said: The lesson from this exercise and others is the need for Nigerians to be vigilant and never give in to anti-democratic forces whose objective is to snatch, run with and undermine the mandate of the people as freely expressed in their votes. “By the way, it is not yet uhuru as we still have one more major mandate to reclaim, and together as ONE, we shall accomplish the task for the good of our country and its people.” The PDP governors on their part, congratulated Fintiri on his reelection, adding that it was a hard fought and hard won victory not just for him, but also for Adamawa State, democracy and due process in Nigeria. The governors under the aegis of PDP Governors’ Forum, in a statement by its Director General, CID Maduabum said, “Indeed, Nigeria has just been rescued from descent into the abyss. We have just has dodged another bullet. “We commend INEC for redeeming itself and hopes that this is a harbinger of things to come. It is in this regard that the Commission is requested to promptly re-visit all other elections where infractions have been identified. “Where the matters have been taken to the Tribunal, INEC should assume a garb and toga of neutrality and inform the Tribunals of the actual events that transpired in the elections. “It has been shown by today’s development that INEC can reverse itself where mistakes have been made. “We call on Gov. Fintiri to continue to justify this huge mandate and trust of the people of Adamawa State.”