ABUJA  – Nigeria has commenced the construction of a gas pipeline to deliver gas to Europe, the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO), Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, Mele Kyari, has said. Kyari disclosed this in his remarks at the Society of Pe­troleum Engineers Oloibiri Lec­ture Series and Energy Forum (SPEOLEF 2023) held in Abuja on Thursday, with the theme, ‘Effective Gas Utilisation: A Le­ver for Enhancing Energy Se­curity and Achieving Net-Zero Emission Goals in Nigeria’. According to him, the world has accepted gas as transition fuel, hence the investment in the massive infrastructure, which would ultimately position Ni­geria as a prosperous nation with its abundant gas resources which stood at over 200 trillion standard cubic feet in reserve. Kyari said actual work has started with land of site, engi­neering studies, feasibility and financing plans all completed, stressing that even though the country needs help, it can still run without help with regard to the project. “We are building infrastruc­ture to make sure we can deliver gas to the international market. We are expanding the NLNG, we need help but we can run without help, so to do this we are building infrastructure across West Africa. We are building the Nigeria, we are engaging and getting the land of site, engineering almost completed, feasibility, excellent, financing, cleared out of sight, and we will build a line that will start from Brass all the way through 11 African countries, deliver gas through to Morocco and to Eu­rope”, stated the NNPCL boss. Kyari said already Nigeria has the infrastructure today that can support 6.9 billion standard cubic of gas but it is not enough hence the decision for the massive expansion. “We have the infrastructure today that can support 6.9 bil­lion standard cubic of gas but that is not enough. We need to begin to have short term suffi­ciency and therefore we are do­ing everything possible to make sure we have all necessary in­frastructure on ground to make sure that this works, first of all build our own country, building gas means building this coun­try, creating prosperity in this country, and that’s why we have focused on building the massive infrastructure we are building today.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He, however, declared that Nigeria is nowhere near elim­inating hydrocarbon though the uses would change, adding “the reality is that oil and gas will continue to contribute over 60 percent of energy mix even by 2050.”