ABUJA – Ahead of the inauguration of the 10th House of Representatives in June, a coalition of returning and new mem­bers-elect from all political parties that won seats in the parliament has vowed to respect the decision of the majority party in the House, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), on zoning the Speaker and Deputy Speak­er’s seats and decision of opposition parties on minority leadership of the House in line with parliamentary best practices. The coalition, known as the ‘Joint Task – 10th Assembly’, comprises 283 members-elect from the APC, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Labour Party (LP), the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the Young Progres­sive Party (YPP). ­ In a statement signed by the Chairman and Co-Chairman, Hon. Bello Usman Kumo from Gombe State, and Hon. Kings­ley Chinda from Rivers State, respectively, the coalition stated that its main focus is to “promote the independence of the legislature; the inter-de­pendence of the legislature and other arms of government to legislate for good governance and grassroots impact; con­stituency outreach; equity and fairness among members-elect as well as unity, equity and fair­ness in the emergence of pre­siding and principal officers in line with best parliamentary practice.” Already, 283 members-elect, comprising both returning and new members, have endorsed the coalition, which awaits the decision of the ruling APC on the zoning of the various offices. The statement also disclosed that the coalition has the bless­ings of 14 APC governors, nine PDP governors as well as sev­eral National Working Com­mittee (NWC) members of the ruling and opposition political parties. The forum is independent of the speakership ambition of any of the various aspi­rants but with determination to build a strong coalition of members-elect of the 10th House in readiness to support the majority party zoning of the speakership office towards building a rancour-free and people-oriented 10th Assembly and in line with best parliamen­tary practice. The statement further said members of the coalition are in agreement with whatever the majority party – APC – decision on zoning might be.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to the statement, members of the ‘Joint Task – 10th Assembly’ have agreed to put Ni­geria first and allow the majority to form the leadership of the 10th House with other opposition par­ties playing major roles. POLL They noted that those who may want to defy the APC and have a repeat of the 2015 rebellion should remember the consequences of such action on governance as the sour relationship between the leadership of the 8th National Assembly and the executive left Nigeria and Nigerians at the re­ceiving end. “We are aware of the the­atrics in the 8th National As­sembly. But Nigerians want to see good governance and not grandstanding. Rebellion will deny the incoming Tinubu ad­ministration the opportunity to deliver on its mandate and the high expectations from Ni­gerians, especially under the current ethnic and religious tension in the country. “We are glad that the lead­ership of the ruling party recognises that the opposition political parties in the House are very key in the formation of the next leadership of the House, hence this coalition shall continue to consult with all the opposition parties. “Our desire is to see a Nige­ria where all of us, the political actors, come together to put the country first, subduing our in­dividual interest in order to have a better country that we, our children and our children’s children will be proud of,” the statement noted. The coalition said it “appre­ciates the capacity and prow­ess of all contestants for the esteemed positions of Speaker and Deputy Speaker, respec­tively, and implores every aspi­rant to put the interest of the House and the nation first over their personal ambition for the good of all,” it stressed.