Aolat Idowu-Agbelekale, the CEO of Arcom Treasures, is a graduate of Computer Science and Economics from Obafemi Awolowo University. She is a Certified Entrepreneur from Enterprise Development Centre (EDC), Pan Atlantic University, and Fellow, Institute of Cooperative and Social Enterprise Management. In this interview with SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, she speaks of the various potentials in the coconut value chain, among other issues. Excerpts: What do you do at Arcom Treasures? We are passionate about helping people to live a wellness and healthy life style through our coconut value chain range of products and toiletries line which include; Coconut water, Oil, Snacks, Cream and Natural Cosmetics. We operate in three different phases of coconut value chains: farming, manufacturing, and training. How did you come about the business, and how has it been since you started? While growing up, I love nature and appreciate natural things that offer creativity and add value to life. These I found in the coconut value chain; the main rationale behind pinching my tent with coconut. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It has been an awesome experience with a full dosage of pains and gains. Success does not come on a platter of gold, nor is it accidental, but it has to be intentional. POLL You have to work for it and be determined to pay the price. These have been our path, and to God be the glory, despite the load of challenges, we are making progress. My entrepreneurship journey has been over 30 years, while Arcom Treasures started about 16 years ago, and our journey in the coconut value chain is also over a decade. What are some of the challenges you are facing as a female entrepreneur? The challenges are enormous. Nevertheless, they are spices for success and vital ingredients indeed. The highest on the priority list are; Human Resources – Every other component in business needs a good driver, and the driver is human resources, because the job cannot be done alone, but most often, good and loyal staff are hardly easy to come by today. The order of the day today is a fast money-making process, irrespective of ways and manner the wealth is being accumulated. Dubious acts and cheating are increasing every day, and people care less about its devastating effect on the growth of the company or the owner. These challenges have affected us, too. Another challenge is Access to Market: Most often, entrepreneurs record low sales as a result of competition in the market and influx of imported products that are lesser in price and quality. Due to the low purchasing power of the people, they tend towards such products. Ordinarily, coconut is more or less a premium product, so also its derivatives, for instance, comparing the price of coconut to orange or coconut chips to plantain chips, they are incomparable. To make the matter worse, imported coconut oil, cookies, among others are cheaper compared to indigenous ones due to the high cost of production we are battling with in Nigeria. This is a result of poor infrastructure, lack of the right technology to drive our production, high electricity bill and epileptic supply of electricity, poor road and logistics. Finance is another challenge, Coconut value chain in terms of farming and manufacturing are capital-intensive projects. There is a need for financial intervention for these two areas to be effectively managed and harnessed. What do you think the Government needs to do to support female entrepreneurs like you? The needed enabling and secure environment. Nigerian Female entrepreneurs are highly intelligent and creative, if given the necessary support, enabling environment, and well appreciated by the government, they can do better. Financial Support: We need grants, zero interest rates on loans, and equipment financing. Farm land allocation at reduced price, Farm inputs support such as Seedlings, fertilizers among others. Building of more Processing Centres/ Clusters: These will allow for equipment sharing and reduce the multiplication of efforts and wastage. Most often; one waste product in coconut is another raw material for another coconutpreneur, for example, activated charcoal processor uses the waste shell of coconut oil producer. If we are in a cluster, it makes it easier for such processor to get his/ her raw materials at affordable prices and easily. The shell disposer, too, will always get paid for such materials, unlike when you operate individually; you have to pay to get rid of those wastes. Technology Transfer to ease and accelerate production process. Deployment of the right technology. Rebrand and Rebirth of Coconut Farming: Coconut Farming is a serious business and business of Millionaires and Billionaires in the making. Awareness should be created in this direction, most especially for our youth, they need to be trained, retrained and absorbed into the Coconut value chain and see it as a lucrative job that they can earn their living nicely through. Do you think that Female entrepreneurs deserve special treatment? Yes. In Nigeria, female entrepreneurs constitute 43 percent of entrepreneurs in the country. This is huge, and our contribution to GDP is awesome. Without doubt, women requires special attention and support in terms of equal opportunity to finance, patronage, favourable decision and policy as it affects their lines of operation and businesses, appreciation and security of life and property, among others. Women should be treated on the basis of value and positive contributions they make to society, not on the ground of gender biases or subjugation. Nigeria has not really started harnessing the various potentials in the Coconut value chain. What do you think is responsible for this? The awareness on Coconut value chain is very minimal and there are a lot to be done on this. Secondly, Coconut is yet to be included as a National Cash Crop by the Federal Government, this is creating a limitation to investment and funding of coconut, unlike Cocoa, Cashew and others which are given attention and funded properly. More than 100 products can be derived from coconut and its derivatives, and almost all these products have export potentials. Unfortunately, in Nigeria, we have less than 20 of these products being developed, and they are being underdeveloped with a lot of waste, which can actually be turned to wealth. A good example is a coconut shell, which can be converted to activated charcoal, a great money spinning in the European world. It is said that the coconut industry has the potential to generate income even greater than current crude oil earning. How? Nigeria spent almost $32billion yearly on importation of Coconut from Malaysia, Ghana and other neighbouring African countries to cater for the shortage and increase demand. This is a very sad story, because out of 36 States of Nigeria, at least 32 among them can grow Coconut effectively and sufficiently. We are blessed with arable lands and great potential, but unfortunately, these are not being tapped to develop the economy. This is part of the reasons why National Coconut Producers Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria (NACOPPMAN) is making a clarion call for COSIN; Coconut Sufficiency in Nigeria by 2027. This is an agenda to plant coconut on at least 10,000 hectares in every viable state and plantation of at least three coconut trees by each family in Nigeria. This will go a long way to bridge the gap and increase coconut production.