Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, Delta State will continue to embark on projects that will enhance effective teaching and learning. Prof. Andy O. Egwunyenga, Vice Chancellor of Delta State University (DELSU) made this declaration in Abraka while addressing journalists on the programmes lined up for the 15th convocation and award-giving ceremonies of the institution. Highlighting some of the projects executed by the institution, the VC stated that DELSU had built the Faculty of Management Sciences which, according to him, started in April 2022 and would be inaugurated on Saturday, April 29, 2023. He also listed that the school constructed a 3.2-kilometre-road network at the permanent siteeven as he added that the school tarred internal roads in the Faculty of Engineering and the Provost’s Office, Oleh Campus of the school. Speaking further, Prof. Egwunyenga said that he school has strengthened its academic programmes by securing full accreditation for all the forty (40) programmes presented to the National University Commission (NUC) in November/December 2022. According to the Vice Chancellor, “securing of full accreditation for all the forty (40) programmes presented to National Universities Commission(NUC), in November/December 2022 Accreditation exercise. This happens to be the first time since the 31 years of existence of the Delta state University, Abraka, that full accreditation would be returned for forty (40) Programmes in one fell swoop. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Now, all eighty(80) Programmes in the university have full NUC accreditation status. No interim accreditation, no denial for any programme. POLL This again, is unprecedented in the history of the university and has only been made possible by the unwavering determination of the University Administration and the entire staff to advance and reposition Delta state university, Abraka for national and global recognition”. The Vice-Chancellor further disclosed that approval was also sought and obtained from the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria(MDCN) to raise the University’s Admission Quota for the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery(MBBS) programme from 75-120, adding that the move is to reduce admission pressure that qualified students from Delta and neighbouring states go through in getting admitted to study Medicine and Surgery in the University. Prof. Egwunyenga said the school has gotten the approval of Benneth’s Joint Canadian–Israel Research programme to be conducted in the state university saying that the research team is led by Dr. Ben Azu, Head of the Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences adding that his research interest spans the study of Neuropsychiatry (Neurodevelopment and neurodegenerative disorders) and neuropharmacology, brain diseases, among others. He said that the school embarked on international students fees to boost the internationalization of the university adding that, the school has approved international school fees for undergraduates and post-graduate programmes as it is a source of Internally Generated Revenue(IGR) and would help in school ranking and internationalization of the school. He expressed his appreciation to Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta State for his continued interest in funding the University, he also commended the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of, Governing Council of the University, Professor Sam Oyovbaire for his inspiring leadership and for creating an enabling environment for the university administration to discharge its responsibilities in line with the university’s statue. Prof. Egwunyenga also expressed his appreciation to other members of the Governing Council, the Senate for the sustenance of high academic standards and staff of the University who according to him, ” have keyed into my mantra which is to lead, inspire, advance and transform”.