Civil rights advocacy groups made up of ten organisations, under the aegis of Human Rights Writers Asso­ciation of Nigeria (HURIWA), on Monday, backed the rein­statement of Senator Ifeanyi Araraume as the non-execu­tive chairman of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corpora­tion Limited (NNPCL). The CSOs spoke on the platform of HURIWA at a press brief­ing in Abuja on Monday. HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwu­biko, said President Muham­madu Buhari must comply with the order of Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja which reinstated Araraume and set aside all decisions and reso­lutions of the board of the NNPCL made in the absence of Araraume from January 17, 2022 till date. The group further stated that the sum of N5 billion awarded by the court as dam­ages for Araraume’s wrongful removal must be swiftly paid because, they said, going by Section 63 (3) of the Petroleum Industry Act 2021 and Section 288 of Companies and Allied Matters Act 2020, the senator cannot be removed in the man­ner he was removed by the president on January 17, 2022. HURIWA carpeted the presidency for saying that the judgment of the court on the reinstatement of Araraume would be challenged by the NNPC after Justice Ekwo held that President Buhari acted ul­tra vires of his powers. It said Justice Ekwo held that the president’s decision to remove Araraume was wrong­ful, illegal, null and void. Buhari had in January 2022 dropped Araraume as NNPC board chairman, few months after he announced him as the company’s chair­man in September 2021. The president, in his u-turn, ap­pointed Senator Margrey Chuba-Okadigbo, wife of the late former President of the Senate, Dr. Chuba Okadigbo, to replace Araraume and to represent the South-East. However, Araraume ap­proached the court to declare his removal illegal not after the NNPC used his name to register NNPCL as a director and simultaneously as board chairman and that such bra­zen act cannot stand in the face of the law.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The court, last week, ruled in favour of Araraume and reinstated him because Pres­ident Buhari’s action was grossly unconstitutional. POLL Aside that the presidency has said that the reinstate­ment would be challenged in court, some mushroom civil society groups sponsored by persons angry by the rein­statement of Araraume start­ed a smear campaign against Araraume and hinted on a protest against the judgment in Abuja next week.