Professor Solomon Avidime, a Professor, Consultant as well as Obstetrician and Gynecologist from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna has opposed the recently proposed House of Representative’s bill on mandatory five-year practice for Nigerian-trained doctors, describing it as an affront to medical training and practice. In this interview with CHIOMA UMEHA, Avidime, who is also Past Chairman, Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) Kaduna state, further says it impinges on the fundamental Rights of graduates of medicine in Nigeria. Excerpts: Many experts in the medical field and across have opposed the Bill recently sponsored in Nigeria’s House of Representatives by Hon. Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson to mandate any Nigeria-trained medical or dental practitioner to practice in Nigeria for a minimum of five years before being granted a full license by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria. What is your view? Let me quickly make this preamble that it should be noted that because of highly specialised skills, trained health professionals are needed in every part of the world. And among other factors, a better quality of life and higher wages in developed countries attract talent from less developed areas. And thus, the majority of migration is from developing to developed countries. There are growing concerns worldwide because health workers’ migration impact negatively on the health systems in source countries. Further, it is an economic loss given that the source countries have invested heavily in terms of finance in the education and training of health professionals. The sponsored Bill by a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson with an intent to stem Medical doctors’ migration is rather misplaced. The Bill is obnoxious and reprehensible and little wonder that men and women of goodwill across the nation and worldwide have condemned it, even amongst other Honourable members of the House of Representatives It is discriminatory because as it stands today, not only medical doctors are migrating in search of better working conditions, but other members of the health profession are also migrating as well as members of other professions like Lawyers, Engineers, etc Also, this Bill has not taken cognizance of the ‘pull’ and ‘push’ factors of brain drain as well as international labour laws. For me as a medical practitioner, it is an affront to medical training and practice, as well as impinging on the fundamental Rights of graduates of medicine in Nigeria. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It would have been worth it if the Bill is intended to improve medical doctors’ remuneration and welfare as well as provide an enabling environment for medical practice. It should have been a sponsored Bill that will stimulate economic growth, stem the continuous free fall of the Naira, improves the security situation in the country, and create employment. Let me quickly add that the naira devaluation to me has immensely accelerated the migration of health workers. POLL What is the way forward in stemming medical doctors’ migration? The sponsored Bill by a member of the House of Representatives with the intent to stem Medical doctors’ migration is obnoxious and should be trashed. Probably not sounding pessimistic, it is near impossible with the current trend of events in low-income countries to stop the migration (brain drain) of medical personnel. Even though, decision-makers and professional associations in affected countries are searching for policy options to slow down or even reverse the development. Nigeria, the most populous African country, is affected by the crisis of the health workforce, and with our large population, Nigeria has a large share of the disease burden in Africa. Increasing annual rates of population growth as observed in Nigeria, has contributed immensely to health workforce crises. Evidently, medical doctors typify the medical workforce and are the key determinant of the quality of healthcare services available. The world’s best healthcare systems are often to be found among the countries with the highest numbers of doctors as well The push factors are negative characteristics of the home country that form the impetus for intelligent people migrating from Lesser Developed Countries (LDC). Unemployment, political instability, absence of research facilities, employment discrimination, economic underdevelopment, instability, lack of freedom, insecurity, and poor working conditions. Pull factors are the positive characteristics of the developed country from which the migrant would like to benefit. Higher-paying jobs and a better quality of life are examples of pull factors. Other pull factors include a superior economic outlook, the prestige of foreign training, a relatively stable political environment, a modernized educational system to allow for superior training, intellectual freedom, and rich cultures. Given the fact that there are only 24,000 doctors available, the current doctor-patient ratio is 1:9,083, a stark contrast with WHO’s recommendation of One doctor to 600 patients. We must not lose sight of the current security challenges, poor economic situations, and the bad politics of job placement in the countries and further, that the effect of globalisation has now made migration closer and easier than it used to be. Organised migration agents are now commonplace and are actively recruiting Others have warned that the passage of the Bill would worsen the crisis of brain drain in Nigeria. What are your perspectives on this? The Bill certainly will. First at the level of training of undergraduate, many will prefer to now train their children and ward outside the country and this will affect significantly the average number of doctors who graduated annually from Nigerian universities. Secondly, many that would have stayed a while to practice and contribute to service delivery will leave earlier to pursue various Master’s degree programmes that will enable them to exit Nigeria faster. What are other implications of the proposed Bill for the medical profession? The Bill creates a sense of an attempt to enslave the member of the noble profession of medicine. This will affect enrolment into Nigeria Medical schools. If this were to succeed, other health workers will the next on the line. It is therefore demotivating as well as has the potential of throwing the entire health sector into crisis. Is it an international practice to deny someone who has been duly certified qualified according to the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act, a licence to practice? The Bill surely violates the UN convention on the protection of Rights of all migrant workers and their family members. Article 8 to be precise is very clear on this. That the right of migrant workers shall not be subject to any restriction in any state which includes their state of origin On the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act, there’s no such provision for any restriction. Usually, medical practitioners obtain certificates of good standing from the Medical and Dental Council which enable them to be registered in the new state. And such practitioners may continue to renew the annual practicing license of the home country so that they can practice on return. What are the implications for National development, particularly as it concerns specialist training in Nigeria and the delivery of quality healthcare services? The bill will negatively affect specialist training as only licensed doctors can be entered into a Residency or any other post-graduate training programme. In essence, specialist consultants will not be produced and the quality of healthcare services will drop What happens to the doctor’s internship period and NYSC service year? In effect, by this bill, the internship period is extended from one-year rotations to five years. Again, doctors at NYSC will not be able to function because they are not licensed to practice What happens to specialist training in Nigeria? Are they going to be revoked or abolished or suspended? Specialist training will rather be very much delayed. Naturally, medical doctors are enrolled in specialist training having obtained the first degree and duly certified to practice by the medical and dental council. Therefore, if a situation now exists that doctors cannot be granted a license until after five years of graduation, it then means that further training is halted for that period of time.