LOKOJA – A sociocultural group, Ibaji Unity Forum (IUF) has distributed Nine (9) tonnes of certified rice seeds to 1,800 beneficiaries affected by the 2022 flood that ravaged Ibaji Local Government Area of Kogi State. Speaking at the distribution centre on Friday in Ibaji, the IUF’s National President, Barr. Stephen Uchola said the gesture was in fulfillment of IUF’s mandate to alleviate the suffering of Ibaji farmers caused by the 2022 flood disaster. He said that the nine tonnes (9000kg) of Faro 44 Rice seeds with three months maturity worth N8.1 million, purchased by IUF would be distributed to 1,800 beneficiaries of Ibaji indigenes. According to him, the initiative is part of ”IUF Post Flood Relief Programmes” to cushion the effects of 2022 flood disaster that ravaged and submerged the entire Ibaji Local Government. Uchola, who was represented by Mr Orjih Mathias Mike, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of IUF, said the effects of the 2022 flood in Ibaji were devastating, saying Governments at all levels had not made any effort to help the citizens. “”In spite all efforts to showcase the prevalent effects of this natural disaster to the world, the Kogi State and Federal Governments have left the citizens of Ibaji to their fate. ”The IUF in her own wisdom and as part of its aims and objectives, cried out to the public for assistance and the result is what people are witnessing today,” Uchola said. The forum President appreciated the donors for having faith in IUF, and for committing their resources to the course of alleviating the suffering of Ibaji citizens. POLL He urged the beneficiaries to utilise the rice seeds for maximum yields for their own benefits, family, state and the country at large. Uchola commended the Planning Committee’s Chairman, Bar. Tony Ameh and the committee members for doing a very good job in sourcing for the funds. In his remarks, the Chairman, the Board of Trustees (BoT) of IUF, Mr. David Alelo Ameh, thanked the Almighty God, and the donors for having faith in IUF and for committing their resources to the program. Represented by Mr. Simon Achimugwu, a BoT member, Ameh noted that the IUF remained an apolitical group and as such whatever IUF was giving out should not be attributed to any political party. One of the beneficiaries from Onyedega ward, Mrs. Grace Ameh, a widow, who spoke on behalf of others, thanked the forum for its intervention to alleviate their suffering caused by the flood disaster. She noted that the 2022 flood had affected them so much that to even feed their families become a problem hence making them to be more vulnerable.