The Senator-elect from Plateau Central Senatorial District, Hon. Diket Plang, has received his Certificate of Return following his victory at the poll conducted in February 2023 and dedicated it to the leadership of the All Progressive Congress in his state as well as the party leader, Governor Simon Bako Lalong. It would be recalled that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Plang the winner of the senatorial election last Saturday, after nine weeks of suspense and some hitches in the election.  Speaking with newsmen shortly after he received his certificate of return, the Senator-elect expressed his determination to make the people of Plateau Central proud with quality representation. He thanked the people of the senatorial district for finding him worthy to serve, and promised to do all within his legislative representation to improve the well-being of the people, adding that he was not taking the opportunity for granted but thanked God for the victory delivered by the good people.  Plang said: “I dedicated this certificate to the humble leader in the state, Governor Simon Lalong, and the transparent leadership of the APC under the leadership of Hon. Rufus Bature for allowing somebody like me without any noticeable economic strength to win the primary and consequently the senatorial seat. “I am also dedicating the certificate to all APC members in the zone; they voted for me without any financial inducement.” I also thank the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the transparency, fairness, and high sense of sincerity exhibited during the election. “Even when the opposition didn’t want me to be there, the INEC stood its ground in ensuring that justice and fairness were brought to the fore to declare the rightful winner of the election.” “I want to assure the people of the Central Zone and my leaders that I remain loyal, committed, and resolute in ensuring that I don’t disappoint them.”  The senator-elect, who said everyone in the zone contributed to his success at the poll, enjoined his opponents to team up with him toward providing qualitative representation for the people. “To those that did not succeed, I believe there is still another opportunity; they should team up with me and give me their people-oriented vision so that together we can provide the best for our people.” When you fail, it is another opportunity to prepare to win. I pray that one day we will also celebrate them as well,” he prayed