LAGOS  – As technology has become an essential element for any business to remain competitive in today’s fast-paced environment with the growing complexity of technological solutions, Chief Executive Officers around the world are looking for Chief Information Officers (CIO) whose roles have become more crucial than ever. Crawford Del Prete, President of IDC, while speaking on the development recently, delves into the role of the CIO and their responsibilities, including the changing perspectives of businesses towards IT investments, measuring the ROI of IT investments, and demonstrating the value to stakeholders. Read below for a comprehensive discussion on the role of the CIO in the digital age. The IDC research suggests that 97% of CIOs are thinking about changing their IT strategy. “Over the past few years, we saw IT spending ramp up to about 11% growth, which is very strong compared to historical trends. It was in the 6-7% range the year before that. This year, it’ll be about 5%. So it went up, and it’s going back down, but it’s still at that 5% range. “This represents the pivot towards the pandemic and the move towards technologies like personal devices and collaborative software. “As companies like Amazon invested in logistics, Google invested in new services, and Apple invested in new media services, I believe we’ll see IT investment level off at 5%, which is still higher than a decade ago when it was in the 3% range. Every company needs to invest in technology to be competitive going forward, and I think that’s a long-term trend we’ll see for many years,” the report noted. Companies, according to the report, can measure the amount they’re spending on tech as a per cent of their revenue. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The benefit is creating new sources of growth or revenue for the company as a result of technology investments. For example, is the company able to invest in technology and close leads faster, penetrate new customer bases, or create new products/services? These are happening in every industry. POLL Some airlines in the US won’t let customers pay with a credit card on the flight as there is no system in-flight to capture the credit card number and expiration date, and then verify the transaction on the ground. But with new technology, airlines can accept payments in-flight and penetrate new customer bases.