Leaders of the Edo State Chapter of the Labour Party have described the purported suspension of the party’s National Chairman, Barr. Julius Abure as an action in futility, null and void and of no consequence. According to the Edo state party leaders, we are denouncing the purported suspension of the national chairman of our party, especially when we discovered that the action is being orchestrated by people unknown to the party structure and membership list. This is even as the Leadership of the Labour Party in Edo state have passed a Vote of Confidence on the National Chairman, Barr. Julius Abure and his Exco for taking the nation by storm in the just concluded general elections. Comrade Kelly Ogbaloi, the Edo state chairman of the Party, who stated this in a statement in Benin on Saturday said, “the names of those credited with the alleged suspension of the National Chairman are not known members of the Labour party in Esan East, Ward 4 as they claimed and there is no local government known as Esan East in Edo state which shows that they are fake and as such do not have the locus for such action. “The strange names of persons like Martin Osigbemhe, Lucky Shaibu, Iseh Zekeri, Omogbai Faruk, Abokhailu Aliu, Ayohkaire Lateef and Job Elamah as contained in their purported statement are unknown to the leadership and members of the party in the said area, thus their actions, in whatever form, are inconsequential, null and void and should be disregarded in its entirety by the general public. Comrade Ogbaloi also described the signatories in the purported suspension statement as “faceless gamblers with the sole intention of dragging the name of the party into the mud. “Members of the labour party are law abiding people who are working hard to build a new Nigeria of our dream, so, these faceless people just want to paint a different narrative which we are not ready to succumb to at this time.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “No faceless group of people would be allowed to start spreading false statement about our National Chairman after he has put in so much effort to build the Party, we would resist it with all our collective strengths. POLL “We want to emphasize that the fabricators of the alleged suspension are not card carrying members and are not known to the party both at the State, LGA, and ward levels. “We have checked the record of our members both at the State and LGA, those names are not in our register. If really, they are our members , why are they afraid to use their real names may be because they know the implication of their action. “We therefore called on the general Public to disregard the suspension statement which we have since discovered to be false, fabricatedand baseless. Meanwhile, the Leadership of Labour Party, in Edo state have passed a Vote of Confidence on the National Chairman, Barr. Julius Abure and his Exco for taking the nation by storm in the just concluded general elections. “We reaffirmed our confidence in your performance and assured you of our full support at all times”.