JOY ANIGBOGU Nigerians are looking forward to the inauguration of a new government on the 29th of May 2023, and ahead of that day a 13 man transition committee was put up by the President-elect Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Tinibu was the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the just concluded presidential election which a lot of people believe is the most controversial election in the history of Nigeria. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) which supervised the election was under fire after that election as a result of allegations of rigging, manipulations of election results, and disregard to the 2022 electoral act as well as the umpire’s election guidelines. A lot of Nigerians are of the opinion that if the president-elect has said that he would constitute a government of national unity and has also extended an olive branch to major contenders in that election where he sought healing for the country, he should have matched his words with action by ensuring that his transition committee has the desired spread and that no region should be left out. Recall that Tinubu had recently forwarded a 13-man list, in addition to the earlier lists to the outgoing Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha with exclusion of the South East. Expressing worry over the list, Atiku Abubakar the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 presidential election has tackled the President-elect for the exclusion of the Igbo nation in his 13 man Presidential Transition Committee. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The statement by the former Vice President generated a lot of backlash from some chieftains of the APC top among them the director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu. POLL While taking a swipe at the former Vice President, over his alleged attacks on Tinubu’s transition committee, Okechukwu noted that Atiku’s comment was a demonstration of crocodile tears, medicine after death and political hypocrisy. Okechukwu said Atiku’s attempt to play the advocate for Igbo interest amounted to shedding of crocodile tears, recalling how the former Vice President brazenly breached the zoning arrangement in PDP and the zoning convention of president from North to South and vice versa. He maintained that Atiku’s attempts to speak in favour of Ndigbo is a clear example of medicine after death, noting that Atiku’s betrayal of Ndigbo during the PDP Presidential primary election was the deepest and unkindest cut. “I make bold to state that the former Vice President had long lost the moral high ground to parade himself or even pontificate as a friend of Igbo. It’s sheer hypocrisy and cannot wipe out the injury inflicted on Igbo members of PDP by our dear brother-in-law. “One remembers with nostalgia the deep attachment of Ndigbo to PDP, even when His Excellency, Dr Alex Ekwueme, the party’s pioneer chairman was shoved aside at the Jos convention in 1999. “Even though I subscribe to inclusive politics, His Excellency, Atiku Abubukar had all it takes to have supported Peter Obi for the 2023 PDP’s presidential ticket during the party’s primary election. “But, here was a man who pulled out from PDP in 2014, defected to APC in protest against former President Goodluck Jonathan’s breach of South to North rotation convention of presidency, claiming that Governor Nyesom Wike’s ambition compelled him to recontest the PDP presidential primary. That is a no brainer,” he stated. He said he was angry with Atiku because nobody should fight any proxy war on behalf of Igbo, stressing that “Ndigbo are like the fabled Beetle, and nobody can kill the Beetle.” “We are the fabled Beetle, we are Zikists and patriots par excellence more than any other tribe. Atiku was in his statement shedding mere Crocodile tears. I stand to be contradicted; we invest wherever we live and we reside in all the nooks and crannies of our dear country. Our stance remains, let the Eagle perch as well as the Dove. “And, truly our concern is that no geopolitical zone is either developing or modernising at the required rate as our global peers are going,” Okechukwu submitted. He added: “Methinks that Atiku who publicly proclaimed naka sai naka and Namu! Namu! (Your own is your own to his northern brothers) is romancing Ndigbo for a possible run-off, in the assumption of the eventuality of cancellation of the poll. “As a believer in the politics of inclusion as the ligament for bonding in our dear nation, one will advise Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu not to resort to Tiwa! Tiwa! (My own is my own).” Again a chieftain of the APC, in Lagos State, Joe Igbokwe, has reacted to the exclusion of Igbos in the transition committee of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu. He expressed disbelief that Tinubu excluded Igbos from his transition committee and questioned the authenticity of the report claiming Igbos were excluded from the committee. In a Facebook post, Igbokwe wrote: “Please let someone help me to investigate this: can it be true that the Asiwaju Transition Committee was formed without any single Igbo on the list? I would not want to believe it is true. May it not be true,” Igbokwe noted. Meanwhile the APC national youth leader, Hon. Dayo Israel has commended the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu over the inclusion of more youths in the presidential transition committee. According to Dayo in a press statement on Monday, over 60 percent of the names of progressives who made the 13 member transition committee leadership submitted by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to the Presidential handing-over committee headed by the Secretary to the Federation Mr Boss Mustapha are youths who have proven track records in state and national assignments. Dayo expressed his appreciation to the President-elect and commended him for inculcating vibrant and resourceful youths into the Presidential Transition Committee (PCT). Dayo said that the inclusion of youths in the President Transition Committee is a reflection of Tinubu’s agenda of providing more opportunities for the youth in the development of Nigeria. He described the former Lagos State Governor as a visionary and passionate leader with foresight and impeccable track records of grooming talented young Nigerians, irrespective of religion, tribe, and ethnic affiliations. Dayo also used the opportunity to congratulate all those who made the list while urging progressives Nigerians to rally round them for the success of the task before them. Dayo also expressed optimism for a qualitative and top-notch handing-over of power ceremonies. He urged Nigerian youths to look forward to a prosperous nation under the leadership of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. In his opinion, Uhuegbu a lawyer and the Vice Presidential candidate of National Action Council (NAC) in 2019 general elections has said that it si too early to pick the President-elect on the issue of transition committee, stressing that transition is not appointment and that the constitution requires that every region should be represented in every government in Nigeria. He said, “We are talking about the presidential transition committee and not the appointment. The transition committee shouldn’t be a national issue. If somebody is setting up a transition committee and needed to pick one or two people that he wants to be in that committee. If he wishes that it is only his family members that would be in that committee, well I don’t see anything wrong with that. “When you popularise an issue it becomes a big issue and it would also generate an ethnic issue, when the administration has not started. Because of this singular thing people are now saying that the government is going to be sectional. “Remember that we have what is called federal character in Nigeria. Whether you like it or not there is no way you can constitute a government without all the regions of the country being included. It is not possible, so, they must be included in line with federal character as provided for in the constitution. “We should sit down and watch, after the inauguration, then appointments will start flying and if the body language of the President-elect becomes a reality, people will react. People will call to order and tell him that he is not doing it well. Again, as I said earlier there is constitutional provision for federal character, in as much as it may not be adhered to totally, it is a constitutional matter. “I will advise that we do not heat up the polity because hitting the polity at this stage is very premature. We have a lot of issues in Nigeria, even concerning the election. We need more reforms in the electoral process and so on. “If we want to move forward as a country these are some of the things that we must sit down and look at when a new government comes in place in the country. It is too early for us to start fighting one another at this stage.’