There are similarities in what is done on earth and in heaven. The difference between earth and heaven is that there are sinners on earth and no sinners in heaven. Those in heaven are with God and they are sinless. In heaven there are no work, no struggling and no stress. The lifestyle in heaven is the life Adam and Eve were living before they sinned. So whatever a person does so shall he or she reaps. Many people do not know or realize that people do not go to God. It is God that go to or visit people. God visited Adam and Eve walking in the garden in the cool of the day asked for their whereabouts. He also visited Moses through his angel Exodus 3 verse 2 “There the angel of the Lord appeared to him in flames of fire within a bush, Moses saw that through the bush was on fire it did not burn up.” God can visit people anywhere and anytime. How does God visit people? It is people that invite God into their lives. How does somebody invite God? It is when you fear God and persons he put in positions to be servants of God and does what He likes. Then God will be observing the person until He visits and put an end to his or her problem. At time God will send someone to visit a person and deliver His message to the person. Sometime ago the spirit of God directed me to visit and deliver a message to a lady that she will be pregnant that same month. In fact the lady was surprised to see me because earlier in the day she was in my house and I did not give her any message. Similarly, God can send your friend to you to assist you to solve the problem confronting you. So God visits people in different ways and He knows what to do when He visits. People that are troubled should not lose hope and think their problems are too delayed or prolonged because God may be washing and observing them. If God is observing, it is better to be patient, careful and gentle not to hastily complain of your delayed problem or think you are a child of God and suffering should not be your portion. What is expected of you is to pray fervently to God for his mercy and forgiveness of your sins because nobody is clean and holy before God. Then decide to exhibit the spirit of fear for God that is having reverence for God as Creator and Judge and be patient so that God’s fulfillment in your life can come to realty. . Brethren let God visit you so that your life can change for better. What is required is to fear God. If you do so, his prophets or servants will be messaging as if they are living in same house with God. He will reveal you to them all the time. It is not good enough if people do not have the fear of God. Fear God in the work of God you do, in the manner you conduct yourself in the house of God, fear and love Him with your entire hearth. If you fear God, you’ll become a great person. God visited Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego in a blazing furnace and became the fourth person inside the furnace. The three men were thrown into the furnace for refusing to serve King Nebuchadnezzar’s god made of gold. They took the decision because they feared God. In the manner God can visit anybody that does evil or bad thing and punish and judge him or her. Adam and Eve were visited and God cursed them for disobedience. At time God visits people to punish them for doing what is offensive in the presence of God. . There are great servants of God that cannot be slandered without being punished. They are to be honoured, respected and feared. Who those not to be feared? They are those that can only kill the body and nothing more e.g. armed robbers, hired assassins, witches and wizards. They only give you rest. The Bible says in Luke 12 verse 4 “ I tell you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who will the body and after that can do no more.” Then who are the people to be feared Luke 12 verse 5 “But I will show you whom you should fear. Fear him who, after the killing of the body, has power to throw you into hell. Yes I tell you fear him.” Who is the person? It is God. Brethren do not fear that you are hungry, suffering, sick or jobless. Definitely God will visit you, and you will not be forgotten provided the fear of God is in you and all you do.