Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzod­imma has assured the leadership Labour and Pensioners in Imo State that the State Government has started working out the modalities for the payment of gratuities and check-off dues of pensioners. He also assured them that he had directed the immediate release of promotions of the civil servants who were recent­ly evaluated for elevation after being stagnated for years. Governor Uzodimma spoke when the leadership of Nige­rian Labour Congress and Ni­gerian Union of Pensioners in Imo State paid a courtesy visit to him at the New Exco Chambers Government House on Tuesday, April 25, 2023. Addressing the two bod­ies, the Governor directed the Head of Service to commence the calculation of arrears of promotions for payment to Imo workers without delay. Also, he directed the Ac­countant General to start the payment of Check-off dues of pensioners, regretting that what had delayed the payment was because the activities of the pen­sioners have not been regular. On the commencement for payment of gratuity the Gov­ernor said “there will be new verifications to ascertain when last the gratuities were paid and who and who got what, after which government will com­mence the payment little by lit­tle because government doesn’t have the humongous resources to pay all at the same time.” He commended the Or­ganized Labour for standing their ground not to be used to fight the government and as such, “saved the government the problem of spending resources in the wrong direction.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Governor Uzodimma who acknowledged that the Civil Service is the brain box of the government said that “it will be better for the Unions to always work with the government to allow peace, progress and de­velopment of the workers and the Civil Service.” POLL He assured that the Govern­ment will always be friendly with the Unions. He reminded the Leadership of the Pensioners in particular that soon their members will be receiving a special notification indicating that they are still liv­ing as Pensioners and directed them to liaise with the Office of the Head of Service to fast track the process and come up with the modalities for the payment of the gratuity. The Governor reminded the leadership of Nigerian Union of Pensioners that those who are not receiving their pensions currently are “fraudulent sala­ry earners, victims of irregular salaries, those involved in pad­ded pensions, double salaries and workers with irregular employment history.” He however, said the only condition he could accept to pay them was the current econom­ic realities and hardships in the State and country at large even though the Office of the Head of Service has the right to work out measures that would deter repeat of such acts. He commended the patrio­tism of the Labour and Pension­ers’ leadership in the State that has given his government the needed peace to look into labour matters and come out with the best result. He reminded the audience that the government will soon focus on the Education sector now that records are available and also, that his administra­tion will soon “embark on the rehabilitation, recovery and re­construction of all the primary schools in Imo State and even employ young graduate teach­ers to make our schools what they ought to be.”