About two million vulnerable Nigerians have benefited from projects implemented under the Federal Government’s Na­tional Poverty Reduction with Growth Strategy (NPRGS) for the year 2022. Spokesman for the Vice President, Laolu Akande, said in a statement that this was contained in a progress report presented at the meeting of the NPRGS Steering Committee on Wednesday. Akande said the meeting, chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, also indicated that about 1.6 million smallholder farmers were impacted under the Agriculture for Jobs Plan. “Besides, 13,000 youths have been trained under a Techni­cal and Vocational Education and Training programme in six states comprising Lagos, Ogun, Enugu, Gombe, Kaduna and Nasarawa, while arrange­ments are underway to provide similar training for 2000 benefi­ciaries in Edo State. “Equally, more than 8,000 Nigerians were employed in rural roads construction under the Rural Roads programme which built 40 rural roads in 120 communities, covering about 57.3km across the coun­try.” Akande said that the NPRGS implementation mon­itoring update presented by the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, showed that “fol­lowing the release of N50 bil­lion, programmes that have achieved 100% completion include: Agriculture for Food and Jobs Plan (AFJP), and Construction of Rural Roads, among others. “A total number of direct beneficiaries of the imple­mented programmes currently stands at 1,818,782 vulnerable Nigerians and a total of 9,527 Nigerians have also been di­rectly employed through the implementation of the pro­grammes so far.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said the committee also approved the sum of N250 bil­lion for the execution of proj­ects for the year 2023. POLL According to him, projects scheduled for implementation under the NPRGS for the year include the provision of 100,000 homes for low-income earners which will create 1 million jobs directly and indirectly and the expansion of energy access by providing 1,200 solar street lights in rural communities and six mini-grids for high-ca­pacity productive farming under the Solar Naija Pro­gramme. Others are the creation of 4.5 million direct and indirect jobs through the rural roads programme which targets the connection of about 750 rural markets, provision of N9 billion support for over 1.6 million vulnerable small­holder farmers for the 2023 wet season farming under the Agriculture for Jobs Plan and the expansion of the National Social Register with additional 3 million households. Speaking to State House correspondents after the meet­ing, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State who is also the Co-Chair of the Technical Working Group for the Com­mittee, said though implemen­tation has not reached expected levels, efforts are underway to touch each of the targeted 15 areas of implementation. He said, “Today, we just came to review the implemen­tation and update on the spend­ing on the projects so far and approval for this year’s projects for the same scheme. “Based on what was received from the co-chair of the Tech­nical Working Group, over N50 billion have been spent so far. The performance so far hasn’t reached the level we expected. But nearly every aspect of the 15 areas targeted is being imple­mented in one way or the other.” Among members of the Steering Committee present were the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba; Minister of Ag­riculture and Rural Develop­ment, Mohammad Abubakar; Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire; and the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr. Chris Ngige, who joined the meeting virtually.