Erik ten Hag has said he doesn’t know how long he will be with­out Marcus Rashford after Man­chester United confirmed the forward would be unavailable for a few games. Rashford, who has scored 28 goals this season, will miss Thursday’s Europa League quar­terfinal first leg against Sevilla after suffering a groin injury during the 2-0 win over Everton on Saturday. The club said in a statement on Wednesday morning that Rashford would return “for the season run-in” and speaking at a news conference later in the day, Ten Hag said he could not be more specific about when the 25-year-old might be back. “A few games so that is the statement,” said Ten Hag, who added that Luke Shaw will also be absent against Sevilla. “I can’t give more details be­cause we don’t know we have to see how the injury develops.” United are entering a crucial stage of the campaign with four games in 11 days beginning with Sevilla’s visit to Old Trafford. Ten Hag’s team face Notting­ham Forest on Sunday and then the return leg with Sevilla in Spain before an FA Cup semifi­nal with Brighton at Wembley on April 23.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ A statement issued by Unit­ed on Wednesday morning read: “Marcus Rashford will be un­available for Thursday’s UEFA Europa League quarterfinal game against Sevilla because of a muscle injury. POLL “The forward was withdrawn in the 80th minute of Saturday’s 2-0 Premier League win over Everton at Old Trafford and im­mediately headed to the dressing room for treatment. “Subsequent assessment of the injury suggested that Mar­cus will be unavailable for a few games, but is expected to be back for the season run-in.” With Rashford sidelined, Ten Hag could have Anthony Martial his first start since Jan. 14. Mar­tial has missed 32 of 49 matches because of injury this season but has come on as a substitute in the last three. “I think he is ready to start a game but the front line against Brentford did really well and we decided to continue with that against Everton and they did again really well,” said Ten Hag. “The advantage is we can bring Anthony Martial slow back, give him minutes, get him used to high intensity, but against Everton he was ready to start again. “The stats tell you the mo­ment he is on the pitch the time he needs for a goal is really less and when he is in the team — I re­fer to games against Manchester City and Liverpool — we play our best football and have our best results as a team.”