ABUJA – An estate developer, Otunba Adebiyi Olafisoye and A & G Estate Development Company Ltd have been sued at the High Court of Federal Capital Territory over alleged breach of contractual agreement. They were dragged to court by subscribers of Nelson Mandela Gardens Estate project in Abuja. Another defendant in the suit marked CV/328/2022, filed by Mr Ibrahim Idris SAN, is the African University of Science and Technology (AUST) described as the original owner of the land, which it sub-leased to the property development firm and on which the estate is built. Listed as claimants are Mrs. A. N. Ijadunola, Alhaji Yusuf Yahaya, Mr. John Mshelia, Mr. Gabriel Afolabi, Mr. Akeem Atanda, Mr. Festus Ojekhephen and the Registered Trustees of Nelson Mandela Gardens Residents Association, Abuja. By the suit, the aggrieved subscribers are asking the court to compel Olafisoye and A & G Estate Development Company Ltd to pay the sum of N1.10billion in damages as a result of the alleged contract breach. The subscribers, who sued through six of their representatives, accused Olafisoye and A & G Estate Ltd of breaching the terms and conditions contained in the letters of offer issued to them. They want the court to among others, compel A & G Estate Ltd “to forthwith make available to the claimants, their various and respective duly executed deeds of sub-lease of the unexpired term granted to the 2nd defendant by the 3rd defendant in respect of Nelson Mandela Gardens Estate situate at Industrial Area II, Abuja.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ They are also seeking for an injunction restraining the property owner from changing the name of the estate to Steamwood Garden, and to desist from collecting any form of money from the claimants under the guise that it would be used for development purposes. POLL They are claiming N1billion in damages and N10m as cost of prosecuting the suit.They submitted that defendants have refused to keep their promise to provide necessary facilities in the estate, declined to execute deeds of sub-lease of the unexpired terms granted A & G Estate Ltd by African University of Science and Technology and had attempted to alter the name of the estate. The claimants, in their statement of claim, described Olafisoye, who they said, owns A & G Insurance Plc, as an individual with “an unimpressive and sordid track records in his business or commercial dealings”. They claimed to have subscribed to the estate project between 2013 and 2019, and that soon after they “entered into the contractual relationship with the 2nd defendant (A & G Estate Ltd), they realized that they had been sold a dummy by the defendants, as the defendants, in a most bizarre manner, kept frustrating the claimants.” They claimed to have complied with the terms and conditions contained in their various letters of offer by, amongst others, paying fully for the various allocated houses. The claimants stated that the 2nd defendant, in alleged connivance with the 1st defendant (Olafisoye), failed to abide by the terms and conditions contained in the said letters of Offer. In addition, they claimed that after receiving from them full payments in respect of the various allocated units of houses, the 2nd defendant unapologetically declined to provide any of the facilities or amenities it promised to provide in the estate. Among others, the claimants added that part of the effects of the alleged continuous and unjustified refusal of the 2nd defendant to provide essential social facilities it promised, has exposed their lives, those of their families and their properties to great risk and jeopardy. However, the defendants have denied the claimants’ claims, insisting that they did nothing wrong. In their joint statement of defence, Olafisoye and A & G Estate Ltd claimed to have provided a number of facilities but that their plan to do more was hampered by the alleged inability of some of the subscribers to fully pay for their houses. AUST in its statement of defence stated that it was not privy to the contractual agreement between the claimants and the 2nd defendant. It blamed the subscribers for not exercising due diligence before subscribing to the project. The 3rd defendant also queried the competence of the suit, arguing among others that it amounted to an abuse of court process and that it was caught by statute of limitation.Meanwhile, Justice Modupe Osho- Adebiyi has fixed April 26 for hearing into the suit.