ABUJA  – In what might pass for a direct mockery of the opposition, President Muhammadu Buhari said while the All Progressives Congress (APC) was busy work­ing hard to retain power in the recent elections, the combined opposition fell victim of overcon­fidence, a development that may have culminated in their loss. He made the remarks at his residence in the State House while playing host to the Pro­gressive Governors’ Forum led by their Chairman, Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State. According to the president: “They were already telling their foreign backers that they would defeat the APC. Our party blend­ed confidence with caution, we worked hard and won. Now, their overconfidence is creating more problems for the oppo­sition than anyone else. They are finding it hard to convince those who supported them from outside why they are unable to beat us.” He said their loss was a com­bination of overconfidence, com­placency and bad tactical moves, noting that it was plain and clear. “This has created more prob­lems in their camp. Why did they fail to remove us?” Buhari que­ried. Speaking in response to an is­sue raised by Governor Bagudu, the leader of the Forum, Presi­dent Buhari said “an important reason I congratulate Asiwaju on winning is because the op­position got support and false hope from outside and went on to create the impression that they will win, that they will de­feat us. How more wrong could anyone be?” The president charged the Progressive Governors to stick together and openly address is­sues among themselves.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Try and keep solving prob­lems. Be courageous to discuss them openly between your­selves. This is the best way to sur­vive politically in Nigeria,” said the president, urging that “you (governors) have a programme to meet regularly and to discuss issues and how to maintain the party nationwide.” POLL He also spoke at length about his retirement proposal, saying that he intended to be at home in Daura for six months before moving eventually to Kaduna. He lauded Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State for the infrastructure he has provided that would make life for his re­tirement and that of the people of the state much better, adding that the governor of Kano had equally done the same. The Chairman, Atiku Bagu­du, said the visit was ostensibly to say “Happy Sallah” to the pres­ident and to thank him for the leadership he had given to the party and the nation. This being their first visit since the elections, they congrat­ulated the president on the par­ty’s victory in the presidential polls, saying, “Congratulations, your party won the presidency, a majority in the Senate and for being the leading party in the House of Representatives. These successes would not have happened without your support. “History will remember you kindly. Around the world, the election is being celebrated be­cause of the turbulence in the re­gion and in the developing world, all courtesy of your leadership. We won by sheer hard work, the same thing you have always en­couraged us to do. We thank you immensely for everything,” he added. The governors in attendance in addition to Kebbi were from Plateau, Imo, Kwara, Ekiti, Ka­duna, Kogi, Lagos, Cross Riv­ers, Jigawa, Katsina, Ogun and Nasarawa states. The deputy governors of Kano, Gombe, Borno and Ebo­nyi were in attendance, as well as the Secretary to the Govern­ment of the Federation, Boss Mustapha.