Brethren, male and female are born and they are still male and female respectively. Adam and Eve were created by God and were male and female respectively. They made God to be angry and since then, they did not change; hence human beings have not changed. What was commanded for human being not to eat, drink, do and where not to go are what we are doing. Who is the honest person? You that called a person a liar, are you not telling lies? Who is the person that has changed from his or her sins? It is only God that changes. If you do something while suffering, He would turn to you for good. If He likes, send down train, change to sun or cold weather or make the soil to rise. God does whatever He likes because He is an unquestionable God. God can change person’s life if he or she behave in an insane manner or make the person to be poor. Some people always say God does not do evil. Truly He does not do evil but owns good and evil because the Bible says in the book of Isaiah 45 : 7 ” I form the light and create darkness, I bring prosperity and disaster, I, the Lord, do all these things” . Also, God said in the book of Exodus 4 : 11 “…who gave man his mouth? Who makes him deaf or mute? Who gives him sight or makes him blind? Is not I the Lord? Furthermore He said whatever He straightens, nobody can bend it and whatever He bends nobody can straighten it. Therefore, the implication is that, as for the lunatic and poor persons, God is aware of their problems. He said his hands are not too heavy to save you. The establishment of darkness and light by God and dwelling in them confirms the supreme power of God. Imagine Job, Satan did have power over him. He was to afflicted by Satan but the latter had no power to kill him. God’s protection was on Job and his family because he was blameless, upright, feared God and shunned anything evil ( Job 1 verse 1-3 ). God wanted to tempt Job, not Satan and subsequently told Satan how Job had been upright and good. Then Satan replied that Job’s goodness was due to God’s protection over him. Satan sought for permission to strike him whether he would not curse God to His face ( Job 1 verse 6 – 11).. It means that God deliberately removed His protection over the person suffering or sick. Also if you are upright before God, He would protect you and your possession. Satan was invariably telling God that He did not allow him to touch Job. Therefore, anybody with God’s protection, Satan cannot touch the person. So it is God that changes, man does not change. I pray that God will protect us in the name of Jesus. God wanted to change from His position and allow Satan to touch and strike Job but did not give him his soul. Consequently, Satan inflicted suffering and pains on Job and his family. In fact, Satan started with the livestock and later the children because Satan knew they had sinned to God through their misconduct ( Job 1 verse 18-19 ); the sin of Job’s children became the accusation against Job. So a person must s in before he or she could fall. If the father or mother sins, the child or children might suffer the sins they did not commit. Imagine God had not changed from Job whom He was initially proud of and showered encomium on him. God could not fight on behalf of Job at that moment. Therefore, God always change and He does not stay in a place does stay in a place. If a person start doing well. God would turn to you in good manner and show you mercy. All He created change. In the morning time, there would be light and darkness in the night. A child that was born, in two years he or she would be walking and as he or she is growing the physical body too is changing. Everyday God changes and He is changing the world the creatures are changed. If people could changed from their sinful ways then their ways could be changed too. Byt people do not change from their sinful ways, we always maintain status quo. We are drinking and eating in sin. We are not charlant about God. Many people are serving human beings, they do not know they not serving God. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Despite the teaching , sermon of prophets or anointed men of God to people to change from their sinful ways, they refuse to heed the word of God. I could recall some years that I warned that people should not fight especially members of my ministry. POLL A woman disobeyed the warning of God and was hit on the head with a club and died immediately. In fact the Bible has spelt out the consequences of obedience and disobedience in Deuteronomy 23 verse 1-68. Many people are not mingful of these consequences. Ensure you maintain a godly position and do not think God is not seeing you. I laugh at people that think God is not seeing them because God is seeing everybody. How do I know God sees us? I hear voices from afar and would tell me to do this or that or tell the person sitting before me to do something. If God want to give vision, I would be seeing it like am watching a TV programme.