LAGOS  – Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation has been told not to dabble into economic development for the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), especially the aerotropolis project. Comrade Olayinka Abioye, the immediate past General Secretary of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), in an open letter to Sirika, said that the ACT setting up FAAN doesn’t not give the minister the power to determine how the agency’s economic power could be enhanced, stressing that this function decided by its directorates. Aboye said that though, aerotropolis concept was good, but regretted that the minister had bundled the scheme since he came onboard. He said: “If you mean well for us, and you are aware of the contents and spirits of the Act establishing FAAN for instance, it is not within the purview of the Honorable Minister to dabble into how economic development of FAAN can be enhanced, but FAAN, which has a fully functional directorate peopled with knowledgeable personnel to handle such economic drives such as aerotropolis, which our unions have clamoured for before you became the minister. “Aerotropolis is a great project and policy to be driven not by the ministry/minister, but by FAAN, whose duties would have to include determining areas and locations where they find suitable to house structures that shall be accommodated for the aerotropolis project. Abioye insisted that what the aviation stakeholders in Nigeria required was a conducive environment where airlines could do business successfully, functionally and seamlessly without any encumbrances. He regretted that Sirika had failed to provide this to the stakeholders in almost eight years as the minister in the sector. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to Abioye, Sirika failed in many fronts, not because he didn’t try, but because he refused to listen to advises of proven stakeholders and professionals in the sector. POLL For instance, the former union leader agreed that Nigeria required a national carrier, but lamented that the entire exercise was poorly managed by the government, a situation, which prompted the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) to challenge its processes in the court of law.