LAGOS – Football remains, unargu­ably, the most popular sport in Nigeria and this explains why its fan base is the high­est in the country. Attempt by other sports such as athletics, basketball, table tennis, to kick football out of the pinnacle of Nigerian football has remained futile. This is why Chief Segun Odeg­bami, who needs no introduction in Nigerian football, reminded Nigeri­ans the state of the country’s foot­ball in the 70s & 80s when he was an active participant, “Time was when football in Nigeria was top of the list of social engagements at weekends, when men and boys would throng football grounds to watch rival teams trade tackles; when football grounds were the Mecca of spiritual contests between hired marabouts, prophets and traditionalists engaged by clubs to compete for divine favour to de­termine the team that would win a football match; when grounds were filled to the brim with spectators singing and dancing to the drum beats of their vociferous supporters who would stop at nothing to ensure that their team won home matches, but accepted defeat when they lost.” But these cannot be said of Nige­rian football. Nigerian football is liv­ing on past glory. If there is anything that crashed Nigerian football from the pinnacle it once occupied, it is organization deficiency. This problem that reared its ugly head in the early 90s has become a feature of the sport till date. And this problem is responsible for the many crises that the football league, nay Nigerian Football, has had to con­tend with for decades. The league has no calendar. The lack of calendar means the league’s kick off date is unknown and spon­sors develops cold feet, as they would not invest in a football league whose calendar is unknown. The management deficiency syndrome is also, albeit indirectly, responsible for hooliganism becom­ing a regular feature of the league every season. Referees, away teams officials and players have been vic­tim of angry home fans with some killed, some maimed, while some sustain life threatening injuries. The League Management Com­pany, the immediate past body re­sponsible for the management of the league, did nothing to stop this ugly trend. Punishment met to erring home clubs could best be described as back slapping rather than means of putting an end to this ugly trend. LMC can only bark, but refuses to bite. The fines and banishment to play home games away did nothing to dissuade home fans from descend­ing on away teams.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The unwritten rule is that home teams must win their home games. With home fans made to believe that home games are a must win, resort­ing to hooliganism has become the only means of vetting their anger be­cause an away team refused to lose. POLL But the coming of a new manage­ment committee, the Interim Man­agement Committee (IMC), headed by Hon. Gbenga Elegbeleye, has changed the narrative. The IMC has taken the bull by the horn by taken some hard decisions that erstwhile board was afraid to take. The IMC is threading on a path that the former board feared to step on. Referees can now referee matches without fear or favour of being at­tacked by home fans; there is sanity in the league; away wins have be­come the order of the day. Clubs who ran foul of the rules and regulations governing the NPFL will have themselves to blame. Wikki Tourist, Remo Stars and Niger Tor­nadoes have been made to pay for the ‘sins’ of their fans. A member of the IM, who plead­ed anonymity, said, “When we came on board we included in the frame­work for the league three points and three goals deduction as panacea for hooliganism. We send the hard copy of the rules to the clubs, so no club can feign ignorance. Before refer­ees, players are threatened at will, matches not holding, but today the situation has changed. Referees can now referee without fear or favour, there is sanity in the league, away wins are recorded every week.” Earlier in the month, Remo Stars suffered three points and three goals deduction over the assault on referee Ndubuisi Ukah. The match, which was disrupted, was concluded the following day. In the letter signed by Davidson Owumi, the Head of Oper­ations (IMC), Remo was found guilty of breaching Rules B8.21, B13.21, C11 and B13.52. For breach of Rule B8.21, which is failure to adequately secure match Officials before, during and after the match leading to the assault on one of them, the club was fined ₦500,000 and also directed to pay ₦250,000 to the said official, Ukah Ndubuisi as compensation. For breach of Rules C.11, three points and three goals was ordered to be deducted from the total points and goals accrued to the club for the assault on the match official, while Mr. Ekene Adams identified as the attacker has been banned from all NPFL activities for the rest of the season. Remo Stars is also to ensure dili­gent prosecution in the law court, of Mr. Adams who is the Club’s General Manager. The Club was also found to have breached Rule B13.21 for distur­bances and disruptions, which led to the discontinuation of a league match. The club was fined ₦500,000. The Ikenne based club was also found in breach of Rule B13.52 in that it failed to ensure the restriction of access by unauthorized persons to all restricted areas, which resulted in the assault of a match official. For Wikki Tourists, the IMC deducted three points and three goals alongside N2.5 million fine for various infractions. As part of the punishment, the club will play its re­maining home games in the season behind closed doors to its fans. In a bid to tell other clubs that it can bite and also bite, Owumi in a statement last week assured all the clubs and stakeholders of fair, trans­parent and balanced decisions on all issues requiring the intervention of the league body. Owumi stated that IMC decisions would not favour any club including those of Board members and cited an earlier sanction on Niger Torna­does, whose Chairman, Hon Adamu Aliyu Mohammed is on the board of the IMC. According to him, IMC interven­tions through the instrument of reliefs to clubs based on findings supported by the rules. “Our rulings are blind to who or what clubs are involved as we only adhere strictly to the dictates of the Framework and Rules. In a Match­Day 6 ruling, we fined Niger Torna­does, who has their Chairman as our Board member. The rule was not bent to favour him,” Owumi noted. “The IMC is going especially in the area of stamping out intimida­tion of our referees. It was a solemn pledge made by our Chairman, Hon Gbenga Elegbeleye at the start of the season,” Owumi continued. “It is a difficult decision we must uphold to restore integrity of match outcomes and reduce to the barest minimum, the dangerous attacks on Match Officials to avoid possible fatal­ity at NPFL matches,” he concluded Sources revealed that the suc­cess achieved by IMC was because of the support of Nigeria Football Federation President, Alhaji Ibra­him Gusau. Without the support of the Sports Minister, Sunday Dare and Gusau, IMC could not have achieved any­thing. “It was Gusau who insisted that the League must start last December, it was also Gusau who insisted that deduction of three points and three points must be included in their framework,” the source revealed. However, there is consensus among stakeholders that the intro­duction of three points and three goals was the panacea for the fight against hooliganism in the league. “That was the best decision ever taking by the IMC,” said Godwin Enakhena, a former club manage­ment in the league. “The clubs are fighting for three points and when you take away the three points, what are you fighting for,” asked Enakhena rhetorically. He added that playing behind closed door, heavy fines were some of the measures put in place in the fight against this monster that for­mer board of the NFF and LMC were not ready to confront. In IMC bid to sanitize the league, referees were also not left out. Any referee that misbehaves will have his or her name deleted for the season. But this will be after the referee must have faced a panel and found guilty. “Any referee that is found want­ing will have his name deleted for the season,” added Enakhena. The referees were paid their al­lowances directly. They were not owed by the IMC. Barrister Chris Green, Rivers State Sports Commissioner and Chairman, Rivers United FC, also support the implementation of the three points and three goals deduc­tion provided it is in their rulebook. “ Anything in their rule book must be implemented,” he said. “I only believe that application must be done by looking at the facts and sure of the punishment.” According to Green, Hooliganism is bad and the league management is doing anything to bring sanity. “Three goals and three points are enough to deter because if a club suf­fers two or three points deductions, surely the club will be relegated. The idea is not to kill clubs. There are many ways to kill a rat,” he added. Tade Azeez, Referees Committee Chairman, is another person who argues in favour of the decision to introduce reduction of three points and three goals. “In order climes, it’s automatic rel­egation,” he said, adding, “It’s a good thing. Over the years several we’ve applied several measures that did not work. It’s a good development. “At least there is sanity in the league today. It has gone a long way in sanitizing the league because no­body wants to lose three points and three goals. It is good for the league.” Azeez added that should this mea­sure fail to stem this ugly trend then recourse to automatic relegation was the only option for the country.