ABUJA – A leading contender for the position of Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara, representing Biu/Bayo/Shani/Kwaya Kusar Federal Constituency of Borno state, has commiserated with the people and Government of Taraba state over the loss of one of its members-elect, Hon. Ismaila Yushau Maihanchi. Hon. Maihanchi who was elected to represent Jalingo, Yorro, Zing Federal Constituency of the state in the just concluded general election, died in the early hours of Saturday in Abuja following a brief illness. Hon. Betara who is the incumbent Chairman, House Committee on Appropriations in a statement issued by his media campaign team expressed grief over the ugly incident. He described the late member-elect as “a brother and friend,” just as he prayed for the repose of his soul and that Allah will grant his family and Government of Taraba state the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. “Inna Lillahi Wa Inna Ilaihi Rajiun (from Allah we came, and to Him is our return).It is with heavy heart that I received the news about the passing away of my brother and Member-elect, Hon.Ismaila Yushau Maihanchi this morning. “I was with him shortly before I departed to Saudi Arabia for the Lesser Hajj. “Hon Ismai’l Maihanshi, Member-Elect from Taraba was one of the front soldiers of One NATION, Forward-Together.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The news of his death came as a huge shock to me, knowing full well the depth of his knowledge and vision for a prosperous Nigeria, which we collectively share. POLL “Hon. Ismai’l Maihanchi will sorely be missed by all of us. “My condolences to the Government and people of Taraba State, as well as his immediate Family. “May Almighty Allah forgive his sins and grant the departed soul Jannatul-Firdaus, Amin.” The member-elect who contested the National Assembly election on the platform of the PDP, defeated his opponents from the All Progressives Congress, APC, the New Nigerian Peoples Party, NNPP and the Social Democratic Party, SDP, by a landslide.