In Kaduna State, old students of the Federal Government College, Kaduna, a unity college, are currently not happy over an alleged excision of a chunk of land belonging to the college. The excision, they claimed, was too close for comfort, APATA OYENIRAN writes. “ As former students of Federal Government College (FGC), Kaduna, Malali village, we are very concerned at the chicanery going on, emboldening a concern for good education yet behind the scenes, the senile acts of the actors who are celebrated leaders leave bile in the mouth. “This school made all of us who we are today. Of recent, we have rallied ourselves to give back immensely to our alma mater. The Kaduna State government is aware that we have an endowment on infrastructure that runs into billions. We are working on making F.G.C. Kaduna a centre of information technology with the hosting of a SISCO training lab with certification for all graduates of the institution, and a telecoms repair lab, among other plans to turn our students into global brands. The alumni associations of this school are leaders of thought whose concerns for what is going on now are very altruistic. “It has angered us and we are going to fight this to the last until all lands belonging to our school are returned! Our meeting … is to expose all these shenanigans by the Kaduna State government in the illegal excision of the lands of our school. “Their attempt to get the Minister’s ‘No Objection’ to the Excision of 45 meters of land was rebuffed by the FME in 2015. Their sudden forceful takeover in 2023 shows a high level of dishonesty. We have been reliably informed that the lands have been distributed amongst very top bigwigs of the present Kaduna State government and friends of the State Governor. “On behalf of the Old Students Association of the Federal Government College Kaduna, we say, this will NEVER be allowed to go, not on our watch!‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Above is the resolution of the old students of FGC, Kaduna as they expressed determination to explore all legal measures to reclaim lands allegedly under arrangements by the Kaduna State government for distribution among top bigwigs of the present administration in the state. POLL President of the association, Seyi Gambo, who addressed a press conference in Lagos, said the planned excision of part of the land started as far back as 2015 but was rejected by the college and appealed to all well-meaning Nigerians not to give in to threat that posed threat to the existence of the college. He recalled that on February 12, 2015, a letter was dispatched from the Office of the Director of Basic and Secondary Education Department, Federal Ministry of Education to the Kaduna State Ministry of Lands, Surveys and Country Planning. Gambo said since the proposal was rejected at the time, the old students thought there was a respite from the Kaduna State government’s effort to excise part of the school’s land, “but this was not to last.” According to Gambo, on April 17, the state government through its Ministry of Urban Planning and Development (KASUPDA) wrote a letter to the principal about the “Excision of Un-Utilised Land along the Stretch of River Kaduna for Security Reasons.” “The members of the alumni association of this school are leaders of thought who are concerned about what is going on now. It has angered us and we are going to fight this to the last until all lands belonging to our school are returned,” Gambo stated. “Bulldozers were hurriedly moved to the site, plan to build private homes have begun withdrawing of allotted plots and work is presently going on at that site 24-hours/7 days a week,” Gambo added. The old students described the action of the Kaduna State government as “… Only distasteful and outright wickedness on the part of leaders but it is an agenda to obliterate the memories of the founding fathers of this country and the only institution which is one of the last bastions of molding Nigerians devoid of the things responsible for our arrested development as a nation.”