AUSTIN OBOH The festering discord in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) appears to have reached the stage of suppuration this week with the ultimatum given the National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, by National Vice Chairman (North West), Salihu Lukman, who wants Adamu to convene a meeting of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) to consider burning issues that must not delay ahead of the May 29 inauguration of a new government. Lukman has previously taken on the party chairman over issues bordering on financial management as well as leadership positions. The current ultimatum would seem to have put Adamu on the spot at the time the party is busy with a national transition programme. It would be a surprise if Adamu survives the present opposition against him after the lull that followed his recent rumoured resignation. Recall that Adamu was given a seven-day ultimatum on Wednesday to convene a meeting of the party’s National Ex¬ecutive Committee (NEC) as well as other organs. Lukman, a member of the NWC, gave the ultimatum in an open letter to the party’s chairman in which he warned that he would not hesitate to consider legal action to compel Adamu to obey the constitution of the APC. ¬He noted that he considered the choice of open letter since previous communications directed to the APC leader this month and earlier were not acknowledged. Citing various provisions of the APC constitution, Lukman noted, among other things, that the party’s NWC was expected to articulate and present reports of its activities in the last one year, present its financial report for ratification by NEC, as well as prepare a national budget for the coun¬try for the May 29 to December 31 period, among other crucial decisions. He said the party was equally expected to set up a committee to review its perfor¬mance in the last general elections and take de¬cisive steps to sanction those who worked against the party. Lukman maintained that these critical activities could not take place unless the meeting of the NEC was held in keeping with constitution of the party. Call For Constitutional Order ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The open letter entitled, ‘Re¬storing Constitutional Order in APC’, stated that the party, in line with its constitution, was expected to submit a propos¬al for the zoning of National Assembly leadership positions in the shortest possible time. POLL Lukman also urged the Na¬tional Secretary of the APC, Sen. Iyiola Omisore, to resign his position because of “the shameful outcome of the Osun 2022 governorship election and the embarrassing outcome of the 2023 general elections in Osun State whereby we lost all the three senatorial seats, all the House of Representatives seats, and all the House of As¬sembly seats in the state”. According to him, “The National Secretary, Sen. Iyiola Omisore, who is the most se¬nior party leader in the state should immediately resign. In addition, the NWC should recommend to NEC that a high-powered reconciliation committee should be setup to facilitate reconciliation of all party leaders in Osun State.” He continued: “In order to demonstrate commitment that we are go¬ing to restore constitutional order in the party, actions should commence on all these and NWC should meet within the next two weeks from today, Wednesday, April 5, 2023 to re¬view progress. “Today, being April 19, 2023, makes it two weeks since the demands were presented. There was neither acknowl¬edgement nor indication that any of the demands are be¬ing considered. Although the NWC met on Monday, April 17, 2023, deliberation of the NWC was limited to ratifying our governorship candidates for Kogi, Bayelsa and Imo states for onward transmission to INEC. “The only conclusion I can reach is that the demands I presented to you are not important. Perhaps, by ex¬tension, I can also conclude that given your disposition to run affairs of the party only based on your discretionary decisions without reference to provisions of the APC con-stitution, your commitment to the party and its electoral viability is weak. “Being the national chair¬man who is respected by party leaders at all levels, it is worrisome that under your leadership, we will be back to the old problems of being un¬able to respect provisions of our constitution with respect to convening meetings of or¬gans and ensuring that all our organs are allowed to perform their statutory functions as provided in our constitutions. “It is more worrisome giv¬en that you are a lawyer by training, a very experienced politician who had the rare privilege of being a two term governor as well as someone who has been operating at the highest level of national poli¬tics since the Second Republic. By any standard, no one will expect a person of your stat¬ure and experience in politics to be taciturn when it comes to managing affairs of the party based on respect for the party’s constitution.” He added: “To say the least, as a member of the NWC, I am scandalised and embarrassed that after one year in office we are yet to have a regular NEC, National Caucus or National Advisory Council (NAC) meet-ings. All the functions of these organs and the decisions ex¬pected from them by the con¬stitution are being taken by you, perhaps in consultation with the national secretary. When it suits you, the NWC is invited to ratify or approve some of your actions and de¬cisions. “As a member of NWC, we have never had any session where we were invited to con¬sider any report of activity in the last one year. Yet, Article 13.4(ii) of our constitution re¬quires that the NWC submits quarterly reports to NEC. “We have never deliberated on any financial report even when Article 13.4(iv) requires that we present quarterly fi¬nancial reports to NEC. We have never deliberated on a national budget although Ar¬ticle 13.3A (xiv) requires that we present one to NEC and get approval”. Lukman warned that with the leadership style of the APC national chairman, and pos¬sible vacuum it leaves in the transition period, the party leadership may end up stress¬ing the relationship between the outgoing and incoming administration. “As things are, if allowed to continue, under your lead¬ers as the national chairman of the party, we are unfortu¬nately setting the stage for destroying the relationship that exists between outgo¬ing President Buhari and incoming President Asiwa¬ju Tinubu. Anyone who is working to destroy a political relationship that inspired the successful achievement of the first political merger negoti¬ation in the political history of Nigeria, which led to the first defeat of a ruling party for Nigeria, don’t mean well for Nigerian democracy. “I make this an open letter because it is about campaign¬ing to return the APC to its foundation, which requires that we mobilise all like-mind¬ed party leaders and members in this crusade to restore con¬stitutional order in the APC. “As a person, I have con¬cluded that everything must be done to compel you to re¬spect the constitution of our party and manage its affairs based on the requirements of our constitution and not your personal discretion. “Therefore, by this open letter, I am serving you notice of one week from today, being Wednesday, April 19, 2023, to take all the appropriate steps required to convene a NEC meeting before May 29, 2023 wherein all the issues border¬ing on the management of smooth transition between the outgoing government of President Buhari and the in¬coming government of Pres¬ident Asiwaju Tinubu can be considered. “If by the end of this one-week notice, no action is taken to convene a NEC meeting as the first step to restore consti¬tutional order in APC, I will not hesitate to take further ac¬tions, including approaching our courts to enforce compli¬ance with the provisions of our party’s constitution under your leadership.” No Crack In APC However, the National Vice Chairman (South-West) of the party, Isaac Kekemeke, said the position of Lukman did not indicate any form of crack in the party’s NWC. He also dismissed insinuations that the party was planning to remove the national chairman based on Lukman’s observations. He said: “Let me say that Lukman is my very good friend, and he has contributed seriously to the growth of this party as a progressive institution. I also respect him as an activist politician and a defender of what he believes in. I do not agree that our internal challenges cannot be resolved internally. “There is no crack in the NWC. The committee is composed of knowledgeable people, and we may not be thinking the same way. We are not supposed to be unanimous in our perspective in the way you imagine. “Those who created the body did so with the aim to bring together people who will disagree to agree. It is normal for people to think differently just like Lukman did, but by the time we will meet, the majority will have their way.” On the zoning of principal offices of the National Assembly, Kekemeke said: “The zoning of the National Assembly offices is something very technical and we need to pay attention to it because there are many critical stakeholders. We have the president-elect and vice president-elect, who are going to work with the lawmakers. We also have the National Assembly members themselves and we have the Progressives governors. The zoning of the principal officers of the National Assembly is not what the NWC alone can do or should do or will be allowed to do. I am aware that some background consultations are ongoing and in due course, a meeting will be called to address this.” Last month, there was conflict in the party over alleged mismanagement of campaign funds meant to prosecute last year’s governorship election in Osun State. In the Osun governorship poll held on July 16, 2022, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Ademola Adeleke, defeated the APC candidate and incumbent governor, Gboyega Oyetola, to become the governor of the state. The allegation of misappropriation of campaign funds created a schism among members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC), with the national secretary, Omisore, threatening legal action against Lukman. Lukman had drawn the battle line when he accused Omisore of mismanaging the party’s campaign funds meant for Osun State. Speaking during a programme on African Independent Television (AIT), Lukman had said: “I’m aware the party has given some campaign funds to Osun which was handled by the national secretary and, to some extent, he has either mismanaged it but, more importantly, he’s not accounting to anybody and you have to activate the process of accountability.” He had added: “And for me, I think as part of the process of accountability in order to stabilise Osun, I think the national secretary should also vacate his seat.” Omisore’s Legal Response Irked by the allegation coming from his fellow NWC member, Omisore demanded the payment of N500 million from the national vice chairman for alleged libel. He noted that the allegation was a political ploy by Lukman to impugn his reputation and integrity, as well as “unjustifiably and unwarrantedly assassinate his character in the eyes of right-thinking members of the public”. In a letter addressed to Lukman by his lawyers, and signed by Gboyega Oyewole (SAN), the national secretary said the allegation of mismanagement of campaign funds was false and targeted at maligning his character. The letter dated March 15, 2023 read: “We are Solicitors to Senator lyiola Omisore, a two-term Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, a former Deputy Governor of Osun State and the current National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress on whose instruction we write in relation to the above subject. “Our instruction is that during an interview on Africa Independent Television (AlT) on the 14th of March, 2023 which was published in several online news blog, social media platforms, television stations and news media outlets including on the 15th of March, 2023 by Amiladenews.com, an online news blogs, you made a libelous and defamatory statement of and concerning our client. “Our client has informed us that your statement is not only false, misleading and without any factual basis but malicious in all material respect. It is by the reckoning of our client, a deliberate attempt sponsored and/or designed to malign his image and his political stature as a leader of note in Osun State, the South-West geopolitical zone and Nigeria as a whole. “It is clear beyond doubt that your statement and publication was a political ploy with the intent to impugn the reputation and integrity of our client and unjustifiably and unwarrantedly assassinate his character in the eyes of right-thinking members of the public. “Our client has consequently directed us to request for a retraction of your libelous statement and publication and an apology to be published in two (2) major newspapers and several online news outlets not later than forty-eight (48) hours of the delivery of this letter and also the payment of the sum (Five Hundred Million Naira only) as damages for malicious statement against our client. “TAKE NOTICE that if you fail to heed the request of our Client within forty-eight (48) hours of the receipt of this letter, we shall be constrained to proceed to the court of law against you for exemplary damages for injurious falsehood and malicious statement made of and concerning our client.” But in a swift reaction, Lukman accused Omisore of trying to bully him, saying he would respond to the national secretary’s claims of libel appropriately. “My immediate reaction is that this is an attempt to bully me but I will respond to him properly,” he said. The Urgency Of Reactivating Party Organs In the said interview on television, Lukman said there was need for the APC to reactivate all of its organs, just as he regretted that after a year, the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led NWC had refused to convene the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting despite the party’s constitution that provides that NEC must meet every quarter. In the previous week, Salihu had called for the resignation of the party’s national chairman, Abdullahi Adami, and the national secretary, Omisore, saying the demand for their sack was not a witch-hunt but part of the sacrifice the governing party must make to douse tension in the country. While noting that Adamu’s resignation would pave the way for a Christian chairman from the North West to assume leadership of the party, Lukman stated that the same scenario was partly what created the rift between the PDP and the G-5 governors. He said the whole objective of the change was to begin to douse tension, but more importantly to get the party and the moral authority to try the process of negotiation in constituting the leadership of the next government. Lukman, who was once director general of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), pointed out that what was witnessed as support for the Labour party and PDP in the February 25 elections was a protest against the APC. He stated: “What you see as the support for Labour Party and even the support for PDP, I can prove it is a protest vote against the APC. No more no less. “And what we should continue asking ourselves constantly, what it is that we have done that is producing this protest vote? And we need to respond to it in a way that really give confidence to Nigerians that we are truly that party of change, which Nigerians have confidence in in 2015 and 2019, and will continue to have confidence in now 23 and beyond. I think that is the challenge before all of us.” Lukman’s expressed desire for the democratisation of the ruling APC is a necessity that would very likely accord with the interest of a large part of the party’s membership – and this is enough hint that Adamu is in for a long drill from party faithful who are opposed to the chairman’s evident disinterest in the entrenchment of internal democracy in the party. The stakes are not too high for aspiring office holders who are waiting in the wings to replace the present leadership, in the event that party upstarts are indeed able to have their way.