LAGOS – Flight services were on Thurs­day morning disrupted fol­lowing the crisis between the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and some oil marketers over new apron pass charges and expiration. While the oil marketers claimed that FAAN increased the apron pass fee from N150,000 to N500,000 per annum without prior notices, the agen­cy claimed it only added the sum of N50,000 to the former price and with adequate infor­mation to the oil marketers. However, the crisis between the two have affected the smooth movement of some of the passengers, especially at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja, as a few of the scheduled carriers could not operate as planned. The disruption may also affect some of the air travel­lers who are embarking on Easter holidays especially to the southern parts of the country as sources close to the agency confided in Daily Independent that the same action may also be taken at other airports across the country any moment from now. For instance, one of the airline operators (names with­held) told Daily Independent on phone on Thursday that its Lagos to Akure flight with 100 percent load factor, scheduled for 4p.m on Thursday was can­celled. The airline said it could not meet up with sunset operations at the Akure airport, even if it departed with its normal schedule. Sunset airports are those that operate between 6:30a.m and 6:30p.m. Apart from Lagos, Kano, Abuja and Port Harcourt air­ports that operate sunrise to sunset services, other aero­dromes operate only sunset services. POLL The airline source said: “Lagos to Akure with 100 per­cent load factor of 4p.m is now cancelled as we cannot meet up with sunset, even if we depart with our normal schedule now. “Akure to Lagos was 70 per­cent full. Passengers’ Easter plans were destroyed because of FAAN and fuel marketers’ stand-off.” Mrs. Faithful Hope-Ivbase, Acting General Manager, Corporate Communications, FAAN, in a telephone conver­sation, confirmed the apron pass fee increment to Daily Independent. She, however, debunked the claim that the agency increased the fee to N500,00 from the ini­tial N150,000 per annum. Hope-Ivbase explained that the fee was only raised from N150,000 to N200,000, stressing that some of the fuel marketers had complied while only a few were yet to do so after due cor­respondences between the two organisations. According to her, apart from the oil marketers, other organ­isations with functions at the airside were also affected by the new development, stressing that FAAN informed its conces­sionaires of the change in price ahead of time and wondered why some of the oil marketers refused to comply. She explained that the agen­cy as a government organisa­tion doesn’t get subvention from the government and rely solely on its internally generat­ed revenues (IGRs) to fund its projects and replace archaic facilities. She also emphasised that FAAN’s compulsory contribu­tion to the federation account was increased from 25 percent to 40 percent like any other revenue-generating agencies in the country, assuring that the agency would continue to improve on its services to its clients. She said: “The fact is that their apron passes expire and when apron passes are issued, there is a duration of usage, which they know. They were very much aware that they were supposed to renew their apron passes, but they didn’t renew it despite the timeline given to them to do so by FAAN. FAAN had to stop them from assessing the apron side of the airport today (Thursday). “As you are aware, the avia­tion industry is a very highly regulated industry and we are also an IGR agency. The govern­ment doesn’t give us any sub­vention for facility upgrades. Whatever we generate is what we use for our facilities. When facilities breakdown, we see people the way they castigate FAAN as if we are not doing anything. There are a lot of things that we are doing that an average passenger would not see. “So, when marketers like this refuse to pay, you don’t just fold your arms. The increment is not from N150,000 to N500,000 as claimed, but increased to N200,000. FAAN is not a jungle agency that will just increase prices without informing our concessionaires. We are a ci­vilised organisation. “The apron passes have a timeline like I told you earlier. Those who renewed theirs, we didn’t have any issue with them. We are not a Father Christmas agency. We are a very large organisation and we have a lot that we need money for.”