ABUJA –  The All Progressive Congress (APC) party stalwart, Dr Abdulwasiu Tunwase has hinted that there might not be easy transition of power with the way President Muhammadu Buhari is going, Tunwase gave the hint on Sunday in an interview with newsmen in Abuja while alleging that the president is not willing to hand over. According to him:” During the administration of the former President,Goodluck Jonathan, there was a smooth transition of power but with what we are seeing, I am afraid if they will handover with ease. “He shouldn’t have said if you are not satisfied with the outcome of the election go to court, before it is after swearing in that you go to court, Those people now went to court and obtained court injunction to stop the swearing in , we believe INEC will do their job.” Tunwase opined that, the president elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will perform better than his predissessor, President Mohamadu Buhari in the area of economy and security. If you look at the present government, they tried but there effort is not enough especially in the area of the rule of law. They failed to obey the judiciary and the rule of law. “We face of a lot of challenges recently, especially, the issue of cash crunch , the economy was crippled, people died in their numbers due to hunger and the government were not perturbed about the plight of the citizenry. “The decisions by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele was intentional. Tinubu will not do that because he takes people’s advice, for instance, people that featured in this government, those that came through him, like Babatunde Raji Fashola did very well as in road construction in the Niger Delta and construction still on going in other places and they are going to work together. Before you know it our economy will be back.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “And the judiciary will buckle up, president Buhari did not do anything in terms of judiciary , he also disobeyed court orders, when the court ruled that old naira notes should remain a legal tender until December 2023, it was after ten days couple with various protest that the president prevailed on the CBN Governor. POLL “As president, he was supposed to obey the law, because nobody is above the law but the president went against the content of law. Even the Chief of Army staff also disobeyed the court order in the area of demolishing people’s property in Maitama , Lungi barack. Allocations were given to people , approval and those people served him court induction he disobeyed the court.”, He stated.