This piece, first published over a decade ago, was sourced from Archives Siaka Momoh If I forget all I learnt in journalism school, at the Department of Mass Communication, University of Lagos over 40 years ago, here is one thing I wouldn’t forget. A statement from Dr Ralph Akinfeleye (now professor). The statement: As a journalist, you must read everything, including nonsense, because from that which is considered nonsense you may find sense, and such a finding broadens your knowledge. It has been about 30 years now (40+ years now if piece is updated) since Ralph Akinfeleye made the statement, yet I still celebrate it. It is to me a dictum. I have passed it on to Yomade and her younger ones. In fact, Yomade made a note of it in her degree thesis. She has adopted the statement, one that is doing her good. She had her first degree in History and Diplomacy and second in International Relations and Strategic Studies. Yomade is not only full of business ideas now, she is a banker and in business – home furnishing and gifts business. She started off from school. I have found an ally in Charlie T. Jones. For more than 50 years, Charlie Jones, the internationally acclaimed personal development mentor has been on a mission to help people improve their lives through reading. Jones is reported to have committed his estate to a foundation to promote reading by students and devoted most of his time to raising money for three libraries that bear his name. His company, Executive Books, sells books in thousands to business leaders who understand the impact reading can have on a person’s success. Jones’ own book, Life is Tremendous, written in 1967 has sold more than two million copies and is printed in 12 languages. To Charlie Jones, getting people to read quality books ( he talks of quality books, Ralph talks of all books – no matter, a convergence exists – reading) is one of the greatest passions of his. Jones, 80, was a 22 year-old insurance salesman when he learnt giving someone a book was more an effective tool than a business card. Reports have it that when he was promoted to management, Jones discovered that rather than struggle to keep his agents’ attention during sales meetings, he involved them by asking them to read aloud. Says Jones, “I would ask several agents to read a paragraph from a great motivational or sales book, which made our meeting more exciting than the manager doing all the talking. Seeing the result of giving books and getting others to read rather than listen increased my enthusiasm and zeal to do more of it”. Charlie Tremendous Jones’ passion for books knows no bounds. At 37, he retired from insurance and created Life Management Service and Executive Books. He conducted seminars and promoted books and reading full time. Look at this: He also passed his love of reading to his children (and I never knew this before I did same with Yomade and her younger ones who, like her, have been transformed by the reading culture in question!). His children are said to have passed the legacy to their children, and that they in turn are sharing their love for reading with Jones’ two great-grandchildren. Great. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Jones’ spiritual life began at 22 when a prospective insurance client asked him to read John 3:16 and several other verses. This, to him, was a new experience because his last contact with the Bible was in his childhood. He was not interested in being converted at the time, but the words he read made him think about spiritual truths for the first time in his life. This realisation made him to begin sharing books with others, a decision which is said to have changed his life’s course. POLL Jones strongly believes people should read to improve their life. He tells you reading isn’t a hobby; it’s a necessity for learning. He says people who don’t read are no better than those who can’t read and his mission as a book evangelist is to change the world one book at a time. Hear these from Jones: All achievers should read biographies, devotional books, books about their profession. Don’t read to be smart; read to be real, Don’t read to be big; read to be down to earth. Don’t read to memorise; read to realise. Don’t read to learn; read to unlearn a lot of things you should have never learned in the first place. And never read a lot – read just enough to get your mind stimulated and thinking and getting you curious and hungry, to keep you learning all your life. The message is clear: Read. Read. Read. And get strengthened; and get loaded with knowledge, with ideas. And get transformed.