JOY ANIGBOGU In the 2023 general elections, 11 governors sought reelection out of the governors from 28 states that were on the ballot in the election concluded a few days ago. Out of the 11 governors who sought reelection on March 18, nine of them won their elections to serve for second term, one governor, Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State lost his bid to return for a second term in office, while the remaining State, Adamawa would have a supplementary election April 15. INEC had a few days after the first election on March 18, declared the Adamawa State governorship election inclusive, citing irregularities, even though the incumbent governor won in 13 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state, and led with over 30,000 votes, while his closest rival, Aisha Dahiru, popularly called Binani won in eight LGAs. The question on the lips of many is whether Ahmadu Fintiri would have the capacity to win and join the other nine governors waiting to be inaugurated on May 29 or will he join Matawalle in the camp of the losers. There have been arguments as to what may play out on April 15. Some are concerned about the readiness of INEC to deliver a free, fair and credible election, because there have been calls by the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state for the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) to be removed, as the party sighted cases of partisanship against the INEC official who it claimed worked for the All Progressives Congress (APC). The onus is on INEC to remain non-partisan in the forthcoming election in Adamawa State and ensure that it redeems it’s already dented image, considering the various criticisms which trailed the just concluded general elections. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Incumbent governor Ahmadu Fintiri of the PDP polled 421,524 while APC candidate Aisha Dahiru Binani got 390,275 votes during the first ballot in March. POLL However, INEC declared the election inconclusive because the cancelled votes were more than the margin of victory between Fintiri and Dahiru. On the basis of that allegation, the PDP called on the INEC to remove the REC in Adamawa State, Hudu Yunusa, ahead of the supplementary election billed for April 15. PDP spokesperson, Debo Ologunagba made the demand in a statement on Tuesday. Ahead of the supplementary election, Ologunagba accused Yunusa of complicity in alleged plots to influence the outcome of the forthcoming polls. “From credible information available to our party, INEC is stoking a breakdown of Law and Order in Adamawa State with the continued stay in office of Mallam Hudu Yunusa Ari as Adamawa State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in spite of his alleged complicity in the plots to manipulate the outcome of the governorship election in the state, even with PDP’s clear lead of 31,299 lawful votes in the election. “It is provocative and unacceptable that INEC retained Mallam Yunusa Ari to conduct the April 15, 2023 governorship re-run election despite being reportedly caught on tape directing the Electoral Officer of Fufore Local Government Area of Adamawa State in Hausa Language to alter election results in favour of the defeated governorship candidate of the APC, Senator Aisha Binani. “The continued stay in office of Mallam Yunusa Ari in the face of widespread outcry by the people of Adamawa State amounts to pushing the people to the wall and daring them to do their worst.” PDP also alleged that Yunusa gave similar instructions to Electoral Officers in some other Local Government Areas in Adamawa to manipulate the results of the election and therefore asked the REC to recuse himself from superintending and/or conducting the re-run governorship election. From all indications, the competition for the occupation of the Adamawa Government House seems to be very tense with Binani in a hurry to occupy it and be the first female elected governor in the history of the country. On its part, the PDP is not resting on its oars and is not ready to let go, and has also vowed to resist any move by the opposition to stop the reelection of Fintri. Just recently, concerned Citizens for Peace and Development has faulted the Minister for Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen, for interfering in the 2023 governorship election in Adamawa State. It also slammed Tallen and those on her train, describing her desire for Aishatu Binani to be governor at all costs as a cancer on morality. During a press briefing in Abuja, at the weekend, the National Coordinator, Dominic Ogakwu, said declaring an inconclusive election after announcing results from 20 local councils is not tenable. Binani, candidate of the APC in Adamawa State, on Friday, asked INEC to review the results of the governorship election in some local councils. Before the declaration, Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, candidate of the PDP, had reportedly won 13 local councils while Binani secured seven. Ogakwu said: “We, concerned Nigerians who are indigenes of Adamawa, have followed the political trends. We are worried that given the toxic environment being created by Binani, who was even receiving congratulatory messages on social media, has placed the state on a time bomb. She is wielding power, influence and affluence by making it look as if she must be the governor of Adamawa at all costs. “Adamawa is sitting on a keg of gunpowder because Binani’s ungodly desire is infuriating the common people whose votes have already counted for a winner to emerge. The state is known to be peaceful and rightly labelled as the Land of Beauty. It is in the light of this we urge urgent attention to be paid to the antics of Binani and her co-travellers before they derail the peace in the state by claiming victory that is not theirs to claim.” As the battle for the soul of Adamawa continues, a group of women politicians and professionals has on its part accused the ruling party and INEC of attempting to deny Binani her well-deserved victory. The group, led by Remi Adiukwu, a prominent female politician and APC stalwart in Lagos State, cautioned against subversion of the people’s will in the inconclusive governorship election in Adamawa. In a joint statement in Lagos, the group said it was rising in support of Aisha Dahiru, popularly called Binani. It urged INEC to declare her as the governor-elect of Adamawa. The group called on INEC to be guided by the spirit of equity and justice, and fairness to women. The group alleged massive rigging and inflation of votes against the female candidate and urged INEC to investigate the issue. In view of these allegations, we strongly advise that INEC should seriously scrutinise the purported results from Michika, Hong, and Madagali LGAs, where the governor camp and their collaborators came up with outrageous votes in their bid to suppress the people’s mandate freely given to Senator Binani. “Binani is a giant of a woman and strong political soldier that fought her battle without fear, alone, with the support of the good people of the “We resist the ongoing tactical attempt to rob her of her hard-earned mandate and call on all well-meaning Nigerians to oppose another attempt to deprive women of our place in governance and politics,” the group said. Based on the foregoing, INEC has a lot of work to do concerning the forthcoming supplementary election because no camp is giving in, so the onus is on the electoral umpire to act as an unbiased umpire and ensure that the votes of the people count. Recall also that a group of women in support of Senator Aisha Binani have staged a peaceful protest in front of the INEC headquarters in Abuja demanding a conclusion to the pending governorship election in Adamawa State and also want the electoral commission to resist any attempt to rig the process. The INEC headquarters in Abuja at that point became the new destination for people dissatisfied over the outcome of the just concluded election in the country. The inconclusive governorship election in Adamawa and the uncertain fate of the most prominent female governorship candidate has pushed these women to occupy INEC’s headquarters to protest an alleged attempt to manipulate the process. The women insisted they wanted a conclusion of the inconclusive election, strictly monitored by the electoral commission to prevent what they say are efforts to derail the emergence of what will be Nigeria’s first democratically elected female Governor. But the electoral commission insisted it would ensure the process was transparent and would not be tilted to favour any political, religious or social-cultural sentiment. Still on the camp of Binani, the APC Senator Representing Adamawa North in the National Assembly Elisha Abbo alleged that there was massive voter suppression and the result from Fufore local government was declared under duress. Having seen what played out in the first election, INEC should do the needful and restore the hope of the Adamawa people by ensuring a credible election on Saturday.