Dr. Osahon Enabulele, President, World Medical Association (WMA), in this interview with CHIOMA UMEHA, kicks against a Bill to mandate any Nigeria-trained medical or dental practitioner to practise in Nigeria for a minimum of five years before being granted full registration/licence by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria. Excerpts: You actively participated in the just-concluded fifth Global Forum on Human Resources for Health organised by the World Health Organisation. What are your perspectives on the 5th Global Forum? I commend the Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus-led World Health Organization (WHO) for successfully organizing the5th Global Forum on Human Resources for Health which was held from April 3  to 6, 2023   It was well attended by Member States of the WHO, Health Ministers, Health Professional Organisations, the International Labour Organization, Global funding agencies, and other stakeholders, even though as a Nigerian, I sadly observed that Nigeria was not represented as a country. There were many sessions where issues confronting the health workforce were deliberated upon, including the issue of brain drain which I have been highlighting at all international fora, including during my tenure as President of the Commonwealth Medical Association. The fifth Global Forum came up with very useful resolutions on how to resolve the challenges confronting the health workforce. As you are aware, the health workforce is vital to the attainment of Universal Health Coverage, and if the resolutions reached in the forum are given concrete expression, I am sanguine that global health and the well-being of citizens and the health workforce will be more assured in the years ahead. There is a deepening medical brain drain in the country. In view of the trend, what is your opinion on a trending Bill recently sponsored in Nigeria’s House of Representatives by Hon. Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson to mandate any Nigeria-trained medical or dental practitioner to practice in Nigeria for a minimum of five years before being granted a full license by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria? As you can see, I am just arriving from Geneva after a very engaging Global Forum on Human Resources for Health that was organized by the World Health Organisation. So, I am still trying to settle down after long flight hours. Secondly, as President of the World Medical Association, my jurisdiction goes beyond Nigeria; So, I ordinarily would expect such a question to be directed to the leadership of the Medical Association and bodies in Nigeria. I expect them to offer you their statements and reactions.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ However, as a Nigerian with a great passion for the accelerated development of our country, Nigeria, including her health system, I would oblige you with my preliminary comments on what you termed a trending legislative proposal/Bill sponsored in the House of Representatives by Hon. Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson which seeks to mandate a five year period of compulsory service by graduate medical and dental practitioners in Nigeria, before they are granted their full registration certificate and practicing license. POLL As one who has engaged the issues of Nigeria’s health system, including the crisis of brain drain, for over two decades, I must state with the greatest respect to the sponsors of the Bill, that I really consider their proposition as not only outlandish but totally retrogressive, unresearched and very ill-formed. I am told the sponsor of the Bill claimed there are about 10, 000 doctors practicing in Nigeria. This alone clearly shows the unresearched nature of the proposal. From the information available to me, as of December 30, 2022, there were 104, 327 medical and dental practitioners on the register of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, with the number of practicing doctors put at 56, 829. So, where did he get the figure of 10, 000 from? This Bill sponsored by Hon. Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson shows a clear lack of understanding of the push and pull factors buoying the crisis of brain drain in Nigeria and other parts of Africa; the region worst hit by the crisis. I really wonder how this proposition will solve the problem of brain drain which is largely traceable to the indecent and disabling working conditions and infrastructure, insecurity, uncompetitive wages, unemployment, and underemployment of medical and dental practitioners, amongst other known factors, most of which I have spoken about over the last 2 decades. Indeed, the recently held 5th Global Forum on Human Resources for Health where I spoke at two important sessions, was in total agreement with this, and the need for a sincere approach to the resolution of these challenges. I am therefore shocked that rather than come up with purposive and progressive solutions on how to transparently and comprehensively address the push factors accelerating the crisis of brain drain in Nigeria, particularly through prioritized investments in the health system and the health workforce, the sponsors of the Bill sought to come up with a proposition whose remedy is likely to generate a worse ailment and crisis. Furthermore, the Bill seeks to achieve its objective through an amendment to the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act. As is well known, a Bill seeking to repeal and re-enact this same Act was passed by the Senate in the year 2021 and awaiting concurrence by the same House of Representatives. With the time left for legislative business in the outgoing 9th National Assembly, one wonders how the sponsors hope to achieve their aim. What are other implications of the proposed Bill for the medical profession? The proposition shows a poor appreciation of the mechanisms, operations, and regulatory framework of the medical profession, and the place and role of the practicing license. Where in the world do you deny someone, who has been duly certified qualified according to the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act, a license to practice? Do the sponsors appreciate the fact that their proposition bristles with grave implications for National development, particularly as it concerns specialist training in Nigeria and the delivery of quality healthcare services? What happens to the doctor’s internship period and NYSC service year? What happens to specialist training in Nigeria? Are they going to be repealed or put in abeyance? Even though it is a truism that doctors are the leaders of the health team, I find the proposition selective and discriminatory. Available statistics clearly show that all types of professionals and workers in all sectors of Nigeria, aside from the health sector, are voting with their feet outside the shores of Nigeria. Indeed, aside from the younger ones, the senior ones are increasingly been carried by the brain drain waves. I equally find the proposition a gross affront to the fundamental rights and freedoms of medical and dental practitioners in Nigeria, as expressed in the relevant provisions of Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution (as amended).  Even the ILO conventions are very clear on this, as it concerns the international migration of labour. While I am aware that there may be a public hearing on the Bill to allow for public consultations with stakeholders, it would have made a whole lot of sense if the sponsors had taken the pains to consult with stakeholders in the medical profession to derive an informed view on the real factors responsible for the crisis of brain drain in Nigeria. What are your recommendations? I would therefore like to urge the sponsors of the Bill to reconsider their position and withdraw the Bill, as the cure it offers will undoubtedly be worse than the ailment it seeks to cure. I sincerely urge them to dwell more on how to more realistically address the push factors and build a resilient health system with a resilient health workforce.