LAGOS – The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) and Centre for Jour­nalism Innovation and De­velopment (CJID) have filed a lawsuit against President Muhammadu Buhari, asking the court to declare arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional the N5 million fine imposed on Channels Television over a recent interview with the Labour Party’s (LP) vice pres­idential candidate, Datti Ba­ba-Ahmed. Joined in the suit as defen­dants are the National Broad­casting Commission (NBC) and Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture. The NBC had recently fined Channels Television N5 million over an interview with Datti Baba-Ahmed. The NBC alleged that the interview “vi­olated the NBC code.” In the suit number FHC/L/ CS/616/2023 filed last week at the Federal High Court, Lagos, the plaintiffs are asking the court to determine whether the NBC code used to impose a fine of N5 million on Channels TV and the threat of “higher sanc­tions” is not in inconsistent and incompatible with access to in­formation and media freedom. The plaintiffs are asking the court for a declaration that the NBC code used by the NBC to impose a fine of N5 million on Channels TV and the threat of “higher sanctions” is arbitrary, unconstitutional and unlawful, as it violates the rights to a fair hearing, freedom of expres­sion, access to information and media freedom. The plaintiffs are seeking an order setting aside the N5 million fine for being incon­sistent and incompatible with sections 22, 36 and 39 of the Nigerian constitution 1999 (as amended), Article 9 of the Af­rican Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights, and Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The plaintiffs are also seek­ing an order directing and compelling the NBC to reverse its arbitrary and unlawful deci­sion to impose a fine of N5 mil­lion on Channels TV forthwith.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In the suit, the plaintiffs are arguing that the media has the task of distributing all varieties of information and opinion on matters of general interest and public interest. POLL The plaintiffs said, “Impos­ing any fine whatsoever with­out due process of law is arbi­trary and unconstitutional, as it contravenes the fundamental principles of nemo judex in cau­sa sua which literally means one cannot be a judge in his own cause and audi alteram partem which means no one should be condemned unheard.” The plaintiffs are also ar­guing that, “the media plays an essential role as a vehicle or instrument for the exercise of freedom of expression and access to information in a dem­ocratic society. “The NBC Act and Broad­casting Code cannot and should not be used in a manner that is inconsistent and incom­patible with plurality of voices, diversity of voices, non-dis­crimination, just demands of a democratic society, and the public interest. “The fine is arbitrary and unlawful and would have a disproportionate and chilling effect on the work of other broadcast stations and jour­nalists and Nigerians.” The suit filed on behalf of the plaintiffs by their lawyers, Kolawole Oluwadare, Andrew Nwankwo, and Ms. Blessing Ogwuche, also read in part: “The grounds for imposing a fine of N5 million on Channels TV fail to meet the require­ments of legality, necessity, and proportionality. “Broadcasting is a means of exercising freedom of expres­sion. Any restrictions on free­dom of expression must meet the requirements of legality, necessity, and proportionality. “The regulation of broad­casting must aspire to promote and expand the scope of the right to freedom of expression, not restrict it. “Under the Nigerian consti­tution and human rights trea­ties to which Nigeria is a state party, freedom and diversity must be guiding principles in the regulation of broadcasting. The fine of N5 million imposed on Channels TV is entirely in­consistent and incompatible with these principles. “Article 19 (1) of the Interna­tional Covenant on Civil and Political Rights establishes the right to freedom of opinion without interference. Article 19(2) establishes Nigeria’s obli­gations to respect ‘the right to freedom of expression,’ which includes the freedom to seek, receive and impart informa­tion, regardless of frontiers. “Under Article 19(3), restric­tions on the right to freedom of expression must be ‘provided by law’, and necessary ‘for re­spect of the rights or reputa­tions of others’ or ‘for the pro­tection of national security or of public order (ordre public), or of public health and morals’. “Although Article 19(3) rec­ognizes ‘national security’ as a legitimate aim, the Human Rights Committee has stressed ‘the need to ensure that the in­vocation of national security is not used unjustifiably or ar­bitrarily to restrict freedom of expression and media freedom. “The use of NBC Act and Code in this case would inad­missibly open the door to arbi­trariness and would fundamen­tally restrict the freedom of expression that is an integral part of the public order protect­ed by the Nigerian constitution and human rights treaties to which Nigeria is a state party. “Arbitrarily imposing fines on media houses simply for carrying out their constitution­al duties would both seriously undermine the rights of mil­lions of Nigerians to express their thoughts, and their right to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas of all kinds, in any medium they choose. “Freedom of expression includes the public’s right to receive, and the right of those who express themselves through a medium of commu­nication, to impart the greatest possible diversity of informa­tion and ideas. “The right to freedom of expression is based on the right to establish or use a me­dia outlet to exercise freedom of expression and on society’s right to have access to a free, independent, and pluralistic media that allows for the most diverse information. “The exercise of the right to freedom of expression through the media is a guarantee that is fundamental for advancing the collective deliberative pro­cess on public and democratic issues. “The strengthening of the guarantee of freedom of ex­pression is a precondition for the exercise of other human rights, as well as a precondition to the right to participation. “Any regulation of the media must be evaluated ac­cording to the guidelines and directives imposed by the right to freedom of expression. “The plaintiffs recognize the mandates of NBC to reg­ulate broadcasting. However, the exercise of such mandates including imposing any fine must follow the thresholds and guidelines set by the right to freedom of expression and media freedom. “The free circulation of ideas and news is not possible except in the context of a plu­rality of sources of informa­tion and media outlets. The lack of plurality in sources of information is a serious obstacle for the functioning of democracy.” However, no date has been fixed for the hearing of the suit.