Disowns Amaechi Over Comment On Tinubu PORT HARCOURT – The Rivers State executive council, SEC, of the All Progressives Congress, APC,  on Wednesday suspended the party’s Chairman, Chief Emeka Beke and the legal adviser, Iheanyichukwu Azubuike over alleged anti-party activities and malfeasance. The SEC equally dissociated itself from the comments allegedly made by the former Minister of Transpiration and leader of the party, Rotimi Amaechi over his recent comments that the President-elect, Bola Tinubu singlehandedly nominated Prof Mahmood Yakubu as INEC Chairman. Dr Chike Eyinda, acclaimed leader of the SEC who led other members disclosed this at a media briefing in Port Harcourt on Wednesday. Eyinda said that the activities of Chief Beke and Amaechi have seriously affected the party in the last couple of years, culminating in its dismal outing in the just concluded general elections in the state. He went on to say that the trio of Amaechi, the leader of the party, Beke and Azubuike have since 2021 led the  Rivers APC to damnation. “These leaders have been responsible for the mass exodus of members of the party as well as the failures experienced by the party in the just concluded general elections in the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “To demonstrate this, Rt. Hon. Amaechi, who contested and lost the Presidential primaries to the president-elect, Bola Tinubu in active connivance with the state chairman and the legal adviser, a week to the presidential election called the leadership of the party to a meeting and directed all APC members in the state to work for the PDP in the general election. POLL “It is on record that Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi, Chief Emeka Beke and the Legal Adviser Mr. Iheanyichukwu Azubuike voted for Atiku Abubakar the candidate of the PDP in the just concluded election.” He further alleged that Amaechi’s earlier instruction backfired on the APC during the March 18 Governorship election, as no contrary instruction was given to the party’s supporters in the various local government areas to counter the earlier instruction. “And this accounted for the party’s loss on the 18th March Governorship and State Assembly elections. “Instead of being remorseful for what he did to the party, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi decided to hinge the blame on our dear President-elect, Bola Tinubu claiming that he single-handedly appointed the INEC Chairman Yakubu Mahmood. “As party faithful, we consider this statement by Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi as an affront to our President-elect and the highest level of anti-party activity,” Enyinda said. Continuing, he said, “Therefore, we stand before the world today to totally condemn and dissociate ourselves from those statements credited to Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi and the party Chairman Chief Emeka Beke. “We state that whatever he said represents his personal opinion and not our collective stand, little wonder Emeka Beke up till date has refused to refute same. While lamenting the party’s woes in the state since 2015, he said “Today, the Rivers Chapter of APC cannot claim to be in alignment with the party at the centre because of one man who has left so many party faithful dead during elections and their families wallowing in abject poverty. “Also, since the present chairman (Chief Beke) took over the mantle of leadership of APC in Rivers State. “All funds released for the 2023 elections were disbursed by the Chairman and his cronies without the consent and approval of any member of the executive working committee as prescribed by the party’s constitution. “The Chairman treat other exco members as though they don’t exist,” saying the decision was for the interest of the party in the state. “We the members of the State Executive Committee, therefore, resolve as follows: That Chef Emeka Beke, the Chairman of the APC in Rivers State is hereby suspended indefinitely for anti-party activities, gross misconduct and financial mismanagement.”