LAGOS – Dr Osahon Enabulele, WMA President has called on Governments and managers of health systems to quickly resolve mental health, burnout, and psycho-social challenges currently faced by physicians and other health professionals worldwide. The WMA President stated this while speaking at two different sessions of the recently concluded 5th Global Forum on Human Resource for Health organised in Geneva by the World Health Organisation from April 3-5, 2023. The first session in which the WMA President spoke had as its theme: “the impact of COVID-19 on the health workforce–the past, present, and future,” while the theme of the second session was: “Protecting the rights of health and care workers in times of pandemics and beyond How to move from technical guidance to effective regulation.” Highlighting the challenges faced by physicians and other health professionals across the world, Dr Enabulele particularly decried the huge impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and health system challenges on the mental health and psycho-social state of the health workforce. Further, he bemoaned the inability of governments and managers of health systems to concretely and altruistically address the challenge which he traced to apprehension over inadequate supplies of personal protective equipment. According to him, the challenges are worsened by the attendant fear of increased exposure to risk, violence against them, the stressful work routine, the crisis of brain drain and increased workload. The consequences, the doyen of family medicine noted are an increase in burn-out of the health workforce, and increased exit from the health professions. While calling for the provision of equitable access to mental and psycho-social care services to victims of the disabling working conditions, Dr Enabulele, charged governments and managers of health systems to altruistically address the inequity in health workforce distribution.Similarly, he appealed to the government to show greater political commitment to prioritised investments in the well-being, rights, safety and working conditions of the health workforce POLL In addition, Dr Enabulele called for a comprehensive legal framework to protect the rights of the health workforce and reduce the incidence of violence against them, as well as strengthening the provisions for the health workforce in the evolving draft of the pandemic treaty.These were part of the recommendations he articulately projected during the various sessions held on Monday, April 3, 2023. Earlier in his welcome remarks, the WHO Director General, Dr Tedros Adnanom Ghebreyesus, welcomed all participants to the global forum and called for useful suggestions to help resolve the challenges of the health workforce. He assured that the WHO will accord greater attention to the issues of the health workforce to aid the attainment of Universal Health Coverage. The fifth Global Forum on Human Resource for Health had in attendance Dr Ghebreyesus, WHO Member states, Health Ministers of various countries, the International Labour Organisation, Health Professional Associations such as the WMA, Global funding agencies, as well as many other stakeholders. The Global Forum ended with a colourful closing ceremony on Wednesday, April 5, 2023, with closing remarks delivered by the WHO Director General.