A fire swept through an apartment building in an older neighbourhood of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates on Saturday, local time, killing at least 16 people and injuring another nine, authorities confirmed on Sunday. The blaze Saturday in the Al Murar area of Dubai’s historic Deira neighbourhood struck a five-story apartment believed to have been shared by multiple individuals, a common practice for expatriates who power the economy in this city-state known more for its towering skyscrapers. However, the tight quarters — often subdivided by makeshift barriers of plywood, drywall or shower curtains — can become a major risk in fires. Dubai’s state-linked newspaper, The National, cited a statement from Dubai Civil Defense provided by the city-state’s Dubai Media Office for the death toll. Authorities did not respond to questions from The Associated Press. Explosion the cause, witness saysA man working nearby at the time of the blaze put the start of the fire at just after noon on Saturday. He told the AP that there had been an explosion, such as from a gas cylinder catching fire, followed by thick black smoke.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said neighbours believed people were asleep inside at the time, something typical for the holy Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, when the faithful abstain from food and drink from sunrise to sunset. POLL A Dubai police officer stopped the AP journalist from talking to the man before he gave his name and told the reporter to leave the area. The Dubai Civil Defense statement, cited by The National, described the fire as starting on the fourth floor. Outside the building, the char marks could be seen on the fifth floor, where glass appeared to have been blown out by the blaze. “Preliminary investigations showed that lack of compliance with building security and safety requirements caused the fire,” the statement reportedly said. The statement did not elaborate further. A woman who answered a phone number associated with the building agreed to take questions about the fire, but provided no immediate response.