IBADAN  – The convener of the Nigerian Photo/Cinema Exposition (NPC EXPO) 2023, who also doubles as Chief Executive Officer of Broadnetconcept, Honourable Sunday Oni has expressed his satisfaction over the successful outing of the project. Hon. Sunday Oni also item­ized job opportunities for youths and increase internally generat­ed revenue for the state as part of the prospects of NPC -EXPO 2023. NPC EXPO according to the convener, Hon. Sunday Oni is an annual with the aim of empow­ering the youths in photography and Cinematography and it’s supported by CANON. Sunday Oni while speaking with journalists shortly after the grand finale of the two days event that was held at the Jogor Event Center, Ibadan said, “Mo­moh Elias of Delight Notions is the overall winner in a photogra­phy session and he won himself one hundred thousand naira, while Fynished Films emerged winner of the Videography ses­sion and was presented with a brand new Canon Lens, we sup­ported these youths with what they really need to move on in life, this equipment will surely help them to move on in their profession. “This two-day event is aimed at showcasing the best of Pho­tography and Cinematography in Nigeria, Day one is the Pho­to-Cinema Walk where we’ll cap­ture the beauty of Ibadan city. “The best picture or video taken will go away with a cash prize of 100k and Canon equip­ment and that’s exactly what we have done. Day two is the Canon masterclass for the participants, and they also used that for net­working which will surely help them in their career”. “The event is a two-day sem­inar that gives room for the young-minded ones to learn how to handle the camera in photography and videography, and a platform to mold an indi­vidual initiative. This is what I have been doing for over 17 years and it is the way of giving back to the society.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This project since its incep­tion in 2021 has paved the way for the young ones to realise their dreams and more, I have not missed this for the past 17 years.”