Following the success garnered by the exciting box-office movie ‘Introducing The Kujus’, TMPL Motion Pictures is back with a sequel of the AMVCA-award-winning film. Titled, The Kujus Again’, the movie adds more charm with the introduction of Mavin Records chief executive, Don Jazzy who gets his first-ever feature film appearance. Distributed by Filmone, the movie hits Nigerian cinemas nationwide on Friday, April 21 with promises of riveting intrigues and drama that characterised the first movie. TMPL Motion Pictures, a subsidiary of The Temple Company had made its mark on the box-office back-to-back with ‘Introducing The Kujus’ and ‘My Village People’ co-produced with comedian cum actor, Bovi Ugbomah. Aside dominating the box office, ‘Introducing The Kujus’ earned critical acclaim, picking up four award nominations including a double Best Actor in A Drama by Femi Jacobs and Timini Egbuson as well as Best Art Director and Best Writer. The movie which is directed by award-winning filmmaker, Biodun Stephen and co-produced by Bisola Aiyeola reaffirms the bond of family. The siblings will be at loggerheads, never agree and practically hate each other but will do anything for each other when the need arises no matter the cost. Stars of ITK who also reconnect in the new sequel include Bisola Aiyeola, Femi Jacobs, Bimbo Ademoye, MC Lively, Kunle Remi, Timini Egbuson, Mimi Onalaja, Chris Iheuwa , and Ronke Odusanya. Playing his character, Jazzy, a maverick music producer transitions smoothly from acting in comedy skits into the big screen. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Speaking on what to expect, Winifred Okpapi, Producer, said, “For one, it was a natural decision for us to return to set for a sequel of Introducing The Kujus following the yearning of fans. The stories are endless as expected from a Nigerian family so we are excited to bring them to your screens again. The Kujus franchise does something very significant for Nigerian cinema, it reawakens a family bond by offering something for everyone, regardless. What’s more, with Don Jazzy in the mix, it gets more interesting and I am absolutely sure that fans will enjoy the sequel as well.”