***As Agbi Donates 150 Cows For Victory Party LAGOS – Arrangements are in top gear to celebrate the electoral victory of the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his Vice, Senator Kashim Shettima, in the just concluded presidential election. The Tinubu/Shettima Movement and Nigerian Youths in Politics made the disclosure at a media chat yesterday in respect of the birthday celebration of Bola Tinubu by the groups which took place at Shores Dinning, Victoria Island, Lagos. The groups also disclosed that over 370 cows have been earmarked for the party which would hold simultaneously across the 36 states of the federation and Abuja. Meanwhile, a philanthropist and real estate mogul, the Chief Executive Officer of AS Wonder Properties and Homes, Dr. Agbi Stephen Omobamidele donated 150 cows with a down payment of N10 million. Olufowobi Olarewaju Desmond, the Vice President, Nigerian Youths in Politics, said the essence of the media chat was to thank the Nigerian youths with over 75 per cent of them voting Tinubu/Shettima in the just concluded presidential election. “We consider it significant to first of all, appreciate every one of the Nigerian Youths in Politics, Nigerian people, and political actors in the just concluded general elections for ensuring the victory of Asiwaju.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is also to lay the foundation for the party that would hold across the 36 states of Nigeria and Abuja. POLL We are going to show that there are people in this country who worked hard for the victory of Asiwaju BolaTinubu, and we want to thank Nigerians for supporting the president-elect despite all odds,” Desmond said. He said that the victory in the election doesn’t belong to Tinubu and Shettima but to everyone, adding that the youth don’t need the approval of anybody to do what they are doing. “It is a victory for the youth. We needed 370 cows, but someone has donated 150 cows. We thank Mr. Agbi for his philanthropy and kind heartedness,” he said. The co-convener, and Coordinator, Asiwaju/Shettima Movement, Adetokunbo Adeshina said the 2023 presidential election can be described as the most emotional election in Nigeria. He noted that during the campaign we went to the nook and cranny of this country to campaign, to educate and to also ensure that people come out massively to protect their votes. On what the group would be bringing to the new government as their article of demands on behalf of 75 million Nigerian youths and what the youth are expecting from the new government, the group said the youths are going to be part of Asiwaju Government. “The promise to the youth is that this government will carry the youth along.” According to the group, the youth will be a big priority of the government as security would be tackled headlong and lives and property would be protected. NANS Chairman, Joint campus committee, Lagos State, Comrade Tolulope Olusesi also commended the education policy in Lagos State which was introduced by Tinubu and maintained by the succeeding administrations, he added “Asiwaju led the good foundation for education in Lagos State, and Fashola continue with it, and now Sanwo-Olu is there. So when you talk about antecedent Asiwaju is number one, when you discuss youth and youth in politics, Asiwaju is still part of that. Before the election, the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu gave four BRT buses to each of the tertiary institutions in Lagos State, all those things are things that counted for Aswaju in the election. I believe in every election, there will be a winner, there will be a loser, Asiwaju is somebody who will bring everyone together, be it the winner, be it the loser, everybody, and you see him telling them, let’s make Nigeria great, that tells us he is a visionary leader,” Olusesi added