Welcome to the Assisted Reproductive Technology series with Dr. Ken. Here, we discuss Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) as a means to tackling the problem of infertility. In the last release, we answered the critical question of: Who needs IVF? We outlined the possible medical or social conditions that requires IVF as the only means to conception. In today’s session, we shall be looking at the steps involved in the IVF treatment itself, answering the question of: How is it done? When a couple or an individual agrees to go the IVF way as a means to conception for whatever reason, the treatment is kick started with the stage of growing the eggs. Here, controlled doses of medications are administered to make the woman hyper ovulate. In the normal cycle, a woman ovulates just one egg in a month. In this case however, she will need do more. This is the reason the medication is administered- to help in doing so. Prior to this, there is the de-sensitization or down regulation process. This involves the control of the ovarian activity by muting it or keeping it quiet. This in turn becomes the precursor trigger for growing eggs when the right medication is eventually introduced. After the preliminary stimulation stage, and the eggs are produced; the trigger stage follows. Here, a single injection is given which matures the eggs and makes them ready for retrieval. The theatre procedure then comes after this. Under ultrasound guide, the oocyte (eggs) are retrieved in the theatre in a short process that lasts just about 3 to 10 minutes. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The fertilisation stage is next after that. Here, the embryologist determines or follows a pre-arranged plan with the couple to either go the conventional fertilization way where the retrieved eggs are mixed with the sperm in the petri dish or the Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) where a single sperm is injected into a single egg. POLL After the fertilization stage, the embryos are cultured for a period of time (that is, placed in an incubator and monitored for development). This is also called the cleavage stage. This is followed by the last stage which is the embryo transfer stage. Here, the embryos are closely observed and selection is done based on the quality and perceived possibility of ‘doing well’ before there are transferred. Implantation and pregnancy are expected after a successful transfer. So basically, we have six stages in the IVF treatment procedure. The ovulation control and trigger stage, the egg retrieval stage, the fertilisation stage, culturing stage, and finally the embryo transfer stage. The fragmented nature gives it a somewhat long and complicated look but in reality, it is a seamless and pain-free process. IVF can be started and completed between two to six weeks depending on who is involved and the kind of protocol adapted. There could be a post implantation stage called the leutial stage. Here, some medications are given to support the pregnancy two weeks into the implantation. This is because at this stage, the body has not produced some of the nutrients or hormones to support the pregnancy. The interference with the spontaneous process that was originally supposed to be is what necessitates the exogenous supply of these hormones and nutrients, all of which are made ready even before the embryo transfer. The pregnancy gets fully established in the space of six to eight weeks and external supports are stopped. There you have the IVF treatment process. Not as complicated as you thought it was right? Yes, indeed, it is an amazing process that delivers great results. There is also the natural cycle IVF which follows the natural cycle of the woman. Here, oocyte trigger drugs are not administered whatsoever, but the cycle of the woman is followed in the egg retrieval process. This would be a topic of discussion for another time. Thank you for reading this article. I am committed to providing expert information on Assisted Reproductive Technology and how this can help make your dream of a complete family a reality. Until next time, stay fine, and always remember that conception and child bearing is a possibility for everyone that so desires. Dr. Kenneth Egwuda is a consultant Obstetrician and Gynecologist with specialty in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). He has over 16 years of practice and experience. He trained in the UK, India, Bulgaria, Italy, and Germany. His Facility, ALPS Hospitals and Diagnostics, Jos, Nigeria, stands at the center stage of Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) in Nigeria. It holds the record of the oldest first-time delivery mum in Africa through IVF at the age of 63. For more, visit www.kennethegwuda.com.ng And follow on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter @AskDocKen You can also subscribe to his YouTube channel @AskDocKen AskDocKen… Anything Infertility!