President Joe Biden’s push for regulators to tighten the rules for banks is “well-inten­tioned but badly focused,” says the CEO of one of the world’s largest financial advisory, as­set management and fintech organisations. The observation from de­Vere Group’s Nigel Green comes as The White House on Thursday called for federal banking agencies, in conjunc­tion with the Treasury Depart­ment, to implement a raft of reforms. These include raising liquid­ity requirements for banks, updating liquidity stress tests to consider high-speed digital withdrawals, and requiring banks to submit plans to regu­lators on how they would close should they fail. He says: “This is the US gov­ernment’s boldest response yet to the banking crisis that recently led to the collapse of two banks – although it’s not definite that the regulators will impose the changes. “Clearly, and especially af­ter previous waves of deregu­lation, the tightening of rules must be a good thing. “A robust regulatory frame­work is important for protect­ing depositors and consumers, promoting financial stability, and preventing fraud and ille­gal activities. “But, while this move by the Biden administration is well-intentioned, it is also bad­ly focused.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The deVere CEO continues: “At the same time as The White House is pushing for greater regulation for legacy banks, they must also simultaneously focus on digital-only financial institutions. The government can and should do both. POLL “But currently, there’s too much emphasis on traditional banks, which seem to have been in a perpetual game of ‘catch-up’ in recent years amid evolv­ing customer expectations, reg­ulatory requirements and tech advances, when digital is inev­itably the future of banking.” Nigel Green says demo­graphics, tech and mistrust show why digital banking should get more attention from regulators as it is destined to outrun traditional banking. “Not only are Millennials and Gen Z the fastest-growing cohort of clients, but they are also becoming the beneficia­ries of the Greatest Transfer of Wealth in history. “According to some esti­mates, $68 trillion in wealth is to be passed down from the baby boomers – the wealthiest generation ever – to their chil­dren and other heirs over the next few decades. “Also, critically, Millennials and Gen Z have grown up on technology. They are ‘digital natives’. “They’ve been influenced by the enormous surge in tech as they came into adulthood and they seemingly became com­fortable using fintech [finan­cial technology] to help them access, manage and use their money, rather than using a tra­ditional bank.” He continues: “This wave of tech that bought us not only fin­tech, but the likes of Uber, AirB­nB, and Amazon, also coincided with the financial crash. “Many people blame the tra­ditional banking industry for causing that crisis and believe that banks prioritise their own profits over their customers’ in­terests, that they lack transpar­ency, fees are too high, customer experience is low and they have poor standards or corporate re­sponsibility. “In short, there’s huge mis­trust in legacy institutions.”