Nigeria’s telecoms regulator, the Nigerian Communica­tions Commission (NCC) will be leading other stakeholders as eBusiness Life Communi­cation Limited hosts young girls in the 2023 edition of the International Girls in ICT Day campaign. The event, which will hold at the Lagos Oriental Hotel on May 11, 2023, is part of an annual campaign initiated by the International Telecommu­nications Union (ITU) to sen­sitise and encourage young women and girls to delve into ICT and related careers, which have been dominated by the male gender. The 2023 theme will be central to “Dig­ital Skills for Life”. NCC’s support under­scores the importance of the event that throws more light on the need to groom girls for the future. According to the Chief Ex­ecutive Officer of eBusiness Life Communication and convener of the event, Mrs. Ufuoma Emuophedaro, the need to sensitize young girls is premised on the fact that society has unconsciously relegated the female gender and delegated careers in tech­nical fields, especially in ICT, to their male counterparts. She noted that efforts should be made to introduce young girls to career oppor­tunities in technical fields in both the public and private sectors to help them have a wider range of options and contribute their quota in the industry and the development of the economy. This year’s eBusiness Life International Girls in ICT Day event will have the Minister of Communica­tions and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Pantami as the Special Guest, with a key­note from the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta. Other dignitaries expect­ed at the event will include the Honourable Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Pauline Tallen; Honourable Commis­sioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Hon. Ce­cilia Bolaji Dada, and other decision-makers in the in­dustry.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ As part of the 2023 event, there will be a practical ICT competition among female students from select pub­lic and private secondary schools; roundtable discus­sion among the students; interactive and motivational talk from renowned wom­en ICT professionals; and a Schools quiz competition, among others.