Justice Uhuegbu, the President Associa­tion for Good Gover­nance, has described the statement by Sen. Chi­maroke Nnamani, which advised Mr. Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the just concluded gener­al elections to withdraw his petition against Pres­ident-elect Asiwaju Bola Tinubu at the Presidential Election Tribunal (PET) as mere distraction. Uhuegbu told Daily In­dependent on Monday in Lagos that the lawmaker’s comment was not a national issue and should not get the kind of attention that it has generated. He said, “What Nnamani said is a mere distraction. It shouldn’t be a national issue. I want to use this op­portunity to tell Nigerians to disregard some of the news that fly around. We have a lot of issues in this country that deserve national interest. “Nnamani’s statement is a personal opinion and doesn’t represent the opin­ion of generality of Nigeri­ans by law once an election has come and gone, parties in the election have the right to go to court and contest the outcome of any election, that is part of their constitution­al right, which is why elec­tion tribunals are approved and set up by the judiciary.” The Vice Presidential can­didate of National Action Council (NAC) in the 2019 general elections said that rather for Nnamani to make his comment public, he could have spoken to Obi, stressing that he could not determine for Obi what to do. Besides, he emphasized that apart from the presiden­tial election, several other parties had gone to court in different states, arising from the governorship, Senatori­al, House of Assembly and House of Representatives elections, wondering if Nnamani would equally tell the parties to withdraw their petitions. “Nnamani has made his statement by act or omis­sion. I am only worried as to why it has become a nation­al issue. It is not part of our problem,” Uhuegbu said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He reiterated that when somebody is dissatisfied with the outcome of any election in the country, the appropriate place was to vis­it the court for redress.