Tracey George is the leading face behind Africa Magic Igbo’s latest series, ‘Nwanyi Ike’. The show, which premiered on February 1 with dialogue entirely in Igbo is a 26-episode series directed by Victor Okpala. In an exclusive fireside interview with some cast and crew of the show, TOMI FALADE explores the expression, ‘Nwanyi Ike’, loosely translated as ‘Strong Woman’, tells the story of an Igbo family gripped by turmoil after the death of the family patriarch saw the surviving heirs battle for their father’s properties. Tracey tells of the strengths she brought into the lead character she played, Nnenna. When female actors star in movies or shows that portray them in a strong character, audiences tend to see them as that character. Are you comfortable with that? First off, I think that where the world is at now, people who know films and the business and art of filmmaking already understand that possibility. It wasn’t difficult having to pick up that character, particularly because I had a history. I grew up early because I lost my mom at an early stage, so I pretty much did the growing up by myself. I’ve always had to be strong, make decisions for myself and be on the go. So, when I met in Nnenna, it felt like second nature for me. Given that I have younger siblings, I had to be a mother early and play mother hen even before I knew the intrigues of what it takes to be a mother. So, getting that character felt like second nature to me, and I love it. What qualities do you see in Nnenna that you believe are a part of you already? Fairness. I believe that whatever you deserve will come to you and that there’s no free lunch anywhere, including Freetown. That is one character that I strongly possess. I know there’s grace, but I also believe in earning my rights. I think that’s one attribute I have in common with Nnenna. HavingtoactpurelyinIgboLanguageisnot the forte of many modern actors. Was there any part of it that was difficult for you and going forward, are you going to embrace more roles with your indigenous language? ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Yes, I would love to embrace more indigenous roles because where the world is at now, eyes are on Africa. POLL When South Africans do their series, they shoot and film in their languages. So, I think going forward, that would be something I’m adding to the bag. On the other hand, it wasn’t difficult at all for me to act in Igbo. A lot of modern actors are not able to speak the language, but I grew up everywhere. As I said, I lost my mom early, so I had to grow up in different places, one of which was Onitsha. That was where I learnt how to speak Igbo. My mom never spoke Igbo to me, neither does my father. ‘Nwanyi Ike’ was a little challenging because it was narrowed down to speaking central Igbo, and because I grew up a little bit in Imo State, a little bit in Aba when I speak Igbo, you would hear Aba in it and a bit of everywhere else. That is because I grew up everywhere, and the language was something I had to pick up. No one taught me to speak Igbo Language, I had to pick it up. Alotofactorscomeintotheindustryandfor 10, 20 years, they don’t get to play the lead in any film or any series. What do you think contributedtoyouplayingtheleadinashow like this? This is my sixth year in the industry. But before I joined Nollywood, I had always known I wanted to be an actor. At age nine, I think I told my folks that I’m going to go into acting. I love expressing myself. Before I got into acting, I had a plan. There’s an entry plan and there is an exit plan, and I followed that plan. With my vision came a plan, which I needed to execute. That plan would always give birth to what is next. When I go for auditions and after the audition, I want to know who’s working, and whose job it is, I always wanted to know more. I wanted to talk to the production manager. I just wanted to know the areas where I needed to serve. Even though I know it is an audition, I’ll come and serve, arrange the chairs, and do whatever is needed. The point is that I knew I had a plan, and that plan was unique to me. I think this is what has gotten me so far. Also, grace played a major role. We now have in the industry people who see actors who want to do the job, who want to do the work, and not just come in for the film. I know the film will come when it comes, but for now, I want to do the job. I want to be that actor that other actors will look at and say, ‘wow, this person did the work’. When you say exit plan, what do you mean exactly? I would delve into other careers in the arts. As TD Jakes would say, when you don’t know what to do, keep doing what you’re doing. What you’re doing will lead you to what you need to do or what you ought to do. So right now, I’m doing what I need to do and what I ought to be doing. Whatever the exit would be, whether production, directing, or coaching, all of these are areas that I know I am very great at. But I’m still learning because there are people who were here before me. Who was your inspiration for playing this role? My mom. My mom is a huge inspiration to me. She was the second of a lot of siblings. She carried the family, and because she was a single mom before she passed, I watched her. My mom was a huge, and is still a huge inspiration for me