Delivering uninterrupted, clean power to Ajoki is an outstanding achievement for Sahara Group which is already transforming the lives of the people, Henry Menkiti, Chief Operating Officer, Asharami Energy, a Sahara Group Upstream Company, has said. He spoke when a delegation Sahara Group, visited the Olu of Warri recently. He said Sahara Group was also working with local contractors from the Ajoki community to improve their competence and capacity to be globally competitive. “Beyond hiring the contractors from the community, we’ve also provided training programs where they are taught how to make bids professionally using best practices and computer software,” he added. He said that the courtesy visit to the palace was to provide updates on its operations and pay homage to the Olu for the support of the good people of the kingdom. “It is quite an honour for us to be here today to formally express our appreciation to the Palace and to share the good news of our latest project in Ajoki”,he added. On the Ajoki electrification project, Director Governance and Sustainability Sahara Group, Ejiro Gray said it would serve as a template for the energy conglomerate as it continues to seek ways of enhancing sustainable development in its host communities. “We’re essentially taking a resource that is available in the community and using it to transform the community with attendant endless possibilities. As foremost promoters of access to clean energy in Africa, we are delighted with this achievement and remain grateful to our host communities for the opportunity to serve and make a difference,” she said. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Babatomiwa Adesida, Head Stakeholder Relations at Asharami Energy said the Gas-to-Power project has the potential to generate 1MW of constant clean energy for the people of Ajoki, directly impacting tens of thousands of beneficiaries and unleashing more prospects for socio-economic growth in Ajoki and its environs. He also mentioned that Sahara has built schools, teachers quarters and awarded scholarship to deserving students in the communities. POLL ” The construction of a 17.5km road by Sahara and other partners is ongoing from Ikpako to Ajoki. When completed, it will serve as a backbone for tourism, trade, and accelerated development in Ajoki, Ikpako and neighbouring communities,” he added.