LAGOS  – United Nigeria Airlines has been named as the ‘Outstanding Indigenous Airline’ at the Anambra Talent Show, a statement by Mr. Achillieus-Chud Uchegbu, the Spokesman of the airline has said. The statement said that the award was presented to the company in Awka, the Anambra State capital by Mr. Bob-Manuel Udokwu, the veteran Nollywood actor and Special Adviser to Governor Chukwuma Soludo on Entertainment, Leisure and Tourism. The statement hinted that United Nigeria Airlines had previously been decorated with the ‘Most Enterprising Airline of the Year’ award by New Telegraph and ‘Airline of the Year’ by Daily Independent newspapers. Presenting the award to the airline, Udokwu lauded United Nigeria Airlines for proudly sponsoring the event, which brought who is who in the state together for the celebration of the state’s heritage. Udokwu said United Nigeria Airlines, had since inception in February 2021, distinguished itself through effective service delivery, adding that customer satisfaction in the airline was top-notch. He emphasised that the choice of United Nigeria Airlines was easily arrived at as no other airline came close to it in service delivery and good customer relations. Udokwu noted that United Nigeria Airlines had come on very strongly as a good ambassador of the state, stressing that the tourism potential of Anambra State would have a great boost with United Nigeria Airlines providing regular flights to the state. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He further lauded the management of United Nigeria Airlines for always partnering with the government and people of Anambra state on the delivery of positive values to the state. POLL Receiving the award on behalf of United Nigeria Airlines, Raphael Uchegbu, Chief Commercial Officer, lauded the people of Anambra State for finding the company worthy of honour. Uchegbu stated that United Nigeria Airlines was ready to partner with State governments working to deliver positive values for citizens. According to him, United Nigeria Airlines was focused on delivering customer satisfaction, while ensuring that travellers are united, in safety and comfort, with their destinations, businesses, and loved ones.