The Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) have urged the incoming Federal Government to prioritise change agents as leaders of Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs), rather than just health workers, in order to fix the sector’s problems. Elaborating, JOHESU lamented that the healthcare sector MDAs, presently superintended by the physicians are allegedly rotting away. Issuing a healthcare advisory to the incoming government in a statement signed by its Acting National Secretary, Comrade (Chief) Matthew Ajorutu,  for Biobelemoye Josiah, its National Chairman, JOHESU advocated for a review of the usual approach for selecting ministers and chief executives in sector MDAs. Josiah said, “In the current dispensation, the reality in our country is that we need far and wide-reaching reforms to generate new building blocks for sustainable development in all frontiers of our collapsing social fabrics. “Our Health Sector has been progressively destroyed in the last three dispensations of leadership with special regards to ministerial appointments at the Federal Ministry of Health since 2011 to date.” The statement further reads, “Today the Health System in Nigeria which is rated 187th out of 191 Health Systems by the World Health Organisation (WHO) through the machinations of the leadership of Physicians stands no chance of redemption. This would be possible if the President-elect comes up with a unique model of reforms which places a premium on Change-Agents who are not necessarily health workers to redress the pestiferous propensities in the heavily infested Health System of our country as presently nurtured by Physicians at the Ministerial Parastatals and other Agencies of the Federal Ministry of Health.” “In a larger bid to redress the gargantuan ills in the Health Sector, the JOHESU/AHPA wishes to facilitate the reform agenda of the President-elect by proposing the reflected Charter of Demand to the incoming administration.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ JOHESU also kicked against deficiencies of the University Teaching Hospital Act Cap 436, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. POLL Further, the union condemned the discriminatory salaries and wages in the Health Sector and imbalances in the directorate structure of the Federal Ministry of Health. JOHESU further frowned at other irregularities in the healthcare industry, including discriminatory salaries and wages in the sector, Imbalances in the directorate structure of the Federal Ministry of Health, and non-adherence to the norms of the Drugs Revolving Funds (DRF). JOHESU also called for proper implementation of the National Health Insurance Authority, Act 2022. formerly National Health Insurance Scheme, decrying the poor implementation of interventionist health agencies. Congratulating the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, JOHESU appealed for him to address the myriad of challenges facing the public health sector in Nigeria in a statement made available to Independent Newspapers. Excerpts: Upgrade Tertiary Healthcare Sub-Sector: The tertiary health sub-sector should be upgraded to enable it to carry out the function of providing healthcare, producing skilled personnel, and carrying out research that can add social and economic value to Nigeria. Overhaul the National Health Insurance Scheme: The National Health Insurance coverage needs to be overhauled first to expand the coverage to capture more people especially women in the informal sector and all retirees above the age of 60 years should continue to have access to the NHIS. We demand that quality healthcare delivery be legislated as a right of citizens and not an exclusive preserve of the rich. Ensure Adequate Financing for the Health Sector: We align with the constitutional provision that the fundamental responsibility of government is the welfare of its citizens, and for us, the core of that welfare is in the quality of health enjoyed by the citizens. We believe that Nigeria is endowed with sufficient resources to adequately fund the health sector, which must be seen to be affordable, accessible, and available from the rhetoric of the policy texts. While we are not averse to the participation of the private sector in the provision of health services, we are mindful of the fact private sector is most likely to be motivated by profit and will therefore price health services out of the reach of the common citizens. We, therefore, demand that the government’s presence in the health sector should be seen as a social responsibility towards its citizens to aim at reducing poverty and inequality. Thus, we recommend a national development reform of the public financial management system aimed at strengthening budget design, allocation, and spending. We also demand that government increases funding to the health sector to at least 15 percent as prescribed in the Abuja Declaration on Health starting with an annual increment of two percent. The increased funding should specifically target training and skilled personnel development; health information; medicine and technology. More resources can be allocated from blocking leakages and corruption in the health sector. Given the role of healthcare in increased productivity and income cum poverty alleviation, we demand that additional sources of funding to health should come from a special 0.5 percent tax on individuals who earn a minimum of a million annual income and 0.1 percent for business/corporations that earns a minimum of $1billion Naira after-tax profit. We need to prioritise health as a core of human capital which affects and is affected by other socio-economic indices. We would therefore need to strengthen program-based budget spending and allocation to the health sector to align with national development priorities. We demand the participation of stakeholders in the health sector including workers to be empowered to engage in budget design, monitoring, and evaluation. This process will strengthen transparency, and accountability and consequently increase resource efficiency. Round Pegs in Round Holes: We demand that qualified professional health administrators be selected from across different medical specialties to run tertiary and secondary health institutions in Nigeria. This is the practice in many countries with verifiable results in effective and efficient public health outcomes. Full Implementation of the National Health Act, 2014: One of the products of the synergy of Health Professional Associations was the enactment of a National Health Act, 2014. On paper, we have a Health Act that should guarantee better funding of healthcare through the one percent Basic National Healthcare Consolidation Fund (BNHCF) of the nation   30 percent of this will be dedicated to NHIS, 10 percent to consumables, vaccines, and essential drugs while five percent will be for training of health personnel. For the first time, the separation of professional roles is well spelt out and all professional associations, as well as Health Sector Trade Unions, have documented roles in the enabling act. Unfortunately, up till now, Federal Government has not commenced implementation of this Act to the detriment of consumers’ of Health. The National Council on Health, which now has statutory roles, would have been the ideal template to foster harmony if all professional associations and Trade Unions are allowed to participate as stakeholders. Drawing a parallel from the World Health Professional Alliance (WHPA) comprising the FIP, World Medical Association (WMA), Federation of Nurses and Midwives, and Federation of Physiotherapists, we might just be able to mobilise all the professional associations including NMA    and Trade Unions in the health sector to a round-table discussion which may guarantee better days ahead in our healthcare. Government at all levels needs to show more responsibility and sensitivity in relationship management in our health sector particularly because Section 42 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended prohibits discrimination against citizens of Nigeria on the basis of social, gender, religious, or professional affiliations. A situation where an administration appoints two Ministers and a Permanent Secretary to head a Ministry that already has seven (7) out of ten (10) Directors belonging to one profession in a multi-disciplinary sector is, to say the least, both disrespectful and distasteful to all concerned. Convocation of Health Summit: The incoming administration should consider the immediate convocation of the Health Summit to provide a platform for all stakeholders in the health sector to discuss and make far-reaching recommendations on how to address the enormous challenges in healthcare delivery in Nigeria. Conclusion While we acknowledge that Health systems are dynamic necessitating constant change to respond to emerging challenges. However, any meaningful reform should prioritise making healthcare affordable, accessible, and available across class, gender, and location. This Change process to improve service delivery and the quality of health often referred to as Health system reform must be broadly available in coverage, inclusive in access, and easily affordable, especially to workers and their families, pensioners, and the 87 million Nigerians living in poverty. Let us be guided by the saying that “health is wealth” which goes for the individual as much for the nation. Let us be guided by the primary responsibility of governance as enshrined in the  Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), that the security and wellbeing of Nigerians is the primary responsibility of government. Let us also be reminded that the security and development of a nation is premised on the quality of its human capital ditto education and health. None of which should be priced out of the reach of the ordinary citizen.