LAGOS – The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Elders Forum, has warned the Lagos State governorship candidate of the party in the just concluded general elections, Dr. Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor to desist from denigrating leaders and elders of the party According to a press statement on Sunday, the group, among other conditions, asked him to disband the Lagos4Lagos Movement in accordance with the constitution of the party. According to the statement, the group held a meeting on Thursday, 30th March, deliberated on the way forward for the party and issued a communique. One of the fallouts of the meeting was a warning given to Jandor, to understand that Chief Bode George, the former Deputy National Chairman of the PDP is the leader of the party in Lagos State and deserves all the respect. According to the communique, Her Excellency Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele, Onikepo Oshodi, Dr. Layi Ogunbami and a host of other elders of PDP in Lagos State passed a unanimous vote of confidence on Chief Olabode George as the undisputed leader of the PDP in Lagos. The communique reads, “That, never again should the national leadership interfere in the process of choosing party managers and candidates for the party in Lagos. “That, we hereby state that henceforth, Mr. Olajide Adediran, the PDP’s former governorship candidate in Lagos should desist from further denigrating leaders and elders of the party, contrary to the provision of Section 58 (I) (H) of the constitution of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as amended in 2017.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “That, we recognise the fact that as a new member of the party, Mr. Adediran may not be conversant with the cultures, traditions and provisions of the party’s constitution, hence we admonish him to conduct himself in conformity with the cultures and norms of the party, failure which would leave the party with no other choice, than to invoke appropriate disciplinary measures against him. POLL “That, the PDP doesn’t condone groupings within its fold, hence, the group such as the Lagos for Lagos should be disbanded forthwith in accordance with the provisions of Section 58 (I) (J) of the constitution of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as amended in 2017,” the statement added. The Communique was ratified and signed by the 22 elders of the PDP in Lagos State.