The governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, on Wednesday, picked the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the forthcoming governorship election in the state slated for November 11. The PDP screening committee led by the Edo State deputy governor, Philip Shuaibu, had in March cleared Diri as the only aspirant for the party’s primaries. The Governor of Osun State, Ademola Adeleke, who headed the PDP panel for the elective state delegates congress for the Bayelsa governorship primaries, announced Diri as the winner of the election held at the Gabriel Okara Cultural Centre, Yenagoa. The ad-hoc delegates were drawn from the eight local government areas of the state. Adeleke said that the governor polled a total of 305 ‘yes votes’ to emerge as the candidate of the party for the Bayelsa governorship poll. He said, “Having satisfied the requirements of this election and having scored the highest number of votes, I, Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke, by the power vested in me as the chairman, Chief Returning Officer, hereby declare Senator Douye Diri as the winner of the election. “I therefore return him as the candidate of the PDP in the November 2023 election.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Diri in his acceptance speech described the exercise as “the best primaries in the history of our party in Bayelsa State.” POLL He noted that the primaries were a mere formality to fulfill the requirements of the Electoral Act, adding that his party was growing stronger on a daily basis. Diri attributed his emergence as the only aspirant for the primaries to the “understanding within the party that we want our party to go back to its foundational days.” While accepting the party’s ticket, the governor said: “Some would have questioned: our governor is the only candidate, we don’t need this process, our governor can just continue and then we face whoever that will come from any opposition party here in the state. “But the electoral laws do not permit us that way. It is therefore with this utmost joy and a very grateful heart to all of us in the Peoples Democratic Party, the leaders, the followers and all the allies, I do accept your nomination as the candidate of our great party, the PDP, to contest the November 11 gubernatorial election in Bayelsa State.”