LAGOS  – The 2015 presidential can­didate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), Chief Martins Onovo, has predicted that the Novem­ber 11 Imo governorship poll will likely be violent and fraudulent. In an exclusive chat with Sunday INDEPENDENT on Sat­urday, Onovo said the incumbent governor would use every weap­on in his arsenal to ensure that he retained power. Onovo, currently the Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC), stated: “Based on recent experi­ence and current trend in Imo State, we will not be surprised that the ruling party will use state terrorism, violence, fraud and impunity to impose itself on the people.” Senator Uzodimma, the in­cumbent governor, it would be recalled, mounted the saddle of the state’s leadership by dethron­ing former governor, Chief Eme­ka Ihedioha, a few months into the administration through a Supreme Court ruling. Since then, the PDP has been struggling to reclaim the state which has not really known peace under the current admin­istration, using its wide struc­tures. However, in a recent and un­explained dramatic move, the PDP’s popular former governor, Chief Ihedioha, withdrew from the election, making way for an easy ride of the party’s Deputy National Chairman, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, who many see as less popular, to emerge the PDP’s governorship candidate. Onovo, it would be recalled, had as far back as July last year, predicted that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would manipulate the 2023 presidential elections in fa­vour of the ruling party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Similarly, an Imo State-born lawyer, Barrister Emeka Iheonu, also predicted that the incum­bent governor, Hope Uzodimma, would win the Imo governorship election. POLL He said: “Most Nigerians al­ready know how the incumbent governor replaced Chief Emeka Ihedioha, who had already been sworn in as Imo State governor. “Recall that the governor was placed fourth in the election re­sults that year, but was later ad­judged by the Supreme Court to be the winner. “If Chief Ihedioha had not reportedly withdrawn, I would have been optimistic that he would defeat the incumbent governor in the next election in November this year. “However, with the usual Ni­gerian electoral mumbo jumbo, I feel that the incumbent governor will retain his seat.” Also, another stakeholder and a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, maintained that Emeka Ihedioha is popular in Imo State and left good lega­cies for his people during his few months in office as the then gov­ernor of Imo State. Chief Kalu, a seasoned politi­cian and the National Coordina­tor, Peoples Democratic Party Co­alition (PDP Coalition), recalled that when Ihedioha held sway as the Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, his people felt his fresh air of good representa­tion and that is how to build trust in leadership. Kalu, Director General, Global Initiatives for Good Gov­ernance (GIGG), stated: “Well, Chief Anyanwu is not known to be of bad record, but it could have given PDP chances if Chief Eme­ka Ihedioha was given the ticket to run for the election. “This could have helped PDP retain power in Imo, knowing full well that the government of Sen­ator Hope Uzodimma has been passing through lines of confron­tations due to communal crisis that had severally occurred in the state.” It would be recalled that a PDP chieftain and State Coordinator, Imo PDP Grassroots Movement, Hon Dennis Adikwuru, had last week told Sunday INDEPEN­DENT that the group has been strategizing and mobilizing Imolites for a massive voting in favour of his party to ensure that Anyanwu wins the election. He maintained that although it was with great disbelief that his group and several Imolites learnt that Ihedioha, their fa­vourite candidate, will not be in the ballot. Adikwuru, howeder, stressed: “However, the group has resolved to remain in the People’s Demo­cratic Party (PDP) and join forces for the victory of the party in the coming election. “To this effect, the leadership further resolved to meet the State Working Committee (SWC) of the party to brainstorm on ways forward to move the party forward and reunite aggrieved members.” Further enquiries by Sunday INDEPENDENT revealed the leaders of Imo PDP Grassroots Movement had been strategizing on how to see Anyanwu to elec­toral victory. Already, the machinery has been put in place to ensure that the group takes the lead in gal­vanising support for Anyanwu in collaboration with other like-minds within the PDP structure in the state. The PDP leaders, it was gathered, have been meeting at unit, ward, local government and senatorial districts levels for all structures to work with one mind so they could speak in one voice during the election, believing that Anyanwu’s victo­ry is assured, despite Ihedioha’s withdrawal. With the crisis that has en­gulfed the Labour Party (LP), leading to the emergence of four governorship candidates, it is doubtful if it can muster enough force to do an electoral battle with the two major political parties in Imo State. Also, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), al­though popular in the South East, has remained an Anam­bra affair as its efforts to make a strong impact in Imo and other states in the geo-political zone have always been dashed by leadership crisis.