LAGOS – Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Governor has stressed the need for parents to train and guild their children in the way of God, stating that no nation can develop when its citizens are not well brought up.He stated this on Sunday while speaking at the 3rd memorial Ramadan lecture and prayer for the late Oba Muftau Olatunji Hamzat in Lagos stating that there are lay down protocols in child upbringing that all must follow. “It is important the way we raise our children, the lecturer talked about contentment, even if you don’t let them know that they will always get everything they want, let them understand the essence of giving, sharing with others, being their friends’ keepers. if we can use it, I think it will be very beneficial to usHamzat advised parents to always spend quality time with their children. “I think we really need to spend some time with our children, let them understand the essence of life, what it means, what to be done and how things are to be done. If we don’t train them somebody else will train them on the internet, somebody that they don’t know, somebody that doesn’t share their values and they will just train them. So we just have to be very careful with our children, to instill our own culture, understanding, our own fibre into them so that they can grow up as our children and not internet children,” he said. Speaking on the essence of the lecture he said they hold the lecture because their father usually organise such when he was alive and also feed the less privileged. “We just want to sustain it, even when he is no more alive, to assist people, bring people together so that we can share ideas and assist ourselves to build ourselves and the society,” he addedAlhaji Lateef Sunmonu, President, of Ifako Ijaiye Muslim Community in his welcome address said their request for this year’s Ramadan lecture will be to ask Allah to direct our leaders aright and make life easier for all of us. He called on the Deputy Governor, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat and other dignitaries present at the lecture to contribute to the development of the Islamic centre which the Muslim community is building. Sheu Ismail Agbayawo in his lecture titled; Child’s upbringing in Islam, advised that young men and ladies should pray and seek the face of a God in choosing a life partner and that after they have married they should always pray for the kind of children they want to have even before the wife gets pregnant.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said when the child comes they should always pray for the child and always put him or her through the word of God and teachings in the holy Quran. POLL He noted that parents should teach their children to be contented and also teach them how to give, stressing that the main thing is to train the children in the way of the Lord. He however tasked political leaders in the country and the state to keep to their electioneering promises that Nigerians are now exposed than before where politicians can take the electorates for granted.