ABUJA – The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has called on the Federal Government particularly the National Assembly to as a matter of urgency fast-track the process of establishing Outdoor Advertisement and Signage (DOAS) as an agency on its own. NANS added that in the process of framing an ACT for its establishment, a Director General should be appointed to oversee its affair with clearly stipulated directorates as this would go a long way in showcasing the beauty and professional practices. This, according to them would help in thorough institutionalizing and decent mode of operation free from external interference and capturing of unforeseen circumstances. Speaking through the Vice President, Comrade Victor Ezanagu on Thursday at a press conference in Abuja also called on mischievous people who are using this avenue to cause unrest within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to put an end to their ugly acts, since this issue is presently at the court of law and also before National Assembly for thorough action as We crave for a speedy process in the betterment of Nigerian society. According to him:” The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) being an umbrella body of teeming Nigerian students schooling at home and diaspora is a body saddled with the responsibility of coordinating and representing the interest of our members and Nigerian society at large, we remain a critical stakeholders in the country. “It has come to our notice issues revolving Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Department of Outdoor Advertisement & Signage and this has attracted the attention of every discerning Nigerians of which the students populace are not excluded. “NANS has taken it union herself to embark on fact-finding mission to dissect the activities of FCTA Department of Outdoor Advertisement and Signage thereby aiding our understanding on misconceptions and grievances from different quarters beyond what is reported on social media.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is on record that the Department of Outdoor Advertisement and Signage (DOAS) is saddled with the responsibility to control, curb indecent activities and poor procedures and regulate adverts and signage practices in Abuja and its 6 Area Councils. POLL “The FCTA DOAS was established in 2009 by former Minister of FCT Bala Mohammed in agreement with 6 Area Councils Chairmen of FCT under the supervision of the National Assembly and other critical stakeholders who were engaged in the process. “However, it is important to state that the process was signed and agreed to span through a 10 years of running and of which it elapsed in December 2022. “Aside from the professional practices of DOAS, it is pivotal to state that this initiative has helped in generating meaningful revenue in FCT since establishment and this has made the body a key source of generating funds for the government in the whole of Abuja. “Unequivocally speaking, DOAS has also served as a platform to engage young people who are fresh graduates and unemployed knowing fully well that the majority of the activities under this body revolve in the intellectual contribution and ability of young people. “Going further, the Federal Capital Territory is one of the cleanest cities in Africa due to constant cleanup of road furniture along the road corridorS, it removes all illegal posters and campaign materials indiscriminately placed on the road. “We have been able to reliably gather that all signage and billboard payments are made into the TSA through the REMITA platform, DOAS does not collect cash from clients. “Considering the benefits being enjoyed by Nigerians under DOAS, We perceive it is inhumane and maligning to call for this disbandment of such body, as such would return the FCTA to the days’ unkempt environment, proliferation and unprofessional activities of Outdoor Advertisement and Signage and further endangers an average Nigerian doing business by falling prey into hands of underworld agents. “Our appeal to every warring party to sheath swords and embrace peace in the interest of a greater Nigeria and betterment of all and sundry for a country that works for all regardless of tribe, ethnic group and religion”, he stated.