LAGOS  – President Muhammadu Buhari has been urged to immediate­ly enforce the judgment by the ECOWAS Court of Justice, pro­hibiting prosecutions of anyone on the grounds of “insulting or stalking public officials online”. The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) made this call on Sun­day through a statement issued by its Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare. The organisation also urged the president to enforce and implement the ECOWAS Court judgment compelling his gov­ernment to respect, protect and promote freedom of expression, access to information and me­dia freedom. SERAP said, “Many Nige­rians and media houses con­tinue to face threats simply for speaking out and seeking to peacefully exercise their human rights and carry out their pro­fessional duties. This situation is contrary to the Nigerian con­stitution 1999 (as amended) and the judgments by the ECOWAS Court. “The immediate enforce­ment and implementation of the judgments by your govern­ment will be a victory for the rule of law, the right to freedom of expression and media free­dom, including online. “These disturbing trends show the failure by your govern­ment to effectively comply with the country’s international obli­gations and the ECOWAS Court judgments on the Cybercrime Act and Twitter ban. “If the two judgments are not immediately enforced and im­plemented, SERAP will consid­er seeking a writ of execution from the ECOWAS Court, and asking the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Govern­ment to impose sanctions on your government for non-com­pliance with these judgments.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “By implementing the judg­ment, your government will be demonstrating Nigeria’s lead­ership within the ECOWAS sub-region, and sending a pow­erful message to other countries to embrace the rule of law and human rights. POLL “The processes for the sanc­tions are provided for under the 2015 Supplementary Protocol, the 2012 Supplementary Act on Sanctions and the 1993 ECOW­AS Revised Treaties. The sanc­tions may include judicial, eco­nomic and political sanctions. “Section 27 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Trea­ties provides that, ‘A state party to a treaty may not invoke the provisions of its internal law as justification for its failure to perform the treaty.’ “SERAP urges you to urgent­ly send an executive bill to the National Assembly to repeal the provisions of section 24 of the Cybercrime Act on the offence of ‘insulting or stalking public officials online’ by ensuring the deletion of the provisions from the Act, as ordered by the ECOWAS Court. “SERAP also urges you to direct Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), the Attorney General of the Federation and Minis­ter of Justice, to withdraw all charges of ‘insulting or stalking public officials online’ against activists, critics and journal­ists, ensure their release from unlawful detention, and pay ad­equate compensation to those who have faced unfair prosecu­tions on the basis of the unlaw­ful provisions. “SERAP urges you to in­struct Mr. Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture and the National Broad­casting Commission (NBC) to immediately reverse the arbi­trary and unlawful fine of N5 million imposed on Channels TV for allegedly violating the NBC code in a programme with the Labour Party’s vice-pres­idential candidate, Datti Ba­ba-Ahmed. “Some of the troubling trends showing restrictions on freedom of expression, ac­cess to information and media freedom include the recent arbitrary detention of journal­ist Agba Jalingo for allegedly publishing an article that was deemed ‘insulting’ to Elizabeth Ayade, the sister-in-law of Cross River governor, Ben Ayade. “Another case involves Ek­ene Obinali of Umucheke, a traditional ruler in Imo State, who was reportedly arrested for allegedly sharing a post on a WhatsApp platform which is said to be critical of Governor Hope Uzodimma. “Nnamdi Chude, a social me­dia influencer, was also report­edly arrested for cyberstalking allegedly over a tweet he posted on electoral violence in Anam­bra State. “In Rivers State, three law­yers representing Tonye Cole of the All Progressives Congress were reportedly arrested and detained for preparing a peti­tion against the outcome of the Rivers governorship election. The lawyers are Jerry Aondo, Dr Sobere Nelson, and Odum Eyiba. “The National Broadcasting Code (NBC) also arbitrarily imposed an unlawful fine of N5 million on Channels Televi­sion for allegedly violating the NBC code in a programme with the Labour Party’s vice-presi­dential candidate, Datti Ba­ba-Ahmed. “In the first judgment in the suit number ECW/CCJ/ APP/09/19 brought by SERAP, the court ordered your gov­ernment to repeal section 24 of Cybercrime Act by deleting the provisions, consistent with Nigeria’s obligation under Arti­cle 1 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights. “The ECOWAS Court ruled that section 24 is inconsistent and incompatible with Article 9 of the African Charter on Hu­man and Peoples’ Rights and Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights to which Nigeria is a state party.”