Salihu Lukman, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee has decried the ongoing contest for the leadership of the 10th National Assembly alerting that the nation risks a cash-and-carry National Assembly. He also expressed worry that another Muslim may emerge as senate president in the coming dispensation in total disregard for provisions of the nation’s constitution, with huge consequences for the unity and security of the country. Lukman in a statement said he is deeply worried that some of the contestants for a leadership position in the 10th NASS, including the Senate President and speaker position seem to have an abiding disdain for the constitution if the country as they focus their aspirations. He observed that if these are allowed to get away with their desire , the electoral viability of the APC would be jeopardized. According to him two of the contestants, both from Muslims north , are currently mobilizing support using unethical means and without regard for the constitution. “Unfolding developments around the contest for the leadership of the 10th National Assembly is quite worrisome. Apart from the clear disregard for national unity and outright disrespect for Nigerians, especially the persons of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Sen. Kashim Shettima, being the President-elect and Vice-President-elect respectively, some of the aspiring candidates for the positions of Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives are neither concerned about the security and well-being of Nigeria nor are they in anyway disturbed about factors that could erode the electoral viability of our party – APC. ” These are aspiring candidates for these positions, two of them Muslims from North-West aspiring for the position of Senate President and one of them from North-East aspiring for the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives, who are desperately mobilising support in unethical manner without any regard or respect to the party and its leadership”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He disclosed that some of the aspirants have sent trailer loads of rice and sugar to members of the APC NWC adding that the whole contest is turning to a bazaar of sort. POLL “There are speculations that some of them are bribing party leaders with huge amounts of money to stop the party from zoning positions. There are also the disturbing reports from House of Representatives members-elect that one aspirant for the position of Speaker from North-East apart from bribing members-elect with huge amounts of money is also offering jeeps to members-elect if they will commit to electing him as the Speaker. This has reduced the contest for the leadership of 10th National Assembly to Cash-and-Carry.”. He opined that any Muslim aspiring for the Senate President has respect and regard for the constitution nor leaders of the APC including president Mohammadu Buhari and President Elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Lukman declared: “Any Muslim aspiring for the position of Senate President has no respect for both the constitutions of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the APC. ” This is because Chapter II, Section 14(3) of the Nigerian constitution clearly outlined that ‘the composition of the Government of the Federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect the federal character of Nigeria and the need to promote national unity, and also to command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few States or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that Government or in any of its agencies “With two Muslims already elected to be sworn in as President and Vice President of the Federal Republic on May 29, any attempt to consider another Muslim as Senate President will promote the dominance of Muslims in the Federal Government and will be injurious to national unity and peaceful co-existence of Nigeria as a sovereign entity, which must not be allowed. “Further, the APC constitution enjoined party leaders and members to “render service at all levels of governance, and to build a nation which will guarantee equal opportunity for all, mutual and peaceful co-existence, respect and understanding, eliminating all forms of discrimination and social injustice among Nigerians, rendering selfless service that will rekindle a deep sense of patriotism and nationalism.” “How can anyone aspiring for position of leadership at all levels seeking to bribe his/her way be said to be interested in rendering service? Such a person will only be interested in rendering service to himself and himself alone. Besides, given that both the two persons allegedly involved in this cash-and-carry approach to mobilising support for their emergence as Senate President are Muslims, it will be gross insensitivity to the peaceful co-existence of the country and disrespectful to Nigerians to allow them to continue to aspire for the position of Senate President”. Lukman pointed that the emerging development put the nation’s peace coexistence at risk and had to be stopped before it is too late.