As Nigerians look forward to a new administration on May 29, 2023, amid uncertainty in the economy, finan­cial analysts have identified fragile economic recovery and rising debt as impediments to growth. According to the latest Africa’s Pulse, the World Bank’s April 2023 economic update for sub-Saharan Africa, economic growth in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa is set to slow down. While sub-Saharan Africa is slow­ing down from 3.6 percent in 2022 to 3.1 percent in 2023, Nigeria for 2023 (2.8%) will remain fragile as oil production remains subdued. ­ Growth across sub-Saha­ran Africa remains sluggish, dragged down by uncertainty in the global economy, the un­derperformance of the conti­nent’s largest economies, high inflation, and a sharp deceler­ation of investment growth, a World Bank report said. In the face of dampened growth prospects and rising debt levels, the report said African governments must sharpen their focus on mac­roeconomic stability, domestic revenue mobilisation, debt re­duction, and productive invest­ments to reduce extreme pover­ty and boost shared prosperity in the medium to long term. The real gross domestic product (GDP) growth of the Western and Central Africa sub-regions is estimated to de­cline to 3.4% in 2023 from 3.7% in 2022, while that of Eastern and Southern Africa declines to 3.0% in 2023 from 3.5% in 2022. “Weak growth combined with debt vulnerabilities and dismal investment growth risks a lost decade in pover­ty reduction,” said Andrew Dabalen, World Bank Chief Economist for Africa. “Policy­makers need to redouble efforts to curb inflation, boost domes­tic resource mobilisation, and enact pro-growth reforms— while continuing to help the poorest households cope with the rising costs of living.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Debt distress risks remain high with 22 countries in the region at high risk of external debt distress or in debt distress as of December 2022. Unfavor­able global financial conditions have increased borrowing costs and debt service costs in Africa, diverting money from badly needed development investments and threatening macro-fiscal stability. POLL Stubbornly high inflation and low investment growth continue to constrain African economies. While headline in­flation appears to have peaked in the past year, inflation is set to remain high at 7.5% for 2023, and above central bank target bands for most countries. Investment growth in sub-Sa­haran Africa fell from 6.8% in 2010-13 to 1.6% in 2021, with a sharper slowdown in Eastern and Southern Africa than in Western and Central Africa. Analysts at Coronation Mer­chant Bank believe that Nige­ria’s rising debt profile impedes growth. They argued that the report by Nigeria’s Debt Management Office (DMO), that Nigeria’s to­tal public debt rose by 5.0 per­cent quarter-on-quarter (q/q) or N2.2 trillion to N46.3 trillion in end-December 2022 from N44.1 trillion at the end of Sep­tember 2022 is a heavy burden to economic growth. “On a year-on-year (y/y) ba­sis, total public debt increased by 16.9 percent. We note that as of end-December 2022, pub­lic debt is equivalent to 23.2 percent of 2022 nominal GDP. This is relatively low when compared with other African emerging economies such as Egypt (87%), Ghana (82%), Kenya (68%), and South Afri­ca (67%). “It is also in line with the DMO’s debt management tar­get of a debt-to-GDP ratio of 40 percent for the period 2020- 2023 and below the limit of 55 per­cent set by the World Bank for countries within Nigeria’s peer group”, the analysts said. Significantly, Nigeria’s total domestic debt increased by 2.2 percent q/q and 16.0 percent y/y to N27.5 trillion at the end of December. The increase, they said, can be partly attributed to increas­es in Federal Government bonds (45% q/q), FGN Sukuk (21.2% q/q), and promissory notes (3.1% q/q). These new borrowings were primarily to finance the 2022 budget deficit. It is worth highlighting that the per capita component of the 2022 fiscal budget has been ex­tended to run till end-June 2023. With domestic debt, FGN instruments accounted for 80.6% of total domestic debt while subnational accounted for 19.4%. Bonds and NTBs accounted for 93.4% of total FGN domestic debt while FGN Sukuk, treasury bonds, sav­ings bonds, green bonds, and promissory notes collectively contributed to 62% of the total domestic debt stock. The external debt stock stood at $41.7 billion (N18.7 trillion) in end-December 2022. This represents an increase of 5% q/q. The increase in exter­nal debt can be partly attribut­ed to upticks in loans sourced from the IMF (3.7% q/q), Word Bank (11.2% q/q), and China (4.9% q/q). Despite these challenges, analysts believe that Nigeria with the new government has the potential to rejuvenate the economy by ensuring that, unlike in the current regime, both the fiscal and monetary authorities are in sync. Dr. Rasheed Alao, Head of the Department of Econom­ics, Adeyemi College of Edu­cation, Ondo, said Nigerians are hopeful that the incoming government will come with a workable economic blueprint. He said, “Like many Nigeri­ans, I am optimistic that the in­coming Tinubu administration will usher in an atmosphere for a better life for the people. “Despite the possibility of removal of subsidy on petro­leum, I am hopeful that the in­coming government will pro­vide palliative that will cushion the effect of the removal on op­erators of small and medium scale enterprises. “It is evident that there is a herculean task waiting for the incoming government on how to kick start the economy and many Nigerians are waiting to see what the government will do”. In his reaction, Stephen Iloba, an economist, said the incoming government should forget about keeping some ill-advised policies of the cur­rent government. “I am not against continui­ty but will be suicidal if the in­coming government embarks on providing infrastructure that has no direct relevance to the economy like we are cur­rently witnessing”, he said.