Barrister Olumide Braithwaite, Spokesperson Tinubu/Shettima grassroots Independent Campaign Council (ICC), has thrown his weight behind the South-South Zone and hoped that the APC National Working Committee (NWC) would zone the Senate President position to the South-South. He added that the South-South should be given a shot since the region has not had such a post in the past. “Like always, it’s going to be political, in my opinion, I would like to see the Senate President and Speaker going to the most deserved Zone. It should not be by entitlement. If you look at the breakdown of the voting for the presidential, the South-South delivered, the Southeast didn’t. The North delivered. “I think the South-South deserve a shot, they have never had that post in the history of Nigeria. The person of Asiwaju, he is a progressive, he is not a bigot or a tribalist, you have seen that in his manifesto and postulations. I believe he would make the right decision,” he said. Braithwaite, who is also the principal of Braithwaite and co. and the son of the late sage Tunji Braithwaite stated this recently in Lagos at a press briefing, where he told journalists what Nigerians should be expecting from the new in-coming government. Again, he expressed confidence in the competency of the president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and asked Nigerians to expect a change from the old order in areas such as the economy, education and youth engagement. He said, “I am expecting that the economy will be one of our top priorities. You will agree with me, that needs urgent attention. That will be a huge task, revamping the ailing economy from inflation, monetary policy, interest rate, unemployment, education for the youth.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This election has thrown up a phenomenon that is not going to go away in the next four years. Just driving around through the streets of Nigeria, you will see youths between the ages of 18 to 40, they are the ones that formed the majority. Therefore this sizable group needs to be engaged in the labour market. We cannot afford not to engage them. I expect these are going to be looked into and I hope that there will be a rapid turn around of our fortunes. POLL “Nigerians have to be expectant of the experience of the president-elect in terms of foreign investment, business, trade and infrastructure from the module of Lagos State. And I believe that this government will be more interactive in order to get the full cooperation of that population.” Speaking further, the leader of the ICC also mentioned the role the grassroots campaign council played in the last general election, he said, “I am proud to be a member of the board, it was a novel one that was set up to work alongside the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC). It was a novel concept, it has never been done before. “Where we noticed some of the gaps in the PCC we filled those gaps, in fact, I personally set up the presidential task force to look into the gaps in all the campaign structures to bring them closer to them. Some think it was a replica of PCC, I think it complimented them. The door-to-door campaign in the rural area was our purview. I think we did our best in that regard.”