LAGOS – Hon. Moshood Salvador, Lagos-West senatorial candidate of the Labour Party in the just concluded general elections, has charged the government at all levels, and other individuals to replicate the deeds of Zaqat to vulnerable people in the country. The former chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, made the remark at the Annual Salvador Ramadan Lecture and Zaqat at Salvador Towers in Lagos. According to Salvador, such a gesture gives hope to the less privileged; hence, the willingness to listen to whatever they tell them. He described Ramadan as the month of forgiveness, love, taking care of people, and pointed out that the need for empathy towards one another is very important during the period. While reliving memories of his father extending a kind gesture, Salvador said that he has done that for over 27 years, and urged Muslim faithful to love one another as it is the only condiment for a greater Nigeria. Salvador said, “It is part of the things that we have been telling our governments to do for poor people. So, it is very important for individuals, also to do something for the people, so that whatever we are talking about they will have some level of hope. “Give them food to eat, water to drink, and clothes to wear, because these are the basic necessities for human beings.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He added, “Ramadan is the month of sober reflection, it is the month of forgiveness, it is the month of love and it is the month of taking care of people. POLL “So, it is not until you have a billion naira that you can assist, even if you have one thousand naira, you can still help. It is a pleasure for me, that is how I met it from my father, and I have been doing this for over 27 years. “The beauty of it is how happiness radiates in the faces of the people who receive this help. Poor children have to feed, and if their parents cannot take care of them, you know what that means. If you don’t have money to buy, how would you feel as a parent? So, that is why we try as much as possible to make them feel happy. On his message to Muslims in the season, he said, “My message to all Muslims in this Ramadan season is to think about others. Love is very important.”