LAGOS – The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) nd the candidate of the party in the just concluded governorship election, Dr. Abdul-Azeez Adediran, popularly called Jandor, have congratulated Muslims across the world and in Lagos State in particular to imbibe the lessons of Rahmadan as they celebrate this year’s Eid-El-Fitr. As Muslims all over the world celebrate this year’s Eid-El-Fitr, which signifies the end of Ramadan, the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) wishes to congratulate all Muslims. In separate messages sent to Lagosians the party told Muslims to note that the period of Ramadan is always an opportunity for Muslims to get closer to their creator, while Jandor described this year’s celebration of the completion of the Ramadan fast which coincided with the Christian Lent period as a unique opportunity to have attracted the intervention of the Supreme Being in the precarious situation of Lagos State.  A message signed by Hon. Hakeem Amode, Lagos State PDP Publicity Secretary, reads, “We wish to urge all Muslims, especially those in Lagos State, not to forget the lessons learnt in the Holy Month of Ramadan. “The period of Ramadan is always an opportunity for Muslims to get closer to their creator and we believe that this should be a continuous exercise for us as worshippers of Allah. “During Ramadan, Muslims learn endurance, love, peace, holiness, kindness, perseverance and dedication. We want all these to continue even after the end of the Holy Month. He added, “Our supplications and prayers for the past four weeks that we waited on Almighty Allah cannot go in vain, and we need to continue to pray for peace and progress for our dear state and country. “This is the best time for us to wake up as a people and agree that we have much on our hands. “As a party, we are with you at all times and we believe that this difficult period will pass as it has been a challenging moment and certainly all hands must be on deck if we want to take back our nation and bequeath a government that would listen to the yearnings of the masses. “The Lagos State chapter of the PDP will not relent in ensuring that the people of the state get the best in terms of governance. “Ramadan provides us an opportunity to pray to Almighty Allah to restore our lost glory and we believe that He will answer our prayers and give us the best at this material time. “The grace given us to observe the fasting, which we have just ended, is an indication that we will soon get the desired level of development that we all crave for both at the state and at the federal levels. “Currently, as a nation, we have been enduring harsh economic situations caused by maladministration, but we believe that the Almighty Allah would soon make things better for us. “We are not unaware of what the people of the state and the country have been going through in the last few years as we are all in it together, but we know that Allah is not asleep over Nigeria and He has His own way of ameliorating the sufferings of the people. “While we wish you wonderful celebration, we wish to let you know that we in the PDP will not rest on our oars until the people of the state and the country enjoy the best of what the government can provide. Jandor on his part, in a message signed on his behalf by Gbenga Ogunleye, Head, Media & Communications, JANDOR4Governor Campaign Organization, felicitated with the Muslim Ummah in Lagos State and all the good people of the state on the occasion of Eid-el Fitr.  He described this year’s celebration of the completion of the Ramadan fast which coincides with the Christian Lent period as a unique opportunity to have attracted the intervention of the Supreme Being in the precarious situation of the state of Lagos.  He stated that the self-discipline created by the Ramadan fast encourages showing compassion towards fellow human beings who cannot feed because of poverty. The fast aid the appreciation of what it means to go without food for the whole day, thereby understanding the impact of hunger on millions of poor people in the state. Jandor, called on the people to keep hope alive as they celebrate. He enjoins all well-meaning residents of the state to persevere and remain resolute in their aspirations to enjoy a breath of fresh air.  “I wish all Lagosians a happy Eid-el Fitr celebration. We should not abandon the valuable lessons of the Ramadan fast rather we should internalize its lessons as we anticipate a positive change in our experience of governance in the State of Lagos”, he said.