Charles Edward Jones otherwise known as Charles ‘Tremendous’ Jones or Charles T. Jones, is author of a litany of books that are must reads for knowledge seeking people in the leadership space. This piece here (excerpts) on Jones, was published in Success magazine in August 2008. The story is published to kick-start our Enterprise Books series Revealing Truth Books have been the heart of many of Jone’s many self-discoveries, including one that forever changed his life. Though he had gone to church as a child, his spiritual life began at 22 when a prospective insurance client asked him to read John 3:16 and several other verses. “This was a new experience because my last experience with the Bible was in my childhood days,” Jones says. “He had me read each verse more than once, and each time I read them they became clearer.” At the same time, Jones wasn’t interested in “being converted” and ended the conversation. But the words he read made him think about spiritual truths for the first time in his life. That realization spurred him to begin sharing books with others – a decision that has shaped his life’s course. As a speaker, Jones has taken millions through the same process of self-discovery – not necessarily with the Bible but with quotes and concepts found in biographies and other non-fiction works. He contributes his success to his commitment to reading and memorizing meaningful quotations. “I think memorizing Bible verses and great quotes of Lincoln, Paton, Tozer, Chambers, Spurgeon and many other greats helped me get my audience to think great thoughts with me rather than to be bored by listening to me,” he says… Lessons from a Lifetime of Learning Jones doesn’t claim to know everything that is why he has come to live life to the fullest and to be in a continuous state of learning. He committed himself to learning, growing, and gathering new experiences. This attitude towards people and life is one of the reasons why this accomplished man seems so approachable – so genuine… ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The secret is: “Do things,” he says. “The more you do, the more enthusiastic you’ll become…” Jones wants people to be enthusiastic, to live life to the fullest and to be in a continuous state of learning and growing. POLL Read to Improve Your Life For Jones, reading isn’t a hobby; it is a necessity for learning. He says those who don’t read are no better than those who can’t read, and his mission as a “book evangelist” is to change the world one book at a time. But books become mentors, Jones goal is to get people excited about reading books that can improve their lives… Seek Counsel For Jones, what you should do is never take or ask for advice, but get counsel. Jones says, counsel is when you gather information from different sources and then make your decision. But, always when you make your decision, you make it your decision and let no one influence it.” Be Flexible It is great to have a plan, but how often do things go as planned? Jones would say almost never. “You go in thinking that something will go wrong, and when it goes wrong, that is your new plan!” And if something goes right, that can be worked in too. But don’t worry about it. Nothing ever goes right.” Laugh at Yourself Laughter is good medicine and Jones offer audiences ample doses by pointing out and poking fun at the predicaments humans become tangled in when they fail. “You are going to have up and downs all your life,” he says,” but you don’t learn to enjoy life even during hard times, you will never learn life for what it is.” Life with Gratitude “The habit that has helped me the most is learning to be thankful,” he says. “Learning to be thankful is the greatest secret of success. A thankful spirit keeps you looking up when you are down. A thankful spirit keeps you thinking and caring about others…”