At a forum in Lagos, a Nigerian entrepreneur and small enterprise person told the audience how an advice from an Indian friend to him on the beauty of a poor-friendly packaging strategy moved his sales volume up dramatically. The entrepreneur who manufactures black soap (Ose Dudu) in syrup form, started off with a fanciful, expensive, large size packaging. On the advice of his Indian friend, he changed to small size sachet packaging. And that was it. This is tapping into people at the bottom of the pyramid. The best business model in the world now is tapping into people at the bottom of the pyramid. Unless this is done, businesses will not be able to scale up, industry experts claim. Reports have it that in India, every major business has changed its business model to this and volumes have gone up. Bangladesh adopted this model and has emerged a successful economy whilst Pakistan which is doing otherwise has problems. The BOP concept champions new thinking and new ways of doing business in the world’s poor markets. While this high-level aspiration is not necessarily new, the current concept, also known as B24B (business-to-4-billion), was coined by influential business academics C. K. Prahalad and Stuart Hart a few years ago in a working paper, which then became a series of important and well-cited articles. These authors made the simple yet powerful observation that four billion people remain outside of the global market system. The BOP concept frames this stunning fact as both a tremendous need and real opportunity for corporations. The BOP represents a vast, unexploited, multitrillion-dollar marketplace. For companies struggling with maturing markets, floundering business models, and serious questions about who their customers of the future will be, these are important markets to crack. But tapping into these overlooked markets will require companies to reconfigure their business assumptions, models, and practices. According to a working paper titled ‘The Bottom of the Pyramid: Re-perceiving Business from the Bottomup’ by Nicole Boyer, the downsides to ignoring these untapped markets are also enormous. “Conditions are dangerously ripe for disruptive technologies and ideas to emerge from the BOP, although it may be hard for large incumbent companies to see or believe this at present. Many things could accelerate this development. One scenario is a wave of sustainability-driven creative destruction, promulgated by a combination of top-down forces (regulation, new norms) and bottom-up forces (public perception, social action, new entrants, technologies) that would force companies to radically rethink their ecological footprint.” For Boyer, “The innovators, actors, and leaders that are emerging in the BOP space fall into seven broad categories, spanning the continuum from private to public sectors. Three of these categories—corporate pure-play experiments, catalysts and enablers, and social entrepreneurs—have particular relevance for companies, and are characterized by their faster-moving entrepreneurial style and motivations.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He listed and discussed them as follows: POLL Corporate pure-play experiments: These projects tend to be 100 percent for-profit businesses, or have the near-term intention of being so. They are the star cases in the BOP literature because they best stick within business managers’ existing frame of reference. Catalysts and enablers: This diverse group includes everything from academic institutions and think tanks to foundations and NGOs to niche financial organizations and consultancies. These organizations often perform a brokerage function, act as intermediaries, and are highly networked. Social entrepreneurs: These are actors who are putting their ideas into action in the field and providing services to clients and customers. Most of these organizations are for-benefit and have had some government funding and outside help, but often no more than any other for-profit startup. Significantly, some use this initial support to migrate to for-profit organizations. In Bangladesh, “The banks should not try to replicate their urban business model in rural areas. They need to go to village customers,” said Toufic A Chowdhury, general secretary of Bangladesh Economic Association. Speaking at the seminar on ‘inclusive financing’ at Bangabandhu International Conference Centre in the city, Chowdhury said banks should also rearrange their business hours to catch up with the rural customers, as most of them remain out during the traditional banking hours. Chowdhury, the keynote speaker, said a well-functioning financial system can economically and socially empower individuals, allowing them to better integrate into the economy, actively contribute to the development and protect themselves against economic shocks.