***To Sanction Staff For Making “Such Embarrassing Misinformation” ABUJA – The National Population Commission(NPC) has denied that its server has been hacked. This is coming on the heels of the statement credited to one of the NPC staff, who said the Commission’s server has been hacked, which led to the postponement of the LGA-level training of the Supervisors andEnumerators for the 2023 Population and Housing Census. It would recalled that the NPC has scheduled to conduct Population and Housing Census on May 3—7th, 2023. A statement on Monday issued by Dr. Isiaka Yahaya,Director, Public Affairs in NPC, said the staff who made the statement is “currently facing disciplinaryaction for such embarrassing misinformation.” According to Yahaya, “The attention of the National Population Commission has been drawn to misleading and false information made by an uninformed staff of the Commission and Comptroller of Chanchaga LGA in Niger State, Mr. SanusiMaigida on the hacking of the NPC server, citing this development as the reasonfor the postponement of the LGA-level training of the Supervisors andEnumerators for the 2023 Population and Housing Census. “The statement made by Mr. Sanusi Maigida is totally false and does notrepresent the true position of things as regards the Commission’s server and thereason for the postponement of LGA-level training of the functionaries.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As a staff in the LGA Office of the NPC, Mr. Maigida has limited knowledge aboutthe NPC server or its workability. POLL “He acted without directive and authorisation from the Commission’s Headquarters in Abuja and currently facing disciplinary action for such embarrassing misinformation. “For record purposes, the Commission wishes to state that its server is solidlyintact and ready to be deployed for the upcoming 2023 Population and HousingCensus exercise. “As part of measures to ensure the confidentiality and integrityof data for the 2023 Census, we have implemented comprehensive securitymeasures to safeguard our servers, applications, and IT infrastructure. “Wedeployed state-of-the-art technologies and industry best practices to protect oursystems from potential security threats. “These security measures include robust firewalls, intrusion detection andprevention systems, regular security audits, encryption protocols, and multi factor authentication for privileged accounts. “We have also implemented strictaccess controls and user privileges and conducted continuous monitoring of oursystems to detect and mitigate any potential vulnerabilities or incidents in real time. “Accordingly, we wish to assure the public that the security of the data for the2023 Population and Housing Census is absolutely guaranteed.” Yahaya assured that theCommission is “committed to upholding the highest standards of data protectionand maintaining the trust placed in us by the Nigerian population.” Commenting further on the recent trip of the NPC Chairman, Nasir Isa Kwarra, to the United Nations to attend the 56th Session of the United Nations Commissionon Population and Development, the statement explained that the Chairman presented Nigeria’s statement on ‘Population and Development’ at the global event and has sincereturned to the country to continue the NPC’s preparations towards the conduct of the first digital and green Census in Nigeria. “Over the years, it has been thestandard practice for the Chairman of the Commission to attend the annualevent on Population and Development in line with the mandate of NPC as thecoordinating agency on population matters in Nigeria. “Consequently, the public is advised to disregard the false statement trendingonline about the hacking of the Commission’s server and the subsequent travel of the NPC Chairman to restore the purported hacked server. “We will continue to update the populace on developments regarding the 2023 Population and Housing Census as events unfold. “We urge everyone to support the Commission to ensure a secure and successful 2023 Census exercise,” the statement said.