BENIN  – Following the age-long land dis­pute between inhabitants of Ig­uomo and Ikhuen-Obo in Uhun­mwonde Local Government Area of Edo State, the state’s Attorney General and Commis­sioner for Justice, Hon Oluwole . O. Iyamu (SAN), has called on Ikhuen-Obo community to abide by the decision of the Supreme Court over the issue. Recall that since 1987, the two warring communities at log­gerheads had laid claims to the ownership of the land, a dispute that had become a subject of liti­gation before the Supreme Court finally gave judgment in favour of Iguomo community. Iyamu, in a legal advice ad­dressed to the Deputy Gover­nor, Rt Hon Phillip Shaibu, and copied the Secretary, Edo State Boundary Technical Commit­tee, and the Permanent Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor, insisted that despite the action of the State House Assembly, the Supreme Court judgment had laid to rest the said dispute. While giving a historical background of how Iguomo community was founded, Iyamu reminded the parties that failure to abide by the Supreme Court’s decision amounts to contempt. “The case of both communi­ties was extensively argued at the High Court, the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court and at each court, judgment was given in favour of the representative of Iguomo community to the effect that they had true title to the land in dispute. “Despite the decision of the Supreme Court of 2006, in favor of the representative of Iguomo community for 10 years, they were unable to execute the judg­ment of the Supreme Court as they were severely resisted by Ikhuen-Obo community. “In 2016, the representatives of Ikhuen-Obo community ap­proached the Edo State House of Assembly with a view to re­solving the protracted dispute.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The House via its Standing Committee on Lands, Survey and Housing investigated and deliberated on the matter and passed a resolution which was thereafter gazetted in Edo State of Nigeria Gazette No.5. Vol.24 of 7th April 2016. POLL “The resolution of Edo State House of Assembly was to the ef­fect that despite the decision of the courts on the subject matter, including the judgement of the supreme court, the enforcement of the decision of the courts would occasion injustice, hard­ship, chaos, disorder and inse­curity and as such, the house of assembly had reached a compro­mise settlement to the dispute. “It is important to state clearly from the onset that by virtue of Section 235 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) no appeal can lie to anybody or person from any determination of the Supreme Court.