LAGOS  – Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Fed­eral High Court, Court 7, Abuja has set May 4, 2023 for the com­mencement of trial of Ovaioza Farm Produce Storage Business Limited along with ImuYunusa and Goodness Omeiza on alle­gations bordering on operating as fund managers without reg­istration by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) among others. The SEC had in March 2022 sealed up the 27 Abeokuta Street, Garki Abuja office of the compa­ny on suspicions of illegally col­lecting money from the investing public to the tune of N2b while not registered with the Commis­sion. In the five count charge brought against the company and its promoters by the Feder­al Republic of Nigeria, they are alleged to have on or between the year 2020 and 2022 within the ju­risdiction of the honourable court did commit a felony to wit: with common intent conspired among themselves together with their staff to do an illegal act – to lure and offer for subscription an unregistered collective invest­ment scheme valued over N2 bil­lion to the unsuspecting general public including Umejiaku Chi­kodili Crystal, Omolabake Ale, Dr. Obi Sandra P., Nnaemeka Franklin Ugwoke, Fonon Ismai­la Malum, Kelechi Anayo, Nkiru Onyima, and others. “That you Imu Yunusa, Good­ness Omeiza and Ovaioza Farm Produce Storage Business; all of house No. 27 Abeokuta Street, Area 8 Garki, on or between the year 2020 and 2022 within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did commit a felony to wit: lured and offered for subscrip­tion an unregistered collective investment scheme valued over N2 billion to the unsuspecting general public including Ume­jiaku Chikodili Crystal, Omola­bake Ale, Dr. Obi Sandra P., Nnae­meka Franklin Ugwoke, Fonon Ismaila Malum, Kelechi Anayo, Nkiru Onyima, and others. You thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable un­der Section 54 of the Investments and Securities Act, 2007. “That you Imu Yunusa, Good­ness Omeiza and Ovaioza Farm Produce Storage Business; all of house No. 27 Abeokuta Street, Area 8 Garki, on or between the year 2020 and 2022 within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did commit a felony to wit: conspiracy of forming a com­mon intention amongst your­selves together with your staff to do an illegal act – diversion of investment funds valued over N2 billion belonging to the investing public including, Umejiaku Chi­kodili Crystal, Omolabake Ale, Dr. Obi Sandra P., Nnaemeka Franklin Ugwoke, Fonon Ismai­la Malum, Kelechi Anayo, Nkiru Onyima, and others. You thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 516 of the Criminal Code Act, laws of the Federation of Nige­ria, 2004. “