JOS – The reconciliation meeting scheduled by Plateau state Commissioner of Police, Bartholomew Onyeka with the factional Speakers of the Plateau House of Assembly on Tuesday ended in deadlock with the commissioner ordering the shut down of activities at the Assembly until Court cases over the Assembly is resolved. CP Onyeka at a press briefing held at the Police Command headquarters in Jos ,called for calm and appealed to the citizens of the state to go about their lawful businesses with fear of molestation He said ,”The command got information on the the judgment entered in favour of Rt.Hon. Ayuba Nuhu Abok reinstating him as the speaker of the 9th Assembly after his impeachment saga that lasted two and a half year. “Ayuba Abok approached the state High Court seeking the interpretation of his unlawful impeachment as the speaker after defecting to PDP. He explained that the command played neutral role in trying to calm situation not to allow it to get out of hand. Bartholomew stressed that they heeded the advice by a team of lawyers to swiftly prevent the breakdown of law and order because he is the chief security officer saddled with the responsibility of protecting lives and properties of citizens of the state which is enshrined in section 214 of the 1999 Constitution as amended and the Police Act 4. He said ” the police are here to safeguard lives of all Nigerians ”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to him ,the presence of security agencies sealing the Assembly complex was not targeted at anybody but to ensure peace and order in the state POLL He vowed that he would not allow the state Assembly members to turn the Assembly complex into a boxing ring but to secure the environment and give chance to legislative business to strive . Bartholomew Onyeka said the police are neither politicians nor partisans to political activities and appealed to traditional rulers ,religious and community leaders to avoid sensational comments that could plunge the state into fresh crisis. “We can’t allow the state Assembly members go into crisis resulting in intolerance and insecurity. Let them settle their differences without rancour .t He disclosed that the scheduled meeting ended in deadlock because stakeholders refused to honour the invitation of the Nigeria Police Force, “so we warn them to stay clear of the Assembly complex pending the resolution of the crisis” . The CP emphasized that after the sealing of the complex some people are still invading the place so we can’t allow such disgruntled elements to besieged the Assembly and we got to know about the judgment through the social media.