LOKOJA – The Kogi State Deputy Governor, Edward Onoja and six other contenders have withdrawn from the All Progressives Congress (APC) Direct primary election scheduled to hold tomorrow, Friday, across Kogi State. This was announced at the stakeholders’ meeting of the party held on Thursday in Lokoja. The meeting was held at the party’s Secretariat and hosted by the state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello who therefore unveiled his preferred candidate as the Auditor General of the state, Ahmed Usman Ododo. Meanwhile, Onoja and Asuku, chief of staff to the Governor announced their withdrawal from the governorship race via their respective verified Facebook pages shortly after the meeting in Lokoja. The deputy governor, Edward Onoja, whom many had thought will naturally succeed Governor Bello before now, posted on his verified Facebook, page which reads: “To God be the glory for life and divine health. My appreciation to my leader, HE Alhaji Yahaya Bello and all my supporters for your love and prayers. Let love, patience and perseverance lead. I am forever grateful.” For his part, the governor’s Chief of Staff, Asuku, who was also seen as a frontrunner because of his closeness to the governor, posted: “Alhamdulillah! Alhamdulillah !!Alhamdulillah !!!All praises and adoration are due to the most high God the greater of the entire universe and the sustainer of same who have safeguard my life and that of my immediate family and well wishers to witness this moment in my life.” I sincerely appreciate His Excellency, my benefactor, for all that Allah have been using him to do in my life. As such, I hereby submit myself publicly to the decision taken today and I will forever live to remain loyal and dedicated to the decision of my party as I enjoines all my well wishers to work with us for our great party APC to become victorious in the November 11th General Election.” In a similar development, other aspirants like Mr David Adebanji Jimoh; a former Commissioner for Finance, Asiwaju Ashiru Idris; Okala Yakubu, Momoh Jubril State Accountant General , former Minister of state for Labour Stephen Ikani Ochemi, and Barr. Halimat Alfa have also withdrawn from the governorship race.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ However,the chairman of the primary Election committee,Zamfara state Governor, Mohammed Bello Matawale said that all other aspirants who have not withdrawn from the race are free to participate in Fridays primary to be held across the state. POLL Meanwhile, those in the race includes; Senator Smart Adeyemi and Murtala Ajaka Muri who are bent in slugging it out with the LG Auditor General , Ododo.