ABUJA  – The crisis rocking the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) has taken a dramatic twist with party chieftains calling for the “immediate resignation” of the National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Coordinator of the North­ern Conscience for 2023, (NC­for2023) and APC Chieftain, Garu Gololo, in a chat with Sat­urday INDEPENDENT, said that Senator Adamu has “failed in several ways and should step aside to give a fresh perspective to the party in the days ahead”. He explained that since Sen­ator Adamu “came to the party he has only caused crises for us. There’s never been a record of APC losing Yobe and Kano State. “President Muhammadu Buhari, even when he didn’t win anywhere in the country, has won these two states. We even lost some of the Gover­nors we were working with”. The APC chieftain also be­rated the party’s national chair­man for losing his constituency to the opposition, adding that since the former Nasarawa State governor “could not guar­antee victory and peace for us, he should go and rest or look for something else to do. “He is a failure to the party. He is only interested in what he can get for himself”. According to Gololo, it was time “the chairmanship shift­ed to Benue State. Benue State has never produced a nation­al chairman for the APC. But they did for the PDP, Audu Ogbe, and now, Iyorchia Ayu.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “But look at Abdullahi Ada­mu; they gave you national chairman on consensus, not on the vote. And you tried to enforce a president on us”. POLL According to him, but for the pro-activeness of party members, Tinubu would not have come, as he accused Ada­mu of talking out of rhythm. He said that the APC should shop for someone from Benue State to lead it in the new dis­pensation, adding that “such a move would allow for balanc­ing given the President and Vice President are Muslims. What we need is a unity gov­ernment. “The Senate President should be zoned to either the Southeast or South-South and then the Deputy Senate Pres­ident can be north central or northwest. “Senator Sani Musa is a good candidate and has good leadership qualities. “For the Speakership of the House of Representatives, Ado Doguwa and Hon. Wase are good enough to be Speakers”. On the controversial Ad­amawa State governorship election, the APC Chieftain called on the Inspector of Police to investigate those behind the assault on Professor Abdullahi Abdu Zuru, a National Com­missioner of the Independent National Electoral Commis­sion (INEC).