Lagos State University has emerged as first runner-up at the just concluded maiden edition of the Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria (ARCON) Colloquium Pitch Contest which was held on Thursday, 30th March 2023 at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. The University was represented by six (6) students from the Faculty of Communication and Media Studies namely; Dauda Mistura, Badmus AbdulBasit, Egede Onyekachi, AbdulRaheem Hassan, Olosunde Victor and Giwa Ruqoyah who were awarded a cash prize of N750,000:00. The pitch required students to come up with a feasible campaign plan that can run on various media channels for the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) which emphasizes the dangers of overspeeding and to come up with a solution on how they can educate the target audience. The Dean, Faculty of Communication and Media Studies, Prof. Sunday Alawode, on Wednesday, 5th April 2023, led a team from the Faculty to the Conference Room of the Vice Chancellor on the 6th Floor, Babatunde Raji Fashola Senate Building, Main Campus, Ojo, Lagos to present the award and latest edition of the Faculty Training Newspaper – LASUGONG to the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji – Bello, mni. Prof. Alawode in his remarks appreciated the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Ibilola Olatunji – Bello, mni, and other Members of the University Management for the tremendous support rendered towards helping the Faculty to achieve the desired results. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji – Bello, mni, ably represented by the Registrar, Mr. Emmanuel A. FANU, appreciated the Faculty for putting in their best in training the students which had resulted in the team winning the award. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She stated that it’s an achievement for the University and commended the students for projecting the institution in a good light which will also aid the rating of Lagos State University in becoming the best in West Africa and by extension, Africa. Prof. Olatunji – Bello, mni, also implored the Faculty to continue to strive in this regard and win more awards for the University. The University Librarian, Dr. Emmanuel Layi Adebayo, also commended the students and advised them not to focus on the money but the award that comes with it. Speaking further, he said “….no course is better than the other, so don’t see yourselves as inferior to others. Where you are is a goldmine, I hope you will tap it”. Members of Staff in attendance include; the Head of Department, Public Relations and Advertising, Dr. Julius Adeyemo, Deputy Registrar, Faculty of Communication and Media Studies, Mrs. T.N Ogunsote, Deputy Registrar, Vice Chancellor’s Office, Dr. Lateef Sekoni and Technical Officer in the Faculty, Mr. Giwa Olusegun. Members of the Vice Chancellor’s Office and the Centre for Information and Public Relations were equally in attendance.