IBADAN  – A police officer yet to be identi­fied has been reportedly shot dead during a clash with Ya­hoo Boys in Moniya, Akinyele Local Government Area of Ibadan. Daily Independent reporter at the scene of the incident observed that some okada riders were in the area when some policemen on stop and search duty along Ijaye-Iseyin Road were chasing some suspected yahoo boys who refused to wait on policemen’s orders. An eyewitness who pleaded anony­mous said, “As those Yahoo boys were held in a traffic jam in the Moniya Ga­rage area, a policeman shot at them but his shot was misfired causing him serious injury which later led to his death.” The eyewitness who also confirmed the incident said that those Yahoo boys later escaped unhurt from the scene. The Policemen in an attempt to scare the onlookers and also to calm down the situation started firing gunshots and tear gas canisters into the air and in the process one old man was hit by a stray bullet but it has not been confirmed if he’s dead or alive. The eyewitnesses, who are mostly Okada riders, lamented the alleged as­sault and extortion by policemen in the area. They said, “In most cases, these policemen always extort us, harass us, mistake us and our innocent customers for Yahoo boys, it is sad this is happening and it’s not new here.” However, a reporter of Silverbird Television, John Alabi who was at the scene was arrested and assaulted by po­licemen. Though the state Commission­er of Police, CP. Adebowale Williams has ordered a discreet investigation into the arrest of the journalist. The state Police Public Relations Offi­cer, SP. Adewale Osifeso, through a press statement, confirmed the incident.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Osifeso in a copy of the statement made available to Daily Independent stated “Today, being Tuesday 25/04/2023 at about 1015hrs, operatives attached to Moniya Area Command under the Oyo State Police Command while on lawful intelligence led Stop and Search around a Major Black-spot were attacked in the line of duty. POLL “Preliminary Investigation reveals that the Patrol team while acting on cred­ible intelligence through visible policing duties extended their presence around major black spots, highways and major roads under Akinyele Local Govern­ment Area Axis in a bid to deter criminal elements from settling and establishing dominance within the location. In furtherance of the above, the team of operatives on patrol led by one Inspr Stanley Ikhine, flagged-down an Ash Lexus 350 Jeep with a faintly inscribed worn-off number further arousing sus­picion from the Officers on watch. In the process, the vehicle initially slowed down in compliance with the directive before eventually picking up speed and dashing off to evade the offi­cers on duty. This action led to a chase by the offi­cers in a bid to establish further clarity of facts. A few meters away from the initial stoppage point, the Lexus Jeep veered off the road to a nearby garage, driving directly into the waiting hands of hood­lums who were also collaborators in the criminal process, thereby not only ob­structing the officers from discharging their duties but as well aiding the escape of the SUV and its Occupants. Consequent on the above, the hood­lums attacked the Officers unprovoked and attempted forcefully dragging a rifle from one of the officers which led to a shot being discharged from the barrel during the process of the struggle. Sadly, the gallant officer paid the su­preme price,d suffering a heavy blow to his skull inflicted by one of the hood­lums while preventing them from dis­possessing him of his firearm. The body of the deceased had since been deposited at the state Morgue for Post-mortem while Seven persons had been arrested alongside 12 Motorcycles impounded in connection with the in­cident. In another development, while re-it­erating the Command’s respect and cordiality for the Fourth Members of the Estate of the Realm, the CP has or­dered discreet investigation into circum­stances that led to the arrest of Mr John Alabi, the Oyo State Correspondent of Silverbird Television who was allegedly apprehended by operatives in the heat of the Incident. Ultimately, the Deputy Commission­er of Police in charge of the State Crimi­nal Investigation Department (DC SCID) was assigned to take over the case for detailed investigations. As at the time of filling these reports, economic activities in the community have been paralyzed as a result of the incident; shops were locked up while res­idents stayed at their homes because of the fear of arrest or being hit by stray bullets.