ABUJA –The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday, lamented that the 10th National Assembly will be one full of inexperienced and unskillful lawmakers. He also disclosed that only about 30 percent of legislatures in the 9th National Assembly would return reelected, as he made a case for capacity building for members of the incoming 10th National Assembly for efficient and effective service delivery. He said this while receiving 2020, 2021 and 2022 annual reports of the activities of the National Assembly Service Commission at his office in the White House of the National Assembly Complex in Abuja. According to him, there should be provisions for capacity building especially for the new members of the 10th Assembly to achieve the set goals and targets. “What is critical to us is what happens when we leave. Everybody knows the turn over rate has been very costly and this is without prejudice to anybody elected. “Costly in the sense that when you have only about 30 percent of members of the ninth National Assembly going to the 10th Assembly, you know that you have lost capacity. “And I use the word costly deliberately because what this means is that, the 10th Assembly, we must make provisions immediately for capacity building for new members of the National Assembly if we want to achieve our goals and set targets.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Everybody is enthusiastic. Everybody is ready. We want to come in and continue to contribute to making Nigeria better. But the parliament is not like the Executive. POLL “You have lost experience. You have lost skills, enterprise and so on and so forth. These are traits that you need to hit the ground running immediately. “Therefore, I am using this channel to sound that advisory that the National Assembly will need money, will need more resources for capacity building for members of the National Assembly that are coming new, as well as those staff that we will be working with. I also want to urge here that the National Assembly Service Commission, the management of the National Assembly, as well as the management of the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies will have their hands full because the tenth National Assembly, and I am not speaking for the 10th National Assembly, is yet to be inaugurated, but I know having met many of our Senators-elect, they are all ready to start work immediately we are inaugurated and sworn in,” he added. While asking for the support of the National Assembly Service Commission for the incoming lawmakers, Senator Lawan stressed “So we want your support. You are there. It is the National Assembly membership that is always changing. You will give us the kind of support that will make us do so well. “Whatever we have achieved, wouldn’t have been achieved without the National Assembly Service Commission and the staff of the National Assembly. In fact the staff have been very wonderful, very supportive and we believe that this is the kind of staff that we should always have and also as an Assembly, as a Commission, we need to continue to give the staff the kind of motivation that they need”.