The Nigeria Immigration Ser­vice (NIS) acting on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria in a curious twist on April 6, 2023, withdrew crimi­nal charges filed the same day against Seplat Energy Plc and its Board at the Federal High Court, Abuja. In a press statement sent to Saturday INDEPENDENT, it was stated that “Ironically, in spite of the publicity given to the filing of the criminal charges against the company and its Board, the withdrawal/ discontinuation of the charges remained unannounced. It is curious that only the news of the Charges was made known without a mention that it was withdrawn immediately. “Analysts have been left to wonder what the purpose of the filing and withdrawing of the ill-conceived charge was. Were there motives behind it? Was it done to intimidate the Board? It is not clear. “What is clear is a host of in­consistencies contained in the Charge. On the one hand, it was alleged that its Chief Executive Officer was employed without work permit. On the other hand, it was alleged that the Board en­couraged the Chief Executive Officer to accept employment without work permit. Can the Nigeria Immigration Service withdraw the work permit if it did not grant it? “Nigeria Immigration Ser­vice alleged that it withdrew the work permit on March 3, 2023, and alleged that the Chief Executive Officer accepted em­ployment without work per­mit. When the entire industry knew that he was working with work permit since 2013. Since the withdrawal of his work permit, he has been abroad in compliance with the law and as a believer in the due process. “How then could he be said to be working in contravention with the law when he has not been in Nigeria to undertake employment or duties as the Chief Executive Officer? All of these are glaring contradictions by the Nigeria Immigration Service on the unfounded alle­gations of some persons said to be unknown third parties. “According to court sourc­es, the defendants are yet to be served with the charge, and interestingly, a Notice of With­drawal or Discontinuance of the Charge was filed the same day, April 6, 2023, the charge was filed in court.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It is not unlikely that the withdrawal of the charge was founded on what some have termed the contradictions in the charge filed by a Federal Government Agency, the Nige­rian Immigration Service, given that the Chief Executive Officer was appointed as Chief Execu­tive since August 2020, and had served as the Chief Financial Officer since July 2013.”