Popular dancer and media personality, Yeni Kuti has called out actress, Foluke Daramola-Salako for disrespecting her decades ago. She was reacting to Ms Salako’s recent position that children will soon start beating their parents up. On Tuesday, Foluke, in a now-deleted post on Instagram said in years to come, children will start beating their parents. “All in the bid of supporting different parties, we have lost our values. In the next years to come, children will start beating their parents,” she said. According to her, the unruly behaviour of Nigerian youths on social media is becoming a pandemic that people are not taking note of in the name of civilisation and modernisation. Reacting to the post on ‘Your View’, a breakfast programme which airs on Television Continental, Ms Kuti noted that whatever you mete out today will come back to you in the future. She backed up her position with the fact that Ms Salako once disrespected her some years back, despite their age difference. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I like her and everything. But I remember when she insulted me. She’s 45. I’m 62. Because we did a job many years ago. Ayo Animashaun called me to do a job, ‘Girls Night Out’ at that time. POLL “It was about 30 years ago and I was only doing what they asked me to do. I didn’t take money for the job and I did the job well. But the enmity I got from her was terrible. I’m wondering if she remembers. I remember because it was done to me. but now, she’s demanding respect. You reap what you sow. We should all remember, karma is a leveller,” she added. Shortly after the programme aired on Wednesday, Ms Salako made a video stating that she has reached out to Ms Kuti with an apology. Though she said she couldn’t recall the details of the issues, she felt the need to apologise still. “Being rude to people that are my mates is not in my character to talk less of people that are older than me. And Aunty Yeni is someone that I hold in high esteem. She’s an older colleague. It’s been a long time, and I’m almost certain it didn’t happen but I’m not here to argue if it happened or not,” she said.