ABUJA – The Labour Party Coalition for True Democracy on Wednesday asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to treat the outcome of the Enugu governorship election as it did with the Adamawa State gubernatorial poll. The group also pointed out that in Enugu, after the collation of 16 LGAs out of the 17 LGAs of the state, the Labour Party candidate, Chijioke Edeoga, was leading with over 11,000 votes. Ken Asogwa, Spokesman of the group, at a press briefing in Abuja said the scenario in Enugu and Adamawa are the same and the outcome should be the same. “This lead by the Labour Party was in consonance with the results of the other declared elections in the state wherein the Labour Party won 2 of the 3 senatorial seats in the State; 7 out of the 8 Rep seats in the State and 14 out of the 24 seats in the State House of Assembly. “Where then lies the path to victory for the PDP in that election, judging from the above-established voting pattern? “Surprisingly, the PDP in Enugu, working in cahoots with the INEC, shockingly and provocatively wrote and awarded to the PDP a whopping 30,000 votes at Nkanu East LGA, the LGA of the PDP candidate. “According to the figures from the INEC BVAS, Nkanu East LGA recorded a total number of 15,000 accredited voters on election day. However, when votes were declared, the PDP was allocated a total number of 30,350 votes while a total number of 1,855 was credited to the Labour Party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “So, the big question is: how could INEC have turned out over 33,000 votes in Nkanu East LGA had only about 15,000 accredited voters? The ready answer is that the Electoral Act was literally thrown under the bus by writing results without recourse to the BVAS. POLL “One had expected the INEC to cancel the results of the polling units in Nkanu East LGA where there were manifest over-voting, in line with S.51 (2) of the Electoral Act which stipulates that where there is established incident of over-voting in any polling unit, the returning officer has an obligation under the law to cancel the elections in those polling units and order a rerun.” Obiorah Ifoh, the newly appointed Acting National Publicity Secretary of the LP, said “In the court of public opinion, it is clear that the Labour Party won the Gubernatorial election in Enugu. According to him, “In the streets of Enugu, when they announced the victory of the PDP, there was no celebration. It was like the peace and Graveyard. If you repeat that election 100 times, the Labour Party would win the election”.