Eko Electricity Distribution Company says it was not true that it abandoned one of its contract staff, Mr. Yusuf Balogun who was involved in an accident in one of the company’s installations. The victim, who later died at a Lagos-based medical center, was a member of the field team engaged under a contract for services with a third-party human resource service provider – Alexandra Marius. Babatunde Lasaki, General Manager, Corporate Communications of the company, who conveyed the denial in a statement, said the power firm’s priority has always been to optimally protect all members of our field team, consistent with applicable health and safety standards. The incident occurred while he was working on it BAGCO 11kV feeder, not at the home of Babatunde Fashola, ex -Lagos governor, he said. His words, “To put the facts in perspective, the deceased was a member of the field team engaged under a contract for services with a third-party human resource service provider – Alexandra Marius, the deceased employer. As part of Eko Disco’s process, the events that led to the incident were extensively investigated and the following was established: “The incident occurred while the deceased was working on replacing a damaged Cross Arm on BAGCO 11kV feeder, which tripped in the early hours of Monday, March 17, 2023.” According to him, contrary to the deceased employer’s and Eko Disco`s safety standards, he and his team at Ijora District embarked on clearing the fault without obtaining a permit to work (PTW), Station, and Guarantee both of which represent official approval for fault clearing. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He added: “Also contrary to the laid down safety standards by both the deceased employer and Eko DisCo, the deceased did not utilize a voltage detector nor tease/ ground the electric lines to ensure that the lines were out of supply before commencing fault clearing. The deceased was also not putting on any safety wear such as a hard hat, hand gloves, safety belt, and coverall that were adequately made available by Eko Disco. POLL “Unfortunately, while fixing the fault without complying with the above-established safety standards, the deceased had contact with an energized line and received a severe electric shock. “The deceased was quickly assisted by his colleagues to disengage from the energized lines. He became unconscious and was immediately rushed to Avon Medical Centre, Bode Thomas, Surulere, Lagos for medical attention. Thereafter he was referred to Federal Medical Centre Ebute Metta, Yaba, Lagos for further medical attention but was confirmed dead a few minutes after his arrival at the hospital on Monday, March 27, 2023.