***Xavi Expects A Footballing War LAGOS – FC Barcelona will be eyeing to reach the final of the Copa del Rey at Real Madrid’s cost when the two Clasico adversaries lock horns in the second leg of the semifinals at Camp Nou on Wednesday. Football fans should get ready for non-stop excitement as StarTimes brings exclusive coverage of the Copa del Rey match this evening on ST World Football channel at 8pm. FC Barcelona currently hold the advantage after winning the first-leg encounter 1-0 last month at Santiago Bernabeu. However, with so much at stake, both teams are sure to give it their all on the pitch. With Barca already pipping Real to the Spanish Super Cup title this season, coach Carlo Ancelotti will want to ensure a cup final against either Osasuna or Athletic Bilbao. Also, the second fixture of Coppa Italia match semifinal match will be aired on StarTimes Sports Premium channel at 8pm. Underdogs Cremonese seek to continue their superb run by taking a first-leg lead against Fiorentina on Wednesday.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Having seen off Napoli and Roma on their way to the final four, the Serie A strugglers now welcome the in-form Viola to Stadio Giovanni Zini. POLL Meanwhile, FC Barcelona coach Xavi Hernandez has warned that Real Madrid would be coming to wage a “footballing war” at Camp Nou. The Catalans hold a 1-0 lead from the first leg and have beaten their rivals in each of the last three Clasicos. “It doesn’t mean anything that we have won the last three Clasicos, this is another footballing war,” Xavi told reporters. “They will be out for revenge, they will come here hurt, they have lost the last three. They will come here wounded, I am sure.” FC Barcelona will be without four injured key players in Pedri, Ousmane Dembele, Frenkie de Jong and Andreas Christensen. “Madrid come and they can beat you perfectly well – they can against any team,” said Xavi.“They have a lot of experience, they are used to mounting comebacks. They are still favourites for me. “We were better in the league game and in the Super Cup, but we weren’t in the first leg.” Despite Eder Militao’s own goal handing Barcelona a narrow victory at the Santiago Bernabeu, Ancelotti’s side dominated the Catalans. Xavi said he expected Los Blancos to try and stop his team controlling the match and playing their usual possession football. ” (I predict) an aggressive Madrid, who want to take the ball off us, pressing us,” added Xavi. “We need to have a lot of personality tomorrow to keep the ball.”