AWKA – Anambra state commissioner for Culture, Entertainment and Tourism, Comrade Don Onyenji says Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo is using road construction to enhance tourism in the state. Onyenji said the Soludo Solution Administration is approaching development from all angles, stressing that road is critical in the tourism sector. The Commissioner who spoke with our correspondent exclusively, explained tourism is all about traveling and that the smoothness of the movement from one destination to another is dependent on access through roads. He said Soludo’s government has recorded unprecedented milestones interns of number kilometers of roads; that as at present the state government has awarded over 261 kilometers of roads with 50% mobilisation paid in some cases. He was of the opinion that all the roads cut across the 21 local government areas of the state; meaning that movements from one town to another would be very easy, adding that that is tourism in its true essence. According to him, the Soludo government is proposing a leisure park and a hospital for Okpoko people in Ogbaru and they will enjoy themselves because if they have a hospital and a leisure park, the urban regeneration there would be unimaginable. Apart from road infrastructure in promoting tourism, the Commissioner noted that currently the perimeter fencing of Anambra State Tourism and Leisure Park at Agulu lake is ongoing and government will soon begin construction of the first phase of the project as events may hold there by December this year.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Again, he mentioned that efforts were being made to promote heritage sites across the state. He said government wants to go on Public Private Partnership for Ogbunike Cave and Owerre Ezukala Cave and Waterfalls. That they are major heritage sites government plans to develop. POLL Onyenji said now that the elections are over, very soon traditional ceremonies like Iri ji festival, palm wine festival, nmanwu festival and other festivals would be rolling down. He said Arts and Crafts exhibition is underway which will attract exhibitors from within and outside Anambra state. The Commissioner further disclosed that government is also proposing to build more leisure parks in the local government areas, communities and major cities in the state. He said government have asked communities to donate lands for the projects. That when government completes the construction of the pharmaceutical hub in Ogborji Orumba-south council area, it will amount to medical tourism to Anambra state as the facility will attract manufacturers of pharmaceuticals to the state.