LAGOS  – Three police officers caught shooting indis­criminately while on escort duties with Kano based musician, Dauda Kahutu, popularly known as Rar­ara, at Kahutu village in Katsina State have been dismissed. The three policemen identified as Inspector Da­hiru Shuaibu, Sgt. Abdul­lahi Badamasi, and Sgt. Isah Danladi, were caught on Friday, April 7, 2023, repeatedly shooting while with the musician Rarara in his village in a video that later went viral. Police had ordered the arrest of the officers after the video went viral. However, Rarara, who was a regular feature at the campaign rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had defended the policemen’s action with claims that they are shoot­ing to protect him. But while announcing the dismissal of the officers of Thursday, Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olu­muyiwa Adejobi, said their action were discreditable and misuse of firearms, abuse of power, gross in­discipline and wastage of live ammunition. According to him, the officers were dismissed subsequent to complaints and findings on video ev­idence widely circulated on Friday, April 7, 2023, on social media. He said the video depict­ed high-handedness, un­professional conduct and misuse of firearms against the policemen from Special Protection Unit (SPU) Base 1, Kano.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The policemen, he said, were dismissed in a fol­low-up orderly room trial by the Force Provost Marshal. POLL He added that their fir­ing shots from their official firearms into the air was against police policy, stan­dard operating procedure and relevant Force Orders. He said their actions were also in disregard of the possible risk to the crowd at the location which included children, crim­inal, unprofessional and embarrassing to the Force and the nation at large. Police also warned all officers to ensure they car­ry out their duties in line with the extant laws to avoid running afoul of its provisions and attracting attendant sanctions. The police also tasked supervising officers to ensure continuous and detailed lectures of their men to ensure they are well acquainted with all neces­sary standard operating procedures.