*Say Worst Civilian Government Better Than Interim Rule A former Chief of Staff to the Imo state government, Uche Nwosu, has urged well-meaning Nigerians to rise in unison and condemn the call for an interim national government. Nwosu said that the call is unacceptable and unconstitutional, adding that “no government is as sweet as a democratically elected government. An Interim government has no space in our constitution.” The Chief of Staff to former governor Rochas Okorocha explained that “The worst civilian rule is better than the best military rule because civilian rule brings with it freedom of association, freedom of speech, freedom of everything that you can express yourself, and you elect whoever you want to be your leader. “But an Interim government does not have any space for that kind of expression. Besides, when you talk of interim government, it is almost a military rule. “Every reasonable Democratic in this country should know that an interim government is not the best. “And we’ve enjoyed our democracy for 23 years since Abdulsalami Abubakar.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ We’ve transitioned from one democratic government to another democratic government. So I believe that the best thing we can do in this country is democracy.” POLL According to a statement he signed in Abuja on Monday, Nwosu who is also the President of Ugwumba Leadership Centre for Africa stressed that all that is needed at the moment is peace and stability, as he wstressed that Nigeria should be paramount on the agenda of all, including political leaders. “Let’s give peace a chance. Nigeria is our country and as they say, “no place is better than home!” he emphasized On the recently concluded 2023 elections, the Imo born politician and philanthropist appealed to all aggrieved parties to seek redress through legal ways. “Now that the elections have come and gone and winners have emerged at the various levels, all aggrieved parties should please approach the courts, which is the only peaceful way of reclaiming lost mandates” Nwosu stresses.