The Obi-Datti Media Team for Peter Obi 2023 presidential campaign has slammed the rul­ing All Progressives Congress (APC) over a leaked audio. The team further described the audio as a plot to demarket Peter Obi. The campaign council was reacting to a leaked clip allegedly involving Obi and David Oyedepo, the founder of Winners Chapel. A statement signed by Head, Obi-Datti Media, Diran Onifade, he urged the APC to stop what he described as its “endless subterfuge.” The statement dismissed the audio tape as fake and asked Nigerians to focus on the task to take back “the mandate we know was freely given to Pe­ter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed through legitimate means. “It appears the All Progres­sives Congress’ desperation to grab and retain power by foul means has refused to go away more than a month after they have grabbed the election as they planned. “While we are toeing the constitutional path to retrieve our mandate, those who have truncated the wishes of the majority of Nigerians have re­coursed to mischief and end­less subterfuge to continue to hold on to what they know does not belong to them.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “From the show of shame in Port Harcourt to the drama in the Ibom Air aircraft, both of which they contrived, they have now moved to the circu­lation of a deep fake audio file aimed at promoting religious tension in the country. POLL “All these are meant to serve no other purpose than egregious mischief aimed at demarketing Peter Obi. If the goal is to create a credibility problem, the ploy has failed woefully. Peter Obi has long been on record as the only presidential candidate who has urged the Nigerians electorate not to vote for him on the basis of religion or tribe. “We will, therefore, like to advice our beloved Nigeri­an people to remain focused on the task to take back the mandate we know was freely given to Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed through legiti­mate means. “That is more important than to expect those who ran election on forged credentials and even fake bishops to stop faking. They cannot stop being fraudulent because that is who they are.”