ISAAC ASABOR The year 2023 will go down in recent history as one in which virtually every Nigerian witnessed an unprecedented increase in service charges by POS Operators so much that N400 was charged as a service fee for the withdrawal of N1000 particularly when the prevailing cash crunch occasioned by the Naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was at its peak. Without a doubt, the cash crunch has continued to take a toll on both the traders and sellers, inflicting more pain on the poverty-stricken Nigerians. The crisis, which is gradually easing off, is mostly characterised by hikes in service charges by POS Operators so much that the hike is in arithmetic progression. For instance, where N400 is charged for the withdrawal of N1, 000, N800 is charged for the withdrawal of N2, 000, and so on and so forth thereby compelling consumers to grapple with the challenge of losing the value of their cash or income. However, prior to the cash crunch, the withdrawal of N1000 up to N5,000 attracted N100 service charge, while withdrawing N6,000 up to N10,000 attracted N200, and N15,000 up to N20,000 attracted N300, and so on and so forth in that order. The rate of profiteering that POS operators resorted to as a result of the cash crunch at a point, specifically in February 2023, drew the attention of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as it warned that operators who charged above N200 for the cash swap programme will be arrested and jailed if caught. It would be recalled in this context that the Director, Governor’s Department, CBN, Joseph Omayuku, stated this while briefing journalists in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Omayuku said the POS operators sell naira notes for naira notes to buyers.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ This is amidst the rejection of online payments by some business operators, including petrol stations and supermarkets. POLL “The operational arrangement for payment agents is that they take a commission for transactions and this commission is not less than N100 or N200 for transactions of up to N10, 000, but we have heard of cases where people are being charged N1, 000 or N2, 000. “This is certainly fraudulent; this is a rogue operation. “So, the security agencies will be very active this week, going forward,” Omayuku said. In the same vein, and in the same month, the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obsequy, met with officials of the CBN and members of the Association of Mobile Money and Bank Agents of Nigeria (AMMBAN) in the State and urged them to strategise on how to disburse cash. The meeting was also geared to ease tension and ameliorate the hardship faced by Edo people in accessing the redesigned naira notes. Addressing Journalists after the meeting, the governor noted that the protests and violence that occurred in Benin City at the time, which led to the destruction of properties in the metropolis, did not happen by accident but were sponsored by selfish politicians to cause crisis and disaffection in the state. The governor disclosed that “security agencies are already working hard on arresting those involved in the destruction across some parts of Benin City. There is a lot of footage and those involved will be arrested and prosecuted,” the governor assured”. Obaseki further noted that there are more money agents than bank branches in Edo State, urging the AMMBAN members to collaborate with the government and CBN to address the situation. According the governor, “the POS operators have a bad reputation, which must be corrected. If you have members charging customers above the normal price for their transactions, there should be an internal mechanism to deal with such issues”. In his response, the Chairman of AMMBAN in Edo State, Mr. Osaro Ekhator, expressed appreciation to the governor for the meeting, assuring the support of members of the association to bring a lasting solution to the current cash crisis. At this juncture, it is expedient to recall that before the deterioration of the crisis in February 2023 that the national leadership of AMMBAN in January 2023 assured Nigerians that there are no plans to increase service their charges following the Central Bank of Nigeria’s decision to review cash withdrawal limits for Automated Teller Machines and over-the-counter withdrawals. This was disclosed by the National President, AMMBAN, Victor Olojo during a media parley. At the time, there had been insinuations that the new CBN withdrawal policy would lead to an increase in fees charged by the POS agents. It will be noted that his assurance to Nigerians was elicited by the implementation of the CBN cash limits policy, among other things, which attracted the processing fees of five per cent and 10 per cent respectively, for individuals and corporate entities, effective January 9, 2023. However, as normalcy is gradually returning to the banking system following improved cash availability in branches of banks across the country in the last few days, POS operators have unarguably refused to return to status quo by charging affordable service charge when money is withdrawn from the banks through their POS. Against the foregoing backdrop, not a few Nigerians are asking, “Why is it that when prices go up in Nigeria they never come down?” To not a few people, that is not the case elsewhere. Investigation by Daily Independent revealed that virtually all the POS operators, particularly in Lagos are making geometrical charges on money withdrawn by customers through their POS. However, Mr. Jones Aniebo, a civil servant in Lagos, said “It will be difficult for POS to revert to status quo as they have being enticed by the high charges for services rendered to the people without much resistance from their customers.” Contrary to insinuation, Mr. Paul Arokola, a POS operator said “Profit was never made as been peddled by many bank customers as we also buy the money from the banks”. Unarguably reiterating his view, Aniebo said “No POS operator that was involved in hiking withdrawal charge from N100 for N5, 000 withdrawals to N1,000 fee for N5,000 withdrawals will like to go back to status quo”. Ostensibly putting the blame of dishonesty and unprofessionalism on unscrupulous POS operators that are located on roadsides, the leadership of AMMBAN had blamed operators in the financial services ecosystem for the proliferation of unlicensed point of sale terminal (POS) agents also known as ‘umbrella’ agents, which, according to them, has brought great disrepute to the operations in the country. According to AMMBAN, the ‘umbrella’ agents that are not legally registered and have allowed several frauds to be perpetrated through them. Speaking in Lagos, in November last year at the Sixth National Conference of the association with the theme: “Agency Banking in the Digital Age: Enforcing Standard, Seizing Opportunities and Managing Risks,” the President, Olojo Victor, in his welcome address, said the association would no longer tolerate activities of those tarnishing the image of the body and therefore urge for certification of agents in the ecosystem. Tackling this menace headlong, Victor said AMMBAN would be working with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Shared Agent Network Expansion Facility (SANEF), Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA) and operators to ensure only agents registered are allowed to operate in the country. “We are also working with the operators, we have Association of Licensed Mobile Payment Operators present at this event. We have been working together, the financial industry is huge as such we have companies that are issuing out POS and they are not licensed directly by the central Bank of Nigeria. “Those companies most times don’t follow the rule established by the CBN, because they have API which enables them to start issuing out POS to recruited agents without following CBN guideline. “We are working with the association of operators that gives out the links for POS to work on the network to fish out those companies that are not following the standard rules given by CBN,” he said. Speaking on year 2022 operations, Victor, who said there are currently 1.4 million registered agents under AMMBAN and hopes to increase the number, said the year has been a phenomenal one for agents and the industry at large as there have been significant events that shaped the sector. Be that as it may, as the cash crunch is gradually easing off, the question still remains, “Service Charge Hike: Will POS Operators Return To Status Quo?”