Appeal To State PDP For His Suspension From The Party The executives and leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party in Udu Local Government Area ward 3 have passed vote of no confidence on Chief Andrew Orugbo over allegations of anti-party and high handedness. The executives and leaders in a letter addressed to the state chairman of the party, appealed for his suspension from the party over his role in the just concluded elections. The letter signed by Chief Emmanuel Eyakagba, Executive Assistant to the Governor on HOSTCOM, Rt. Hon. Emmanuel Owholo, Leader, Udu Legislative Arm, Hon. Edwin Notoma, Mr. Frank Mughele, Special Assistant to the Governor on Youth Mobilization, Comrade Joseph Okoro, Mr. Godwin Oghenetega, Mr. John Sele, Ambassador Patrick Sito and Mr. Joseph Boyi Moha, stated that the decision was reached by the executives and leaders of the party after due consultation and critical investigation into the activities of Chief Andrew Orugbo, before, during and after the general elections. They stated in the letter that Chief Andrew Orugbo allegedly enter into unholy alliance with members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Udu Ward 03, were he called members of the APC, five from each of the 13 units of the ward and mobilized them to work against the PDP and promised them cash benefits if the APC wins the elections. According to the letter, “Chief Andrew Orugbo was seen and confirmed in the residence of Chief S. K. Palama, a Chieftain of the APC in Orhuwhorun, Udu Ward 09 to collect mobilization for election. On the eve of both elections, eye witnesses testified that delegation of high profile APC members entered his Ogbe-Udu residence to mobilize him for the elections. “He hijacked the party from leaders and executives of the ward, and frustrated the former Chairman of the ward, Chief Friday Orugbo, Six (6) executive members and other members of the party to defect to the opposition party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “He deliberately with-held money that was given to him for ward 03 for the elections as part of his ploy to fail the party and the said money is still with him till date. POLL “That was why he lost his unit, (Ward 03, unit 09) to the opposition in all the elections. It took us the grace of God to win 5/5 in the ward through the collective efforts of members of the party,” it added.