Bolt, one of the leading mobility app, recently held a Capacity Building Summit on Financial Independence, Leadership, & Self Defence among women in Nigeria in line with its commitment to the Nigeria 2Equal program, to reduce the gender gap across employment and entrepreneurship, and building an inclusive society for women and overall economic growth. The summit held at the Grand Junction Hall, Landmark Towers on the 3rd of April 2023 themed “Promoting Financial Inclusion and Independence for Women”, had Bolt’s female employees, Bolt’s female drivers, and Tosin Olaseinde, Founder of Money Africa, all gathered to discuss the prospect of closing the financial inclusion gap and promoting financial independence. Weyinmi Aghadiuno, Senior Public Policy Manager for West and Central Africa, while speaking at the event, discussed the importance of the summit for Bolt. She said: “Diversity, equity, and inclusion is important to the fabric of Bolt. This year’s summit we decided to take it a step further by delving beyond tech into the well-being of female entrepreneurs on our platforms and our female employees. After deliberating on the key issues impacting their well-being, we decided to focus the summit on tools to promote financial independence and safety, which tie into the core values of Bolt. “At Bolt, we know that women are resourceful and dependable. They have the brainpower, technical skills, intuition, and wisdom needed to move industries and nations forward. We encourage all organisations to take a step forward by empowering the women in their communities, even beyond their immediate employees. Hundreds are impacted when one woman is empowered”, she said Tosin Olaseinde, the keynote speaker, also speaking at the summit, shared that organisations need to contribute a quota to inclusive growth for women in Nigeria. She said, “Financial literacy is an extremely important lesson for Nigerian women. Research has shown that when money is in the hands of women, it boosts the entire family and community creating a ripple effect. It is important for companies to play their parts in creating inclusive growth, especially for women, because when employees are financially literate, they are happier and more productive.”