LAGOS – The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Y. D Ahmed has reiterated that Corps members’ welfare will continue to dominate a top spot in his administration. Speaking while receiving the management team of Capital Express Assurance Limited (CEAL) at NYSC National Directorate Headquarters Maitama, Abuja, today, the Director General assured the Scheme will continue to prioritize issues that concern Corps welfare in the administration of the Scheme. Brigadier General Ahmed, who applauded CEAL for being consistent in carrying out its statutory responsibilities in line with the Memorandum of Understanding it signed with NYSC stating that there is a need for the two organizations to take time for joint assessment of the implementation of the accord to identify and address grey areas. He further said that NYSC would never relent in meeting its obligations in the partnership, and called on CEAL to equally sustain the tempo at which it promptly responds to issues pertaining to insurance cover for Corps Members. In her remarks earlier, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Capital Express Assurance Limited, Mrs Odukale Adebola disclosed that the company has for quite sometime been responsible for providinginsurance services to Corps Members. She said that the company which has existed for over 30 years has always lived up to expectations bypaying benefits to families of Corps Members who pay the supreme sacrifice and providing succour tothose who suffer permanent disabilities through the programme in the course of the service yearthrough the programme, “Corps welfare insurance scheme”. She added that CEAL does intervene in executing special projects for NYSC as part of its corporate social responsibility.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Recently, we constructed and furnished a vocational centre at NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, Keffi, Nasarawa State. POLL “Before that, we had provided technological devices in support of NYSC’s digitization process,” she said. She, therefore, appealed for the fostering a symbiotic relationship for the overall interest of Corps Members.