UYO – The federal government of Nigeria has been tasked to immediately place a moratorium on all oil company divestment in the Niger Delta, pending the ascertaining of issues of community concern. A Non Governmental Organization, “We the People” who handed down the task in a press conference in Uyo on Thursday cautioned that nobody would ever fix the environmental issues in the region, if oil companies are allowed to divest without cleaning up the entire Niger Delta region. Speaking through its Executive Director, Ken Henshaw, the NGO in a press text titled “Dirty Exit, why oil companies in Nigeria are selling off assets and how it denies Niger Delta Communities of Justice”, the NGO maintained that oil companies are simply running away to avoid ecological justice. We the People therefore tasked the Federal Government to immediately produce a framework and guide for l how companies disengage from areas where they have operated. “This guide should be developed by a multi stakeholder group including communities and civil society organizations. The divestment framework must contain the following requirement for a companies; “A scientifically developed post hydrocarbon impact assessment report that establishes the exact ecological and livelihoods impacts of oil extraction “A health audit of people located in close proximity to extraction sites, and others exposed to oil contamination and gas flaring. This audit will aim unravelling the negative health impacts of exposure to hydrocarbons. fit. A detailed plan and costing for remediating the ecological, livelihood and health impacts of extraction.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The establishment of independent frameworks for remediating all identified impacts”. The NGO recommended POLL It regretted that despite widespread concern and demand for accountability and remediation, Nigerian authorities have yet to establish frameworks or guidelines for oil company divestment. The Organization recalled pledge by the head of Nigeria’s National Petroleum Corporation in a statement made in 2021, that the Corporation “will ensure that Nigeria’s national strategic interest is safeguarded by developing a comprehensive divestment policy. “The reality, is that the Niger Delta has been occupied without the consent of its people for 65 years. Its sacred lands and rivers have been taken over and violated. The people have become poorer with each passing year. The productivity of their livelihood sources has been reduced. “The people have been poisoned. Their lives have been reduced. Overall, they have become deprived and destitute on account of crude oil and gas extraction. These are facts. “Divesting without accountability and restoration will see the emergence of stranded communities, who will be left with 65 years’ worth of pollution and health hazards to contend with, while the transnational oil companies that caused their calamity move elsewhere for more profits or greenwash themselves”. It stated