It remains to be seen how kind history will be to the great Arsenal choke of 2023. The discarding of six points, with three successive draws, followed by the crushing defeat away to Manchester City may still ultimately prove to be a blip. But it may also be a deeper scar; a permanent reminder. But first Arsenal, lest it be forgotten, remain two points clear at the summit of the Pre­mier League. While City have two games in hand and while, undeniably, the momentum has shifted so emphatically to the champions, Arsenal are still in this. And yet if they had not sur­rendered two-goal leads away to Liverpool and West Ham United, if they had not somehow con­trived to be 3-1 down against the league’s worst side, Southamp­ton, before salvaging a draw, how different today would look. If, if, if… three painful ifs and there is no sugar-coating it. The draws at West Ham and Southampton were terrible results. Had Arsenal turned those three draws to wins their lead would be eight points. Their des­tiny, with five games to go, would still emphatically be in their own hands. City would have been un­able to do anything about it even if they collected a maximum re­turn in their remaining seven fixtures. Arsenal could have afforded to go to the Etihad and been pum­melled. They could have lost to City in the league to an aggregate of 7-2, as they have done, and still gone on to win it. Instead the label of chokers is being applied even if, again, it comes in a campaign where the height of Arsenal’s ambitions appeared to be finish in the top four. Not to come close to win­ning their first title in two pain­ful decades.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ All careers, especially sport­ing ones, can be reduced to a few images both glorious and often, unfortunately, cruel. Just ask Ste­ven Gerrard whose slip to allow Demba Ba to score for Chelsea came nine years ago on Thursday and helped end Liverpool’s hopes of winning the title for the first time since 1990. POLL Liverpool did not choke – they won 10 of their last 12 leagues games, drawing the other – but the slip came at precisely the wrong time especially as it was followed by losing a 3-0 lead to draw away to Crystal Palace and ‘Crystanbul’ and the narrative was formed as City ran them down and were crowned cham­pions instead. And so there was one painful statistic doing the rounds in the minutes after the final whistle at the Etihad on Wednesday with Opta stating that Arsenal are the first team to go four consecutive Premier League games winless while starting the day top for each match since March 2008. And which side did it then? Ar­senal of course. They had been five points clear but their resolve seemed to be shattered when Eduardo so horrifically broke his leg un­der Martin Taylor’s challenge in the draw away to Birming­ham City. It was the first of four consec­utive draws before a defeat away to Chelsea and the theory devel­oped that Arsene Wenger’s Ar­senal were showing a tendency to choke when the pressure was on them. The enduring image was of captain William Gallas sat on the turf on his own and refusing to budge after the final whistle until ordered to do so by Wenger who, eight years later, was still protesting that Arsenal were not serial chokers. That was also through the lens of Arsenal fading badly in previ­ous title races, not least 2010-11, when they again appeared set to usurp Manchester United only to finish fourth and 12 points off the pace. The collapse was blamed on another game against Birmingham, the shock loss of that season’s League Cup Final. When Arsenal were five points clear again in Nov 2013 it prompt­ed United striker Wayne Rooney to say: “We’ve seen before that they’ve been in the top two until February or March and then fad­ed away.” It was the season City won their second title under the Abu Dhabi ownership. Having lost five of their last 10, including two of their final three, league games last season to drop out of the Champions League places at the very least Arsenal have to ensure they finish strongly. In losing to City they confirmed a top four finish for the first time since finishing runners-up to Leicester City in 2016. But there is no comfort in that yet. If Arsenal fear they will once more be entering the pantheon of Premier League chokes – and it does sound harsh especially giv­en the power of the opposition they have been challenging in Pep Guardiola’s City – at least it will not rank alongside Newcas­tle United’s collapse in 1996. In January Newcastle estab­lished a 12-point lead over Unit­ed before what remains one of the most dramatic capitulations in the history of football. The enduring image this time was Kevin Keegan’s emotional melt­down in front of the cameras and the line: “I will love it if we beat them. Love it.” It did not happen and, since then, Newcastle have never come as close to winning the title. That will be the fear for Arsenal this season even if their squad and their development under Mikel Arteta appears to be built on more solid foundation. But April has been the cruel­lest month for them, with just six points from 15, and as excellent­ly as they have performed this season history may be about to classify them alongside other in­famous collapses. By Jason Burt, The Telegraph