AKURE – Senior Pastor, Awaiting the Second Coming of Christ Ministry, Ade­wale Giwa has called on the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal to order a fresh election for the presi­dential candidates for trans­parency, justice and truth. This was contained in a statement he made available to Daily Independent on Monday in Akure, the Ondo State capital. He noted that this would serve as an opportunity for the judiciary to save its digni­ty, adding that the election was fraught with fraudulence. The statement reads in parts: “As Christians all over the world celebrate Christ’s resurrection, Nigeria must rise from the dead and lead by example as often called the “Giant of Africa.” “Our judiciary must also wake up from the dead and perform its civic responsibil­ities in ensuring transparen­cy, justice and truth. “The judiciary, over the years, has become a tool in the hands of the executive. I hope this time around, the ju­diciary will do itself a favour to make history by ordering a fresh election that will deter­mine the future of Nigeria. “Even the blind can testify that the presidential election held on February 25 was or­ganized in a fraudulent man­ner as usual.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Why can’t we stop mak­ing Nigeria a laughing stock? Why is it difficult for the electoral body to organize a transparent election that will make the citizens happy? POLL “The God of justice calls us to act against injustice. Where is your conscience if you could come out to say that the last presidential elec­tion was transparent? “My message is simple and clear! Order a fresh presiden­tial election that will pacify the good citizens of Nigeria who are angry with the con­duct of the exercise. You don’t expect someone who is not duly and transparently elect­ed to perform in office. All you will get, at the end of the day, is failure upon failure. “One wonders why the sit­uation is getting worse day by day in Nigeria. Any leader elected fraudulently cannot give the citizens a positive result. Nigerians must not fall into the hands of oppres­sors again for another eight years. You can not ask me to pray for a leader who does not know God. I’m sorry sir, that prayer can never be an­swered. You can not manip­ulate God.”