LAGOS – Food & Beverage West Africa, already the continent’s largest food and drink trade exhibition, is set to expand into new space at the Landmark Centre in June. Such has been the demand for exhibition space, the show’s organisers are working with the Landmark Centre on Victoria Island, Lagos, to add a fourth exhibition hall to the event. This means the show has the potential to almost double its floor area size since last year’s event, which sold out the two existing exhibition halls. Since then, a third hall has opened, and now a fourth semi-permanent marquee-type hall is being constructed. The trade show (https://www.fab-westafrica.com/) is due to run from June 13 to 15 and will see exhibitors from more than 30 countries. Among the 10 country pavilions will be new pavilions featuring foods, drinks, equipment and services from India, Dubai and Russia, while the United Nation’s International Trade Centre (ITC) organisation will be sending a delegation of West African producers, including delegates from Gambia and Liberia. Indonesia will also be sending a delegation. Food & Beverage West Africa is organised by BtoB Events, which has become Africa’s largest trade event organiser with an expanding exhibition portfolio in Nigeria. It’s Managing Director, Jamie Hill, is delighted to see demand growing for more exhibition space. “The show’s expansion reflects the confidence in Nigeria’s economic landscape – people are ready for Nigeria to do business and the Food & Beverage exhibition is now at a truly international scale,” he said.“We anticipate there will be more than 5,000 visitors representing food retailing, production and distribution, as well as the hospitality sector, who will be keen to see the latest developments and business opportunities from more than 300 exhibitors.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Among the show partners is the Restaurant & Food Service Proprietors Association of Nigeria (REFSPAN). A spokesman said: “Food & Beverage West Africa gives REFSPAN members a bouquet of opportunities to meet with key players in major parts of the world that are beneficial to the dynamism and the growth REFSPAN desire, in order to promote more and expand the QSR [quick-service restaurant] business in Nigeria.” POLL We gathered that the release of the additional exhibition space is allowing the organisers to take more bookings.