The youth wing of the foremost socio-cultural organisation in Ebonyi State, Unwu-Ekumenyi Youths Movement, has debunked the media reports alleging it protested against the relocation of Ebonyi State Election Petitions Tribunal to Abuja by the President of Court Appeal, Hon. Justice Monica Dongban-Mensen. The group also demanded a public apology from the Director of Youth Mobilization of APC Governorship Campaign Organisation in the 2023 general elections, Mr. Uche Ega, who it said allegedly gave the false information against it. Unwu-Ekumenyi Youths Movement consequently charged the general public and Nigerian judiciary to ignore the fake report, even as it threatened legal action for Impersonation against Mr. Uche Ega. The group further stated that, as a socio-cultural organisation, Unwu-Ekumenyi was not partisan and therefore would not interfere with the internal affairs of the Nigerian judiciary. These were contained in a press statement signed by the president-general of Unwu-Ekumenyi Youths Movement, Prince Samchi Mgbada; and the secretary-general of the group, Comrade Solomon Egwu which was made available to our Correspondent in Abakaliki on Friday. “How can Unwu-Ekumenyi Youths Movement protest when we are a non-partisan group? Investigations reveal that the relocation of the tribunals to Abuja was necessitated by the antics of Ebonyi State Government officials who insinuated that the security of the tribunals could not be guaranteed except they agree to stay in the facility of an APC stalwart? These unpatriotic acts were allegedly followed with subliminal threats and menaces against prospective witnesses of opposition political parties. “As a socio-cultural organisation, we do not want either Ebonyi people or those on assignment in Ebonyi State to be injured. Abuja is the seat of the federal government and so, is the safest place in Nigeria. Unwu-Ekumenyi Youth Movement is encouraging the Nigerian judiciary to take any measures that will ensure the security of her personnel. Uche Ega Ali is a partisan APC stalwart. He is not our member. As we urge the general public and the Nigerian judiciary to ignore news of any purported protest by the Unwu-Ekumenyi Youths Movement, we hereby demand a public apology from Uche Ega for impersonating and tainting our movement with partisanship”, he concluded.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Recall that on Wednesday, the Secretary of Ebonyi State election petition tribunal, Mr Nyior Henry Sekulla, announced the directive of the Appeal Court President for the relocation of the Tribunal to Abuja, a development that has generated mixed reactions from political actors in Ebonyi State.