LAGOS  – The 2023 Tech Week Campaign of Jumia, the pan-African e-commerce has commenced and it is aimed at providing consumers access to authentic tech devices. A statement by the media consultant to the company said that the initiative, which was aimed at providing consumers access to authentic tech devices such as mobile phones and accessories, televisions, computers, cameras, video games and others started on April 20, 2023. The statement hinted that the campaign in its second edition, offers all consumers nationwide the opportunity to upgrade their tech devices for less from renowned brands like Xiaomi, Oraimo, Samsung, Tecno, Infinix, Edifier, Weyon, Nexus, Haier Thermocool, Scanfrost, and Binatone, amongst others. Massimiliano Spalazzi, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Jumia Nigeria, while commenting on the campaign, said that the aim of the e-commerce platform was to ensure every Nigerian had access to quality products at competitive prices. He promised that the company was committed to making this a reality, stressing that it partnered with leading brands to provide its consumers with access to the latest tech devices. He added: “We hope to help bridge the digital divide and empower more people to achieve their full potential. Consumers can be sure to have their tech needs met during this campaign. “At Jumia, we remain committed to providing the best shopping experience to our consumers across the country.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Besides, Alex Liu, E-Commerce Operation Manager, Oraimo Technology Limited, expressed the delight at partnering with Jumia Nigeria on the initiative. POLL Liu hoped that the partnership would the company to showcase its innovative and cutting-edge mobile accessories and lifestyle offerings to a wider audience in Nigeria. “As a leading e-commerce platform committed to delivering quality products and excellent customer service, Jumia is the perfect partner for oraimo. Through this collaboration, we are determined to bring amazing offers and deals to our customers and ensure that they have access to our high-quality products.”