Kaduna State governor, Nasir Ahmed el-Rufai, has commended his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike for ensuring that the All Progressives Congress, APC, got a 25% vote cast in the last presidential election in the state. El-rufai who was in Rivers State for the inauguration of projects pointed out that though he and Governor Wike may be from different political parties, they share a few things in common because they are Nigerians and believe in one Nigeria. He commended Governor Wike and the people of Rivers State for supporting the emergence of a southern president in the 2023 presidential election. “I want to on behalf of our presidential candidate and our party to thank you and the good people of Rivers state for making the right choice in voting for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. It is the first time since the Fourth Republic started in 1999 that PDP was unable to get 25% in Rivers State. “It shows that the people of Rivers can differentiate and they know when to vote for quality and they voted quality over political sentiments. We want to thank you for providing that leadership Governor Wike.” The Kaduna State governor urged Governor Wike, who he described as a staunch believer in the unity of Nigeria to continue to work together with others of like minds to make Nigeria an egalitarian, progressive and prosperous society “I want to assure you on behalf of the Northern APC governors that stood up and insisted that after eight years of President Buhari power should shift to the South was an act not only of belief in one Nigeria, but also in our enlightened self interest.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This country has the potential to lead the African continent and indeed the black race. But only when Nigerian leaders come together and do what is best for the majority of our people. This is what the northern APC Governors stood for. POLL “This is what we believe Governor Wike stands for and this is part of the reason that I am here to extend our hand of fellowship to Your excellency governor Nyesom Wike and the people of Rivers state, for us to continue to work together as brothers and sisters to make Nigeria a better place for everyone. No matter what religion, ethnicity, tribe, colour or creed.” He described the Eneka-Igbo Etche Link Road as a very important road that symbolises the quality of governance governor Wike has continued to provide to Rivers State. According to him, there is a visible infrastructural transformation of the State and with an undoubtable heavy investment in health, education, and job creation. “And it is clear that under your leadership, the resources of the State has been used for the benefit of the people of the State. I want to congratulate you on your achievements. Earlier, Governor Wike said that the last presidential election was about the protection of the unity of Nigeria and Rivers State sided with those patriots of national inclusivity to support southern presidency. Speaking on Thursday at Eneka in Obio-Akpor Local Government Area, venue of the inauguration of Eneka-Igbo Etche Link Road, governor Wike thanked his Kaduna State counterpart, Mallam Nasir Ahmed el-Rufai and the All Progressives Congress (APC) governors for their stance on power shift to the south. Governor Wike said it is natural justice that the presidency move to the south since the incumbent president, Muhammadu Buhari, who hails from the north was just concluding its eight years tenure in office. “Your Excellency, let me use the opportunity to thank you immensely and members of your team, particularly you governors from the north under the All Progressives Congress, APC. When it matters most in this country, when Nigerians were talking about unity; how this country will be united and progressive, people like you came out boldly and spoke out that for the unity of this country. “It is important that the presidency having stayed in the north for eight years should move to the south and you stood firm.