UMUAHIA – Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has expressed deep sorrow over the death of Mrs Ifeoma Ada Kalu, former First Lady of Abia State and wife of the Senator, representing Abia North, Orji Uzor Kalu at the age of 61. In a condolence message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Onyebuchi Omemanka Monday evening, the Abia governor described the deceased as a humane and kind woman who was warm, gentle and unassuming as Abia First Lady. According to Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, the late Dr Ifeoma Uzor Kalu was a likable personality and therefore urged his husband and former governor as well as the Uzor Kalu’s family to bear the loss with fortitude “and with the assurance that this is the path all mortals must go”. The full text of the condolence message reads: “The Governor of Abia State, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu has received with deep sadness, the news of the passing on of the wife of the former Governor of Abia State and current Senate Chief Whip, Senator Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, Mrs Ifeoma Ada Kalu at the age of 61 years. “The Late Mrs Kalu died in the United States of America, according to a statement by her husband, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. “Mrs Ifeoma Kalu was First Lady of Abia State while her husband served as Governor. Governor Ikpeazu remembers her as a humane and kind woman who was warm, gentle and unassuming. “The Governor urges Senator Kalu and his family to bear the loss with fortitude and with the assurance that this is the path all mortals must go. More especially, the Governor urges the Uzor Kalu family, as Christians, to have assurances in the resurrection of the dead.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Governor Ikpeazu, on behalf of the government and people of Abia State, sends his deepest condolences to the family of the former Governor and a prayer for the repose of her gentle soul”. POLL It will be recalled that late Ifeoma, a PhD holder in Banking and Finance, died after a protracted illness. Her husband, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, was the second Executive Governor of Abia State. He served from 1999 to 2007.