LAGOS  – Barrister Alaowei Ebikonbowei Cleric, Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Cor­ruption Crusade (CHURAC), has lamented the confusion and help­lessness that have characterized the rescue of Nigerians in war-torn Sudan, nothing that the Federal Government has made a mess of the rescue operation. Cleric who noted that noth­ing good had ever come out of the Buhari-led government, the pathetic handling could be traced to government’s officials devices to corner a large chunk of the funds made available for the purpose. Barrister Cleric, who is a Special Assistant (Political) to the Delta State governor, said the Nigeria government had always taken a back seat in times of cri­ses and emergencies involving the citizens. The lawyer said: “While oth­er foreign countries are taking advantage of the period of cease­fire declared by the two warring groups to evacuate their nation­als, the Nigerian government officials are looking for ways to loot public treasuries. “Even Air Peace has offered to fly stranded Nigerians from the troubled country. I don’t know why the government needs to spend a whopping $1.2million to buy buses to evacuate people? They like to use every opportuni­ty to pilfer public funds.” He added: “The government under President Buhari is not always prepared for anything much less an emergency situa­tion.” Observers have noted that the primary duty of any gov­ernment is the protection of the lives and property of citizens no matter where they are, and have faulted the federal authorities for waiting until the lives of stu­dents and other compatriots in that country became threatened before responding to their emer­gency needs.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Another commentator, Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a communi­cation expert and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic party (PDP), stressed that one most important function of government is that of protection of lives and prop­erties of its citizens. POLL According to Adikwuru, “From the home grown insur­gency, to kidnapping and hostage taking, to the herdsmen ram­paging and murdering citizens, to terrorism and so forth, the Buhari government has, rather than protect citizens, demon­strated attitude an accomplice to the genocidal crimes. “As if that is not enough, the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) government has taken its lacklustre disposition beyond the coast of Nigeria. “For a country with a Muslim leader on saddle to show no con­cern to not less than 95% Muslim citizens residing in Sudan who are brutally murdered in a war-torn Sudan, can anybody justify Nigerian government as respon­sible and or responsive? “Failure is the name of the government of Nigeria as pres­ently constituted and what we have is rather a stateless society where life has become nasty, brutish, hopeless and depress­ing, turning everyone on his own and God for us all. It is very unfortunate and shameful.” Adding his voce, Julius Ade­gunna, a public affairs com­mentator and journalist, stated: “First, I don’t believe that the Fed­eral Government was confused. Neither did it come too late. Of course, one thing about the atti­tude of the outgoing president Muhammadu Buhari to issues is his delayed action. “He would never act until things come almost too late. So, that is understandable. The concerned authorities came late probably because they believed the struggle would not escalate to the extent of war. “And as it eventually broke into war, every nation was con­vinced that they had to rescue their natives and Nigeria equally acted, and the response has also been encouraging. “Therefore, I will not say Nigeria did not prepare for the emergency. But, the government can still come out faster and bet­ter any other time such a situa­tion emerges.” Also Comrade, Osatoham­hen Ebhohon, an activist and the Publicity Secretary of the African Action Congress (AAC), in Lagos State, stated that the nation’s ruling and elite class is not visionary leaders as his presidential candidate, Omoyele Sowore, always says. According to him, “They, the ruling class, cannot even man­age a WhatsApp group without causing chaos. It is to be expected that their actions to rescue broth­ers and sisters from Sudan will be chaotic and void of proper planning. “Our embassies in the dias­pora have gravely failed in pro­tecting the interests and welfare of their citizens on foreign soil because they lack leadership that understands that intelli­gence gathering plays a big role in achieving these goals. “The so-called leaders are just there for the sake of visi­bility and belly-filling activities. The embassy in Sudan should already have predicted this war between the army and the paramilitary group before it started given that it didn’t start overnight. That is what is called intelligence gathering. “It was only a protest we had in Nigeria in 2020 (#ENDSARS), but Europe, America, and Asia monitored the situation close­ly and kept their citizens alert in the advent of anything that might risk the lives of their cit­izens. “Until we have a vision­ary and intelligent leader like Sowore, chaotic evacuation will continue to be the norm.” Dr Kanayo Uchime, a mis­sionary and public affairs com­mentator, stated: “A country that does not care about the welfare of its citizens can never be said to be a normal country. Nigeria has found itself in this position. “Not until we, as a nation, start taking ourselves seriously, other countries can never take us seriously. Nigeria is a coun­try where life does not matter much. “Can you imagine a country dragging its feet in rescuing cit­izens trapped in a war situation? This is the highest level of insen­sitivity. “I start to imagine and ques­tion, when will the life of citizens of this country matter? When shall Nigeria be proactive on emergency cases like what we have at hand in Sudan? “While other well-meaning countries are making desperate and concerted efforts to rescue their people from the war infest­ed Sudan, our leaders are han­dling it with kid gloves. When shall our leaders come to their senses? “Why can we not look and learn from other countries? A country that cannot manage emergencies cannot be said to be a normal country. “I am really sorry for our so-called leaders. I do not really know when we shall get it right as a nation.”