GOMBE – A north east political pressure group known as ‘Northeast Youth Group For Good Governance is appealing to Members-elect of the House of Representatives to consider Borno State born and APC’s Muktar Aliyu Betara for the plum position of the Speaker of the House. The group which particularly targets the opposition parties in the Green Chamber to rally round Betara for the Speakership position among other reasons said Betara is most competent following his 16 years experience in the House. Addressing a press conference at the Gombe State Secretariat of the APC, the Group’s Secretary, Khalid Ahmed Kumo, said the group found Muktar Aliyu Betara worthy of the speaker’s position especially at this time that an experienced legislator is required to work with the executive in providing laws and order for the benefit of all. He said, “we therefore wish to extend our hands of friendship to elected members of the House of Representatives under different opposition parties to come together and support national development and competency over any other personal desire for the betterment of our country by supporting Muktar Aliyu Betara which will eventually transform the legislature of the country due to his track record of experience in the service. “Honourable Mukhtar Aliyu Betara has been representing his constituency for the past 16 years and still counting. This is a clear indication that he understands both the needs of the people, the essence of representation and the lawmaking process of the country. “He is someone who can unite the house to work together for the progress of the country due to his immense experience in legislative affairs, being the chairman of the house committee on the army, defense, appropriations beside membership of numerous standing committees. This reaffirms his experience and knowledge of the job”. He stated. Extolling Betara’s benevolance, Khalid Ahmed said, the member who had been representing Biu, Bayo, Kwaya kusar, Shani Federal Constituency had no interest in politics at the onset but for the push and insistence from beneficiaries of his generosity from a large portion of the Constituency.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “They believe that given his philanthropic activities as a private citizen, if given the support, he will represent them well at the centre. That was how Betara became a politician and ended up in the National Assembly and the Constituents have never regretted having him as their representative”, Khalid Ahmed said.