The Bayelsa State Government said it has taken over the medical bills of the victims of last Thursday’s boat mishap at Okoroma community in Nembe Local Government Area of the state. Governor Douye Diri, on Sunday, directed the Commissioner for Health to ensure that the state government picks the bill of hospitalised victims. Diri, who spoke during the Easter Sunday service at the King of Glory Chapel in Government House, Yenagoa, sympathized with families that lost individuals in the boat accident and also directed the Health Commissioner to refund to survivors whatever they had spent on treatment. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, further directed all relevant authorities in the transport sector, especially those in charge of the waterways, to ensure that all safety measures were duly complied with henceforth to avert another of such accident. He said that his administration would not hesitate to sanction anyone found wanting in the discharge of their duties as government would no longer allow such avoidable accidents. Speaking on the rerun House of Representatives and House of Assembly polls for the Southern Ijaw Federal Constituency and Ogbia Constituency 2 respectively, he called for peaceful conduct of the elections, saying the events that led to the rerun must be avoided. Diri remarked that in the spirit of Easter, politicians should see politics as a means to serve the people and not engage in actions that negate value for the lives of people they intend to serve.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He also urged politicians and their followers in the state to close ranks after the general election, stressing that Bayelsa can only move forward when there is unity and love towards one another. POLL Diri said, “My message is very clear. We have seen the resurrection and its power. Whatever that was dead in our lives, the power of resurrection will affect it. “As Ijaw people, we live by the truth and we will indeed be set free. Elections have come and gone. Whatever our differences were, let us put them aside. It is time for reconciliation. “The power of government is to do good, to be compassionate, to bring development and ensure peace. “On April 15, we have rerun elections. Let me use this opportunity to again make this call. Our purpose is to serve the people. So, in this rerun poll, what led to it should not repeat itself. That was a bad publicity for Bayelsa State. “I also call on INEC and the security agencies to do their job. Democracy is about the people and not politicians. Let us go as brothers and sisters to the rerun election. All I ask for as governor of this state is peace and for us to be civil.” Delivering a sermon, Chaplain of the King of Glory Chapel, Pastor David Yalah said the resurrection of Jesus is real and it gave hope to Christians that death will not always have power over them.