A coalition of youth orga­nizations and the National Council of the Federation of Iseyin Local Government Students (FILGS) has react­ed to a statement credited to the Federation of Ogbomoso Students (FOGSU), urging Oyo State Governor, Seyi Ma­kinde, to stop the commence­ment of the university’s Col­lege of Agricultural Science and Renewable Natural Re­sources in Iseyin in May. FOGSU had in a publi­cation on Monday with the headline “LAUTECH: Stop Movement of Agricultural Faculty To Iseyin – FOGSU”, called on the Governor to stop the commencement of academic activities on the Iseyin campus, citing fear of what will become of the infrastructure to be left at the mother campus by the Faculty of Agriculture. The release, signed by FOGSU President, Olarinde Muyideen, appealed to the governor to reconsider his stand on the issue and ac­cused the Acting Provost of the new college, Prof. Jacob Gbemiga Adewale, of seek­ing personal gain by bring­ing the Governor and the student body of Ogbomoso on collision course. The coalition of youths movements that include Progressive Movement of Oke-Ogun (PROMO), Ise­yin Youths Development Group (IYDG), Ebedi Frontliners, Iseyin (EFI), Ebedi Renaissance, Iseyin (ERI) and FILGS, after an emergency meeting, which was held at the Aseyin Pal­ace Pavilion on Monday called on members of FOG­SU not to allow themselves to be used by politicians to drive a wedge between the Ogbomoso and Iseyin townships, as the two an­cient communities shared communal culture and de­velopment over time. Aare Babajide Oniyo, the Coordinator of Iseyin Youths Development Group (IYDG), said while speaking with journalists after the meeting that “Our attention has been drawn to a petition and proposed protest slated for 7am tomorrow 11th May, 2023 initiated by some un­scrupulous elements under the guise of Federation of Ogbomoso Students Union (FOGSU) to stop the com­mencement of Academic activities of LAUTECH College of Agriculture and Renewable Natural Resourc­es, Iseyin campus slated for May, 2023. “This call is highly destruc­tive, inciting and capable of destroying the state’s peace, hence calling on concerned authorities to identify and deal decisively with those be­hind this satanic move. “It’s surprising that a rea­sonable organisation could descend so low to release such a statement and still be proud to sign the same with­out being shameful. We have gotten the notice of the pro­test which was secretly cir­culated amongst the group, hence calling the concerned authorities to forestall the breakdown of law and order.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We have also gone through the petition ad­dressed to the people’s Gov­ernor, Engr. Oluseyi Ma­kinde, through one online news platform, and we can­not fathom any reasonable, authentic and substantial points other than malicious, unfounded, inciting, selfish and destructive points ca­pable of throwing the state into confusion, destruction and anarchy. POLL “In the petition, FOGSU noted its displeasure over the proposed relocation of Fac­ulty of Agriculture to Iseyin, worried of what becomes of the facility built in Ogbomo­sho for same, It also stated that the students were given admissions for a five-year course in Ogbomoso and not Iseyin, hence, its grievances. “The body should be schooled that government policies have procedures and the same have been completed for the relocation of the said faculty and the establishment of LAUTECH College of Agriculture and Renewable Natural Resourc­es in Iseyin. The process suc­cessfully scaled through 1st, 2nd and 3rd readings in the Oyo plenary and was accent­ed to by the Governor.”