Chelsea have a four man shortlist of names being considered to replace Graham Potter as the club’s next head coach, according to reports. The Blues broke ties with the 47-year-old on Sunday night after losing 2-0 to Aston Villa 24-hours earlier. It is already the second time that Todd Boehly-Clearlake Capital have dismissed a manager at Stamford Bridge despite only taking over in May 2022. With the mass turnover of staff from the top down within the club the next appointment is likely to take much longer to decide upon. Chelsea acted swiftly back in September to replace Thomas Tuchel with Potter, appointing the former Brighton head coach within 48 hours of removing the German from his post. With no such league jeopardy at stake and the pressure of mounting frustration and distrust from within the fanbase there is added scrutiny on the next moves from the top of the hierarchy. READ MORE: Chelsea’s Graham Potter tipping point and who will take charge amid Julian Nagelsmann interest Whereas Boehly and Clearlake founder Behdad Eghbali were central to the appointment of Potter, with no real sporting structure in place, they have a newly formed team on-board with Paul Winstanley, Christopher Vivell and Laurence Stewart all playing key roles. It is now down to that group to find the best fit for the hot seat at Stamford Bridge, one that has already seen three managers fired since January 2021. According to the Telegraph, it’s set to be a process taken with serious care and extensive thought. Chelsea have no immediate need to rush into another appointment. Bruno Saltor is in caretaker charge for now and is likely to be the man in the dugout for the two Champions League matches against Real Madrid on the horizon. Meanwhile the only true deadline appears to be having a name in place for pre-season.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ There is little to play for in the league and ensuring that the next manager is the correct one is more important than trying to hire someone with the thankless task of progressing in Europe at such short notice. Those that are being considered are recently axed Bayern Munich coach Julian Nagelsmann, ex-Tottenham and Paris Saint-Germain boss Mauricio Pochettino, Spain’s maligned 2022 World Cup manager Luis Enrique and Napoli keystone Luciano Spalletti. POLL It is also said that the club wish to interview at least five candidates for the post. In September there were only two considerations. One was Potter and the other was Pochettino. Nagelsmann is the current favourite with the bookies but he and Pochettino are both heavily linked with other top jobs around Europe including at Tottenham and Real Madrid.