ABUJA – Prior to the commencement of the 10th National Assembly, Northern groups endorsed deputy speaker Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase as their top choice for the speakership. The Northern Patriotic Front and Arewa Youths Leaders Forum both declared their support for Hon. Wase as the house speaker, citing his qualifications, experience, and leadership skills. In separate press releases, the groups’ national presidents Alhaji Ali Abacha and Mohammed Muazu said they had closely observed Hon Wase’s activities and contributions as deputy speaker of the 9th Assembly and his tenacious support of the party. They had come to the conclusion that it was time for the party to reward loyalty and sacrifice. While, urging the ruling party to zone the position of the speaker to the North Central zone, they argued that the bipartisan approach of the Plateau legislator is needed to stabilise the 10 house of Representatives.adding that the house needed a member with cognitive experience and bipartisan approach. The group noted that as the ruling party is thinking of zoning the position of speakership of the house it must place loyalty, merit above other sentiments . It further noted that Wase having served Ggbajoabmila without rancour Wase should be considered as a result of the in road and contribution made to the success of the 9 th Assembly and the party. The statement reads in parts ” We the Northern Patriots Front and Arewa Youths Leaders Forum having keenly watched the contributions of Hon Ahmed Idris Wase in the floor of the 9 Assembly as well as his bipartisan approach to politics, we do hereby endorse him as our preferred Candidate for the position of speaker. We urge the national leadership of the ruling ,All Progressive Congress APC to rally round his candidature. We believe that party loyalty should be adequately rewarded . Hon Wase has shown commitment to the success of the party defending policies and position of the party and entire nation. Besides, he is humble , easy going , unassuming and a bridge between the executives and the legislature” In thesame vein , the Arewa youths forum said ” we have followed Hon Wase and have known him for sometime now , his brilliant outing as a deputy Speaker was impressive. We have no doubt in our minds that he has the right experience to lead the 10 house at this auspicious time, we therefore call on Nigerians and the members of the All Progressive Congress APC to zone the position of speaker to the North Central and support him as the incoming speaker of the house of Representatives “, the statement further stated.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒