Celine was still nursing her soul-stirring wounds that were left from her last relationship when another one came along. She tried to open her heart to the new guy but claimed not to be sexually compatible with him. She can’t just feel anything for him. In order not to break the new guy’s heart she asked for a temporary break to fix her mind. Now, she is wondering if how she felt was as a result of her emotional pain from the last relationship or simply because the guy was unattractive to her sexually. “I met this gentleman a few months after I was ditched by a guy I loved so much. My ex was like a friend and brother to me. We had known each other since we were in secondary school. We started as friends and later we became lovers. He was the man I thought I would marry. When I was with him I never had eyes on other guys. I always told him the guys that approached me and how I snubbed them. He was my paddy. “The breakup was sudden and painful, I never saw it coming, maybe there were signs but because of how much I loved him I never saw them. I was blinded by love. It was not up to two months when I had the heartbreak that this young man came along. Unknown to me, he has been admiring me from a distance. “We attended the same six-month training. It was a youth programme and all the while he has been looking for an opportunity to talk to me. “So, one day in the class, he started a conversation with me – he was not my kind of guy so I was not really interested in the chitchat. But he never let go and continued the conversation till we became friends. He is a nice guy, caring and a gentleman but he is not sexually attracted to me. “When we started dating, I thought I would love him someday if I gave it a little time but each day that passed instead of developing feelings for him, I became even more distant. I only appreciated him as a person but I didn’t feel anything for him. I thought I could use him to forget my ex and heal but the pain was still there. “I didn’t tell him about my heartbreak but I think he sensed it. He was so caring, he would cook for me just to make me happy. So many times he made me laugh with his jokes. Despite all this, I still didn’t love him. Even when we were alone, I felt irritated when he kissed or touched me. I struggled with him whenever he tried to romance me. And that made him sad. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “So, I told him I needed a break. He told me to take my time. I didn’t want to hurt him or urge him on. But I want to know if how I felt about him was as a result of my last heartbreak or just me not liking him?” POLL Dear Celine, I think you are not emotionally ready to go into a new relationship. You need to heal, but while you are taking your time to heal you don’t have to stay in that state of mind for too long, if not you will end up losing good relationships. Yes! Heartbreak is awful but sometimes it all depends on how you handle it. Aside from the fact that you are not ready, I think you are not into that new guy. Maybe there is something about him you don’t like or he doesn’t have the features of the kind of man you prefer – your ideal kind of man. That might be another reason you rebuffed him, and his kisses and touch irritated you. Since you feel this way about him, maybe you have to let him go. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions share your own experiences.