ABAKALIKI  – The People’s Democratic Par­ty (PDP) and its governorship candidate in the just conclud­ed 2023 general elections, Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, have asked the election petitions tribunal sitting in Abakali­ki, Ebonyi State capital, to mandate the Independent National Electoral Commis­sion (INEC) to withdraw the certificate of return issued to the governor-elect, Right Hon­ourable Francis Nwifuru on ground of non-qualification. They also asked the tribu­nal to declare Dr. Ifeanyi Odii, the acclaimed winner of the election and return him as the elected Governor of Ebonyi State in the March 18, gover­norship election. These were some of the prayers in a petition no: EPT/ EB/02/2023, dated April 6,2023 and filed on April 7, 2023, by Odii and the PDP against the INEC, Nwifuru and the All Progressives Congress (APC), a copy of which was obtained by our reporter. The petitioners, Mr. Odii and the PDP, in the petition, argued that the Nwifuru, was not qualified to contest the election on the platform of the APC as he was still a bonafide member of the PDP and had not officially defected to any other political party including the APC. The 2nd petitioner, the PDP, further averred that Nwifuru, being a serving lawmaker elected on the platform of the party to the State House of As­sembly, and who had not de­fected officially at the floor of the House as the law requires, couldn’t have contested elec­tion in another party outside the PDP. The PDP asked the tribu­nal to declare that Nwifuru was not qualified to stand for the 2023 governorship election on the platform of the APC as he remained a member of the party and the party never sponsored him for any election in the just concluded 2023 general elections. The petitioners also cited a subsisting judgment by Jus­tice Henry Njoku of the Ebo­nyi State High Court, which ruled that Nwifuru and other lawmakers of Ebonyi State House of Assembly who pur­portedly defected to the APC are still members of the PDP.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The petitioners also pur­ported non-compliance with the Electoral Act 2022, by INEC as well as electoral malpractices, among other infractions.