IBADAN – Oyo state governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde who also doubles as the visitor to the Ladoke Akintola University Ogbomoso (LAUTECH) at the ongoing 15 Convocation Ceremonies of the institution has on Friday charged the new chancellor of the university, His Royal Majesty, Sir Sergeant Ohna Chidi Awuse, the paramount ruler of Emoha kingdom, River State to arise the bar of the university to a global standard. Governor Makinde made the charge at the Senate Building of LAUTECH during the investiture of Sir Sergeant Ohna Chidi Awuse, the paramount ruler of Emoha kingdom, River State as the sixth Chancellor for the University. Makinde who was ably represented by his deputy, Barrister Bayo Lawal while emphasizing on the qualities expected from the Chancellor of the university stressed that the chancellor is a person that can help raise the profile of a university and advance it’s interests regionally, nationally and internationally. Governor Makinde noted that Sir Sergeant Ohna Chidi Awuse has fulfilled the criteria necessary to function as Chancellor of Ladoke Akintola University Ogbomoso LAUTECH. He said, “Chancellor is expected to have an enthusiasm for the development and advancement of the University, he must be willingness and have the ability to commit the necessary time and energy to development and advancement of the university.” “A chancellor must be ready and able to share the university’s values, vision, goals, and ambitions as well have affinity for its work. He must be able to recognize and celebrate the importance of higher education, he must have a string personal commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion. He must be a highly respected individual, with a positive public profile that resonates with students, staff and alumni.” “The chancellor must have demonstrated excellence in their professional lives, he must have strong public speaking skills, capable of inspiring a diverse range of audience, and you will all agree with me that all these qualities are embodied in the selected personality and would go a long way to assisting him carry out his jobs for the University.” Makinde said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In his address, the chancellor, Sir Ohna Sergeant Chidi Awuse commended Governor Makinde for honouring him with such office, the monarch also dedicated his latest chancellorship status to the good people of Emohua kingdom and the entire people of River State. POLL Sir Awuse said, “this honour is not just for me, but for my people, the Emohua people, and for the entire people of River State, we see it as a confirmation of friendliness and large-heartedness of the governor and good people of Oyo state who despite having so many worthy sons and daughters who match the bill, decided to look outward UN their search for a chancellor of the University.” Sir Awuse further said, “This honour will not be taken for granted, as our determination is to add value to the vision of the founders shall know no end, reading through the history of this University that has consistently won and consolidated herself as the best state University and best University of Technology in Nigeria, I have realized that you have had five chancellors in the past and all them are great Nigerians, from Bashorun Moshood Kasimawo Olawale Abiola, Chief Chris Ogunbanjo, Justice Kayode Esho, to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, these are first grade and world class people.” “I’m accepting this challenge and seeking the support of all of you to keep up with the already established trend of being at the very top, or even surpassing their records.” Awuse said. Dignitaries at the investiture programme include, the state Commissioner for Public Works, Infrastructure and Transports, Prof. Daud Sangodoyin, former state Deputy Governors, Ambassador Taofik Arapaja and Engr. Hammed Gbadamosi, Pro-Chancellor of the University, who also doubles as the Chairman of the governing council, Prof. Ayodeji Omole, Acting Vice- Chancellor, Mojeed Liasu, among others.