ISAAC ASABOR A Catholic Archbishop has reminded Nigerians that funeral sermons are for the living, not the dead, while words spoken in the hour of death should encourage the living to remain faithful to the Lord. His Grace, Most Rev. Dr. Augustine Akubeze, Archbishop of Benin City, stated this at the funeral mass at Saint Monica Catholic Church, Ibusa, Oshimili North LGA, Delta state to commiserate with the children of late Sir Fidelis Chukwunweike Nwanze, the Knight of Saint Mulumba (KSM), whom the Lord had called to himself. The Presiding Archbishop expressed his feelings, pains, and sorrows that the death of the late Nwanze brought to the entire family. The Archbishop commended Rev. John Nwanze, his son, and the members of his family for the love and care given to their late father till he breathed his last. “After the first martyr gave his life for the Lord, Luke tells us that ‘devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him’ (Acts 8:2). Acts 9:36 tells us of Dorcas, a woman “full of good works and charitable deeds.” Also, the Chancellor of Issele-Uku Diocese, Rt Rev. Msgnr John Aduba in a message, described the late Nwanze as a man of peace, adding that his departure is in the counsel of Jesus Christ in John 14.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He noted that God rewarded his efforts in doing His work and gave him a very long life of 96 years and saw the seed of long life, emphasizing that the late Nwanze chose to be a member of the Catholic Church and serve as a living sacrifice. POLL “As a renowned Judge, he contributed to the establishment of the Catholic Church in Ibusa, which is a memorable one. Late Nwanze lived a fulfilled life. According to St. Paul and Psalm 23, if we live we live for God, and if we die we die for God.” According to him, “Revelation 14:13 says our works will follow us. When you die, what will you leave behind? We brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out (1 Tim. 6:7). “What would you gain if you had the whole world? Whatever it is, it will not endure after the Judgment is passed (2 Peter 3:10).” Rev. Fr John Nwanze, son of the deceased, in an interview, said his father was a good man, and that they would cope with his absence if he fulfilled the position of a father when he was alive. “I thanked God because my father lived a fulfilled life which people can testify to,” he stressed. The funeral service witnessed the presence of Chief of Staff to the Delta State governor, Hon. Festus Agas, his wife PS Women Affairs, Kevwe Agas, Justice Marshall Umukoro (rtd), Justice Isaiah Bozimo, Hon. Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice Delta State, among others.