AWKA – Traders at Ogbaru Main Market near Ontisha may drown inside Sakamori following the collapse of a portion of the Sakamori bridge in the area. The President-General of the market, Mr. Ndubuisi Ochiogu who spoke on behalf of the traders in the market appealed to the Federal Government as well as the Anambra State Government to assist the traders to fix the failed portion of the abandoned Sakamori bridge, pointing out that it would amount to a catastrophic situation should the dilapidation escalate. It would be recalled that the Anambra State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) had issued several warnings ahead of this year’s rainfall, warning residents of the area of the danger ahead as predictions reveal that this year’s flooding would be more massive than last year. Conducting newsmen round the dilapidated bridge at the weekend, Ochiogu explained that traders in the market were under serious threats as the failed portion of the Sakamori bridge may collapse completely anytime especially as the rains intensify. He said, “The Sakamori links all flooding from Nkpor, Ezeiweka Awada, Owerri Road and crossed behind the Market’s fence down to River Niger. The flood has already pulled down the fence of the market threatening to move into the market”. “As you can see, the whole of the Sakamori slab has damaged leaving ordinary soil which has already washed away the fence. We have been trying our possible best to control it but it is beyond our capacity. It is so deep and wide that requires huge capital to tackle, That is why we are calling on Federal Government and Anambra State Government to assist us.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We are afraid because if something urgently is not done, flood will sack and destroy this market in this rainy season. As we heard, there will be high rainfall and flood this year.” POLL Ochiogu expressed worries why the Sakamori should be damaged so soon, stating that not quite few months ago the same failed portion was repaired by former administration of the market. He said that he has written to NEMA and State Government but they have not got any response. “If it is not poor work done on this portion of Sakamori by the people who claimed that they repaired it, this nonsense would not have surfaced again. It is even worst because all slaps have been washed away.”