LAGOS – Beaconhill Smile Group and its foundation have organised the maiden edition of the Oral Cancer Awareness Walk in partnership with Lakeshore Cancer Center to mark this year’s International Oral Cancer Awareness Month. Awarded as the Best Dental Care provider by the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Awards (NHEA) 2022 – Beaconhill Smile Group, a fast-rising international clinical chain with several specialist clinics across Lagos state, Nigeria. The specialist clinics of the award-winning dental care provider range from Dentistry, physician-led Skin Aesthetics and Dermatology centre, Optometry and Beaconhilll Global Eye LCC in Atlanta Georgia, USA. To contribute its quota in raising awareness about the escalating menace of Oral Cancer in Nigeria and Africa as a whole, the group partnered with Lakeshore Cancer Centre. According to the latest WHO data, Oral Cancer in Nigeria has reached about 2,238 or 0.15 percent of the total annual deaths in the country. This silent killer is deserving of a much-needed worldwide awareness and Beaconhill Smile Foundation was able to successfully close this care gap. The event which was held penultimate week, specifically, April 14, 2023, attracted a huge sponsorship from reputable brands, including Leadway Health HMO and Ikoyi Club. Other sponsors are, Nestle Pure Life Nigeria, Bodyline Gym, Colgate Nigeria, Exclusive Smile Clinic, Visioncraft Eye Clinic, Phoenix Derma Aesthetics and Laser Centre and a host of others.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The 4 Kilometers walk started as early as 7 am beginning from Beaconhill Smile Clinic to Lakeshore Cancer Center in Victoria Island Lagos and was followed subsequently by an oral cancer sensitisation on the causes, preventive measures, early detection needs and treatment of the disease. Free oral cancer checks and also Breast cancer checks followed immediately at Lakeshore cancer centre. POLL Dr. Oluwaseun Akinbobola- Beaconhill Smile Group’s Managing Director reiterated the importance of Early detection of oral cancer as some of its major causes include: Alcohol and tobacco intake, poor dental hygiene, exposure to extreme sunlight etc; all of which Nigerians are widely predisposed to from our social nature. If the disease is caught early, the chances of survival are much higher, around 90 percent. Beaconhill Smile Foundation, therefore, aims to increase awareness of the disease nationwide, including risk factors and warning signs, and encourage people to be proactive when it comes to their oral health. This includes being alert to any changes in your mouth and speaking to a dentist or doctor as soon as you notice anything.International Oral Cancer Awareness Month is marked annually, every April.