Aims At Achieving 80 Percent Success In Online C Of O Processing BENIN – THE Edo State Geographic Information Service (EDOGIS) says it is poised to achieving 80 percent success in online processing of Certificates of Occupancy (C of O). The Managing Director of EDOGIS, Esv. (Mrs) Osaro Aihie who disclosed this in a chat with newsmen in Benin City said her agency is putting everything in place to digitized the entire process so that applicants can do everything about his or her C of O online because the less contact they have with the people, the less corrupt practices they will encounter. According to her, EDOGIS is backing the Governor Godwin Obaseki’s new town development plan which is to put the state in the number of developed states in the country. “We have increased the number of C of Os we have signed. For instance, since the establishment of the EDOGIS, they have signed about 16,000 C of Os but for the past seven months that I came, I have done over 4,000. We are trying to ensure that you can get your C of O within 30 working days if all your papers are complete. “We are also streamlining the activities of middlemen which is representatives to reduced cases of fraud, just as we have a target of achieving 80 percent online processing of Certificates of Occupancy (C of O). “The middlemen are what we call representatives here, some of them are committing a lot of havoc and we want to streamline that, there are a lots of complaints even from our people abroad we want to train them and we also want to digitized the entire process so that you can do everything about your C of O online because the less contact you have with the people, the less corrupt practices you will get.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Though we have a tax officer here that helps to verify the authenticity of the tax clearances they bring before us. We were recently honoured as the best organisation for ease of land titling, we were selected as the best in the South-South and our online process have been appreciated.“ POLL “The first thing about your land is the title because if you don’t have the title documents, you don’t really have land so it is good to get your C of O. “We are calling on the people to conduct searches to be sure that what they are buying is right. We want to do the new master plan which is what the governor wants put right by getting the processes right because if you develop without a title, the Ministry of Physical Planning is not going to give you approval.” she declared.