Manchester United midfielder Casemiro has emerged a shock transfer target for Thomas Tuchel at Bayern Munich ahead of this summer, according to reports. The Brazilian arrived at Old Trafford last summer for £70million from Real Madrid and has since proved an integral part of Erik ten Hag’s side, helping his new club win the Carabao Cup in March and carve out a promising position in the race for Champions League qualification. Despite collecting two red cards in 2023 alone, Casemiro is considered one of United’s most important players ahead of the summer transfer window, providing the perfect anchor in midfield to support deep-lying playmaker Christian Eriksen and star man Bruno Fernandes. However, his value to the Red Devils appears not to have discouraged Tuchel at Bayern Munich, as the German is reportedly viewing the Brazilian international as a top target ahead of his summer rebuild in Bavaria. The serial Bundesliga champions, who were usurped by Dortmund at the top of the table last weekend, are experiencing a rare season of unrest in Germany and could well hit the reset button by attracting a host of new stars to the Allianz Arena. Tuchel replaced ex-Bayern manager Julian Nagelsmann, who was ruthlessly axed by the club before their Champions League exit to Manchester City earlier this month. Having inherited an unsettled camp, the former Chelsea boss is keen to bring experienced leaders into his dressing room next season and has lined up Casemiro as a priority transfer target, according to German outlet Kicker.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Bayern are believed to be in the market for a new defensive midfielder, and Tuchel reportedly plans to bolster his squad with reinforcements from the Premier League. POLL It is understood Tuchel would like to support Joshua Kimmich with greater defensive protection in the middle of the park, forming a double pivot to shore up the back line. Casemiro joined Manchester United with a rich portfolio of trophies from his days at the Bernabeu, boasting three LaLiga titles and five Champions League trophies. His trophy-laden career continued instantly as he helped United end their six-year drought without silverware, scoring in their Carabao Cup final triumph against Newcastle. The midfielder travels to north London to face off against top four rivals Tottenham in the Premier League on Thursday night. Meanwhile, Bayern will look to recover from their shock 3-1 defeat by Mainz when they host Hertha Berlin in the Bundesliga on Sunday.