Veteran singer and actor, Charles Oputa, aka Charly Boy, has revealed surprising details of his prostate cancer battle. The 72-year-old singer on his Instagram page shared a video of himself in a hospital bed compiled alongside videos of him being wheeled out of the theatre after a successful surgery for prostate cancer. Charly Boy, popularly called Area Fada disclosed he had been battling the ailment for over 10 days. He is the third Nigerian celebrity to go public with a prostate cancer diagnosis in recent times. Others are veteran actors Sadiq Daba, who died in March 2021 and Ola Omonitan, a.k.a Ajimajasan, who died in October 2018 after years of bouts with prostate cancer. “I have fought one too many battles in my short life. Most of the time, I win. Prostate cancer cannot cripple love nor shatter hope; it cannot conquer dis spirit. Abegi make una help me. Thank God for giving me yet another chance.” Addressing his fans and the public, the musician cum activist narrated more about his ordeal, giving gratitude to God and his supporters. Recently, the singer and actor alleged that Simon Ekpa, the self-proclaimed disciple of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, is working with the All Progressives Congress (APC). Charly Boy said that Ekpa is being utilized to destabilize the South-East and that he works for the APC in a post published on his verified Twitter account. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He added that the Nigerian living in Finland competed for Lagos State in an athletic competition. POLL He wrote, “Do you know the rascal Simon Ekpa wey dey lead a fraction of IPOB? Do you know he has very strong connection with APC? Do you know that it was the late Deji Tinubu that sponsored Simon Ekpa’s athletic career and sent him abroad? “Simon Ekpa works for APC, used to destabilize the Southeast. What APC cannot do does not exist. Master planners and Riggers of all times.” Ekpa had asked indigenes of Southeast Nigeria who are residents in Lagos to observe a sit-at-home exercise over an alleged attack on them.