While some people scored the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) low over the conduct of the 2023 general elections, Hon. Jude Idimogu, lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 2 in the Lagos State House of Assembly, and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) believes that the Professor Mahmood Yakubu-led Commission did its best in the elections. In this interview, Idimogu, says the challenges in the country is not about the 1999 Constitution, but implementation, why Tinubu won the presidential election, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Some people believe that there are issues surrounding the February 25 presidential election, they believe it was not free and fair, what are your thoughts about Asiwaju Tinubu victory? Yes, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu won the election. When you look at the total number of votes, he has the highest number. Though it wasn’t as much as that of the previous elections that we have had. Among the four key candidates, Tinubu is number one, in terms of spread he had it. He had 24 states, the only thing people talked about is the Federal Capital Territory, which is not the main issue. He had 25% in 24 states as required. The election was very tough because of the third force of Peter Obi of the Labour Party. Nigerians were actually getting tired of the APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It’s not that the APC had not been working, but from my own perspectives, I believe that President Muhammadu Buhari did so many things, but the publicity of the achievements of his government was very low. They only started talking about them, when elections were coming and then people were biased. It was difficult to see what they had done because they didn’t sell their achievements to the people on time, when the people had made up their minds on who to vote for. The publicity was not good enough. Then, they came up with some nasty policies before the election. Four months to the election we had fuel scarcity, when they ought to have done what would make the people happy. Then, prices of goods and services were going up and then the people started blaming the APC. Another one is the naira redesign policy that affected both the high and the low. The timing was very wrong. We won the election based on the personality of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. If it had been another candidate we would have lost with all these policies that they presented. Don’t you think that one of the reasons people said there were manipulations in the election was because the youths wanted someone like Peter Obi and the baggage associated with Tinubu, especially the issue of his certificates and Muslim-Muslim ticket issue? Talking about Muslim-Muslim ticket, if Tinubu didn’t choose a Muslim from the north he would have failed because it was a strategy to win. In Nigeria today, Muslims are more in authority. If you look at the previous statistics, the Muslims control half of the Nigerian strength. Most of the people in high authority today are Muslims, let the Christians look at it. Prior to this time, the Christians were sleeping. I am part of the victims, if you go to the church, they would say politics is an evil game until the 2023 elections. I have lived in the north before, the northerners don’t see the Muslims from the south as true Muslims. Tinubu felt that he should look for a key Muslim from the north as vice, where the president has not come from. Also, remember that the Presidential candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is from the North-East, it was meant to tackle him. If you look at the North-West, President Muhammadu Buhari is from there. He knew he would get those places and South-West is the base of Tinubu, he knew he would get them naturally. It is only the South-East and South-South that were difficult. On baggage, a lot of people have them. Even the current president was accused of not having a school certificate. That was not an issue. This same person was a Governor and if the baggage couldn’t stop him then, is it the presidency, is it not the same condition? They have gone to court before and the court would use the same precedent. They are just wasting time. So, Muslim-Muslim is a strategy. Peter Obi, from day one, is known as a religious bigot. When he was the governor of Anambra State, there was discrimination between members of the Anglican Church and those of Catholics denominations. He penetrated the churches for this election. When you say youths, every party has its own youths, the PDP, APC, and others have their youths. But there are some youths in social media, who don’t have parties and they say they are “Obidients.” But what the churches did was unfair as far as I am concerned. It was as if they were contesting elections, they campaigned for Peter Obi. My own church is an example, I even quarreled with my priests. They were talking about “Obidients.” They still do it till today. They were telling the people who to vote for. The church should preach the word of God. Peter Obi is now like an enemy to the Muslims in Nigeria today. If Peter Obi had won would he have been the president of the Christians alone? Most of his votes were from the church, they were saying that the Muslims would Islamise Nigeria and that the Christians should take their country back from the Muslims. The Muslims have authority in Nigeria more and Christians are docile, but this will change soon. What of the ethnic colouration to the whole issue, some people are saying that it is time for the South-East, what is your view on this? There is nothing wrong with that, it’s a demand. But as Tinubu would say “power is not given a la carte,” you have to work for it. Talking about my Igbo brothers, they know that you cannot just stand up and say they should give you power. You have to work for it, you cannot concentrate all your efforts on business and now say you want power. It takes planning and strategy to get it. With due respect to my Igbo brothers and sisters, we must know how to relate with other tribes. The north, the Fulanis, the South-West, South-South and others, let them accept us politically. But some people are saying that this has to do with the experience of the civil war….. POLL …That is the issue, even though it shows in our attitude, so we should think about Nigeria first. It is the job of everybody to condemn what the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) is doing. They are not the only ethnic group that we have, what of Yoruba Nation, this group is tactical. But we are too loud and aggressive. I don’t see any president that would want another part of the country to secede, even I would not allow it as president. Do you think the Igbo people have been fairly treated in the scheme of things in Nigeria? Yes, we have not been fairly treated. If you are marginalised, if somebody rejects you, as my people would say, don’t reject yourself. We are killing our brothers and sisters in the East, what are we showing? On Mondays, people can’t go to work, how many Hausas or Yorubas are there? You are business people, what kind of policy is that, you continue to kill your brothers and sisters, and shedding their blood. They call them unknown gunmen, what is that? The facilities of the federal government that you are burning, who would give you another one. Are your people not working there? You are killing police officers, army officers from the south-east. We can still solve the problem through dialogue. I believe that God will minister to Tinubu, he will dialogue with them. Are you saying we need another national constitutional conference? No, which kind of national conference? How many times are we going to do a national conference? You can call the people of the South-East, for instance, and ask them what they want. People would just go to the national conference to share money and go home. Even the issue of our constitution, what we have in it are we doing them. It is a bad man that quarrels with his tools. Who were the people that wrote the constitution, are they not Nigerians? Let us use what we have to get what we want. If Britain that has an unwritten constitution is doing well, and we that have a written constitution, and are not doing well, what is our problem? The 1999 Constitution, as amended, is not the issue, but the people that practice it. I want to appeal to members of the IPOB to ceasefire and embrace dialogue. They are shedding blood and this has repercussions. Even me, I am afraid of going to my village. In those days, we used to fly to Owerri every weekend to relax, but we cannot do that again now. The South-East used to be a peaceful place. Everybody cannot be governors, let peace reign in our land.