ASABA – Tragedy struck on Thursday in Oko and Okotomi Community of Oshimili South and Oshimili North Local Government Area respectively as a heavy rainstorm claimed the lives of seven persons in Delta State. While addressing pressmen, Commissioner of Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu revealed that both incidents took place during the rain storm which occurred at the late hours of 19, April 2023. He mentioned that one of the victims of the collapsed building is still in critical condition while five others have regained consciousness. According to Aniagwu, “You were all witness to the storm that greeted the heavy downpour yesterday while some persons were enjoying the cool breeze that came with it, some had to proceed to great beyond on account of the incident. “In the Oko axis, we lost six persons because the wind was actually a storm that caused a building to fall in the community. The collapsed structure led to the death of six persons while one who is in critical condition is being attended to at the Asaba Specialist Hospital. Meanwhile, five others are in I”t is something that is quite disturbing, we pray God will grant their families the strength to bear the loss. “ In the Okotomu community in Okpanam, you recall that we began the processes of controlling flood in the capital territory of which the Okotomi area is a part.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Sadly, a ten-year- old lost in the community lost his life during the rainstorm. It was disclosed by eye witness that the boy was on his way back from church when his slippers fell and into the drain and in an attempt to recover his slippers, the boy fell into the drain because of the large volume of water the boy was swept off by the flood. POLL “Neighbor and well wishers tried yesterday to see if they can retrieve him alive but as at this time, they have not been able to find the boy. We hope that search will continue this morning. “As late as 12am the Secretary to the State Government ( SSG) Chief Patrick Ukah has been trying to coordinate search effort and show government presence. We hope to recover him, considering the fact that all effort to recover him since the incident has been null”.