ABUJA  – President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday said he was able to facilitate the recruitment of 60,000 soldiers into the Armed Forces, including thousands who graduated from the Nigeri­an Defence Academy and other security institutions all in a bid to tighten security. According to Buhari, his ro­bust plan to improve the security architecture of the country had been realised. He said these feats are man­ifested in the upgrading of hardware, building of facilities, training, and equipping of staff and officers, and structuring of a welfare system that caters for more than 50,000 children of fall­en heroes. He seized a ceremony attend­ed by two former leaders of the country, Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, and President Goodluck Jonathan, to reveal his achievements. At the event, Buhari also pre­sented 81 new, symbolic flags to the various units of the Nigerian Army. “At the inception of this administration, the nation’s security situation was greatly challenged by the activities of vi­olent non-state actors. Today, I am pleased to specially note that the situation has tremendously im­proved and I wish to also proud­ly highlight that we have made remarkable progress in the fight against insurgents, militants, oil bunkers, kidnappers, and other criminal elements in the country. “This administration has achieved a remarkable trans­formation of the military in the areas of fighting power, training, operations, manpow­er, remunerations, and medical services. These are in addition to maintenance efficiency, accom­modation, and expansion of forc­es. The improvements in these areas have collectively enhanced the army’s capacity to effectively carry out its constitutional man­date,” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Buhari, while endorsing 81 flags for the various units of the army, noted that the fighting power of our military was at a low ebb as of May 2015, adding, “However, seven years later, its fighting power has increased significantly making it fourth in ranking among African mili­taries as against seventh in 2015.” POLL He said interventions and yearly budgetary allocations to the army, between 2020 and 2022 alone, had been able to procure hundreds of mine resistant ambush protected vehicles, troops carrying vehicles, utility vehicles, tanks, and armoured personnel carriers to augment those earlier procured. “From 2017 to 2022, significant numbers of new fighting and utility vehicles along with sup­porting artillery guns, machine guns, rifles, and corresponding ammunition were acquired and inducted into various theatres of operations. This translates to a sig­nificant increment in the army’s equipment holding since 2015. “With the significant im­provement in the fighting pow­er as a result of the procurement of equipment and mission-spe­cific training, the army was em­powered to rejig its operations. Accordingly, the army has re­structured the conduct of its op­erations to meet current realities. “The quantum of platforms inducted into the army since 2015 had enabled troops to take the battle to the terrorists and crim­inals, particularly in the North- East resulting in the recapture of territories hitherto held by the insurgents,’’ the president stated. Buhari elegantly dressed in army uniform, told the gather­ing of top security chiefs, tradi­tional rulers, and top govern­ment officials, who witnessed the ceremony, that creation of the Army Aviation was one of the major aspects of the ongoing expansion process in the Nigeri­an Army. According to him: “The re­newed vigor for the operation­alisation of the Army Aviation emanated from a strong desire to effectively tackle contemporary security challenges across the country. This unit, when fully operationalised, will provide rapid deployment, close air sup­port, casualty evacuation, and prompt delivery of logistics sup­ply, among other roles. “As an administration, we have demonstrated commitment to increasing the strength of the Armed Forces in my resolve to secure the country’s challeng­es. It is instructive to state that from 2015 when I was sworn in as the president and command­er-in-chief of the Armed Forces Federal Republic of Nigeria, I facilitated the recruitment of over 60,000 soldiers from De­pot Nigerian Army aside from thousands commissioned from the Nigerian Defence Academy Kaduna.” The president said the efforts of the administration paid-off with records of unprecedented successes, evident in the in­creased number of neutralised insurgents and those that vol­untarily surrendered alongside their families for deradicalisa­tion and rehabilitation through Operation Safe Corridor. “This feat has continued to be replicated in other theatres of operation within the country leading to the resettlement of internally displaced persons to their ancestral homes and res­toration of economic activities in addition to the contribution of the Nigerian Army to global peace through Peace Support Operations. “In the area of troops’ welfare, this administration has facilitat­ed the approval of manual for Fi­nancial Administration which has greatly enhanced the pay and allowances of troops. This has no doubt boosted troops’ morale and enhanced their zeal to discharge their constitutional mandate. “Furthermore, in line with my resolve to cater for the fami­lies of deceased personnel, over 50,000 children and wards of personnel who died in active ser­vice are on the Nigerian Army scholarships from 2015 to date,” he stated. On infrastructural devel­opment, the president said the administration had made deter­mined efforts to surmount the deficit in accommodation and other amenities. As the strength of the army increased, special interventions were made to con­struct new barracks accommoda­tions and renovate the old ones.