ABUJA – Archbishop Daniel C. Okoh, President, Christian Associ­ation of Nigeria (CAN), has called on Nigerians to come to­gether as one people and work towards a brighter future for the nation. Archbishop Okoh, who also said that Nigeria has faced many challenges in recent years, from insecurity, eco­nomic instability to social and political unrest, however, noted that just as Jesus Christ rose from the dead and brought new life to the world, Nigeria too can rise above its challeng­es and start afresh. He said these in his Easter message to Christians, saying, “let us all come together and re­new our commitment to build­ing a better Nigeria”. The message read: “Let us embrace the power that gives a new beginning and work togeth­er to create a brighter future for ourselves and our children. Let us put aside our differences and come together in unity, just as Christ’s resurrection brought together people from all walks of life. “As Christians around the world celebrate Easter this year, I, Archbishop Daniel Okoh, the President of the Christian As­sociation of Nigeria, would like to draw attention to the power that gives a new beginning that this season represents, and the lessons that Nigeria as a nation can learn from it. “Easter is a time of hope and renewal, a time when we cele­brate the resurrection of Jesus Christ and the power that gives a new beginning. It is a time when we reflect on the sacrifices that Christ made for us and the new life that his resurrection represents. “As we celebrate Easter, let us also remember the less for­tunate in our society and extend a hand of love and kindness to them. Let us show compassion to those who are suffering and help to lift them up.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “In conclusion, I urge all Ni­gerians to take inspiration from the power that gives a new be­ginning that Easter represents. Let us come together as one peo­ple and work towards a brighter future for our nation. May God bless Nigeria and grant us peace and prosperity in abundance”.