ABUJA – The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has urged Julius Berger, the contractor executing the construction of the over N50 billion Permanent Site of the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS) situated along the Airport road in Abuja, to complete the project before the May 29 handover to a new government. Giving the marching order during an on the spot assessment of the level of execution of the project, the Speaker insisted that the facility must be ready in 30 days time. This, he said, is to enable President Muhammadu Buhari, (‘who is due to handover the reins of government to a new president declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the winner of the February 25 presidential election’), to commission it. A visibly disappointed Gbajabiamila expressed dissatisfaction at the level of work at the site, as he added, “I was here in September 2019 and came here again about a year ago when the project was said to be at 95% completion stage but disappointed to be here today and see the project at the same level and without workers on site. “Take it or leave it , this project must be completed within the next 30 days for commissioning by President Muhammadu Buhari. “The client (NILDS), said it to your hearing here that is not indebted to you. So why the delay? Please use the 30 days window given to you now, to get the project completed “, he said. He also directed the project executors to table their financial difficulties on the project to the governing council of NILDS in the first week of May for expeditious solution.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ But one of the project consultants , Architect Zingart Gonwalk said fluctuations in exchange rate within the last three years, resulted in an outstanding balance of N7.5billion to be paid to Julius Berger . POLL The Director General of NILDS, Professor Abubakar Sulaiman told officials of JuliusBerger said in the presence of the Speaker, that the Institute is not owing the construction firm even as N2.5 billion is provided for in the 2023 budget for completion of the project. “This project has come a long way and should be delivered for the required usage within the stated period by the Speaker . “The most important thing to be done between now and then, is for all the offices and lecture rooms to be furnished preparatory to the commissioning”, he said. The Project, earlier billed for commissioning in May 2019, is located in Piwoyi District along the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport road on 8.12hectares (81, 200m2) of land, Plot 307 Cadastral zone . The ultra-modern infrastructure when fully completed and commissioned, will enable the Institute, carry out its mandate of building capacity among legislators at thenational and regional levels and foster collaboration with other organisations and international institutions. It will most importantly, enable students and lecturers in the Institute, have a very conducive environment for teaching and learning.