… ICT Day Celebration Holds May 11 LAGOS – Nigeria’s telecoms regulator, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) will be leading other stakeholders as eBusiness Life Communication Limited hosts young girls in the 2023 edition of the International Girls in ICT Day campaign. The event, which will hold at the Lagos Oriental Hotel on May 11, 2023, is part of an annual campaign initiated by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) to sensitise and encourage young women and girls to delve into ICT and related careers, which have been dominated by the male gender. The 2023 theme will be central to “Digital Skills for Life”. NCC’s support underscores the importance of the event that throws more light on the need to groom girls for the future. According to the Chief Executive Officer of eBusiness Life Communication and convener of the event, Mrs. Ufuoma Emuophedaro, the need to sensitise young girls is premised on the fact that society has unconsciously relegated the female gender and delegated careers in technical fields, especially in ICT, to their male counterparts. She noted that efforts should be made to introduce young girls to career opportunities in technical ﬁelds in both the public and private sectors to help them have a wider range of options and contribute their quota in the industry and in the development of the economy. This year’s eBusiness Life International Girls in ICT Day event will have the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Pantami as the Special Guest, with a Keynote from the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Other dignitaries expected at the event will include the Honourable Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Pauline Tallen; Honourable Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Hon. Cecilia Bolaji Dada, and other decision-makers in the industry. POLL As part of the 2023 event, there will be a practical ICT competition among female students from select public and private secondary schools; roundtable discussion among the students; interactive and motivational talk from renowned women ICT professionals; and a school quiz competition, among others. International Girls’ Day is an initiative launched through ITU Resolution 70 with the idea of creating a global environment that will empower and encourage girls and young women to consider careers in the ﬁeld of information and communication technologies. The Union declared the 4th (fourth) Thursday of April every year as a special day to celebrate and encourage girls and young women to consider careers in ICT, and the society is reminded to support them in their choice.