LAGOS – Mallam Tijjani Musa Isa, 58th President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has admonished newly Inductees to develop strong work ethics that will set them apart from their competitors. He made the call while speaking virtually at the 2023 joint Faculties Induction Ceremony of ICAN.He said the Institute’s Faculties register, train, and issue certificates to members as evidence of proficiency and authority in their specialized skills. He said by this induction ceremony, the inductees are now specialists with the opportunity to stand out as thought leaders in their chosen areas. “This is a great feat which is attributable to your passion and commitment to excellence. It is the culmination of the several months of intensive training you have undergone in the different areas of specialization in the profession. “Dear inductees, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to reiterate that we live in a connected and fast-paced world where specialization is highly valued. Isa also stated that ICAN Faculties were created over two decades ago to serve as a technical support system for members’ professional needs. “Building core competencies in seven areas of specialization, the Faculties are reputable for their distinct approach to effective teaching. The Faculties’ broad objectives are to identify members’ unique needs, provide timely and pertinent professional information, train and certify members’ specialist skills.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Since inception, the seven faculties have made remarkable contributions to the profession and the economy at large. Members of the faculties are constantly in demand as they offer quality service in their respective chosen fields. “After today, these inductees will have the privilege of joining other faculty members as qualified professionals in their respective specialties. It is worth repeating that with this certification, you are now recognized professionals in your specialized areas, setting you apart from the non-specialists. POLL Speaking further he said the Institute recognizes the rapidly changing developments in the profession and in a quest to update the skills and competencies of members, have introduced two new certification programmes namely “International and Digital Economy” and “Public Finance Management” to the existing certification programmes. He added that the Institute signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Nigerian Police Academy to commence forensic accounting training for their cadets, mid-level managers and executives effective from this month that this will further support the effective discharge of the officers’ public duties and responsibilities. “It will also deepen ICAN’s role in national development, especially in financial fraud detection and prosecution.