FELIX UKA One of the most discussed about Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State is his infrastructure development of Ebonyi State. Observers, including the media have not taken deep notice of his human development index, his unique politics of unity for national purposes. This probably accounts for why some people could allude that his bid to become the President of the 10th Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is highly ambitious. But for those who are abreast of his track records, they have continuously mounted pillars of support for him. Hon. Charles Akpu-Enika, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) said that Umahi has within the time he led as Ebonyi State chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Deputy Governor and two-term Governor developed and grown uncommon political friendship and networks across the nation. Akpu-Enika, an Anambra State-born politician, but long time resident of Ebonyi State explained that the peculiarity of Umahi’s kind of politics is his penchant for inclusive polity, without sentiment of religion or ethnicity. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He noted that each of the times the nation had been challenged with issues that border on ethnic/ religious sentiments, Umahi has stood strong on the side of national unity, and oneness even when such postures could kick against his personal interest. POLL The APC chieftain pointed out that the chance that Umahi remained the chairman of South-East Governors Forum played out as instrument, platform for amicable settlement of issues that cropped up at the volatile times when the herders/ farmers clashes wanted to pitch the federating zones of Nigeria against one other. “But through his (Umahi’s) broad minded, unbiased fair mediations such matters were resolved,” Akpu-Enika said. According to Akpu-Enika, Umahi appointed him a Commissioner into the State Executive Council, alongside other appointees in his administration, including those from the Yoruba and Hausa communities living in Ebonyi State. “To him, it doesn’t matter where you come from. Such is the quality of leaders Nigerians need, especially now,” he said. He said that apart from the undisputable fine finished infrastructure development and sundry sectors where Umahi has done well, his commitment and successful guide to rotation of governorship of the state to their Northern bloc has germinated seeds of accord, peace among the ethnic lines in the state. “Indeed, most of those who spoke to our correspondent explained that some people were yet to realise the import of that demonstration of selflessness by Umahi such that he insisted that an Izzi man, from the North should succeed him instead of his own kinsman, Dr. Ifeanyi Odii from the same South who ran against the APC candidate, Francis Nwifuru. “A number of respondents said it was a clear demonstration of tolerance, sense of equity and fairness, which are qualities needed of people who can lead a nation to peace and prosperity. “Today, Umahi is best known as the father of modern Ebonyi State of equity. Of course, not many people believed him when he was vowing that power would rotate to the Umuekumenyi, Ebonyi-Northern bloc. “He explained that having had the governorship position come from the North with Senator Sam Egwu as the first civilian governor, followed by Chief Martin Elechi from the Central, then, himself, Umahi from the South, it should get back to the North, now the Umuekumenyi. “Tough as that decision was, people gradually agreed with him. And that threw up the incumbent Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Francis Ogbonnaya Nwifuru, the fourth elected governor of the state, a native of Izzi in the Umuekumenyi dynasty. “That didn’t happen by mere chance, Umahi was said to have met the young Nwifuru as a hardworking man whose diligence and sincerity caught his fancy. From then, he watched and saw him through as an appointee Ex-officio of the PDP while he, Umahi was the state chairman of the party. “Nwifuru later won election into the State House of Assembly, and along the line of destiny became the Speaker while Umahi emerged Governor. “A number of analysts are of the opinion that the scenarios are not by chance but a deliberately planned scheme of power transition powered by anointing of spirituality and supremacy of God. “Of a truth, Dave, as he is fondly called by his admirers, has long said that his successor would be younger than him. And in the current dispensation all his appointees, elected chairmen of Local Government Areas, Development Centre Coordinators, the elected State and National Assembly members, the Governor-elect, his Deputy who is the first female to so be in the state are all younger than the 61 year old Umahi. Why? He explained that grooming the youths in leadership is an investment for better today, and tomorrow. “Notably, under the Umahi- led administration Ebonyi State has come to be reckoned as the most prudent state in the use of public resources in Nigeria, (Budget Office 2021). “The best State in Capital Budget implementation/investment in capital projects and best State in Nigeria in Economic Growth (Budget Office 2021). “The 2nd Best State in 2021 Fiscal performance rating (Budget Office 2021). “The least indebted State in the South-East, (and 33rd in Nigeria) only 3 States are ahead of Ebonyi State in Nigeria (Budget Office 2021). “The 4th best on controlled borrowing in Nigeria and the best in the South-East (Budgit Office 2021). “The 4th best in investment towards self-reliance (Road to State’s viability). “Above average in maternal mortality ratio (2018 World Bank State of States Health index). “One of the 10 best states in Economic Development Performance (Philips Performance Index of the year 2020). “One of the 5 best States in Nigeria (2020 State Fiscal Sustainability Index), and one of the largest producers of Rice in Nigeria in the year 2021 (Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment). “The 2nd best in Empowerment and Job Creation in the South-East (National Bureau of Statistics in 2020). “The State Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Barr. Uchenna Orji said that with the credentials of Umahi, for the dire need for best quality leadership in the current Nigeria situations, certain rules can be bent in the overall national interest, and for the nation to have the best for the time, in the person of Umahi as the next Senate President of Nigeria. “Earlier, Ohaneze Ndigbo charged that the forthcoming 10th Senate should adopt all legitimate measures to ensure emergence of reliable leadership of the Red chambers including the option of doctrine of necessity. “The socio-cultural group said that many Senators and Senators-elect are already jostling for the position of the Senate President of which caution should be exercised as to ensure that those who would unduly throw up issues that would ferment troubles among the various arms of government are not allowed into the position. “The Secretary General of the Ohaneze Ndigbo, Mazi Okechuwu Isiguzoro in a press briefing in Abakaliki said, “Obviously, our support is for the emergence of Governor David Umahi as Senate President. “Herein then comes the need for the doctrine of necessity such that some House Rules could be reversed, allowing for even the best for the Senate President to emerge not minding if he/she is a first timer”. The group said that Umahi has demonstrated democratic tolerance without a penchant for sectional politics. Isiguzoro explained that it is fair that the Senate President should in this dispensation emerge from the South-East geo-political zone. Beyond the consideration of the South-East for the position, he stated that more important is the choice of the occupant of the office, posited that Nigeria currently needs politicians with spread of acceptance and without bias of religion, ethnicity. “Umahi fits in this. When some politicians were pursuing selfish interests, Umahi who is currently the Senator- elect for Ebonyi-South senatorial zone took his people into the mainstream of Nigerian politics, just like he saw tomorrow. “He has made friends across the divide, he has demonstrated tolerance for all sections and strata, so is most fitted for the cap”. “For the interest of unity, for the gains of Umahi’s proven commitment to one Nigeria, infrastructure and human development, also for the Igbo interest and need to galvanize support for our long sought chance to have one of us stride to presidency in the near future, we seek the support of all to enthrone Umahi as the next Senate President”. “With the foregoing, it is beneficial that the growing calls for enthronement of Umahi as the next Senate President be considered, for the unarguably stack fact that Nigeria more than any other time needs the best of leadership that can make up for the past,” he said.