ABUJA  – About 84,000 candidates on Tuesday sat for the rescheduled Mock-Uni­fied Tertiary Matric­ulation Examination (Mock- UTME) which was held across the country. Registrar/Chief Executive of Joint Admissions and Matricu­lation Board (JAMB), Professor Is-haq Oloyede, who made this known while fielding questions from newsmen after monitoring the exam in Abuja, expressed de­light over the hitch-free exercise. While commending candi­dates for showing understand­ing over the board’s decision to reschedule the examination for Tuesday (today), Oloyede said the glitches earlier observed in the Mock-UTME in some centres that prompted it to be resched­uled were as a result of deploy­ments of innovations . He said : “We should also thank the students for bearing with us when we were trial-test­ing. You know we gave notice that we were moving to a new level and I think by God’s grace, we are now arriving at the next level. Those things we wanted to test, we have seen what they were and we went back and made sure everything works and it is working. “We will still be focused on issues relating to cable- that you called network in the centre, there may be few centres that we may have one problem or the other but we are going to get over that. ” For example, we have decid­ed that all those with zero thin clients (computers that have no CPU identity but rely on a central server and share the same IP ad­dress) will have to change if they must continue on our network.” Speaking further, the JAMB boss said the Mock-UTME is held in 387 Computer-Based Test (CBT) centres across the country, with 16 of the centres having two sessions, adding that the results of the exam would be out today.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ” They will get their results today, of course the results will be out today, and how many of them? 84,000,” Oloyede said. POLL On his part, JAMB’s Direc­tor of Information Technology Services (ITS), Fabian Okoro, who was on ground at the con­trol room domiciled in the exam body’s headquarters in Bwari, Abuja, said real time information from all CBT centres revealed that the exam was conducted smoothly. “When we did the first exam, we were testing new features and we observed lapses, we had to go back to the drawing board and make sure they were corrected. ” You can see from the control room here, there are less calls coming in, that shows the exam is moving smoothly and peace­fully in all the centres across the country,” Okoro said. JAMB’s ICT consultant, Damilola Bamiro, who was also in the control/call room to ensure any possible technical issue regarding the mock exam is immediately resolved, corrob­orated Okoro’s views. During a visit to some of the CBT centres in Abuja which include the one in Total Child Model College, Dutse, JAMB CBT Centre, Kogo, among oth­ers, candidates were seen taking part in the exam in an orderly manner. One of the candidates, Luka Mercy, commended JAMB for en­suring that the mock exam went on as planned without any issue.