JOS  – The reconciliation meeting scheduled by Bartholomew Onyeka, the Pla­teau State Commissioner of Police, with the faction­al Speakers of the Plateau House of Assembly on Tuesday ended in dead­lock with the commission­er ordering the continued closure of the Assembly complex. The police said that the closure would continue un­til the court cases over the Assembly were resolved. Onyeka at a press brief­ing held at the Police Com­mand headquarters in Jos, called for calm and appealed to the citizens of the state to go about their lawful businesses without fear of molestation. He said: “The command got information on the judg­ment entered in favour of Rt.Hon. Ayuba Nuhu Abok reinstates him as the speak­er of the 9th Assembly after his impeachment saga that lasted two and a half years. “Ayuba Abok ap­proached the state High Court seeking the inter­pretation of his unlawful impeachment as the speak­er after defecting to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP).” He explained that the command played a neutral role in trying to calm the situation not to allow it to get out of hand. Bartholomew stressed that they heeded the ad­vice by a team of lawyers to swiftly prevent the breakdown of law and or­der because he is the chief security officer saddled with the responsibility of protecting lives and prop­erties of citizens of the state, which is enshrined in Section 214 of the 1999 Constitution as amended and the Police Act 4.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said, “The police are here to safeguard the lives of all Nigerians.” POLL According to him, the presence of security agen­cies sealing the assembly complex was not targeted at anybody, but to ensure peace and order in the state. He vowed that he would not allow the state assem­bly members to turn the complex into a boxing ring, but to secure the environ­ment and give a chance to legislative business to strive. Onyeka said the police were neither politicians nor partisans to political activities and appealed to traditional rulers, religious and community leaders to avoid sensational com­ments that could plunge the state into fresh crisis. “We can’t allow the state assembly members to go into crisis resulting in in­tolerance and insecurity. Let them settle their differ­ences without rancour,” he added. He disclosed that the scheduled meeting ended in deadlock because stake­holders refused to honour the invitation of the Nige­ria Police. The CP emphasised that after the sealing of the complex, some people were still invading the place, maintaining that it could not allow such disgruntled elements to besiege the as­sembly.