ABUJA  – President Muhammadu Bu­hari on Thursday said the 2023 elections have proved the growing strength of our democracy and more especially, the sophistica­tion of the Nigerian voter when it comes to the choice of the leaders. He spoke on the elections when he received the new­ly-installed Emir of Dutse, Jigawa State capital, Alhaji Muhammad Hamim Nuhu Sunusi, at the State House in Abuja. According to the presi­dent, the stunning outcome of 10 governors failing to make it to the Senate meant that there is no longer a guaranteed route to power and the voter is truly the king when it comes to elec­tions. “It is a testament to the maturity of our democracy and to the amazing sophis­tication of the voter. What shocked me was that the or­dinary citizen who is usu­ally underrated has made the point of his political understanding of things. “Assumption is always that you are governor for eight years and you go to the Senate to crown the career. No one should un­derrate the Nigerian voter anymore. Politics will be more difficult, henceforth,” the president said. After listening to the Emir, who listed several government projects put in place for Jigawa State under the Buhari presi­dency, and a request for some more, the president promised to do his best for the state in the remaining time left, and to brief the incoming President, Asi­waju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on those requests, agree­ing with the visitors that the particular problem of water supply to the state capital is worrisome. The president told the Emir and members of the Emirate Council who accom­panied him that he and the entire nation will continue to miss his friend, the late Emir, Alhaji Nuhu Muham­mad Sunusi, saying that he will continue to pray for the repose of the deceased.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Emir and leader of the delegation, Alhaji Mu­hammad Hamim, thanked the administration of Mu­hammadu Buhari for help­ing Jigawa State to excel in major rice production, for approving a rail link to Du­tse from Kano and for the restoration of peace to the state, the entire nation and the neighbouring countries that had suffered past inse­curity. POLL The Emir also welcomed the upgrading of the Army Battalion in Dutse to a full military brigade and re­quested the president to do something about the acute water shortage affecting the state capital. Daily Independent re­calls that Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, his counterparts in Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu, Pla­teau State Simon Lalong are among governors who failed to get elected to the 10th Senate.