AKURE – A chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC), Barrister Morayo Lebi has begun consultations with politicians in preparation for the 2024 governorship election in Ondo State. He met some politicians in Akure, the state capital, who are from the state Northern and Central Senatorial districts interfacing with them on his interest in contesting for the governorship ticket of his party, All Progressives Congress (APC). The meeting facilitated by Amb.HK Bello, a political gladiator in the state, provided opportunity for the governorship aspirant to interface with the politicians in preparation for the 2024 governorship election in the state. Lebi, who was the Senatorial candidate of APC, Ondo South in 2013, urged the people to stand firm and be resolute in their determination to support him. According Lebi, “I have come to offer myself to serve. I can’t do it alone. Power is not served a la carte. You must be ready to fight for it. “I will be your governor. I will serve you.We shall do the work. Don’t think it would be easy, let’s stand firmly. They will come and induce and even threaten you.In our next meeting, I will reel out my programmes to you. “I will never step down for anyone irrespective of the offer they may bring to the table. I am not bankrupt. “I’m here to meet you so that we can help ourselves. Some elders had in the past called me to help the state.” POLL Fielding questions from newsmen, Lebi said the party would adhere to the rules and regulations guiding our primary. He declared that for the state to develop at standard rate, someone with fresh ideas would have to takeover the administration of the state. According to him, “If you recall,our presidential primary was done in the live on television,so I am sure our governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu would ensure the gubernatorial primary of our party is free and fair. On the issue of ceding the governorship ticket to the Southern senatorial district, he said: “You remember Governor Olusegun Mimiko from the Central handed over to Governor Akeredolu from the north. “In Ondo State we don’t have people who will not honour the mutual arrangement. Whoever comes from the north may just want to have a feel of what it’s all about.But at the end of the day,there won’t be contentious primary in our party..” He, therefore, promised to reel out his manifesto in the next and larger meeting. Meanwhile, Amb Henry Kehinde Bello(a.k.a HK Bello), Director General, Morayo Lebi Consultation Forum, in his address said the meeting became necessary to prepare and position themselves for the 2024 governorship election. Bello said: “This government to be led by Barrister Morayo Lebi would be people-oriented. So, we must look at the antecedent of all the aspirants and their capability. “Something great must come out of Ondo State in 2024. We must reject from outset those who would not be useful for our state. “Lebi will liberate us. Let’s channel a new course. I consulted widely besides all I had known about him. If we are to liberate ourselves, we must assess all aspirants by their pedigree.”