Some things are difficult to stom­ach; I’m yet to come to terms with the untimely death of my first cousin, Victor Abunwa, a Vet­erinary Doctor. It was “Captain Victor” (that was what I called him till the bitter end) that made me a big brother; it was my role to pick up him and his younger brother, Chris, at their father’s house at Isho quarters of Ubulu-Uku in Anio­cha-North LGA to their grand-parent’s home at Udo quarters. Pick them up? Please, don’t think I’m using the pres­ent-day parlance of picking up someone in a car. Were this a joyous recital, I would dwell on my very first failing in life; when I allowed Captain Victor to at­tempt to ride his tricycle from Udo to Isho, a distance of some some three or four kilometres. Victor got a gift of a tri­cycle from his father, Mr. Vincent Abun­wa, a well-known school headmaster throughout Aniocha-North and South LGAs and even in some parts of Ika area such as Ute-Ogbeje and Ute-Eru­mu, on his third birthday. I was in a child’s paradise pushing Victor’s tricycle through the sandy streets of Ubulu-Uku and Victor was pedaling away, full of smiles and laugh­ter when, half way into the journey, late Mr. Sylvester Agbamuche parked a gleaming car beside us. That unusually neat and well-dressed man commanded us to enter his car. He dropped us at Isho after berating me for allowing Victor and I to strain ourselves. A day or two later. Victor was down with pain around his ribs.Were this a joyful chore, I would of course laugh over Victor’s earliest attempt at getting rich; he actually planted some coins so that they would produce mon­ey-bearing trees! His maternal grand­father at Udo and his father at Isho had all sorts of fruit bearing trees – almond, orange, guava, coconut, name it. He wanted to replicate the magic of the fruit trees. This is no joyful tale. It is a sordid one, solemn and tear-inducing – for me and my entire extended family. Any­time I discuss this death, my stomach churns, and I mean that itliterally churns and tightens, and soon after, I would be searching for anta-acids. This is because Captain Victor was not just my firstcousin; he and his broth­er Christopher were my brothers. We grew up closer than any brothers you ever knew. Some persons have told me how they met my mum, and on further inquiry it would be obvious they were referring to Victor’s mum, Mrs. Ange­lina Abunwa (Ezinne). Oh, she is still “Miss” or “Madam” to many for she too was a teacher for decades. Then I would nod my head knowing­ly and say; “yes, yes, she is my mother” because in truth, she is like one to me. She too would not have helped matters because she would have talked, proud­ly too, about “Tony my son”. Ah, she is still alive!!! Am I a writer today? Oh, she planted the seed; I was in primary two or three and I asked her for a ball. She said flatly; “write me a letter”. I did. I gave it to Uncle Charley Banwuna to correct for me and he pointed out that I didn’t sign the letter. And he scribbled something which I copied: “yours broth­erly, Anthony Eluemunor.” Yes, I got my ball the very day she read that letter. That was when I knew that writing could have an effect. Hey, how do I console my aunt? Aunt? I nev­er called her that; she has been either Sister Angey or Mummy Dearest. It was on the second day of January this year. Captain Victor left the festivities of the period behind at home to answer the call of duty…made from a farm. As usu­al, he was on his way to promptly attend to issues that needed his attention. Ah, his profession was his very life. Then, right there at Ubulu-Uku, a Siena van collided with the Toyota Corolla which Victor was driving, right in front of the Ubulu-Uku General Hospital. So, Vic­tor was rushed there…and the waiting game began. Nothing but nothing was done to save Victor. The more Chris complained about the waiting game, the more he was told that his brother was “stable”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL The accident happened by 2pm. An hour later, Victor was still sitting on a wheelchair and was pleading: “open up my stomach, open up my stomach”. As practically nothing was being done to save Victor’s life, he asked Chris to take him to another hospital. So, Chris took his brother out and so Victor was moved in an ordinary sedan, over 30 kilometres, to St. Luke’s Hospital, Asaba, that hospital with a most impressive edifice. The Ubulu-Uku hospital’s ambulance was lying idle in the compound; but it was not used to convey Victor to Asaba. Oxygen cylin­ders abounded there but no one thought it necessary that Victor should be ac­companied by one in case the accident victim could begin to gasp for breath. At St Luke’s hospital, Asaba, another waiting game began. From at least 4pm till 9.27 pm when Victor breathed his last, nothing serious was done to save his life. His unending pleas of “open up my stomach, open my stomach” went unanswered. He was being wheeled into the theater when Victor’s sun set. It was a devastating sunset at noon. Did a driver leave his lane and rammed into Victor’s car? What went wrong in the two hospitals? What kept them from saving Victor’s life? Well, Christopher, acting for the family wants answers to all the ques­tions. Wednesday, March 29, the driver of the car which collided with Victor’s, was arraigned in Ogwashi-Uku Mag­istrate Court One. The case, Charge No. MO/33MT2023; Samuel Nnamdi Orie Vrs Commissioner of Police, was adjourned to April 26. Mr. Orie never visited Victor’s family and didn’t send his family members to make contact. He just kept mum. An angry Christopher has had an autopsy done on Victor and already lawyers are involved now…so that Orie, Ubulu-Uku General Hospital and St. Luke’s Asaba would be able to state their own sides of this sorry story. Our dearly beloved Dr. Victor Okei­bunor Abunwa spent his short but eventful life in the service of life and the living. He was an enabler, a builder up of persons, making them better than they were before they met him. Even as a teenager, he was the boy other boys and girls looked up to, for Victor came fully prepared and was always wiser than his age. Then as a man, only Victor and God would know how many people Victor helped through the university or even helped to pass WASC or JAMB exam­inations. All I know is that they are numerous. Then as a thorough-going profes­sional, a Veterinary Doctor, Victor’s job was his life, so he was on call every hour of the day or night. His record as a Veterinary Doctor in the Delta state Civil Service will be difficult to beat. It was the call of duty that took our dearly beloved Vic out on that fateful day of January 2nd, 2023. He was going to visit a farm when a rough driver disdained his lane and rammed his vehicle into Victor’s. He was at the zenith of his dreams and activities. He was the brain of the family, the sage family and friends turned to for advice. Well-chosen words always came out like healing balm from his mouth. Then… came that jarring sunset at noon for him. And our very souls mourn!!! Even as Victor’s death appears as unreal as a dream, the plans for his funeral continues…and suddenly I am not involved in an affair that concerns my Captain Victor because I am older than he and so I will not be involved in his burial plans. The plans continue unabated: Service of Songs: April 10 (Easter Monday); 4pm to 6pm, at the Abun­wa family compound, Isho quarters, Ubulu-Uku. Social Wake-keep follows immediately. April 11: Funeral Church Service: 9am at St. Marks Anglican Church, Ubulu-Uku. Interment follows imme­diately at the family compound, Isho quarters Ubulu-Uku. Reception follows immediately after interment at the fam­ily compound.Outing Church Service; Sunday 16th April at Christ Anglican Church, Isho quarters, Ubulu-Uku. Since I received the autopsy report, the wounds in my soul have opened afresh. How should one stomach this? “He died at 9.32 pm after spending about four hours and thirty minutes on presentation at 5.05 pm. In all of four hours and thirty minutes Victor was not placed on a bed with a group of surgeon struggling to save his life. Yet, according to the coroner’s report, “he is severely pale, with abrasion and bruises involving arm, elbow, medial part of the forearm” etc, etc. Leaving off the other parts of Victor’s body men­tioned as damaged by the accident, this remains etched on my memory; “There is bleeding into the left chest wall and surrounding right clavicular soft tissue. There is fracture of the left clavicle, 2nd, 6th 8th and 11th and the right 5th rib. There is ruptured spleen with asso­ciated blood clots and massive haemo­peritoneum. There is ruptured spleen. The lungs show evidence of aspiration pneumonitis and bleeding into the left lung tissue”. No, I may be a journalist but I’m also a human being. With all this damage to his body, with the internal bleeding and everything else, Victor was rushed to two hospi­tals and the staff, in the main, simply watched him die gradually but steadily. There was no concerted effort to save him. Ah, dear Lord, Victor showed more compassion and professional diligence to the animals (dogs, chicken –he called them birds-cattle and goats under his care than he ever received in the two hospitals. Really, who killed my Captain Vic­tor? A reckless driver or lackadaisical hospital staff? Or, a combination of both? And that was how Nigeria failed Dr. Victor Okeibunor Abunwa.