IBADAN  – A Pastor, Dr. Owen Abra­ham has allegedly ab­sconded with 52 An­droids and iPhones, money, and valuables of resi­dents of Aponrin in Agbowo, Ibadan who came for a crusade organised by him. The crusader, according to some of his victims said he was led by God to come to Ibadan from Gambia for the crusade. Abraham, at the last day of the three days crusade, claimed Holy Spirit directed him to tell people to submit their phones and valuables, but later abscond­ed with their property. The victims said Abraham, who lured them into three days fasting and prayer was nowhere to be found the last day of the crusade as all efforts to reach him proved abortive. A victim, Mrs Grace Akinto­la said many widows went for the crusade because the Pastor promised to give each person a bag of rice and money, adding that Abraham also promised to empower students with schol­arship. Mrs Akintola, a widow while recounting her ordeal said, “The Pastor approached an Igbo lady in our area to assist him to gath­er widows and students. He said he wanted to help us. “Someone in my area invited me for the crusade. The crusader wore Pastor regalia, he said he will buy a house for one of us. He said the house is fully furnished.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “He promised some people who attended the crusade mon­ey, even politicians cannot give out such money he promised. POLL “The last day of the crusade, he sold a bottle of water for us at the rate of N4,800. He said perfume is inside the bottled water, and many people paid for the water.” Another victim, a student of the University of Ibadan (UI) who pleaded anonymity said the Pastor ordered them to fast for three days, adding that the evan­gelist collected their phones so as to keep it away from them and focus on the prayers unknown to them that it was a trick to get rid of their belongings. “He said no phone should ring, that was why he collected all the phones. In fact, a lady stood up and wanted to snap him, he seized the phone from her. “On the last day of the cru­sade, he said he wanted to go and rest at the hotel where he lodged. He later said he wanted to go and eat at UI. We didn’t know how he escaped with our belongings. “As a man of God, we respect­ed him a lot; we didn’t know that he wanted to use the name of God to dupe us.” Meanwhile, Abraham has been declared wanted by people in the area, as posters bearing his name and pictures have been circulated within the area to track him down.