ABUJA – The Executive Director of the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has been criticized by a Civil Society Organization (CSO), the Brown Table Democratic Group, for a recent attack on President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu. In a statement made available to the media, Sam Obiora, the Executive Director, and Kunle Alao, the National Legal Adviser, declared that the news item “Medical Trip: Tinubu shows the tendency of becoming another Buhari, says HURIWA”, is inappropriate. According to the statement: “We do find the statement credited to Onwubiko as despicable, mischievous, opportunistic, defamatory but also baseless, useless, wicked and evil inspired. “Nigerians will no longer accept HURIWA’s existing culture of character assassination and blackmail of innocent citizens. “Let us unambiguously state that HURIWA the same group acting out a script to blackmail the President-Elect has kept mute when Obi travelled out of the country during the Easter period. “It is the same Onwubiko that is yet to utter a word on the permanent residency of a first-grade Nigerian politician in Dubai to the extent that his name is more associated with the Middle East country than his Nigerian home state. “Onwubiko accused the president-elect of travelling to European soil to either rest or seek for medical attention. The assertion is a clear case of being dishonest and abysmally mischievous. It is on record that even Onwubiko himself usually travels abroad to either rest on normal or medical vacation.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We are very much conscious of the subterranean stance against the president-elect by sore losers and their agents of stagnation and decline. We want to assure Nigerians generally that freely gave the mandate to Asiwaju on 25th February 2023 that we will lawfully fight any further mischief. POLL “Having followed Asiwaju’s political antecedent which is rooted in tenacity, team playing attributes, consistency, hard work, discipline, political astuteness, strong will; qualities which are in short supply among some Nigerian politicians and having noted his politics of which dates back to late Gen. Shehu Yar’ Adua, late Chief MKO Abiola and the era of June 12 struggle for the restoration of democracy in our country, we have seen in him an uncommon democrat whose brand of politics is graced with sincerity and Nigerianness par excellence”, the statement further stated. When contacted,Onwubiko, said he won’t dignify the issues raised.