KANO – Engr Muazu Magaji, a stalwart of All Progressives Congress (APC), on Friday in Kanoinsisted that In term of reward and recognition Kano state deserves to produce the next Senate President. Muaz Magaji, the outspoken former Aide to Governor Ganduje told Reporters at a media parly that “The presidency has gone to our partners in the Southwest, the vice presidency has gone to our partners in the Northeast, and the largest voting block and the largest political block deserves the presidency of the Senate. The former Commissioner for Works and Infrastructural Development said that“Kano state has done very well in this presidential election. We have contributed the most votes. So you see, even in terms of reward and recognition, we have the right to say we need to have the Senate presidency. “ He explained that the APC, despite the votes it had contributed to the election of the president-elect Bola Ahmad Tinubu, has only one Senator, Sen Barau Jibrli in Kano State and any mistake of not making him the Senate president will affect the strength and control of the region by the party. “What I want to call on our leaders especially president-elect to do is to look at the distribution of the political position as well as the contribution of the APC members to his success and also be able to consider the strategic nature of Northwestern Nigeria in terms of the outcome, not to leave this place without a key principal leadership in Nigeria that will physically galvanize support for us in the region. He therefore called on the APC leadership to ensure that Sen Jibril mounts the Senate president seat in order to form a rallying point for the party in the northwest in particular and the north at large. Muaz Magaji described the call by the NNPP as deliberately geared towards seizing control of the region by disallowing the APC to have a strong political leadership like the Senate president from there.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said “Why this response is very important is that I heard my friend and brother from the NNPP, Abdulmumin Jibrin Kofa, who has just been elected as member House of Reps saying that any candidate from the North, especially Muslim North, that aspires to lead the National Assembly especially the Senate, has no love for Nigeria. POLL The APC Chieftain stated that “I want to open this discussion to clearly reveal what is behind the discussion. I believe that is unfair for a minority party to basically come in and dictate to the APC what to do.”