ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) through the Social Development Secretariat (SDS) has obtained ministerial authorisation to begin the registration and licensing of all tourism and hospitality establishments in the nation’s capital. This was announced by the SDS Mandate Secretary, Mrs. Hadiza Kabir, at the tourism stakeholders sensitization event held on Thursday in Abuja. She stated that the ministerial authority and sensitization were crucial because of the emergence of new issues that must be covered by the tourism legislation, such as the problem of multiple taxations, violations of the Land Use Act, and other matters. She further said that the ministerial approval obtained will direct the work of the Department of Tourism, SDS, and make it easier for it to carry out its statutory job, which had previously been burdensome. Kabir hinted that the registration of hospitality outfits implies the legal act of granting rights to a hospitality business to operate in the FCT geographical space in exchange for mild payment. She revealed that presently the Tourism Department of the SDS has data from enumeration exercises that show over 3,000 Hotel establishments, adding that more are coming up daily in the territory. Her words: ” The Tourism Act, amplified by the ministerial approval/ authority will ensure the enforcement of the act and makes it mandatory for all tourism and hospitality establishments in the FCT to registered and licensed at a fee without which they cannot operate in the territory.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL ” This fee has not been collected since 2023. The FCT was benefiting from the revues derived from this exercise when the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC) had the mandate to collect and share revenues accruing to it in this effect. ” But this has stopped following the devolution of such powers on the state of the Federation and the FCT by the Supreme Court Judgement of July 19, 2013. The implication of this is that the FCT will take over from the NTDC.” The mandate secretary said that the registration and licensing of tourism and hospitality establishments would ensure control and standardisation of the industry in line with the International standards. Kabir disclosed that establishments who acquired the license would be listed in the Tourism Compendium which would be made available to all tourist and visitors to the FCT at the point of entry. According to her, establishments must meet certain requirements which will accompany their application forms before they are registered and licensed to operate. Earlier, the Director, Tourism Department, SDS, Mrs Marie Ochonue, revealed that since 2013 the FCT had never collected a dime from any hotel for the sake of registration and “therefore, we want to start with immediate.” She noted that the law governing hotels registration in Nigeria dated back to 1937, when the first hotel was establishment in the country. ” But in the FCT, when I came in as the Director of Tourism Department i noticed that all hotels about 3,500 operating in the FCT none of them is registered and a lots is happening in these hotels. ” Some people will just convert one part of their room and is a hotel and insecurity are bounds everywhere. Therefore, there is need for us to harmonise the operation and activities of hotels in the FCT. ” Therefore, we want to start with immediate effect. We may or may not ask for the arrears depending on the outcome of the interactive forum that hotel operators requested that we have with them. ” But here we are FCT under tourism department we are ready, we are willing and we are about to start hotel registration in the FCT with immediate effect.” The President, Federation of Tourism Association of Nigeria (FTAN) Mr Nkereuwem Onung, appealed to the Social Development Secretariat to deepen consultation and interface with tourism stakeholders in the territory with a view to find a common ground. ” I believe that we will always agree to move the business forward and make sure that the FCT remains the best for us.