LAGOS – Driven by the desire to end societal stigmatisation against amputees and give them hope of living a fulfilled life, The Irede Foundation (TIF) has declared its readiness to give out 200 limbs this year to victims of amputation. Crystal Chigbu, TIF’s Founder, made this known on Monday in Lagos while speaking on the foundation’s preparedness to join the rest of the world this April in marking this year’s world limb loss awareness month with a road walk and other activities in parts of the country. This year’s awareness walk, themed: “A Walk for Inclusion” holds on April 8, 2023, in over 50 locations globally and four locations in Lagos, notably at YMCA, Awolowo Road, Ikoyi. Chigbu explained that her foundation is ready to do its best to ensure that persons with disability enjoy quality education and live a full life like any other privileged person, noting that the average cost of a limb is N1.5 million. Also, she disclosed that in the past 10 years, her foundation has been able to provide 361 limbs to victims of amputation and hopes to reach this year’s 200 target. Chigbu, shared with the attendees the story behind Out On A Limb and what the journey has been like so far; the milestones that has been hit and what we hope to achieve in this year’s edition. “Last year we celebrated our 10th year and within this period we’ve been able to give out 361 limbs. we’re driven by the desire to put an end to stigmatisation and discrimination against people with disability. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “These people are like any of us but due to maybe accidents, congenital issues, and diseases have found themselves at the disadvantage. They need our support and that is why The Irede Foundation has identified with them and will not relent to ensure that they get educated, employed, and live a fulfilled life,” she said. POLL “Our mission at TIF with Out on A Limb is very direct; to help people with disabilities live their lives to the fullest and all we do is centered around that. So far, the biggest challenge has to be cultural backgrounds and differences. We are in Nigeria and we believe so much in superstitions that have caused a lot of harm and we are working on shifting the mindset of these people.” According to her, the foundation has engaged in a walk as a medium to advocate for differently abled people and also to raise funds for children with limb loss. Ekundayo Obafemi, Programs Associate of The Irede Foundation elaborated on the theme, “A Walk For Inclusion,” stressing, “It’s necessary for us to create a society that is inclusive for everyone. “We are walking for inclusion because we want a society where everyone is involved and carried along irrespective of their differences and indifferences. We are walking for inclusion this year to ensure that people with disabilities are able to get opportunities, jobs, quality education, and other things that they should have.”