University of Birmingham experts are working with the Ethiopian Roads Administration (ERA) to develop ways of future-proofing road networks against the effects of climate change – helping to maintain and improve quality of roads in Low-income Countries (LICs). Excerpts; Many known effects of climate change on human activities and some sectors of the economy are already receiving appropriate evaluations with mitigation strategies being proffered across the World. One of such areas is the road infrastructure sector. In spite of the importance of transportation as a key driver and enabler of the economy, little research has been conducted around the world on how vulnerable it will be to climate change. This is surprising as lack of efficient and reliable transportation can severely impact on economic growth given that the influence of meteorological effects on accidents and traffic disruption will negatively impact any economy. However, the University of Birmingham experts are working with the Ethiopian Roads Administration (ERA) and other partners to develop ways of future-proofing road networks against the effects of climate change – helping to maintain and improve quality of roads in Low-income Countries (LICs). Project partners include the University of Auckland, Universiti Putra Malaysia and the International Road Federation. The partnership supports the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – a collection of 17 interlinked global goals designed to be a ‘shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future – intended to be achieved by 2030.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Each goal typically has eight to 12 targets and, in particular, the international team is interested in whether the road surfaces. POLL Provide resilient roads which are economically viable; Withstand the impacts of climate change, and in particular extremes of temperature and climate; Enable roads to recover their level of service rapidly and with little intervention after an extreme weather event; and Improve the sustainability of road construction and maintenance through increased durability of the materials used in their construction (EMCS and EMAS), or through the use of marginal materials (FMA). Modelling carried out as part of the project suggests that the EMCS and EMAS surfaces can last between 4 -6 times as long as their conventional counterparts and are much better at withstanding climate extremes. Further, the initial economic modelling carried out estimates that road user costs could be reduced by approximately 25% and that over a life cycle of 50 years the economic benefits, measured in terms of net present value, are likely to be around 50% greater for long-life road surfaces compared to conventional counterparts. Dr Michael Burrow, from the University of Birmingham, commented: “Roads make a crucial contribution to economic development and growth and bring important social benefits – they are critical in helping a nation grow and develop. They also provide access to employment, social, health and education services – making a road network essential in fighting against poverty. “Adequately maintaining road infrastructure preserves and enhancing those benefits. Insufficient maintenance can mean that roads require major repairs or need to be reconstructed much sooner than anticipated. This results in roads which ultimately require more expensive maintenance and in increased road user costs due to poorer road condition, thereby greatly increasing total transport costs which can have major economic impact on the economy and citizens.” Long lasting road pavements require less maintenance and provide a smoother running surface over the life cycle of the road compared to conventional road surfaces, resulting in the reduction of road use costs i.e. reductions in fuel consumption, emissions, vehicle maintenance, passenger travel time and accident costs. Dr. William Avis, from the University of Birmingham, commented “Decision-makers must recognise the importance of long term planning. Our research indicates that roads surfaced using these novel materials, although more expensive to construct than traditional road surfacings, will last up to six times longer, require less maintenance and ensure reduced road user costs. Eng. Yitagesu Desalegn, head ERA’s research centre, commented: “The partnership between the University of Birmingham and the Ethiopian Roads Administration represents a concrete example of how cooperation across national boundaries and between stakeholder groups can provide the means through which cutting edge academic research can have a meaningful impact in the real world.” A cornerstone of the partnership is the provision of Doctoral Research support to key staff in ERA fully funded by the ERA. To date a total of three ERA staff are in the process of being awarded their PhDs with a further three in the final stages of submission. The provision of the support dates back eight years and reflects the importance that ERA places on research to support their mission. Changes in climate will cause both negative and positive impacts on the operation and maintenance costs of transportation systems. Any unforeseen damage caused by climate change on the few and insufficient road infrastructure in Nigeria will negatively impacts the economy and severely retard economic growth. Road administrators worldwide are concerned about the change in climate during the past decades because of its increasingly significant impacts on road infrastructure. Some evidence of impacts of climate change on road infrastructure include: excessive solar radiation that damages road surface, uncommon and frequent submergence of roads by severe flood events, increased coverage of roads with mud, sand and dirts. Local communities and businesses are also affected by the damage of road pavements due to climate change. According to Engineer Ojo Hakeem, Council Engineer, Alimosho Local Government Area, Lagos State, “When roads are washed away by floods, movement of people, goods and services around that region are restricted thus, impacting upon local economy, environment, the health and wellbeing of residents. From a social point of view adverse weather events can isolate communities from medical care, denial of access to employment and normal daily activities. “In the South East Nigeria, climate change has caused excessive flooding leading to gully erosion developments. “Temperature changes affect the stresses and deformations of every component of road infrastructural system, because the materials will experience contraction and expansion in response to temperature changes”, he added. Engineer Hakeem explained further that road structures are constructed from materials chosen for their performance under design loads and environmental conditions. The performance of pavements can change dramatically given changing conditions, such as increasing temperature and changing sub-grade soil dynamics due to saturation and erosion. He stressed that higher temperatures can cause pavement to soften and expand. This can create rutting and potholes, particularly in high-traffic areas and can place stress on bridge joints. Heat waves can also limit construction activities, particularly in areas with high humidity. “With these changes, it could become more costly to build and maintain roads and highways. On the other hand, certain areas may experience cost savings. Changes in precipitation and water levels form part of the consequences of global climate change which affect most infrastructure components in existence today. “Thus, climate change is projected to concentrate rainfall into more intense storms. Water is one of the most difficult aspects to design for in transportation engineering”, Engineer Hakeem added. In his submissions, Engineer Alfred Agboluaje, Senior Partner, Addex Engineering and Properties Nigeria Limited, “Saturated soils can be a critical concern in the design of a facility‘s substructure and foundations. Additionally, runoff from impermeable surfaces such as bridge decks or road surfaces should be handled in a way that redirects water flows away from the structure and does not harm the surrounding environment. “Heavy rains may result in flooding, which could disrupt traffic, delay construction activities, and weaken or wash out the soil and culverts that support roads, tunnels, and bridges.