LAFIA  – Mr Mandy Abuluya, the found­er of Nacabs Polytechnic, Ak­wanga, Nasarawa State, Friday warned students against cultism and exams malpractice as the institution matriculated 600 stu­dents for the 2022/2023 academic session. He stated this in Akwanga during the 11th matriculation ceremony of the institution. Abuluya, who is the President of the school, said that cultism, examination malpractice and other social vices had affected the lives and education of many students negatively, hence the need for the students to shun them at all times. He said,” Our institution has a zero tolerance policy towards cultism, and we will not hesi­tate to take disciplinary action against any student found en­gaging in such activities. “I want to start by congratulat­ing the newly matriculated stu­dents on taking this important step in their education journey. “By taking the oath, you have committed to the principle of in­tegrity, hard work and discipline. “We expect you to be good am­bassadors of this institution and to contribute positively to society, ” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Abuluya, who is also the Pres­ident, Eggon Cultural and De­velopment Association ( ECDA) Worldwide congratulated the new students and wished them well. POLL He assured of the institu­tion’s continuous commitment to provide quality education to the students. He said that he decided to of­fer scholarships to thousands of students to enable them to have access to education. Also speaking, the Rector of the Polytechnic, Prof. Donald Adigidzi urged the new students to focus on their education and shun any form of social vices. “Nacabs Polytechnic, Akwan­ga, we are dedicated to maintain­ing high standards of academic excellence. “And we are constantly striv­ing to take our education to new heights in line with our motto of ‘Technology for Emancipation’” he said. The rector, while congratulat­ing the new students, urged them to obey the school rules in their interest and for the overall devel­opment of the education sector.