Urges Male Colleagues To Step Down ABUJA – The speakership race of the 10th House of Representatives has on Wednesday welcomed a female contender in the person of Honourable Miriam Onuoha who formally declared her intention to run for the position in Abuja. The lawmaker, who is returning to the House after her first term which began in 2019, made the declaration at a media briefing in Abuja, where she also urged all her male colleagues in the race to step down for her, noting that ”now is the time for a woman to preside.” The lawmaker, representing Okigwe North/ Onuimo/Isiala Mbano Federal Constituency of Imo State, while making the declaration argued that since the botched tenure of Patricia Olubunmi Etteh, there had never been a female Speaker of the green chamber of the National Assembly, describing herself as well qualified to steer affairs of the 10th House of Representatives. Onuoha presented a 7-point agenda to implement if the elected speaker of the House to include: Digitization of activities of the Rules and Business Committee to improve effective record management without conflicts; “Introduction of periodic strategic Executive-Legislature dialogue for effective intervention by the National Assembly; and creation of opportunities for the National Assembly and stakeholders’ engagement to provide access for public participation in the law-making process. She said if the elected speaker, she will also “improve legislative policy action to promote the interest of Women and vulnerable groups;‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Facilitate periodic capacity development programs for leadership of Committees to address common and emerging issues; POLL “Promote unity and cohesion among members across party lines and geo-political divide, as well as enhance Committees’ financial independence to promote their effectiveness. “My emergence will create opportunities for NASS-stakeholders engagement to provide access for public participation in the law-making. The emergency of the dwindling number of women in parliament calls for deliberate action, an action that will bridge the gender gap, an action that is a call for the leadership of the National Assembly to embrace the stance of a woman of competence and experience. “I honorably call for my fellow contestants to support me, a woman with competence, integrity, vision driven mission and a true display of diversity as well as inclusive leadership centered on equity. No doubt our President-Elect His Excellency Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a he-for-she who has always empowered women in all spheres of life, having picked a woman as his running mate as the governor of Lagos state and also supported his amiable wife to become a senator in the parliament in line with the goals of the UN’S 35% affirmative action for women. “To this effect, my election as the speaker House of Representatives will therefore afford Nigeria the rare opportunity of killing the two ubiquitous birds of gender balancing and youth inclusiveness in its political leadership landscape, with one stone. “Truthfully, I Princess Miriam amply represents the twin engine essence of Nigeria’s youth and female status quo whom the circumstances of our political exigencies have made an endangered and vulnerable specie”, she stated in declaration speech,” she said. According to the lawmaker, the issues of regional balancing in the Nation’s leadership equations was also another veritable national challenge that her election to the speakership of the House of Representatives will address and resolve simultaneously in the interest of National Unity, Peace and inclusion.