LAGOS  – The Managing Director of Remita Payment Services Limited (RPSL), a leading financial technology firm in Nigeria, Deremi Atanda, has called for quality infrastructure to support the growth of digital payments in Nigeria. ‘Deremi , while speaking during the first edition of the SystemSpecs Tech Innovation Webinar Series held recently in partnership with FintechNGR, stressed the importance of adequate infrastructure development to enable a sustainable digital payment system in the country. The event, themed “Cashless Policy: Sustaining Digital Payments beyond the Currency Redesign,” drew together some of the finest minds in the fintech industry including Dr Henrietta Onwuegbuzie, Director, Business Innovation Accelerator, Lagos Business School; Tomilola Majekodinmu, Founder/CEO Bankly; Demola Igbalajobi, Managing Director, SystemSpecs Technology Services(STSL) and others who discussed how to best sustain digital payments in Nigeria. At the webinar, Deremi emphasised the importance of the cashless policy in promoting financial inclusion, reducing the cost of currency management, and enhancing the efficiency of the payment system. However, he also warned that the policy cannot succeed without a significant upgrade of Nigeria’s infrastructure. The SystemSpecs Technology Innovation Webinar Series serves as an ingenious platform thoughtfully curated to proffer innovative solutions to a range of economic, financial, and other national challenges. “Provide infrastructure to the last mile, ensure there is awareness, and that is where we talk about the four A paradigm. The first one is Awareness, people must know what there is; the second is Adoption; the third is Acceptance and the fourth is Acculturation making it a way of life where you keep reinventing the first three ‘As’,” he added. Acknowledging the existing challenges hindering the widespread adoption of digital payments, including poor network connectivity, low levels of literacy, and inadequate infrastructure, ‘Deremi accentuated the need for a collaborative effort among fintech companies, the government, and traditional financial institutions to effectively tackle these daunting challenges. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Fintech companies have a vital role to play in promoting financial inclusion and driving digital payments. We need to collaborate with other stakeholders, including the government and traditional financial institutions, to achieve our objectives.” he stated.