‘In Nigeria, the food security situation is expected to deteriorate as the lean season is expected to start early in April, lasting until September.’ SIAKA MOMOH The number of people with insufficient food for consumption across seven selected countries in West Africa stood at 122.4 million as of March 31, 2023, according to AGRA’s Food Security Monitor report for March 2023. This is a 3.4% decrease from the last reporting period in February 2023, suggesting that the food security situation improved across the monitored countries. The countries that contributed to this downward trend included Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Niger and Nigeria. When compared to the same period last year (111.2 million people) and two years ago (96.5 million people), the number of food insecure people across the monitored countries in the region increased over both periods According to the report, the harvests of market garden produce and other cereals including maize, from the dry season, are ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ increasing the availability and diversity of food in the market, and providing income for households. POLL In Nigeria, the food security situation is expected to deteriorate as the lean season is expected to start early in April, lasting until September. During this period the country will experience Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ( IPC Phase 3 Classification) outcomes. The North-eastern parts of the country are experiencing IPC Phase 4 outcomes due to limited food stocks and poor access to markets and humanitarian assistance. In Burkina Faso, IPC Phase 4 outcomes remain in place across the Sahel and northern regions of the country, where armed conflicts are limiting the access to food and humanitarian assistance. In Niger, IPC Phase 3 outcomes remain in place across the pastoral, agro-pastoral and agricultural areas of Tillabéry and Tahoua, where a majority of the households have reportedly exhausted their food stocks and are struggling to access food due to ongoing insecurity. The Diffa region is experiencing IPC Phase 2 outcomes thanks to improved road access, which is making it possible to distribute food to areas of need. AGRA’s Food Security Monitor provides an overview assessment of the food security outlook in AGRA focus countries in East, West and Southern Africa, considering the movement of prices of main food staples and government interventions that impact on domestic and regional food trade alongside the impact of forecast weather changes and environmental conditions on food security. The Food Security Monitor is produced with support from the UK Government’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) through the Africa Food Trade & Resilience Programme.