Professor John Ebhomien is the Presiding Archbishop, Christ Redemption Church of the Living God Worldwide. As Nigerian Christians join the rest of the world in celebrating Easter today, he speaks to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the essence of Easter and other crucial issues in Christendom and the nation. Excerpt: What would you say is the essence of Easter? Easter is a period to celebrate the death and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, the hope of mankind and the king of glory who died that the world might be saved. This year’s Easter is being celebrated amidst a high level of insecurity in the land. How do you see the development? The celebration of Easter at this trying period of our history as a people with one God and unity, calls for sober reflection from all mankind, be it Christians, Muslims, animalists, traditional religion. It is a period for us to look unto God for the salvation of our soul and to save the world from the war across the globe, destruction of properties, kidnapping, rape and other vices that have defied solution. These call for sober reflection in all ramifications, from all religions of the world that God is the ultimate and Christ Jesus is the salvation of the soul. Until we look unto God to see the world, we will remain where we are. But, let me remind everyone, be it Muslims, Christians or any other religion that God is the solution to the myriads of problems that have refused to go away. They needed urgent solutions it appears from all indications that the human thinking has failed. Our leaders, be it the president or governors or the lawmakers, have to pray for God’s wisdom to do things in effective fashion. Any person who believes there is another power should have a rethink. Light and darkness can never meet. God has the solution to the warm Ukraine, the Boko Haram, ISWAP and banditry and other myriads of problems in the Southern parts of the country. May God hear our prayer. What is your message to Christians celebrating this year’s Easter? My candid message to Christians and other non-Christians is that they should live together in peace, love and unity. Christianity and Islam are ways of life. Love supersedes all things. Without love, we cannot live together as brothers and sisters. God is love and the light. Those who must worship God almighty must learn to love and live in the light of the Almighty. When the light comes, darkness goes away. The book of 1 John 1:5 says, “God is Light and in Him there is no darkness at all.” From this quotation, it is clear that God is light. Nothing can be done without exposure to God. Whatever are the problems in the world today, they are known by God almighty, the solution to all problems. So, let us sheathe our swords and embrace peace and love. My clear message to the kidnappers, Boko Haram, ISWAP, the unknown gunmen wherever they are, is that they should lay down their arms or else, the sword of God Almighty will meet them very soon. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Would you say that Nigerian Christians and their leaders are really Christlike in their actions? POLL I will say that the Nigerian Christian leaders are not Christlike. Their body language and actions have proved this. The Bible says in Galatians 6:7 that “Whatever a man sows, shall he reap.” Our leaders, whether Christians, Muslims or traditionalists, should know that whatever they sow, they shall reap. They can never escape it. If you look at the body language of our leaders, it is not in tandem with that of Jesus Christ our Lord and saviour, the epitome of love and God Almighty, our creator. God Almighty knows the heart of our leaders. God told me that our leaders in Nigeria have failed Him. He said He will raise someone who will move this country to the next level. There is no going back on God’s word. No word that comes out of God that will not be accomplished. Our leaders are warned. Those who have ears let them hear.