LAGOS  – The Nigerian economy, according to the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics, is growing at a very slow rate and this has affected how businesses are performing in the country. However, Kevin Eze, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of African Food Network, an online portal that promotes African food and cuisine, has called on the government to make the business environment friendly to entrepreneurs and startups. He said that the level of hardship and poverty in the country is rising; adding that the economy is crumbling and people are becoming poorer. According to him, “There is no adequate power supply, there is scarcity of fuel and many businesses are shutting down and the unemployment situation is worsening. The naira is depreciating at a very fast rate and inflation” He stated that the government should fix the foreign exchange regime because the country depends on imported materials; adding that foreign exchange regime affects many things; “almost everything we buy in the country is imported.” He averred, “The government should start implementing policies that would increase the value of the naira against the dollar. “If the government implements policies that will make the naira appreciate, it will positively affect the lives of millions of people. “The government also needs to fix infrastructure and make better decisions that will affect the lives of millions of people positively. It should start tackling the issues of forex, and electricity. Fixing the power supply and ensuring that it is stable will do a lot of good to the economy. POLL It should ensure effective guidelines for importation and distribution of petroleum products. It should tackle the issues that affect a majority of Nigerians rather than focus on the ones that affect a section of society. The government should create a transportation chain that will enable people to do business.” According to him, ”Nigeria needs to start talking about ease of doing business in Africa because it is difficult for business owners to navigate across Africa to do business. We need to bring the government close to the people and solve challenges in society. The government should resolve the strike by university lecturers because the nation is losing and students are being subjected to mental stress as they continue to stay at home knowing that their counterparts in other countries are moving forward. “We cannot plan because prices are not stable. Many of the things that are moving in the country are privately owned and Nigerians are at the mercy of private businesses, which increase prices every time.” Eze Otisi N. Ikoro, the chairman of Danmayor Investment Ltd, a company that is into consultancy, provision of maritime service like freight forwarding and others, said that policy somersaults on the part of the government is impacting businesses negatively. Ikoro said: “You make plans and projections and order goods from other countries and by the time the goods arrive in the country, the policies and exchange rate have changed and you discover that you have sustained huge losses. This type of situation creates uncertainty and uncertainty is not good for business. The government needs to create an environment that is certain so that entrepreneurs can plan,” he posited. He argued that entrepreneurs will continue to suffer until the government creates an enabling environment for them to thrive and contribute to the growth and development of the Nigerian economy. But Mr. Segun Kuti-George, the Chief Executive Officer of Goshen Exquisite Marble, said that the Nigerian business environment is evolving and it is getting more complex and competitive. However, he stated that many operators say it is getting more difficult to survive in the environment. He said although the country got out recession marginally in 2020, businesses could not meet their targets and some had to lay off some of their workers; some had to change the type of business they do, while others which could not cope closed shop, adding that the challenges that SMEs face in the country are still there. He said that there was a slight improvement in market awareness of the need to buy and consume locally made goods and services. He, however, said that the economy is harsh, adding that people have little disposable income and inflation did not help matters. According to him, “This did not help the purchasing power of the people. Many people are willing to buy and consume made in Nigeria products and services, they do not have the purchasing power to do so. It is a double tragedy for the country.“ Kuti-George, who is also the erstwhile chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI), said the problem of inadequate infrastructure is still there and largely unresolved; adding that the supply of power is still epileptic. “For instance, we have been constructing the Lagos Ibadan Road for 20 years and it is not yet finished. Rail has taken off but it is passenger-based; goods are not being moved by rail,” he posited. According to him, the problem of funding persists and bank loans are still being channeled to big businesses at the detriment of small operators. He argued that entrepreneurs still have issues with technology; and equipment is still being imported and “we import obsolete equipment, which sometimes makes Nigerian products uncompetitive when compared to foreign products.” He stated that the government should focus attention on infrastructure; and it should improve power supply, build more roads, and improve the rail system and others. “The government can say that it has provided development funds but it is a far cry from what is needed. “They need to put their money where their mouth is; over 60 percent of our GDP is generated by SMEs and over 70 percent of employment is generated by SMEs and the government should pump more money into the sector. It should come up with innovative ways to fund SMEs. We should take more risks with SMEs.” He said the country has development banks, the Bank of Industry, Development Bank of Nigeria, the Agri-Business/ Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Scheme of the Central Bank of Nigeria through NIRSAL Microfinance Bank (NMFB) and others, arguing that these are not sufficient to meet the needs of the sector. He asserted the Bank of Industry loans are not accessible to small operators because they cannot meet the requirements of the bank. “The ones that are accessible are not well funded and quite a number of has accessed it but they are being pressured to repay so that others can also get the loan. But the difficult business environment led many to run into murky waters and they are unable to repay and that has become a challenge. “I am not in support of anyone or business taking a loan and not repaying. But the effects of Covid-19 are still much around other countries are coming out with schemes to alleviate problems. They still know that the problems are still there and they are enough to make one not be able to fulfill one’s financial obligations like repaying a loan. He averred that the government should not relax in funding MSMEs; “it should pump in more money into the sector. The money you pump into SMEs is still within the economy; it only means that the results have not come yet. They should be patient and pump in money into the sector. The fact that we had the Covid-19 experience should make the government pump more money into SMEs and not expect anything in return,” he argued.