Apples generally are useful in the production of consumer and pharmaceutical products. Some of these products include jellies, pickles, apple cider vinegar and red wine. Over 70 million tonnes of apples are grown worldwide. China is responsible for producing at least half of this quantity every year followed by the United States. In Nigeria, the majority of apples consumed are imported from countries like South Africa and the United States of America. The statistics show that at least 50, 000 tonnes of these apples are imported into the country annually. Each year the consumption of apples is on the rise and there’s the need to find ways to begin to grow apples in the country in order to meet this growing demand. The type of apple that can be grown in large quantities in a place like Nigeria is the Bell apple. The Bell apple is as nutritious and beneficial as the imported variety although it tastes quite different. It has a mixture of a sweet and sour taste and the intensity of the sweetness or sourness depends on how ripe it is. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Bell Apple Planting POLL The planting of bell Apple is by seedling, Bell apples require adequate humidity and rainfall to thrive. It can tolerate different soil types from sandy to clay. It can also thrive in moderately acidic soil. Temperate Apple The most popular apples consumed in Nigeria are those produced in the temperate or Mediterranean regions. They cannot be grown in Nigeria because they require cold conditions for optimal growth and fruit production. Ideally, the plant should be exposed to cold temperature below 70C for at least 6 weeks (1000 hours) during the planting season. However, the apples have been grown in the past in the plateau regions of Nigeria like the Jos, Mambila and Obudu plateau. These apples can grow in most soils however; the ideal soil should be well drained; properly aerated, loamy type; rich in organic matter and with a ph of 5.5 to 6.5 Currently, there’s a great demand for the Bell apple seedlings because there are only a few farmers involved in planting this apple. However, the apple can be cultivated in at least 34 of the 36 states in the country with the exceptions being the core northern states of Borno and Sokoto. Harvesting Usually, the tree takes 3 years before they begin producing fruits. Each harvest yields at least 1000 fruits and there are a minimum of 2 harvests in a year. Essential Benefits Include • Apples lower cholesterol and helps fight heart diseases. • Apple contains an antioxidant called quercetin that helps to boost immunity • Apples contain non-digestible fibre that gives you a feeling of fullness thereby preventing overeating and excess weight gain. • Research has shown that apples lower the risk of diabetes. • Apples are good for brain health due to their antioxidant components • The antioxidants in apples are also useful in preventing some types of cancers as well as alzheimer’s and parkinson’s disease • Apples create an effect similar to the toothbrush on your teeth; also eating apples can give your breath a dose of freshness • Apples are packed with vitamin C which is very good for your skin and hair Note: The organic farming of the Apple is key for those who want to export it. Return on investment is huge. Agbaji Chinedu writes from Abuja. learnder@gmail.com ,08035004617 