Mikel Itemuagbor, organiser of the historic Okpekpe inter­national 10km road race has hailed the appointment of for­mer Inspector General of Police (IGP), Dr. Solomon Arase, as the Chairman of the Police Service Commission. Arase was Nigeria’s Inspec­tor General of Police between 2015 and 2016, the year Okpekpe international 10km road race made history as the first road running event in West Africa to be granted a World Athletics label status. In a congratulatory mes­sage, Itemuagbor says Arase’s appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari was well deserved. “I heartily congratulate Dr. Solomon Arase on his appoint­ment as the Chairman of the Police Service Commission. Dr Arase’s success story as one of Nigeria’s finest police officers is also our success story. “The success of the Okpekpe race will not be complete with­out mentioning Dr. Arase who laid the foundation for securing the race. “He was with us especially for the 2016 edition and helped laid the foundation for the crime-free security we are en­joying today. It is our job as or­ganisers of the race to ensure the safety of participants – ath­letes, officials and spectators but there is always a security threat anytime you gather a large number of people together. “The Nigeria Police has al­ways ensured those connected to the race viz athletes, offici­ating officials, journalists as well as spectators feel safe and valued,” said Itemuagbor who revealed Dr Arase will be spe­cially honoured at this year’s race.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We are also grateful to the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba who has ensured the Okpekpe event has contin­ued to enjoy the best in terms of security. POLL The ninth edition of the race will hold on Saturday May 27 in Okpekpe, Edo state this time as a gold label event. Okpekpe race is the first road running event in Nigeria to have its course measured by a World Athletics accredited course measurer and the first to get a label status, bronze, in 2015. Label races are those World Athletics designates as one of the leading road races around the world.