AWKA  – There was a deluge of praises on Labour Party’s (LP) presi­dential candidate in the Febru­ary 25 election, Mr. Peter Obi, by the Muslim community in Awka, Anambra State, on Monday as he again paid visit to Awka Central Mosque. As a matter of fact, the Mus­lims had promised to visit Obi, annoyed that he overlooked them to visit Onitsha Muslim community whereas they be­lieve Obi belongs to them spe­cially, because he governed from Awka in his days as governor. From the leader of the community, Alhaji Musa Bello; leader of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), Alhaji Gidaddo Sedikki, as well as the youth leader, Alhaji Abdulahi Garba Haruna, spoke glowing­ly about Obi. They recalled how Obi sponsored them to Mecca in his days, a favour that has since eluded them, gave agri­culture loans, scholarship to their members. They said that when Obi was running for the presiden­cy they tried to reach his run­ning mate, Senator Datti Ba­ba-Ahmed, to dispel rumours of certain allegations leveled against Obi then. Alhaji Garba Haruna said: “This is the second time we are hosting you in our mosque. You are our new president. People try to blackmail you but we did the much we could to protect you. We, as our Are­wa community you have been sponsoring us on hajj. But since you left office, we are no longer sponsored”. In his speech, Obi said he came to celebrate Eid-el-Fitr with them and explained that he didn’t come to Awka first because it is the capital of the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Obi said he is committed to a better society, and better Nigeria. POLL According to him: “What our children want is a good education, good job and good health. It is we politicians that try to divide everything. We are all children of Almighty God”. He cited the example of Dubai where the Catholic Church was built and donat­ed by the Emir and England where the Queen donated and built the Central Mosque even though she was the Head of the Church of England. Obi said all the allegations against him against Muslims were false because when as governor, the Commissioner of Police, his ADC and his Chief Security Officer were all Muslims and from the North. He said: “No matter what happens, Nigeria will remain one. What Nigeria desires is a better life, job opportunity”. He promised to assist the community complete the mosque. He donated bags of rice, noodles and soft drinks. Even at that, Obi said he is now ready to do works of char­ity because meeting the people and rendering assistance has nothing to do with politics. He added: “Politics is about caring about the good of the society. I am leaving here now and I’m going to the hospital to support people in the hospital because that is what politics is all about”. Asked why he does not take rest after the hectic elec­tioneering campaigns, Obi responded: “Those who need rest should rest. Those of us who don’t need rest should go ahead with our lives”.