In a matter of days or weeks, Oando, one of the leading oil marketing companies on the floor of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), will officially delist from the Exchange subject to the approval of its shareholders at the company’s court-ordered meeting, as well as the sanction of the Federal High Court, BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI writes. The decision of Oando to delist from the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) is a culmination of several legal battles over the years which pitched the company’s management against some of its minority shareholders. While announcing the decision, the company said Oando will go private and no longer be a publicly quoted company and its core shareholders Ocean and Oil Development Partners Ltd will acquire the shares of all minority shareholders in Oando. According to the company, it had applied for the SEC’s ‘No Objection’ to the Scheme, which is subject to the approval of the shareholders of Oando at the Court-Ordered Meeting of the Company, as well as the sanction of the Federal High Court. If the conditions of the transaction are satisfied and the same is sanctioned by the Federal High Court, the company will be delisted from NGX and JSE and re-registered as a private company. This ends a new 20-year journey as a publicly listed company operating in both the downstream and upstream of the Nigerian oil and gas industry. For thousands of shareholders of the company, the decision to delist could be viewed as bittersweet considering several years of courtroom battles, operational headwinds, and a largely turbulent oil and gas sector.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ SEC’s assurance POLL But, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is solidly behind the shareholders. Mr. Yuguda Lamido, the Director General, said following the decision of Oando Plc to delist from the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX), SEC has assured investors that the interest of minority shareholders would be protected during all transactions in the capital market. He gave the assurance in Abuja while briefing journalists on the outcome of the first quarter Capital Market Committee (CMC) meeting of 2023. He noted that protecting the interests of both majority and minority shareholders was the primary responsibility of the commission. “Protection of investors is the central mandate of the commission and when the commission protects investors, we do not discriminate between minority and majority shareholders. “When there is a case of delisting, the application for the delisting cones to the Commission and we go through it very carefully to ensure that the shares of the company being delisted are fairly valued because fair valuation is what protects all the shareholders”, he explained. Yuguda, also noted that the commission was working at ensuring that foreign and retail investors were retained and more attracted to the capital market, observing that relative to other markets on the continent, the NGX has performed very well. He expressed optimism that President Muhammadu Buhari will sign the Investors and Securities Bill, ISB, into law before leaving office in May, noting that the new law was long overdue. “The meeting was officially informed about the passage of the Investments and Securities Bill (ISB) 2023 by the Senate. Some of the provisions in the ISB include stiffer punishment for operators of Ponzi schemes, expansion of the categories of issuers of securities, and better coverage of some new products among others”. Matter arising The story of Oando’s decision to delist is a culmination of several legal battles over the years which pitched the company’s management with some of its minority shareholders. Oando’s travails over the years can be traced back to its decision to acquire upstream IOC, ConocoPhillips for $1.5 billion in 2014. At the time oil prices were at all-time highs and the Nigerian economy was booming. But soon after the acquisition, the global economy went south beginning a series of events that led to shareholder squabbles, operational restructuring of the company, change of auditors, delays and eventual reporting of massive losses, a revival in profitability, acquisitions, and the bold but inevitable decision to delist. The matter at one point caught the attention of the National Assembly, forcing them to wade into the matter between the company and the former DG of SEC Mallam Mounir Gwarzo, who lost his job in the wake of the controversy. In March 2021, a Federal Court in Lagos oversaw a petition by minority shareholders of Oando requesting that the Court orders the buyout of their entire shareholding either by OODP or Oando, as the petitioners believe that this would be in their best interest as well as that of the company. In response, Oando filed across-petition, stating its willingness to buy out all the minority shareholders of Oando via a court-ordered Scheme of Arrangement. Following its AGM held in August 2021, the company issued a press release stating that its shareholders had approved that it enters a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission about the investigations, findings, dispute, and settlement arising from and relating to petitions brought by Ansbury Inc one of its minority shareholders and Alhaji Dahiru Mangal. Subsequently, in November 2021, Oando informed the Exchange that it had reached an agreement to acquire Alhaji Dahiru Mangal’s interest of 1,968,452,614, shares in Oando PLC by Leaf Investment & Realtors Limited. The acquisition gave Leaf Investments about 15.83 per cent ownership of Oando Plc. By December 2021, the company announced changes to the board of directors of the company. The company appointed the chairman of NDIC, Mrs. Ronke Sokefun, and Mrs. Nana Fatima Mede as Independent Non-Executive Directors effective December 23, 2021. While all this was taking place, the company had still not released its audited results for 2019, 2020, and 2021. It explained that the reason for its inability to release its results was that it was unable to appoint external auditors, due to the indefinite suspension of the Company’s 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM) by the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 10, 2019. In February 2022, the company announced the appointment of Mr. Adeola Ogunsemi as an Executive Director and the Group’s Chief Financial Officer. This follows the resignation of erstwhile Mr. Olufemi Adeyemo, the Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company. By June 2022, the Federal High Court ruled on the petitions granting an order that Oando had 30 days30 days to prepare a Scheme Document for the purchase of all the minority shareholders’ shares in Oando Plc for submission to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and/or the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX). At the time, OODP had a shareholding of 57.37 per cent in Oando PLC, and the above-mentioned minority shareholders had a 42.63% shareholding. Based on the petition and the subsequent court order, the decision to buy out the minority shareholders resulted in a voluntary delisting of the Company’s shareholding on the NGX. During the same month of June, the company subsequently released its interim results for the year ended in 2020 and 2019. It reported a loss after tax of N132.5 billion wiping out its total equity. At the end of the year, its net equity was a negative N169.4 billion. In August 2022, Oando announced it had replaced Ernst & Young (EY) with BDO Professional Services. On October 18, 2022, the company informed the Nigeria Exchange that the Federal High Court had extended the timeline given to the company to acquire the shares of the minority shareholders of the company by 90 days. On March 28, 2023, Oando Plc finally released its 2020 full-year audited accounts which showed a drop in revenues to N477 billion compared to N577 billion (FYE 2019). Loss-After-Tax of N141 billion compared to Loss-After-Tax of N207 billion (FYE 2019). Wale Tinubu ,the company Group MD/CEO blamed the result on the global pandemic which he said had a profound impact on the entire oil and gas industry, leading to a sharp decline in energy demand and consequently, lower oil prices. It said that as a result, the company took on impairment charges on its assets. It also stated that the second tranche funding of the settlement of its “disruptive shareholder issue” resulted in them taking a further impairment on a category of their financial assets. However, Oando also claimed it had taken a strategic decision to diversify its operations into the renewable energy space towards investing in climate-friendly and bankable energy solutions across Nigeria. It maintained that the foray into clean energy will provide a hedge against the volatility of the oil and gas market, and position the company for the energy transition, as well as long-term growth. 2021 results came down worse than 2020. It reported a 51 per cent increase in revenues to N722.5 billion compared to N477.1 billion (FYE 2020). Its Profit-After-Tax was N34.7 billion compared to Loss-After-Tax of N140.7 billion (FYE 2020). On March 30th, 2023, Oando finally announced to the public that in line with the Scheme of Arrangement, it has received an offer from its core shareholder – Ocean and Oil Development Partners Limited (OODP) to acquire the shares of all minority shareholders in Oando. Under the scheme, each scheme shareholder shall be entitled to receive the sum of N7.07 in cash or its equivalent in South African Rand (ZAR) for every ordinary share held by the qualified scheme shareholders at the Effective Date of the Scheme. Oando is also listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. According to the terms of the deal, the N7.07 to be paid to each shareholder represents a 58 per cent premium to the last traded share price of Oando on 28 March 2023, the day before the date of submission of the Scheme applies to the Securities and Exchange Commission. It is instructive to note that as of June 1, 2014, just before the announcement of the conclusion ConocoPhillips deal, Oando traded for as high as N36 per share.