Beloved singing competition, Nigerian Idol has returned for its eighth season on April 23, and according to MultiChoice Nigeria, producers of the show, the reality music talent show recorded a whopping 10% increase in the number of entries for this season compared to the previous one. Last season, the show, which saw Progress Chukwuyem walk away with a staggering N30 million cash prize, received over 10,000 audition entries. This year’s winner is billed to receive a cash prize of N35 million and prizes worth millions of Naira. At the media announcement held at the MultiChoice Studios earlier in the week, Dr Busola Tejumola, the Executive Head of Content & West Africa Channels at MultiChoice Nigeria, announced that the resources, energy, and originality put into the show each season have attracted more contestants each year, leading to an impressive increase in entries. “Nigerian Idol has always been a hotbed of raw talent and a coveted platform for aspiring musicians to showcase their skills to the world, and the last seven seasons of Nigerian Idol have been a source of entertainment and healthy competition for the contestants, leading to the emergence of well-deserved winners,” she explained. Returning as the able host for this edition is seasoned and witty IK Osakioduwa. In addition, this year sees music heavyweights like Oladapo “D’banj” Oyebanjo, singer-songwriter Simisola “Simi” Kosoko, and creative industry entrepreneur Obi Asika maintaining their status as judges. The show premieres on April 23 with the recorded auditions that will air on Africa Magic Urban, Showcase, Family and a pop-up channel (DStv ch. 199, while the live shows will premiere on May 28 as the contestants battle it out for the ultimate prize until a new Idol emerges on July 16. Returning judge Simi spoke about the qualities a Nigerian Idol must possess. She said, “Have a great work ethic and be passionate about your work. Talent is never enough.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On the other hand, Obi Asika confessed he was looking forward to beginning the journey of choosing a new winner. He said, “If you are going to make it to the top 20, that’s a real fight because there are a lot of people, and many fall off. Every single year, I’m upset that we left some people behind. It’s always a battle, but it’s also a pleasure. We are blessed with incredible talents. It’s one of the things that make Nigerians special. These amazing talents come through every year, and I can assure you that there are special people this season.” POLL Over the years, Nigerian Idol, a platform created to showcase remarkable Nigerian voices to a global audience whilst empowering participants with an opportunity of a lifetime has produced some of the most prominent musicians in Nigeria, such as Timi Dakolo, Mercy Chinwo, and Omawumi, who made a name for themselves in the local and global music scenes. The goal is to produce another superstar at the end of this season.  