Says Cancellation Of Sham Result In Adamawa Guber Poll Testament To Commission’s Fair Disposition ABUJA – The Nigerian Forum for Democracy (NFD), has commended the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Yakubu Mahmood, for the peaceful conduct of the 2023 general election. It cited the controversy surrounding the recent governorship election in Adamawa State, noting that INEC insisted on doing the right thing no matter whose ox was gored. In a statement released on Tuesday in Abuja, the Forum okayed the electoral body’s cancellation of the Adamawa governorship poll, adding “That the INEC swiftly reacted and declared it a nullity, the announcement of Senator Aishatu Binani winner after the rerun election on Saturday April 15, 2023 in Adamawa State is a testament of a responsible electoral umpire, which Prof. Mahmood Yakubu deserves commendation”. It said that the Commission faced enormous challenges amid the amended Electoral Act, 2022 which it said “was meant to aid the electoral processes, but which was tried to be arm twisted by some anti-democratic elements”. This is even as it recalled that the “INEC National Chairman read a riot act in his pre-election briefing of all the Resident Commissioners after they went through orientation and handed with guidelines of how elections should be conducted across States. This shows the frantic effort of Prof. Mahmood Yakubu’s conduct of free and fair election, irrespective of pitfalls as a result of some unforeseen circumstances”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The statement claimed that the electoral body was fair, hence the “emergence of a sizeable number of opposition lawmakers, as the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP have 35 seats, Labour Party, LP 8, the New Nigeria Political Party, NNPP, the Social Democratic Party, SDP, All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA and the Young Progressives Congress, YPP have one Senators-elect each, awaiting inauguration in the first week of June. POLL “The opposition political parties also did well in the lower legislative chamber as well as State Houses of assembly across States. With the general election concluded with runoffs on Saturday, the forum expressed optimism that the proposed ‘Electoral Offences Commission’ would complement INEC’s effort, if passed into law, hence, they were calling on the Nigerian parliament to pass the bill into law in the interest of free and fair election in future”.