Life is a journey! The end of every journey justifies its means. Brethren we are about to embark on a journey; a journey to Emmaus where we shall encounter the Risen Lord. As you embark on this journey with us, you will be enlightened; your vision will be restored. You shall see and recognize the Risen LORD! And your life will never remain the same! To start with, who is this Risen Lord? What is special about Him? What has He to do with our Redemption? In Acts 2:22-33 Peter addressed his fellow Jews, saying, “Men of Judea, Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works, signs and wonders which God did through him in your midst – this Jesus, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. But God raised him up…” In summary Jesus is the Risen Lord, the stone rejected by the builders which has become the Chief Cornerstone. St. Peter declares, “You know that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your fathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ…” (1 Peter 1:17-21) Child of God, through the Precious Blood of Jesus you are ransomed! It is this same Jesus that we are about to encounter on our way to Emmaus. We cannot embark on this journey without direction. Today’s responsorial Psalm is a Prayer for Divine Direction: “Lord, You will show me the path of life.” (Psalm 16:11) Child of God, with Jesus you are on the path of life. The gospel of Luke 24:13-35 presents our Lord Jesus as our travelling Companion. After His crucifixion His disciples were devastated. Some of them went back to their business. Out of frustration two of His disciples travelled back to Emmaus. On their way to Emmaus they met the Risen Lord, who became their travelling companion. As they were travelling along Jesus addressed them, saying, “O foolish men… Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory?” He interpreted to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself.” Child of God, may God deliver you from the spirit of foolishness! May He open your mind to understand what you need to understand concerning Jesus! The disciples were highly impressed with His teaching. They pleaded with Him, saying, “Stay with us, for it is toward evening and the day is now far spent; so he went in to stay with them.” Child of God, as you invite Jesus into your home he will come in and dine with you (Revelation 3:20). ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ When He was at table with them, “Jesus took the bread. He blessed and broke it, and gave it to them. And their eyes opened and they recognized him.” Child of God, each time we break God’s Word and the Eucharistic Bread God opens our Spiritual eyes and we are able to recognize the Risen LORD. Right now, I pull out every veil covering your eyes! Your sight and your vision are hereby restored in Jesus name! POLL Our Lord Jesus Christ is indeed our Risen Lord. He is also our Travelling Companion. In Matthew 28:20 He assured us, “lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” Child of God, with Jesus, you are not alone! You will never travel alone. So, fear not! As you remain connected to Him, it shall be well with you in Jesus name! Happy 3rd Sunday of Easter from Fr. John Damian Adizie, ADM.