Russia’s envoy to Belarus said the country would install tactical weapons near Belaru’s western borders, which it shares with NATO members. He added the tactical weapons will be installed regardless of opposition from Europe and the United States. Ambassador Boris Gryzlov made the statement said amid simmering tensions between Russia and the West over the Ukraine war. Gryzlov’s comment followed Russian President Vladimir Putin’s recent statement about plans to station tactical nuclear weapons on the territory of Russia’s neighbour and ally. The announcement marked another attempt by the Russian leader to dangle the nuclear threat to discourage the West from supporting Ukraine. Putin has said that construction of storage facilities for tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus will be complete by July 1 and added that Russia has helped modernize Belarusian warplanes to make them capable of carrying nuclear weapons. The two neighbours have an agreement envisioning close economic, political and military ties. Russia used Belarusian territory as a staging ground for invading Ukraine and has maintained a contingent of troops and weapons there. Gryzlov, speaking in remarks broadcast late Sunday by Belarusian state television, said the Russian nuclear weapons will be moved up close to the Western border of our union state but did not give any precise location. “It will expand our defence capability, and it will be done regardless of all the noise in Europe and the United States,” he said in a reference to Western criticism of Putin’s decision. Belarus shares a 1,250-kilometre border with NATO members Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Tactical nuclear weapons, which are intended to destroy enemy troops and weapons on the battlefield, have a relatively short range and a much lower yield compared with nuclear warheads fitted to long-range strategic missiles that are capable of obliterating whole cities.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko in his annual address said some of Russia’s strategic nuclear weapons might be deployed to Belarus along with part of Russia’s tactical nuclear arsenal. Lukashenko said Russia’s plan to deploy nuclear weapons in the country would protect it from Western threats. POLL “I am not trying to intimidate or blackmail anyone. I want to safeguard the Belarusian state and ensure peace for the Belarusian people,” Lukashenko said. He added western nations were building up their military forces in Poland and claimed they were planning to invade and destroy his country.