BENIN – Hon Joseph Ikpea, a former commissioner in Edo state, has called on the leadership of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and that of the Trade Union Congress(TUC) in Edo state to continue to work with a renewed energy aimed at making Edo Great. Hon Ikpea who stated this in a statement issued in Benin City said “I must celebrate our teaming workers in Edo state as we join others across the country to celebrate the year 2023 workers day. “Your efforts and consciencious working for our dear state can not but be appreciated. Your consistency and dedications to duties despite visible unfriendly government labour relationship. Ikpea, a one time Local Government Chairman and a governorship aspirant in the 2024 governorship election also said “the civil workforce can not be pushed aside by anyone or any government that is desirous of genuine service aimed at growing our dear state. ” I can assure you that the incoming administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will put in place a more people focused and friendly policy that will encourage a better working relationship between the government and the nation’s workforce, which will permeate to the states, Edo inclusive. On the issue of a federal legislation restricting our workforce in the medical profession from exiting the country without a five year mandatory service to the Nation, Dr. Ikpea said “for as much as the purpose and intention behind the policy may be laudable, which is to curb a systematic brain drain in that sector, the incoming government would create an enabling environment that will no longer make the urge to leave the country attractive to Nigerian irrespective of their profession. “My comrades, I join you today, as always, to celebrate your commitment to the service of our Nation and state with assurances that with a new and fresh government in Edo state, your welfare will be of high concern to the incoming APC government. “You have proven beyond any doubt that a genuine partnership with you will go a long way to grow and develop our state and deliver good governance to our people. POLL Ikpea called on the state workforce to join hands with the progressive minded elements in the state as they (progressives) seek a new direction of governance that is more focused and people friendly.