LAGOS – According to the United Nations Industrial Development Organization’s Investment and Technology Promotion Office in Nigeria, only about 20 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, manage in the country to survive. This is due to a number of factors that include but not limited to poor funding, inadequate power supply, policy somersaults on the part of government and others. However, Olubunmi Oluwadare, the Chief Executive Officer of uni-preneur.com, an e-learning platform that is equipped with stimulated tools to equip entrepreneurs with business skills, create multi-million job makers who will in turn create massive job opportunities across Nigeria, is set to reverse the trend. In an interview with Daily Independent, he said that uni-preneur is an entrepreneurship knowledge driven organization that will partner with the incoming administration to create job makers across Nigeria. Oluwadare stated that uni-preneur is a knowledge economic based digital zone where entrepreneurs, SMEs, job seekers and graduating students can learn entrepreneurship online with access to profitable business ideas, industrial machinery, business support services ranging from company registration, business plan development, business branding, advertisement, website/app development, business mentorship and access to business banking support, which include startup loans. According to him, “For Nigeria to attain a global productive national status, the incoming administration must be intentional about massive entrepreneurship development to be power by technology, knowledge economy and innovation.” He added that, “Entrepreneurship is the only veritable weapon against poverty and unemployment” in Nigeria. He disclosed that he started his entrepreneurship journey at the age of 17 when he founded Bomex Joint, an evening restaurant in his hometown of Iyin-Ekiti, Ekiti State. He has more than 23 years of expertise in many sectors of the Nigerian economy.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He was appointed as National Head, Nigeria, by the world’s largest entrepreneurial advocacy organization, Africa’s Young Entrepreneurs [A.Y.E], a position he held for six years before being promoted to Director of Strategy and Trade Relations Africa in 2021. POLL He promoted an entrepreneurship reality TV programme that focused attention on blossoming young Nigeria entrepreneurs to global investors. Oluwadare is also the promoter of Mission One million Entrepreneurs [M1ME], which he personally led as a trainer to educate thousands of young entrepreneurs across Africa and the ongoing construction of Entrepreneurship Village in Akure, Ondo State. He is the author of “I See Money In Africa” which is currently gaining recognition, accolades, and acceptance across African nations as the knowledge economic solution to Africa’s socio-economic challenges. Oluwadare said he is not only an entrepreneurship advocate, adding that he also co-owned and funded various businesses across sectors of the Nigerian economy. He is presently consulting on entrepreneurship development for various Africa nations, government institutions, NGOS, private companies and individuals. He has attended various developmental leadership courses and training both locally and abroad. The serial entrepreneur is the CEO of Vertrag International Limited, a company offering innovation solutions in real estate, printing, agribusiness and industrial machinery. He is also the co-founder of Oldang International Limited, a pioneer of solar electric vehicles in Nigeria and Africa. He is the managing consultant of Deliverany Limited, a Lagos-based logistics company and co-founder of www.quickkpromo.com, an online corporate promotional items packaging company. Oluwadare occupies the position of managing consultant at BIZTAKEOFF Solutions, a business/project consulting firm and managing consultant for Regno Media, an outdoor advertisement company based in Lagos. He also acts as the principal consultant to the Ondo State Entrepreneurship Development Agency (ONDEA) and director, Strategy & Trade Relations at Africa’s Young Entrepreneurs. His expertise include project management, entrepreneurial intervention for good governance, business development, business/project consulting. He also has expertise on job creation and poverty eradication. He is into business consulting, speaking engagement, project Management, entrepreneurship training, and public/private partnership consulting. He called on the incoming administration to partner with organizations that have the capacity to add value to the Nigerian economy. He also urged the government to create an enabling environment for small businesses to thrive and contribute their quota to the development of the Nigerian economy. He posited that not everyone can be an entrepreneur, adding that an entrepreneur must have passion, tenacity, and determination and drive to succeed. He urged young entrepreneurs to venture into areas their passions and strength lay, adding that they need to be patient to succeed in business. The serial entrepreneur spoke to young people on the essence of hard work, adding that they should not put money first. He charged them to look for areas where they can provide solutions to their communities, adding they will make money in the process. He argued that young entrepreneurs must