ABUJA – A Coalition of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu Groups in Northern Nigeria has endorsed the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, Hon. Aliyu Muktar Betara for the position of Speaker of the 10th National Assembly. Convener of the groups, Comrade Abdullahi Bilal, said Betara flaunts a rich resume, best known for his competence, excellence, and knack for the country’s unity. Bilal described Betara as a high-ranking legislator with a grasp of issues in the national debate. The groups added that as a consummate administrator, Betara believes in a strong and united Nigeria. The groups also recommended that the Deputy Senate President of the National Assembly and Secretary to the Government of the Federation be zoned to the North East and North Central regions respectively. “We wish to state that the Coalition of Asiwaju Support Groups in Northern Nigeria is committed to the incoming administration and its lofty plans to address the country’s myriad of challenges,” Bilal said in a statement. “It is, therefore, important that all arms of government are on the same page in ensuring that Nigerians enjoy uninterrupted dividends of democracy in our quest for sustainable growth and development.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “On this heel, we wish to lend our voice over the leadership of the legislative arm of government.” POLL “This is necessary to ensure a symbiotic relationship between the executive and the legislative arms of government.” “To this end, the best hands must be supported to emerge in the leadership of the National Assembly. Consequently, the quality of aspirants that have indicated an interest in the leadership of the National Assembly has been noteworthy.” “From the list of aspirants, Hon. Aliyu Muktar Betera is the most suitable aspirant as the Speaker of the House of Representatives. He comes on board with a rich resume that speaks volumes of a loyal party man who has contributed to the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria.” “Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betera is a high-ranking legislator whose grasp of issues in the national debate is impressive.” “His leadership of committees in the House of Representatives has been exemplary and has contributed immensely to sustainable growth and development in the country.” “Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betera is a consummate administrator who believes in a strong and united Nigeria. He commands tremendous respect nationwide for his track record of promoting unity and peaceful coexistence.” “Betara is also a bridge builder who will galvanize the support and buy-in of the legislative arm of government in the lofty plans and program of the incoming administration in our quest to build the Nigeria of our dreams, Bilal said. “The Coalition of Asiwaju Groups in Northern Nigeria believes that with Hon Muktar Aliyu Betera as the Speaker of the House of Representatives, he will bring to bear his experience and capacity to bear in supporting the executive in enthroning credible governance in the country.” “We also recommend that the Deputy Senate President of the National Assembly be zoned to the North East and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation to the North Central regions of the country.” The coalition, therefore, called on APC stakeholders to support the choice of Betera for Speaker of the House of Representatives, adding that he is “credible, competent, and experienced in delivering on the task at hand for the betterment of the country.”