ABUJA – Detained leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has cried out to Nigerians and the international community on the outbreak of tuberculosis in some wings of the detention facility of the Department of State Services (DSS). Kanu lamented that the lives of some Nigerians being detained at the DSS headquarters are in danger following the outbreak of the airborne killer disease. Briefing his legal team led by Prof Mike Ozekhome SAN, when they paid him a routine visit at the DSS detention cell on Thursday, Kanu directed his legal team to make clarifications on the tuberculosis issue. A statement on Monday by Sir Ifeanyi Ejiofor, Esq. (KSC), IPOB’s Lead Counsel said the visit availed the legal team the opportunity to ascertain the true position of Kanu’s health condition and the recent outbreak of tuberculosis (TB) in some wings of the DSS facility. Making the clarification, Ejiofor stated that, “There is tuberculosis (TB) outbreak in some wings of the DSS facility. “An Igbo man – Mr. Emene Ibe Uduma who was arrested from Ohafia sometime in September 2022, is one of the victims. “The said Mr. Uduma was very healthy when he was brought to the facility in September 2022, but unfortunately, he is now at the verge of losing his life on account of TB infection” Ejiofor stated.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Speaking further, the IPOB lawyer said, ‘All the TB infected persons are kept in solitary confinement in their cells without any access to fresh air and sunlight. POLL “Meanwhile, it is common knowledge that the TB bacteria cannot thrive in an atmosphere of fresh air and sunlight. “Sadly, these inmates are kept in conditions under which the bacteria is easily circulated amongst them, and this is further worsened by the fact that they are not receiving any medical attention” the statement clarified. Consequently, Kanu directed his legal team to “draw the attention of the Red Cross and other well-meaning health organisations to the predicament and plight of these infected inmates, who are in dire need of medical treatment”. More so, Kanu spoke on his recently diagnosed, persistent and worsening ear problem – “tinnitus ear infection – requiring advanced medical solution; which condition is as a result of the severe torture he received when he was criminally abducted in Kenya”. Meanwhile, Ejiofor said, Kanu was briefed on the status of pertinent pending appeals and other important development in relation to our appeal, which details they kept private. Ejiofor, however assured that the legal team ably led by Prof. Ozekhome, will continue to do everything legally permissible to ensure that the IPOB leader receives the much needed independent medical examination and treatment. “As usual, Onyendu extends his best compliments to Ezigbo UmuChineke for remaining resolute and undistracted even as he encouraged you all to continue to abide by your peaceful conduct as you have persistently displayed” Kanu was quotes as saying.