Rangers women’s coach Craig McPherson has admitted he’s let his club down as he issued an apology after ‘head butting’ Celtic boss Fran Alonso. The Ibrox coach was at the centre of ugly scenes at the end of the women’s Old Firm clash at Broadwood last Monday. McPherson appeared to aim a headbutt at his rival coach Alonso, and the Spainaird then alleges that McPherson called him a “little rat.” The shocking scenes were caught in front of the Sky cameras with the huge league clash at Broadwood given a live TV slot. Rangers looked to have wrapped up all three points before a Caitlin Hayes’ strike nine minutes into added on time sealed a stunning comeback for the Hoops, sending the Celtic bench into wild celebrations. McPherson now faces a SFA probe. With Police Scotland also this week launching an investigation. The coach has now broken his silence ahead of his side’s next game against Hibs. And the coach has accepted he’ll take whatever punishment comes his way. McPherson said: “I would like to offer a full and unreserved apology for my actions at end of Monday’s Old Firm match at Broadwood. “I know I have severely let myself, our team and the club down. I hold myself to the highest of standards and have never done anything like this before in a long coaching career, and I know I fell way short of that with my actions. “This club is also built on incredibly high standards, and I have already apologised to the board, the football staff, and our fantastic group of players who I care about dearly. I would also like to apologise to the Rangers fans as I am aware of what a privilege it is to represent this club in any capacity, and I am sorry that on this occasion I did not uphold the standards this club demands.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I also understand how exciting a time it is for the women’s game in Scotland, which I have come to care passionately about, and I apologise for any negativity my actions have brought in our attempts to grow the game. Finally, I am also very grateful to Fran Alonso for accepting my apology in full following our lengthy conversation earlier in the week. POLL “I will also apologise to the Scottish FA at my hearing and will, of course, accept in full, whatever punishment they deem appropriate. I simply want to apologise today, convey my massive regret and explain how out of character this moment has been for me.”