Zinedine Zidane is keen on a return to football management this summer but is aware that Real Madrid will not be his destination. Zidane has been out of work since leaving Real Madrid in the summer of 2021 and was linked to the Manchester United hot seat last season. He was approached by United officials in late 2021 amid the dismissal of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer but poured cold water on any move to English football. The legendary former midfielder has frequently spoken of his desire to return to management after two successful stints at the helm of Real Madrid. He won three Champions League titles across two stints at the club alongside two La Liga titles. French president Emmanuel Macron has previously spoken of his ambition to help persuade Zidane to return to football in Ligue 1, amid links with the Paris Saint-Germain post. Despite being from the city of Marseille – who are domestic rivals of the French capital club – Zidane had been strongly linked to replacing Mauricio Pochettino in the PSG hot seat earlier this year, but Christophe Galtier was appointed in the role. Zidane had previously been linked with the United post after Solskjaer was dismissed from the position in November last season. The job was eventually handed to Ralf Rangnick on an interim basis until the end of the campaign before Erik ten Hag assumed the role on a permanent basis. He has been linked with a third spell in charge of Los Blancos in Spain amid uncertainty over the future of Carlo Ancelotti, who has been linked with the vacant Brazil managerial role. However, Ancelotti is unlikely to leave that role and it is not certain there is an appetite on both sides for Zidane to return once more should the opportunity present itself, say Marca. Speaking earlier this year, Zidane explained in a typically coy interview about his future: “Am I still able to contribute things as a coach? Yes, many things, or I think at least some!”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Aside from a potential appointment at PSG, who look set to part ways with boss Galtier this summer after their underwhelming campaign and European failure, there are two roles which could become available for Zidane. POLL His former club Juventus may part ways with Max Allegri this summer and a move for the Frenchman could appeal, but they may also have another former Juve player on their radar – Igor Tudor. The Croat is currently instilled at Marseille, with whom Zidane has an affiliation. One thing is for sure: if Zidane does return to management, it will not be a Premier League role.