LAGOS – Senator Magnus Abe, the gubernatorial candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Rivers State in the just concluded general elections has appealed to Nigerians to take interest in the post-election crisis in Rivers State. Abe, who spoke on Arise TV on Thursday, noted that no election was held on March 18 in Rivers State, and that the government of the state is now using intimidation to frustrate the opposition parties from access to election result materials. He said, “What is going on in Rivers State is totally uncalled for, and my concern in the way things are done in this country is that we always have this tendency to look at what is happening in any part of Nigeria as a problem for that part of Nigeria. “We fail to realise that these problems are Nigerian problems. When kidnapping started in this country in Delta State, I remember going round the country to say that the issue of kidnapping and violence in the Niger Delta was a Nigerian problem, and not a Niger Delta problem. We failed to heed to that, and today it has become the norm in every part of this country. “I want to take this opportunity to say to Nigerians that everybody should take an interest in what is going on in Rivers State, it is not a Rivers State problem, it is not a Niger Delta problem, but a Nigerian problem. “If we continue to allow people to behave in ways that we know are unacceptable, contrary to our laws, against public decency, ultimately those things will come back to haunt all of us in the very same place that we think that we are. He added, “As leaders in this country it is still our responsibility to guard our democracy and to ensure that as much as possible, whatever issue that we may have, can be handled through constitutional and legal means so that we don’t plunge our country, communities into needless mayhem.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Alluding to the Rivers State government, Abe said, “You spent time cooking figures and when you realised that the figures wouldn’t tarry, you physically prevented others from accessing those figures through the basis of which your magic was made and calculated. POLL “The truth of the matter is that the figures in Rivers’ election will never tarry because that is not what happened on the field. Preventing people physically from having access to it is just another strategy to conclude what has already started,” Abe said.