Managing Director and CEO of NSIA, Mr Aminu Umar-Sadiq has stated that the Carbon Vista initiative, aims to support Nigeria in meeting its net-zero targets by investing in carbon avoidance and removal projects in Nigeria that deliver significant socioeconomic benefits to Nigerians and promote the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals. He made the disclosure at the lunch of NSIA, Vitol $50M carbon avoidance and removal initiative in Nigeria. On the partnership with Vitol, he said both organisations “have committed an initial sum of US$50 million to Carbon Vista for projects such as climate-smart agriculture, green industrial technologies, waste management, etc., cutting across several sectors, including agriculture, energy, and manufacturing. “Over the next few months, we will roll out projects to set the standard for Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) investment in Nigeria. These projects will be carefully selected, partnering with local institutions that have proven track records of successfully delivering high-quality projects.” Making reference to other partnerships for a smoother energy transition in Nigeria, Mr Umar-Sadiq noted that “beyond Carbon Vista, NSIA is working closely with the National Council on Climate Change, as well as the Africa Carbon Market Initiative, to support in developing the carbon market both on a national and continental level thus promoting sustainable investments by incentivising projects that reduce Green House Gas, GHG emissions. “These collaborations will facilitate the development and integration of Nigeria’s carbon market with the broader African carbon market, thus creating efficient carbon trading systems and unlocking the economic potential of sustainable development in Africa.” Mr Michael Curran, Vitol’s Global Head of Carbon and Environmental Products, in his remarks, explained the uniqueness of the Carbon Vista initiative, noting that “if you step outside the norm, people can criticise. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The easiest thing to do is to stay within your tracks and not do anything new or any initiatives which are bold.” POLL He said: “we are prepared to do both things, the importance of doing this is simultaneously linked with climate change, the objectives of Nigeria for 2060 and the realisation of the reality that commercial growth that benefits the population also has to take into consideration the transition, the desire to make sure that we can still grow, the people can have benefits but done in a sustainable manner.” Yemi Osinbajo, Vice President, while speaking at the event said “given Africa’s status as the lowest emitters of carbon coupled with its young and vibrant population that is capable of effectively deploying green manufacturing on a large scale, the continent can become the first truly green civilisation.