Wrexham have secured promotion to the Football League as National League champions after beating Boreham Wood 3-1. Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney’s Welsh outfit will be playing League Two football next season thanks to a thrilling victory on home turf. The Red Dragons suffered an early scare as they fell behind after just one minute of play. Lee Ndlovu put the visitors 1-0 up in style by chipping Ben Foster after a lofted ball carved open Wrexham’s defence. But the home side, buoyed by their electrifying support at the Racehorse Ground, took just 14 minutes to respond with a goal of their own. Brilliant play by Ryan Barnett on the wing saw the ball whipped into the box. And an unmarked Elliot Lee needed little invitation to guide his header into the net. Phil Parkinson’s half-time team-talk must have been especially rousing as his players reacted instantly with quicker tempo play in the second period. Yet it was a moment of individual genius from Wrexham’s hero – Paul Mullin – which broke the deadlock 52 minutes in.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Mullin picked up the ball out wide before using his burst of pace to cut into the penalty area. He thundered in his effort into the net from a tight angle, registering his 37th goal of the season and sending the crowd wild. POLL As if he hadn’t endeared himself to the home fans enough, Mullin netted again 20 minutes later. He picked up a loose ball before driving at his opposition defender, knocking it onto his weaker left foot and finishing clinically. Owners Reynolds and McElhenney were seen in great spirits, sharing a laugh and applauding their players as rapturous celebrations broke out. Wrexham succeeded in their second crack at promotion since Reynolds and McElhenney completed their takeover in February 2021. They fell short in the semi-finals of the play-offs to Grimsby Town last season, but have bounced back this campaign to get the job done by claiming the division’s only automatic spot. After a shaky start, which saw them pick up just four points in their opening three games, Phil Parkinson’s side won five games on the bounce. (SOURCE: Daily Star)