LAGOS – Management of communication giants, MTN Nigeria has vowed to sustain the sponsorship of the Nigeria Premier Football League (NPFL) Clubs U15 tournament. Speaking on Thursday at the commencement of this year’s edition of the tournament at the Remo Stars Stadium, Ikenne, Manager, Sponsorship and Promotions, MTN Nigeria, Mrs. Njide Ken-Odogwu said the tournament has come to stay. “In MTN we are glad and happy with the sponsorship of the tournament in partnership with LaLiga.“We are also impressed with the state of the art facilities at the venue and we believe it will help to bring the dreams of the young players to reality.” “We will continue with the sponsorship of the tournament for the development of the game of football in the country,” she said. Head of Communications, NPFL, Mr. Harry Iwuala while thanking the sponsors & partners of the tournament, said it has provided the young players an avenue to achieve their dreams in the profession. “This tournament started in 2016 and it has continued to turn out good football players which in no small way has also helped in the development of the game in the country,” he said. He however urged football administrators to emulate the management of Remo Stars for their efforts in the development of the youths and football in the country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We thank MTN, LaLiga, ValueJet and all our partners for this tournament and we are very impressed with what has been achieved in the past seven years,” said Iwuala. POLL Representative of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Mr. Ganiyu Majekodunmi, who stood in for the NFF President, Ibrahim Gusau, urged the players to make good use of their participation at the tournament. LaLiga Ambassador in Nigeria, Muti Adepoju stressed that LaLiga decided to partner MTN in the tournament because of the abundant talents in the country. He however advised the players and coaches to make good use of the opportunity given to them to exhibit their skills. Before the first match of the tournament between defending champions, Remo Stars and Lobi Stars, the organisers presented certificates to coaches that took part in three-day coaching course ahead of the tournament from Monday, April 10 to Wednesday, April 12, 2023.