LAGOS  – NOVA Merchant Bank Limited (NOVA) has announced its audited full-year 2022 financial results showing an outstanding 107.9 per cent year-on-year growth in profit before tax and the group year-on-year profit before tax of 98.2 per cent, as both funded and non-funded income grew significantly on the back of innovative offerings and exceptional customer service. Profit after tax for the bank rose by 102.9 per cent to N3.21 billion from N1.58 billion reported in 2021, while the group recorded a 93.7 per cent increase from N1.61 billion to N3.11 billion. Notably, the group continues to gain market share, a reflection of its steady penetration across key growth sectors, as reflected in the 30 per cent growth in customer deposits. Asset quality remains exceptional, with a non-performing loan ratio of 0.2 per cent, underscoring the best-in-class governance and management discipline in creating quality assets and ensuring effective risk management. Other highlights of the result show gross earnings of N23.34 billion compared to N17.03 billion in the corresponding period of 2021, thereby recording a growth of 37.01 per cent. Total assets rose to N279.9 billion, compared to N244.2 billion, deposits rose to N152.01 billion from N116.9 billion, while shareholders’ funds stood at N26.77 billion, up 13.1 per cent year-on-year, reflecting strong internal capital generation. Commenting on the results and broader achievements of the Group, the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Phillips Oduoza, noted: “It’s exciting that the Group continues to sustain its remarkable growth trajectory since inception, leveraging on innovative offerings and customer service excellence in deepening market penetration and continuously gaining market share across all segments of the business. I am particularly pleased with the sound governance practice and diligence of the Management in upholding the asset quality of the Bank, a feat which has become a benchmark in the industry. “Notwithstanding the challenging economic environment, the Bank continues to demonstrate commitment to customers’ financing objectives and supporting their overall business growth. In reciprocal, we continue to gain a larger share of our customers’ wallets and win new clients, as reflected in the 37 per cent growth in gross earnings, buoyed by the stellar performance of both funded and non-funded income. The strength of our balance sheet, our exceptional service, bespoke financing solutions and new thinking are uncommon qualities that continue to distinguish our bank.” “More than ever, we are optimistic about the Nigerian economy and more importantly our business, as we continue to invest in sustainable strategies that ensure the resilience of our business to varying economic cycles. We are dedicated to the success of our customers and would continue to support our HNI clients through their financial life cycle, including through our wealth management offerings and advisory services. We would remain trusted partners to our corporate clients, supporting them through our tailored offerings that optimize their financial outcomes. It is our commitment to continuously lead new thinking and unlock new opportunities for the mutual prosperity of customers and our business.” POLL Also speaking on the results, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Nath Ude, said; “In keeping to our pledge of supporting clients’ growth, Nova Merchant Bank continues to create novel financing structures to meet the dynamic needs of our customers across key growth sectors. The strong capitalization and liquidity ratios reinforce our capacity to underwrite quality transactions, in addition to leveraging our expanded scope of offerings in delivering unique customer experience. “I am pleased that the loyalty of our clients does not only spur our business growth; it also reinforces our earnings growth and sustainability. We achieved a 107.9 per cent growth in profit before tax and recorded notable growth across all balance sheet lines, reflecting the success of our strategy and the execution capacity of our team.”