Sometime in 1993, a national magazine carried a rumour on the political ambition of Gen. Sani Abacha, then the Defence Secretary of the Interim National Government, headed by Earnest Shonekan. I dismissed it as a huge joke. Abacha, I reasoned, was too unpolished to crave a political space of such magnitude; besides he’s barely able to write his name. Consequently, I did not imbibe the rumour. Now, it’s 13 years after, it rankles; I couldn’t for­give such culpable innocence. But how did the ‘murderous imbecile’ come to rule Nigeria, for five unabated years for that matter? Could Shonekan have saved us the plague even if he would not oversee the inauguration of M.K.O. Abiola as the President? And the military itself, was there no one worthy of honour? Indeed, Gen. Abacha was not only adroit enough to persuade Babangi­da into retaining him after stepping aside with all his accomplices in the National Defence and Security Coun­cil, he was to benefit from ‘resignation or death’ of the interim Head of State, according to the ING decree. That should have jolted Shonekan if he were prescient. But he could bid his time and wean himself from political surrogacy within a few weeks of firm­ly in control of machinery of force. Or did the import of the title ‘Command­er-in-Chief of the Armed Forces’ elude him? While the ghoul is representing him in distant Yenagoa, another De­fence Secretary is being sworn in in Abuja since the appointment takes im­mediate effect! All the lackeys of IBB and Abacha could have been retired in one fell swoop. Heavens wouldn’t fall, for the Nigerian military was then an institution of perfidy and opportun­ism. Was the ING man supine, bereft of chivalry or simply petrified by the weight of opposition to the contrap­tion he oversaw, even when Abacha’s ambition was no longer a matter of conjecture, that he essayed no move of self-preservation; or even hurried­ly handing over to the winner of the fairest and freest election in the annals of Nigeria? Chief Ernest Shonekan, head of Interim Government of 90 days, has remained taciturn. He could have saved us from Abacha and pre­served M.K.O. Abiola. So shameful that the Nigerian military could not produce even one Brutus to put at bay the many psycho­paths that have polluted our landscape directly and indirectly with the blood of the innocent. At least the military has exposed itself: behind the façade of a stern-looking general is a coward anyway. In one moment of derange­ment by the now deceased scorpion, we saw, before him, officers at the height of their career weeping and gnashing their teeth: the coup was not on principle or for the general good but a moment of stupefaction foisted on mere mortals by no other one than the devil! And the Stone was for once moved, offering tissue paper of an handkerchief to his captives to wipe away their tears: you are right, only the devil could lead chocolate cream officers (Bernard Shaws) to war-front; were you to be led by God, you would be in the vanguard of my campaign of totalitarianism and life presidency, thereby securing a future for your­selves in my kingdom… Ah! Gen. Diya, the man who be­strode Ogun State like a Colossus. Civil servants trembled at the mention of that name between 1983 and 85. How easy it was to issue orders to bloody civilians in the cosiness of Govern­ment House yet collapse under mock-fire in the battle-field! But then how did soldiers attain the rank of general in Nigeria? Planning coups and counter coups, treachery and criminality! It is sheer sadism, lack of shame and apprehension of what passes for professionalism for some generals to brandish Civil War experience as their curriculum vitae. The fact is, Biafra forces were peopled with volunteers for martyrdom hurriedly trained by remnants of Eastern officers from July and September 1966 genocidal-po­groms. In a properly constituted army, those so-called generals should have been court-marshalled for allowing a civilian army to stretch a mere ‘police action’ to a three-year combat of attri­tion. Ah! Gen Gowon. When Ojukwu’s half-baked army unexpectedly crossed the frontiers to Benin and Ore before they ran out of steam, the general in the State House in Lagos reportedly ordered his plane to be made ready for escape! And when it was time to suc­ceed his slain boss, Gen. Obasanjo al­legedly retreated! O Nigerian generals! Of course, such tendentious rant­ings of General Ishaya Bamaiyi, as being a victim of political vendetta orchestrated by former President Olusegun Obasanjo because of his refusal to endorse the candidacy of the retired general for Aso Rock in 1999, can only take in the gullible, patients of amnesia and those who lack a sense of history. A general swore like a trooper that he had nothing to do with the killer squad of the late butcher, General Sani Abacha, but allegedly suffered no com­punction in luring his fellow generals, on behalf of the same psychopath, on to the slaughter slab of a coup scheme! Legal justice is not necessarily social justice. At least the circus show of an interminable murder trial has laid bare the craven nature of the so-called men of war. Behind the thundering and fire-spitting carapace of a former general is a spineless form. I had lived under the illusion that generals damn the consequences, including death! While the trial lasted, he did not even affect an air of stoicism. Rather, he caught a pathetic sight of a man para­lysed with fear – always in the dumps, eyeing the judge wistfully, fawning and jockeying for clemency! O Nigerian generals! Not that anyone wished the stinker and his comrades-in-crime were sur­rendered to the gallows. But at least life incarceration might be a condign atonement for their crying atrocities against unarmed Nigerians while they were draped in appurtenances of raw power.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Of course, the law of evidence in murder (attempted murder) trials weighs heavily against the prosecu­tion. The platitudinous phrase ‘prove beyond a reasonable doubt’ is usually a saving grace but sometimes an unwit­ting collaborator in crime – aiding and abetting criminality. We accept it is bet­ter for a judge to err on the side of cau­tion in cases where life is the forfeit. It is better for a thousand criminals to go scot free than for an innocent soul to be made the sacrificial lamb. POLL It is regrettable being compatriots of sadists and spineless generals. Ni­gerians have no modicum of regard for those generals whose stock-in-trade were coup-making, perfidy and crim­inality. Watching them bark orders to civilians during their reign of terror, you mistook them for men of steel. And I pity an unfortunate nation that spawned these funks dissembling as men of valour. So, the nation could claim a page in the Guinness Book of Records for producing a record number of gener­als that flagged, floundered and fainted under fire, real and imagined! Thank God Abacha did not stretch his aggres­sions to Bakassi. Rather than declare war against Cameroun and risk turn­ing his army into Prisoners of War in Yaounde, he chose to fight his war in the city, against unarmed Nigerians! Even the officers the shyster sent outside the shores of Nigeria against rag-tag armies had their minds in gov­ernment houses or political appoint­ments. Till date, no one has given us the number of Nigerian soldiers killed in Liberia and Sierra Leone. And they are getting the appointments, aren’t they? GENERALising Nigeria in a de­mocracy! By the time a state of emer­gency is declared in the remaining 34 states and 774 local governments, there will be no more generals for the jobs! I restate my call in The Guardian October 4, 2004 and ThisDay Novem­ber 16, 2004 respectively: “All military officers that held political offices between 1966 and 1979 should be re­turned to their pre-1966 ranks. Yaku­bu Gowon, for instance, should hence­forth be addressed as Lt. Col. (rtd). The same for Odumegwu Ojukwu. All of­ficers that partook in political gover­nance from 1983 to 1999 should revert to their pre-1983 ranks. Their service to the nation ended with the subversion of the Constitution of the nation… A situation where a soldier would seize power by force and return to lead the same country passes us for a nation and people without conscience and common sense” and “Since Nigeria was brought to her knees essentially by the military, no former military rul­ers or administrators must hold elec­tive office for at least half a century.” If Earnest Shonekan had had a whiff of military training during his college days, he would probably have checkmated Abacha. No single institution should monopolize the ca­pability to wield the weapons of force. Henceforth, all students of higher in­stitutions must undergo compulsory one solid year of rigorous military training. With such background, they will have the capability to defend their votes and, if need be, rise against arbitrariness and unconstitutionali­ties; the police will be forced to civilize – guide and protect protesters as done in other climes; a dictator like Abacha will not last a month in power; there will be mutual respect between citi­zens and members of the armed forc­es… Above all, the Nigerian President will willy-nilly respect the rule of law and tow the path of constitutionalism. …First published in 2006