YENAGOA – Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri has said he deserves second tenure in office based on the performance of his administration in the last three years and some months. He insisted that his government had made appreciable progress in virtually every sector of the state’s economy such as infrastructure, education, health agriculture, sports, skills acquisition and human capacity development. Diri, who spoke on Thursday as a guest Arise TV current affairs programme, “The Morning Show”, said it was only those desperate for power that would not see and appreciate what the government had done during the period to improve the lives of Bayelsans. The governor had on Wednesday emerged as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the November 11, 2023 governorship election in the state. He was the sole aspirant in the governorship primary election held in Yenagoa. A statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, said Diri through investments in agriculture, various skills acquisition programmes and support for small scale businesses, his administration created jobs outside the state’s civil service. While admitting that there are a few roads in the state capital that still need attention, the governor stated that so far more than 30 new concrete roads have been constructed apart from the ongoing and completed big-ticket road projects to open up the state and link up communities. He said, “In terms of employment, government has decided to encourage our people to be self-employed and look in the direction of the private sector. We set aside N100m monthly to support small businesses in the 105 wards in the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We have also encouraged our youths to engage in sports to develop and use their potential. On security, we have equally made good progress.” POLL On the governorship election, Diri stated that neither his government nor his party was afraid of any opposition party in the state. According to him, the PDP in the state was more united than before and was ready to face any candidate presented by the opposition in the election. The governor said,”Those who are power hungry will always come from the viewpoint of attack. Like I said, there are some who have eyes but cannot see. “We are ready for whoever will emerge from the primaries of other parties. But like I said, we can no longer depend on violence to clinch power. Power comes from God. “Let me assure you that our party is far more united than what we had previously. The PDP won convincingly in the just-concluded elections. So, it shows that we are on ground. “If you come to Bayelsa today, you will notice and experience peace and security, which had eluded the state.”