ABUJA  – One year after the inauguration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC), some of its members have cried out that Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Na­tional Chairman of the party, and the National Secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore, have reduced members of the NWC to onlookers, and at best, a rubber stamp committee. Salihu Moh. Lukman, member of the NWC from the APC North-West zonal office, Kaduna, who leveled the accusation, also claimed that vital provisions of the party’s constitution have been observed in the breach, while relevant organs of the party deliberately lie in coma­tose. Lukman observed rather sadly that like what prevailed during the tenure of the sacked Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC, critical organs of the party in­cluding the National Executive Committee as well as the par­ty’s caucus, again have not been allowed to play roles assigned to them by the APC constitution. For instance, he noted that the duo of Senators Adamu and Omisore have appropriat­ed the powers of the NEC of the which is statutorily supposed to approve budgets for the par­ty, adding that all issues relat­ing to finances of the party is only known to the two leaders while the rest NWC members look on. “As a member of the NWC, I can say without fear of contra­diction, all decisions bordering on managing the finances of the party are being taken by the National Chairman, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu and the National Secretary, Sen. Iyiola Omisore. Most members of NWC are reduced to onlook­ers or at best rubber stamp. All appeals for accountability have fallen on deaf ears. Decision of the NWC to convene NEC meet­ing in August last year was sim­ply sabotaged. “Once the party’s constitu­tion is no longer the guide for managing the affairs of the par­ty, discretionary decisions of leaders take over. Consequent­ly, even what get paid to party officials and organs becomes acts of benevolence by the na­tional chairman or anyone he delegates. “As a result, something as fundamental as the decision on what proportion of the par­ty’s income is paid to states, lo­cal governments and wards is exercised solely by the national chairman and national secre­tary. Party staff are hired and fired by the national chairman and national secretary without report to any organ, including the NWC.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Given all these, there are embarrassing reports of party members who served in screen­ing, primary and appeals com­mittees for the 2023 elections yet to be paid their allowanc­es. There was also the case of aspiring contestants for party offices during the March 28, 2022 national convention who voluntarily stepped down in the spirit of facilitating con­sensus and therefore entitled for refunds of the cost of their nomination forms who are yet to be paid”. POLL He lamented that the par­ty’s Board of Trustees (BoT), nicknamed National Adviso­ry Council, in the new consti­tution of the party, is yet to be constituted despite provisions mandating the national secre­tary to initiate action in that regard within a stipulated time. “The name of the party’s BoT has been changed to National Advisory Council (NAC) and its functions have been substantially reduced to advisory as the name implies at the March 28, 2022 national con­vention. Even with that there is hardly any ongoing discussion to constitute the party’s NAC in the last one year. By the pro­vision of Article 13.2B.(i) ‘the National Secretary shall, not later than one month after an elective convention, convene the meeting of the National Ad­visory Council’. One year after assuming office, the national secretary has never proposed any action towards the inaugu­ration of NAC. “So far, there was only one meeting of the party’s NEC on April 8, 2022. There was never any meeting of the National Caucus. Instead, meetings of the NWC hold without neces­sarily ensuring that existing constitutional provisions are respected. In the circumstance, critical functions of the NEC, which include approving the national budget of the party as provided in Article 13.3A(x­iv) of the party’s constitution is simply ignored. “Further, Article 13.3A(xv) of the party’s constitution di­rected the NWC to give quar­terly financial reports to NEC. Also, Article 13.4(ii) directs the NWC to present reports and Article 13.4(iv) compel the NWC to present financial report on income and expendi­ture of the party. All these have been ignored. “Yet, it is public knowledge that the party has earned bil­lions of naira in revenue from sales of forms to aspiring contestants for the 2023 gener­al elections. We are yet to, as NWC, declare to any organ of the party how much we inher­ited from His Excellency Mai Mala-led Caretaker Committee and how much was received as donations and contributions for the 2023 elections. Large-scale expenditure, which in­clude the renovation of the na­tional secretariat complex are being undertaken without any organ of the party exercising the powers of due diligence”. He said the unsatisfactory state of affairs in the party is confronted with the challenge of managing the contest of the emerging leadership of the Na­tional Assembly. With relevant organs of the party not meeting, he said the contest will be focused on individual contestants rather addressing those issues that border on unity and religious sensibilities of different parts of the country. Lukman had recently raised concern that unless the party intervenes to moderate the contest, the chairman of the 10th National Assembly may again be a Muslim, a situation, he said, will not augur well for the country. He maintained that Nation­al Assembly members-elect as­piring for the Senate President from the North West must be made to drop there ambition in the overall interest of the country. “Given that we already have two Muslims occupying the highest positions of Pres­ident and Vice President, any attempt to allow another Mus­lim to aspire for the position of Senate President, who is the number three highest ranking officer in government will be insensitive, injurious to the uni­ty and peaceful co-existence of the country and damage the electoral viability of our party. “To avert this, and as a par­ty envisioned to be progressive will require activation of wid­er consultative process and negotiations using our consti­tutional structures, especially the NEC so that decisions taken will be binding on all members, including the aspiring candi­dates. “Being a progressive party specifically requires dynamism, actions, and improvements on how things are managed. Dyna­mism will require acknowledge­ment of the realities facing us a nation and as a party vested with the responsibility of pro­viding leaders for the country for another four years, based on which we are able to initiate proposals. “One of such realities is the existing ethnic and religious tension in the country. Our pro­posals should seek to improve on previous experiences of lead­ership formation during the 9th and 10th Assembly. “All the indications are there now that no attempt is being made to regulate the emergence of leaders for the 10th National Assembly with a high possibili­ty for the emergence of self-cen­tered leadership in the 10th As­sembly, which should be averted. “As a member of the NWC, I want to publicly register my objection to the seeming inabil­ity of our NWC to activate the process of convening meetings of NEC to appropriately take decisions and regulate the emergence of the 10th National Assembly leadership. “In particular, I want to restate my position that the leadership profile to emerge for the country on May 29, 2023 is already taking the coloration of the leadership of the coun­try in 1999 with a President from South-West and Vice President from North-East. Unlike in 1999, we have two Muslims as Pres­ident and Vice President. It is therefore very compelling that the Senate President should come from either the South- South or South-East. And since the North-West produced more votes to give our party the vic­tory in the 2023 presidential election, the position of Speak­er House of Representatives should be zoned to North-West in line with what obtained in 1999. “I want to specifically note that two respected senators-elect from North-West have made public declaration their aspira­tions for the position of Senate President. These are His Excel­lency Abdulaziz Yari and Sen. Barau Jibrin. The North-West has been known for its commit­ment to progressive politics. Our governors and other party leaders from the zone were un­waveringly progressive during the contest to produce Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the pres­idential candidate of our party for the 2023 elections. They were forthright in ensuring that noth­ing is done to threaten the unity and peaceful co-existence of Ni­geria, based on which they stood for power shift to the Southern part of the country. “Now that power has shifted to the Southern part of the coun­try, as a region, we equally have the responsibility to regulate the conduct of all our senators-elect from the North-West, including the two Senators-elect Abdulaziz Yari and Barau Jibrin to with­draw their aspiration for the Senate President. “All party leaders from North-West must prevail on these leaders to, in the overall in­terest of the unity and peaceful coexistence of the country with­draw their aspirations to contest the position of Senate President for the 10th Senate. At the most, they should aspire for the posi­tion of Majority Leader of the Senate in line with the 1999 zon­ing formula in the Senate. “Given that no meetings of either the NEC or National Cau­cus is about to be convened any­time soon, party leaders at zonal levels should take initiatives to regulate the conducts of Sena­tors-elect and House of Repre­sentatives members-elect in the contests for leadership of the 10th Assembly. President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, should immediately intervene to restore constitutional order in the management of the par­ty affairs. It will be a mockery to continue to bear the name progressive and continue to run affairs of the party based on the personal discretion of the national chairman and national secretary. “There is also the challenge of urgently reviewing the per­formance of the party in the 2023 general elections. One of the issues that should be ad­dressed as a matter of urgency is the case of indiscipline by party leaders at all levels. There are highly placed party leaders who have worked against our candidates during the 2023 gen­eral elections. This should be investigated, and appropriate disciplinary actions taken in line with provisions of our par­ty’s constitution. “Democracy without ac­countability means dictator­ship. Once organs of the party are not meeting as enshrined in the constitution of the party, accountability will be absent, and the character of our par­ty will be autocratic and retro­gressive. “Asiwaju Tinubu cannot afford to assume office with the baggage of being a leader of an autocratic and retro­gressive APC, which is insen­sitive to ethnic and religious tension in the country, largely compounded by our inabili­ty to regulate the conduct of our Senators-elect and House of Representatives mem­bers-elect. Everything must be done to return our party to its founding vision of engen­dering progressive politics in the country, which is about eq­uitable distribution of power and resources in the country.”