LAGOS – Lawyer and activist, Emeka Iheonu, who is a member of the Af­rican Bar Association (ABA), has expressed doubts over the recent alarm raised by the Department of State Services (DSS) that some in­dividuals and groups were planning to install an interim government on May 29 and forestall the inauguration of president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Iheonu, a public affairs commentator, stated: “I do not believe there are extra-judicial plans to abort the inaugura­tion. “Presidential election mat­ters are in court and the Su­preme Court should be allowed to deliver a final judgment. “Before the last elections, there were several threats by well-known figures associated with known parties, especially in Lagos. “It is a notorious fact that the threats were carried out in some parts of the state. The current Lagos Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) even suo motu defended one of the threats as a joke. “I also believe that the Inter­im Government calls and the statements attributed to the LP VP candidate are jokes and of no consequence.” The DSS, few days ago, al­leged that some elements were plotting to stall the inaugura­tion of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared winner of the 2023 presidential election, slated for May 29, 2023 and install an Interim Government.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Although the DSS did not name anyone its statement, the Federal Government, through the Information and Culture Minister, Lai Mohammed, and several All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains termed some statements and utterances of the Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Pe­ter Obi, and his running mate, Baba Ahmed-Datti as treason­able, accusing them of inciting violence and threatening Nige­ria’s democracy. POLL It would be recalled that Ahmed-Datti, in a television interview, had said that Nige­ria had no president-elect yet and that inaugurating Tinu­bu would amount to a coup against the constitution. Two of the nation’s legal lu­minaries, Femi Falana (SAN) and Chief Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) among others disagreed with the Federal Government and Alhaji Mohammed that Peter Obi and Ahmed-Datti, committed treason in their utterances. Also, Ambasador Kalu Ofon Emmanuel, head of a leadership and motivational outfit said that the rumours of alleged plots to aborting Tinubu’s inauguration is not a problem; the courts will surely decide issues surrounding the presidential election. He stressed: “It would ab­solutely have been a problem if Senator Tinubu was the people’s choice and truly dem­ocratically elected president. “On the DSS alleged plans of Interim Government, if that is actually true, l will be­lieve there is a fundamental reason for that, if only they (the alleged plotters) have such powers. “Nigerians should vehe­mently prevent and frustrate anything that could result in war because the drum beat is gradually heating up. “Lai Mohammed and the Federal Government accused Obi/Datti of treasonable statements. Personally, l have not seen what Obi would have said that could be regarded as a treasonable statement. Obi is very wise, smart and can articulate well to make such statements.” Another commentator, Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, a polit­ical activist, stated that the alleged plot to abort Tinubu’s May 29 inauguration is neither here, nor there. He said: “The issue of abort­ing Tinubu’s inauguration is borne out of guilt and insecu­rity of his party based on the circumstances that threw up his questionable victory in con­nivance with INEC that com­promised its own processes of transparency. “The Bible says: ‘There is no peace for the wicked.’ So, that lack of peace is the premise of this hallucinating idea that is baseless. “The DSS is our number one spy agency that should be known for work and action. My fear is that is now becoming partisan and dragging its im­age and reputation in the mud. “There is a saying that he that alleges must provide the proof. If the DSS has proof that justifies its allegations, let them prove their allegations, the sources, brains behind their information with time, place and arrest the players behind the idea, the resources such people have deployed or are deploying to ensure the successful execution of the plot, and stop being victims of social and mainstream media sensationalism, like the aver­age citizenry. “As for Lai Mohammed, I am sorry to say that he will be one of the most uncelebrated Ministers of Information in Ni­gerian history. Lai Mohammed is Tinubu’s loyalist. His recent allegation against Obi in par­ticular is uncalled for. “Obi was the most is­sue-based candidate among all the leading candidates during the campaigns and the one pacifying the elites and par­ticularly the teeming youths whose tempers are flaring up because they believe they have nothing to live for under this corrupt structure. “The treason allegation is one taken too far in trying to sell a party globally that emerged through rigging at the international platform. “DSS and Lai Mohammed’s allegations against Obi is myo­pic and short sighted, as they are trying to drag Obi’s name in the mud without producing a single evidence of such utter­ance. “The international com­munity he is trying to sell this falsehood to are those who sent their observers who wrote damning reports about the election as fraudulent and marred with irregularities, lack of transparency, violation of due process, etc. “They are trying to drag a man with better character and values than them. The APC and Federal Government has nothing against Obi and the youth of this nation and the international community are watching with great interest this satanic shenanigans to subtly rope in Obi with the aim of accusing and prosecut­ing him of trying to derail the legal and due process he has adopted.” Dr. Frank Freds Nwosu, President, Elim-African Mis­sions, stated: “As the English adage goes, in every rumour, there is an element of truth. In the light of this, a very cru­cial issue of national concern is the official claim of plots to abort Ahmed Bola Tinubu’s in­auguration as Nigeria’s Presi­dent-elect, come on May 29. “First, the Directorate of State Services (DSS) has un­abashedly alleged that there are plans by some faceless cit­izens with sinister motives to foist an Interim National Gov­ernment on the country. “To corroborate this claim, the Federal Minister for Infor­mation, Alhaji Lai Mohammed have gone to Europe and paid round visits to their apex media houses to convey the position of the Federal Government that accusations of Obi/Datti are valid and serious enough to be labeled as treasonable. “To my mind, Nigeria is so wide, so vast and so multi-cul­tural that there are (and will always be) supporters for whatever whims, caprices, di­rections or shades of opinion that crop up. “So, there certainly must be people who will support an interim arrangement, while we hopefully look forward to a balanced and equitable govern­ment pattern. “There also must be highly revered senior citizens who appreciate the steady focus of the incumbent government, and would gladly maintain the status quo. “Invariably, it will be child­ish to assume that the hundred million citizens living below the poverty line are going to take the current political cli­mate lying down. “By the way, who wants to suffer endlessly? We must not take it for granted that the word ‘revolution’, which is being used by not a few hot-headed citizens, cannot catch on, or catch up with our laisez-fare attitude towards our national question. “If we can stand the truth, commonsense demands that everyone who calls himself a Nigerian, must brace up for whatever is coming. “If it happens to be a high-handed maintenance of the status quo, it is Nigerians that will see to it. If it is a radi­cal change, it is Nigerians that will facilitate it. “And, if we mistakenly choose a self-destructive op­tion, nature demands that those who sow wind will reap the whirlwind.” Also, Comrade Kunle Wiz­eman Ayayi, a member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the African Action Congress (AAC) and its former State Chairman of the party in Lagos, stated: “Well, Tinubu is afraid all because of legitimacy. “He has been rejected by ma­jority of Nigerians who voted, not to talk of the mass apathy which confirms the unpopular­ity of the process. “I believe Tinubu is only trying to blackmail the ruling class to be inaugurated and make sure the elections are not cancelled. “You know he has taken over the DSS, even before the elections. They are doing ev­erything to make sure nothing comes in the way to stop Tinu­bu from the rigged elections. “And you can see that Obi and Datti lost the chance to really push the masses to win. Their support for Naira rede­signing made LP lose great votes. “And their fear of protests has allowed the APC to now be on the offensive. In all, Nigeri­ans can only get true change if they mobilise around a radical and unblemished leader like Omoyele Sowore. “If not, change cannot come from the top, as a sheep cannot lead lions!”