As part of efforts to reduce maternal mortality rate, the Ogun State Government says it is determined to set a standard in the health sector that will go beyond the present generation, by providing ultrasound services to pregnant women, especially in the rural areas. Dr. Tomi Coker, Commissioner for Health, said this at the inauguration and presentation of certificates to the trainees of another batch of Mobile Sonographic Technicians, held at the Conference Hall, Ministry of Health, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Dr Coker noted that ultrasound service in Primary Health Centers (PHCs), would provide early diagnosis of abnormalities in pregnancies and aid the ability to intervene, as well as prepare pregnant women for delivery. Speaking in a statement signed by the Press Officer, Primary Health Care Development Board, Mrs. Adesola Ogunbanwo, he recalled that the State government on November, 2022, created the Sonographic Technicians cadre, to provide employment for qualified health workers who are expected to discharge the mobile sonographic services effectively. Coker further noted that the Prince Dapo Abiodun-led administration had prioritised the wellbeing and wellness of pregnant women at ensuring that none of them die in the process of childbirth. She stated, ‘’In Ogun State, we are trying to get a system and a standard that will go beyond the present generation. We have taken a step to think about the pregnant women in the rural areas who do not have access to private hospitals that can provide ultrasound service. We take the service to her and to enable us know if there is a problem, so that we can plan towards addressing it appropriately and ensure that mother and child are safe.” Coker advised the Technicians to take full advantage of the government’s gesture by using the skills acquired for the benefits of pregnant women in the State. He assured that the present administration remained committed to an enhance the health system, continue to invest in infrastructural development, as well as ensure welfare of its workers to make quality care available to all. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Earlier in his address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Kayode Oladeinde said the initiative was to provide basic ultrasound service to pregnant women at PHC level, urging the Technicians to discharge their duties with utmost responsibility to the benefit of the people. POLL Similarly, Dr. Elijah Ogunsola, Executive Secretary, Primary Health Care Development Board, pointed out that the training started in 2022 in nine Local Government Areas. Ogunsola lauded the efforts of the government for the safe motherhood ingenuity, particularly the Ogun State Health Sector Improvement Plan ( OGSHIP), targeted at ensuring that pregnant women access full ante natal care in PHCs. Ogunsola appealed that the training should be incorporated into the curriculum of the School of Health Technology for its continuity, adding that ultrasound sonography plays a critical role in saving the lives of pregnant women. Contributing, Dr. Lamina Adelaja, Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu, said the training would provide basic knowledge for trainees to identify a pregnancy and its viability. Others focus of the training are on numbers of foetus, gestational age, as well as the positioning of the placenta, noting that where they encounter difficulty in determining a case, they should refer to higher level of care and consultation. On behalf of the trainees, Mrs. Afolakemi Ogunlana and Mr. Ridwan Olanrewaju commended the government for the laudable programme pledging that they would effectively deliver on their responsibilities in line with the training guidelines.