ABUJA – Mr. Haruna Abdullahi, the Acting Executive Chairman of the Federal Capital Territory Internal Revenue Service (FCT-IRS), has reaffirmed the commitment of the Service to prioritize technology to drive its processes for greater performance and to also make the process of obtaining services by taxpayers easier. Abdullahi made this statement in a message of goodwill at the International Technology and Communication Expo (ITEC Expo 2023) in Abuja. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by the Head of Corporate Communications at FCT-IRS Mustapha Sumaila. The head of FCT-IRS emphasized the necessity of leveraging and maximizing the use of technology in order to increase revenue production at both the national and subnational levels. Taxation is a crucial component of the economy, and it is important to consider it as such. The statement reads: “In FCT-IRS, we have built our platforms to be technology driven.Technology is now driving all our processes, from Taxpayers Identification Number (TIN), to registration, verification, payment and issuance of Tax Clearance Certificate among others. “The Service under my watch is open to innovation and new technology to further enhance our collection and simplify the processes for our taxpayers in the FCT. “As we explore the vast landscape of modern technology, let us also consider the essential role that taxation plays in supporting and sustaining these advancements” he stated.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Abdullahi explained that taxes are the lifeblood of any economy because they provide the funding necessary for public services, infrastructure, and social programmes that form the backbone of the society noting that a strong tax-paying culture is vital in enabling the government invest in the technologies and industries of the future. POLL The Chief Executive however noted that FCT-IRS was deeply committed to fostering a vibrant ecosystem where technology and communications could thrive. He said the Service having recognised the transformative impact of these advancements on all human endeavours, is dedicated to providing a conducive environment for entrepreneurs, innovators and stakeholders to flourish and contribute to the progress of the society. The chairman noted that the Service is focused at adapting and evolving in order to meet the challenges of the digital age considering the importance of leveraging technology to simplify and streamline tax compliance as well as making it easier for businesses and individuals to meet their obligations.