The European Investment Bank, (EIB), an international donor intervention organisationhas taken over the structure of Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project,(NEWMAP), as it ends its first phase of project intervention in Nigeria states. Delta State Commissioner, Ministry of Environment/Chairman, State SteeringCommittee of Delta State NEWMAP, Chief Godspower Asiuwhu, made the disclosure atthe quarterly meeting of the Steering Committee, in Asaba. According to him, the NEWMAP Project in the state has transformed into the EIB donorintervention project. He said the recent Technical Mission of NEWMAP on the European Investment Bank atAbuja he attended with the State Project Coordinator, Mr. Benedict Nwaokocha, hadrevealed the readiness of the international donor organisation to partner with theerosion intervention project in Delta and other states in the country. Asiuwhu said the task before the Committee was urgent as the taken over of theNEWMAP structure by the international donor organisation will rehabilitate uncompleted sites and also commence rehabilitation of new sites depending on readiness which necessitated the meeting. He added that one of the steps he took on resumption of office was to acquaint himselfwith NEWMAP through the handover notes, visitation to the NEWMAP Office in Asaba,and three rehabilitated sites at Midoma/Iwerebor rehabilitated erosion site in Owanta,Ika North-East; Nkwu-Nzu rehabilitated erosion site in Nkwu-Nzu, and Obomkparehabilitated erosion site in Obomkpa, Aniocha North Local Government Area,respectively. While saying the Project has done well in her first phase of the intervention, ChiefAsiuwhu called for teamwork and cooperation for successful project execution andfuture relationship.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The State Project Coordinator of Delta State NEWMAP, Mr. Benedict Nwaokocha,presented a review of the project in slides through the Project ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) from the inception of the project in the state that commencedon 7th May 2016 and ended on 30th June 2022. POLL Nwaokocha listed some of the achievements of the project within six years ofintervention in the state including: Rehabilitation of the Midoma/Iwerebor Erosion Site,Owanta,Ika North East; Rehabilitation of Nkwu-Nzu Erosion Site, Nkwu-Nzu and Obomkpa Erosion Site, Obomkpa in Aniocha North Local Government Area,respectively. Others are the provision of solar-powered electrification/borehole projects at six Jessecommunities in Ethiope West; Obomkpa, Nkwu-Nzu in Aniocha North and Ubulu-Uku inAniocha South Local Government Area, as well as the provision of Environmental ClubManual for Schools in Delta State and provision of ICT training and starter packs foryouths in Jesse communities. The Project Coordinator presented a detailed account of the EIB project before thecommittee, saying the focus of the new project would be targeted at devastating gullyerosion sites in the state that needed urgent intervention.The Committee rose from its resolution to request the sum of N1.3 billion from the stategovernment as part of her counterpart funding for the smooth takeoff of the EIB projectin the state.