The Avia-cargo Roadmap Committee set up by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) in 2022, has described the cargo export zones of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc and the Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, as chaotic, disorgansied, unkempt and dirty. The committee in its third monthly interim report, which was submitted to Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director of FAAN over the weekend in Lagos, likened the export areas of the two handling companies to “Aswani Market” in Lagos, saying disorderliness reigned supreme in the two areas. The committee, coordinated by Mr. Ikechi Uko, organiser of the CHINET Aviacargo Conference, said it came out with the verdict after the tour of the cargo facilities of the MMIA by its team. The committee also mentioned four other areas at the Lagos Airport that needed urgent attention and improvement by the FAAN management. “The cargo areas are disorganised, chaotic, unkempt, dirty, and rowdy. The import areas look like a modern shopping mall, while the export zones looked like Aswani Market or Oshodi markets on a market day,” the report said. The committee also mentioned the improper and poor quality packaging of goods for export, which it said is being done inappropriately at the airport as the second aspect that needed attention by the government. It also observed that operators at the cargo areas had limited operating hours, saying that for optimum performance, activities at that aspect of the airport should be for 24 hours.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It said this would lead to maintenance of efficient flow, based on the airport operating hours and the need for regulatory agencies to avail themselves, and reduce congestion during the active hours of airport operations. POLL Uko also opined that the officials of the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) and others could work around the clock so that domestic airlines could do regional cargo at night and carry passengers during the day. The report added: “The fourth pain point is the lack of facilities for exporters to package their goods, having failed to do so at their facilities due to the need for inspections and certification. “The fifth is the indiscriminate parking of vehicles all over the terminals and airport. These issues the committee found can be resolved immediately while the aviacargo committee continues with the project.” The committee had done a tour of the cargo facilities at the international wing of the airport earlier in the month of April, but expressed dissatisfaction with the conditions of the facilities in the area. Also, after receiving the third interim report, Yadudu it was said decided to go and see the place for himself. After the tour of the facilities, Yadudu promised that FAAN would restructure the avia-cargo business in the country. Accompanied during the tour by Yadudu were the Sadiku Rafindadi, Director of Commercial and Business Development, FAAN, Hyacinth Ngwu, the General Manager, Commercial, FAAN, and the Chief of Staff to the Managing Director and staff from the Commercial Department. Uko showed them the already identified lapses and the earlier suggested possible mitigations. At the new Chinese Built Cargo Terminal, Yadudu promised that with a few final touches the terminal would become an example for the new Vision of Aviacargo in Nigeria. He said the new cargo terminals in Port Harcourt and Abuja airports would also come on stream very soon. He said with some minor amendments by the state Government, the Sam Mbakwe Cargo Facility would be integrated. He further commended the Aviacargo Committee for a good job done and promised full and continuous support to the committee. He said: “We are happy with the work you have done and doing. The quality of Membership is notable. We will at FAAN look at the suggestions and start to implement those than can be implemented immediately while we wait for your final report. We do not want an academic report. “We all know the problems; we expect a strategy and steps to implement the report when you finally submit the report. Please, see your effort as a national project that helps not just aviation, but the whole nation.”