LAGOS – In commemoration of World Water Day 2023, Nestlé Nigeria took the message of responsible water management to over 160 children and teachers from public and private primary schools, in collaboration with the Ogun State Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency and the FCT Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency. The events included a tour of the company’s water plants in Agbara, Ogun State, and Abaji, in the Federal Capital Territory. Activities included games to help the children inculcate the right habits in the way they use, consume, and manage water, to help them become better stewards of this precious resource. World Water Day is an annual United Nations observance to raise awareness about the importance of water and the impact of our actions on preserving this scarce resource today and for future generations. The theme for this year’s celebration is “Accelerating Change”. Joy Abdullahi-Johnson, Marketing and Category Manager for Nestlé Waters Nigeria said, “Water is the most critical natural resource for human survival, after air. It, therefore, needs to be managed in a way that is equitable, environmentally sustainable, and economically beneficial. With the increasing pressure on our water resources, we all need to work together to preserve this vital resource we all depend on”. “At Nestlé, we believe that equipped with the right information, children can become good stewards of the environment from an early age. We are therefore excited to be at the forefront of efforts to educate these young ones today”, she added. In his comments at the Agbara factory, Mr. Sola Ogunbor, the Program Manager Ogun State Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency, said, “World Water Day is another opportunity to emphasise the need for daily consumption of clean water in adequate amounts for optimal hydration and healthy living. Children can contribute to accelerating the needed change by adopting new behaviours on how they use, consume, and manage water in their daily activities, to avoid wastage of this precious resource”. On her part, Chinyelu Obrike, Head, Water Supply, FCT Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency said while speaking at the Nestlé’s factory in Abaji said, “Every action, no matter how small, will make a difference. Children are agents of change. They are quick to learn and eager to pass across messages learnt to their friends, parents, teachers, and peers. This educational advocacy will bring the rapid transformative change needed to fast-track the achievement of SDG 6 – water and sanitation for all. We are happy to be collaborating with Nestlé Nigeria on this laudable initiative”. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Esther Samuel, a primary 5 pupil of Salvation Army School 1 Agbara, said, “I am very happy to be part of this event. I really enjoyed the tour of the factory. I have learnt a lot about how to use and conserve water, and not waste it. I am ready to practice what I have been taught at home and I will definitely teach my siblings and friends all I have learnt. I want to thank Nestlé and my school for giving me this interesting experience”. POLL Nestlé Nigeria is committed to protecting the environment for future generations. Caring for water is one of the ways we do this. We reach over 8,000 children annually with information on healthy hydration and water conservation through the Nestlé for Healthier Kids initiative, a school-based nutrition education program. We also work with stakeholders and partners to increase access to clean, safe water, sanitation, and hygiene facilities (WASH) for individuals and families as well as teachers and students in schools within our communities.