*Collaborators Will Be Treated As Financial Saboteurs – Agada *APC Undermining The Ortom Administration – Akase *There Can’t Be Two Governor’s In Benue At A Time – Iortyom MAKURDI – Throughout the weekend the Governor Samuel Ortom-led People’s Democratic Party (PDP) administration and the incoming All Progressives Congress (PDP) led by Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia have locked horns over issues of governance, laden with allegations and counter-allegations over who should do what and who shouldn’t. While the APC alleged that Governor Ortom has awarded contracts in the twilight of his administration, which he ought not to have awarded, the Ortom government and indeed, the PDP in the state have alleged that the incoming administration led by Rev Fr Alia have made attempts to usurp the powers of Governor, from Ortom. Comrade Austin Agada, the APC Chairman in Benue who made several allegations against Governor Ortom also alleged that the Ortom administration has engaged in “massive illicit financial dealings, including alleged falsification of financial documents amongst others.” However, in a swift reaction to the allegations, Terver Akase, Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to the governor stated that the allegations were false, adding that the APC in Benue was laying a foundation for excuses to hold unto in the event that it failed in governance.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Similarly, Bemgba Iortyom, the spokesperson of the PDP in Benue who warned the APC of its excesses advised the party to desists from what he described as “extreme form of impunity and immaturity”, insisting that there can never be two governors in a state at a time. POLL Speaking at a press conference in Makurdi last weekend, Comrade Austin Agada, the APC Chairman who revealed that the state government has awarded multi-billion contract for an airport noted that “The APC, has received reports from reliable sources that the outgoing Samuel Ortom-led PDP Government has embarked on emergency awards of contracts worth billions of Naira. “On 29th October 2016, Governor Samuel Ortom led PDP administration flagged off N38 billion naira cargo airport in Daudu, Guma Local Government, a project he assured will be completed in 18 months. “Four years after with no visible site of an airport, Governor Ortom while presenting the 2020 budget announced the re-awarding of the same Cargo Airport to another company for 12 billion, with extra N3 billion as compensation to land owners which reportedly didn’t get to the actual owners of the gazetted lands. “The N38 billion naira contract and it’s N12 billion naira re-awarding all squashed with the flagging of a Mega city for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). “In derivation of the above we wish to state that the above decision by the outgoing PDP government in Benue State to build an airport is malevolent, malicious, and ill-timed with reference to the incoming government which was not consulted, informed, or involved in the deliberations for a new state contract as it is rationally expected under a transitional political arrangement. “We are aware that the government is awarding contracts and back-dating same as well as back-dating of employment letters. We also have information on other massive illicit financial dealings ongoing within the government, including alleged falsification of financial documents amongst others. “We are also aware that some amounts of monies belonging to the Benue State people in some different bank accounts, monies the outgoing PDP government can conveniently use to at least clear two months of the over two years arrears of pensioners and salaries of serving workers in the state. “Governor Ortom has commenced the employment of staff to the tune of 2,500 at the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) and other ministries, an exercise he initiated 3 years ago shifting the financial burden to the incoming government, we view this as a clandestine move to pitch the people against our government even before it start. “It is sad to mention that up to this moment, the outgoing PDP government in Benue State has not deemed it necessary to integrate members of the incoming government into a harmonized transition committee that will agree or disagree over certain critical decisions taken at this last moment by the outgoing PDP government. “The party wishes to advice all consultants and contractors to refrain from entering into such deals with the outgoing administration. This is necessary because the Rev. Fr. Dr Hyacinth Alia’s administration will not be held accountable for any nefarious contractual obligations. “We hereby warn Financial Institutions, Permanent Secretaries, MDA’s, Ministry of Finance, Office of the Accountant General and Local Government DGSA’s that are collaborating with the outgoing government to increase Benue indebtedness through loans, overdrafts or other financial obligations to stop forthwith, as this will be viewed as financial sabotage to the incoming administration”, Agada warned. But in his reaction to the allegations, Terver Akase, Special Adviser Media and Publicity to Governor Ortom stressed that the APC were undermining the Ortom administration. He said, “The APC in Benue State is on a desperate mission to subvert the administration of Governor Samuel Ortom whose tenure will constitutionally last till May 29, 2023. “In the last one week, APC has written to heads of government agencies and some permanent secretaries to stop obeying directives from the Governor. This is in addition to making false, inciting and misleading press statements against the present administration. “On Friday, APC Chairman, Austin Agada addressed the media and made spurious allegations against Governor Ortom, particularly as it relates to financial transactions and general governance. Agada also illegally asked heads of state government agencies to henceforth stop complying with the Governor’s directives and approvals. We wonder where on earth such rascality is obtainable. “The Benue APC should desist forthwith from making inciting and provocative statements while issuing threats to officials of government as if they are already in power. They are yet to assume duty and must be seen to conduct themselves lawfully and in a manner devoid of mischief. “It is absurd and disturbing that the Benue State leadership of APC has waged a war of attrition on a legitimate government whose tenure is yet to end. They are in a hurry and have resorted to arm twisting tactics using falsehood as a tool to disparage and blackmail the current administration. “We wish to remind the APC that Governor Ortom remains the duly elected Governor of Benue State and has the constitutional authority to direct government agencies and make approvals while carrying out any other business of government till May 28, 2023. We demand that the party desists from its acts of sabotage and subversion against the present administration. “It is equally pertinent to state that the Benue State Government under Governor Ortom has not entered into contract with anyone for the construction of the civil airport approved for the State by the Ministry of Aviation, contrary to the speculation by the APC Chairman and his team. “It was also a figment of the imagination of the Benue APC Chairman and his co-travelers when they claimed that the state government was involved in some unspecified contractual engagements of various sums which they curiously could not substantiate.” He however stated that “As a functional and responsive government, the Ortom administration reserves the right to employ and appoint qualified Benue indigenes into positions where vacancies exist; and that’s precisely what this administration has done with the employment of Benue sons and daughters through the Teaching Service Board (TSB) and the State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB). “At the federal level, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the appointment of six new permanent secretaries on March 29, 2023. Similarly, the Federal Executive Council on Thursday, March 30th, 2023 approved N95.8 billion for a road linking Ekiti and Ondo states. This is besides the approval of N2.24 billion for the construction of a 150-room capacity female hostel at the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology, Zaria, Kaduna State”, he noted. Also reacting to the allegations, Bemgba Iortyom, State Publicity Secretary of the PDP was of the view that “Alia, APC were driven by impunity to seek illegal end to Ortom’s tenure.” According to him, “The PDP brings to public attention plots by Hon. Hyacinth Alia and the APC in the state to subvert and truncate the legitimate mandate of the administration of His Excellency, Governor Samuel Ortom before its due exit date of May 29th, 2023. “The plots by Alia and APC have been revealed to include secret meetings held with selected civil servants some of whom they are reported to have threatened and some they have directed to scuttle the smooth running of the Ortom administration by ignoring directives from the governor. “Benue PDP views as lending credence to the above allegations the press conference addressed yesterday by the state APC Chairman, Austin Agada, at which he openly canvassed that Governor Ortom should cease the formulation and execution of government polices as Governor. “But our great party finds as most shocking the uncovering of a letter written by Alia to the MD/CEO of the Benue Investment and Property Company (BIPC) seeking to direct the company not to cooperate with the incumbent Ortom administration henceforth. “PDP finds this disposition and conduct of Alia and APC as reflecting the most extreme form of impunity and immaturity lacking in necessary ingredients of statecraft as never before witnessed in the history of Benue State.” He warned that, “While such unprecedented acts of unbridled recklessness as the use of a “Governor-Elect” number plate and Siren-heralded motorcade by Alia before his formal inauguration as Governor may be overlooked, his seeking to interfer with and scuttle the running of the legitimate government in power amounts to overreaching himself dangerously. “Perhaps, Alia and APC need reminding that Governor Ortom remains the Governor of Benue State till May 29th, 2023 and there cannot within this period be two governors of the state. “As Governor, Ortom is empowered by law to make appointments, approve promotions, engage in contractual obligations and ensure that his administration discharges its lawful duty such as the recent employment of qualified persons into the Teaching Service Board (TSB) and State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB). And this is a duty the governor may perform without let or hindrance from any quarters whatsoever by whomsoever. “We advise the opposition party to rather apply its energies and resources to planning for the task of statecraft ahead of them, if the opportunity does come to them. “But if Alia and APC insist on chasing the empty winds of their allegations against Governor Ortom, then they may well reckon with the fact that at the federal level, the presidency only a few days ago approved the appointment of six new permanent secretaries on March 29, 2023 into the federal civil service. “All of the above projects and many more still being pursued by the Buhari regime have a lifespan and gestation period which well outlive its tenure of office which will terminate on May 29th, 2023, same at the Ortom administration. “By way of a guide, Alia and APC should act on the invitation extended to them by Governor Ortom to nominate persons to serve on the Transition Committee, as by so doing they will be engaging themselves meaningfully on the task they seek to be mandated to discharge come May 29th, 2023”, Bemgba Iortyom advised.