LAGOS  – The World Health Organisation (WHO) has asked nations to step up their efforts to ensure that everyone has access to the quality and affordable malaria services they need. WHO spoke in a message to mark the 2023 World Malaria, therefore urged countries adopt an ambitious and cutting-edge acceleration plan in order to significantly lessen the burden of malaria and save the lives of their populations. Speaking, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, Regional Director for Africa, WHO noted that, nearly 30 percent of the population in most African countries cannot access essential health services, and most people face unacceptably high expenditures on health care. While adding that significant inequities affect the most vulnerable, young children and women, Moeti said that about 80 percent of malaria cases and deaths occur in children under five. She said, “Malaria has been a stubborn public health enemy. In 2021 it killed 619, 000 people, of whom approximately 96 percent lived in Africa. It is 6-20 times more likely to spread in mosquito-prone environments than the Omicron variant of sars-cov-2.” Moeti’s views was contained in her message to commemorate the 2023 World Malaria Day which was read by WHO Country Representative to Nigeria (WR), Dr Walter Kazadi Mulombo on Tuesday in Abuja. She said, “To reverse these trends and accelerate progress, we must rethink and revitalize our strategies by investing, innovating and implementing smartly. On investments, we are responsible for increasing funding for malaria interventions through primary health care approaches so that malaria services are accessed by the most vulnerable populations wherever they are. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “In 2021, endemic countries and partners mobilized only 50% of the estimated US$ 7.3 billion required globally to stay on track to defeat malaria. We, therefore, call on our Member States to keep malaria high on their agendas as they allocate resources to health. POLL “On innovation, there is a great need to increase the number and efficacy of control tools and strategies so that interventions can have a greater impact. In this light, WHO recently prequalified new dual active ingredient insecticide-treated nets and several insecticides for indoor residual spraying. The new RTS,S vaccine deployment has been extended beyond the three initial countries and several other innovative products are in the pipeline. “New tools and strategies are needed to address the threats of drug resistance, insecticide resistance, and new invasive vectors compromising gains in vector control. In this regard, we recently launched two strategies to support countries in the African continent as they work to build a more resilient response to malaria: (1) A strategy to curb antimalarial drug resistance and (2) an initiative to stop the spread of the new invasive Anopheles stephensi malaria vector – a dangerous vector that breeds in urban areas and has the potential of increasing transmission. Fighting against malaria vectors will require multisectoral actions and the involvement of decentralized administrative units and communities to sustain behavioural change and uptake of these tools. A new global framework to respond to malaria in urban areas, developed jointly by WHO and UN-Habitat guides city leaders and stakeholders. Meanwhile, a robust research and development pipeline is set to bring a new generation of malaria control tools that could help accelerate progress towards global targets. “Finally, on implementation. We’ll prioritise this segment as part of the 2023 campaign, and the critical importance of reaching marginalized populations with the available tools and strategies to reduce transmission for present and future gains. “Malaria programmes should be decentralised to the district and community levels where health systems are closest to the affected populations. “We must empower frontline health workers and communities to participate fully in identifying key barriers in accessing services, ensure effective implementation of malaria control strategies and hold their leaders accountable for health outcomes”, she stressed. Moeti noted that, “Today marks the 16th World Malaria Day and an appropriate time for us to take stock of malaria’s devastating impact on people’s lives and economic development in this Region. Concerted efforts yield positive results. In 2021, because of the joint actions by malaria-affected countries and partners, malaria deaths decreased compared to 2020, despite the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. “That effort is echoed in this year’s theme: “Time to deliver zero malaria: invest, innovate, implement.” “In terms of progress, a solid national-level commitment was demonstrated despite the pandemic and led to many successes: About 75 percent of the planned 171 million insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs) were distributed. “The seasonal malaria preventive treatment was further expanded, reaching nearly 45 million children in 15 African countries, a significant increase from 33.4 million in 2020, while malaria testing and treatment services were maintained. “More than 1.6 billion malaria cases and 11 million malaria deaths were averted in the WHO African Region from 2000-2021”. She said, “World Malaria Day gives us an opportunity to renew political commitments and bolster investments in malaria prevention and control.” While calling on each Member State to redouble its commitment to implement an ambitious and innovative acceleration plan to rapidly reduce the burden of malaria and save the lives of its populations. This can be done by ensuring that everyone, everywhere, has access to the quality and affordable malaria services they need. This will require a more granular understanding of who is missing out, why they are vulnerable, and what are their barriers to accessing malaria preventive and treatment services. To achieve this, Governments need to mobilise more resources and technical capacities at domestic and international levels and build effective partnerships and multisectoral mechanisms to help strengthen preventive measures and improve coverage of malaria case management services.