ISEGHE AJAYI As Christians all over the world prepare for the Easter celebrations coming up this week, there is a need to take a cursory look at your purchases and try as much as possible to work on your expenses. You can achieve this, by adhering to your spending plan to avoid amassing debts which gives financial pains and regrets after the celebrations are over. Agreed that the persistent rise in the prices of commodities due to unending inflation has continued to make life unbearable, especially for the common folks, yet some individuals still find it hard to live within their income due to their reckless way of spending and in the process incur huge debts all in the name of Easter fun. It is quite true that the event entails expenses but it is not a must to spend more than your financial capacity or budget to entertain guests all because of Easter. Although it is good to have a fun-filled Easter celebration, the current state of the economy will not allow this to be feasible because there is even no money to spend. Easter is not all about merriments as portrayed by several individuals; it is a period of sober reflection, self-examination, and appreciation of the finished work Jesus Christ did on the cross of Calvary for mankind. Easter also marks the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ That is why in marking the Easter celebrations, it is pertinent to spend your money wisely so as to avoid financial heartache when the events are over, remember there are essential bills such as school fees to take care of after the festive period. POLL Consequently, while it is sensible to enjoy the occasion with whatever you can afford, it is also very crucial to be frugal by ignoring impulse buying because the probabilities are that you may spend more than what you actually budgeted for. And to avoid this, make sure you are strongly ready particularly while making your purchases this season. Do you know that Impulse buying can be a very hazardous urge which entails spending your money on needless items instantly? The best way to avoid impulse buying is to make do with your shopping list, keep track of your spending habit, and work within your budget or shopping list. The under-listed tips will, however, help you to keep track of your expenses this Easter season. Stick To Your Shopping List One of the main impulses to buying drawbacks is at the grocery store especially if you cannot control your spending habits. That is why it is important to try as much as possible to make a comprehensive shopping list and remind yourself before you make your purchases that you are going to abide by your list. Although it may be quite difficult to shop in a very big mall and buy only one or two items without making additional unplanned purchases. To curb such, it is vital to create a detailed food or grocery list when shopping as it would help you to stick to your purchases and shun impulse buying. Avoid Hasty Purchases Instead of buying a product you did not include in your shopping list but desired to have, take a picture of it and make a promise to return to the store the next day if you still need it. But, you will discover that the willpower to procure the item the first time you saw it has decreased after 24 hours and you may tend to drop the idea of obtaining it. It is very essential not to be in a rush to purchase an item that you can do without, worse still, not budgeted for. Avoid Emotional Shopping People do all sorts of abnormal things particularly when they are distressed. They try to make themselves cheerful again. Shopping just happens to be one of them and it can get really costly and out of control. It is advisable to avoid shopping alone when you are emotionally down as you may not make the most use of your money. Discover a healthier medium or what interests you the most to help reduce stress before making your purchases. Do Not Laze Around A Product Shop for items you have indicated on your list and do not spend much time around a product you have no plan of buying as studies have shown that the more time you laze around a product, the more likely you tend to buy it. Handling products makes consumers more probable to purchase them because their minds have taken “emotional ownership” of the product such that they may be willing to pay more to have the product or item. Develop A Habit of Making Inquiry Ensure you ask questions on purchases made; you can also develop the habit of asking yourself questions like, Do I really need this? How much did I work to earn the money to pay for this? How much did this cost to make? Do the items worth the amount? By asking questions about every item, you intend to buy; you will avoid pointless spending or purchases. Be Resilient In your Purchases Traders like to use “temporary” and “one-time” discounts and sales to form a sense of urgency that will prompt you to buy items you did not plan for, even if you really do not need them now. What you need to do to overcome such is to be resilient and in doing so, remember that deals come and go, and the price will likely fall again. Purchase Items You Can Return If you actually have a problem with impulse buying, ensure you only buy products from stores that have good return procedures. Occasionally, if you give yourself a day or two to ponder, “Do I really need this?” you might find yourself wanting to return several items that you bought. Pay With Cash It is preferable to pay with cash when shopping to avoid unnecessary spending. Although using your credit or debit cards to procure items seemed to be more convenient as you do not need to be carrying cash along with you. But, the truth of the matter is that, with your debit or credit card, you tend to spend more which may do you no good. When you pay with cash for items obtained, you are bound to limit your purchases so as not to be stranded, but with a credit card, you can go on and on, buying to your satisfaction. Credit cards give individuals an easy way to make impulse purchases, but consumers need to stay away from them because of the high-interest rates associated with most cards.