Plateau State Governor-Elect, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang on Sunday Said God has the ability to resurrect anything good that has perished in Plateau and Nigeria by the power in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Mutfwang disclosed this during Easter Sunday Service, held at St. Peter’s Cathedral Church, Bukuru in Jos South LGA during Easter Church Service. He prayed fervently for Plateau Citizens to witness the glory of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Mutfwang described the Church as an important sanctity which must show forth unity in the body of Christ in championing a united Plateau and Nigeria where peace, tolerance and God’s love will flourish. “Easter reminds us about the death, the burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, which is the reason for why the Church exist. We can draw many lessons from the death of Jesus Christ which teaches us about sacrifice. He died not because He committed any sin but to show the love of God to mankind.” “We should emulate His example of sacrifice by loving our fellow human beings and demostrat to them God’s love. Easter Sunday particularly represent the story of the resurrection of Jesus Christ; and the lessons we can draw from there is that dead situations can be turn around, that is our hope for Plateau and Nigeria”. “Whatever is dead in Nigeria can resurrect by the power of God and that is what we are praying for.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He urged the people of Plateau to remain prayerful and hopeful, saying with God all things are possible. POLL ”We are trusting God that the coming days would be days of restoration, days of rebuilding so that we can reclaim what God has ordained our state and nation to be,” he stated. Mutfwang assured the citizens of his state that his in coming administration would not take the mandate given to him for granted, neither as a right but as a privilege and honour to bequeath an enduring legacy of peace, unity and infrastructural development on the Plateau. Bishop of St. Peter Cathedral Church, Bukuru, Rev. Jwam Zhumbes in his Easter Sermon said the power in the resurrection of Jesus Christ was purely to salvage mankind from the power of sin. “I want the people of Plateau State to have a reason for living and a purpose for life, not people who are walking in the dark. We must be purposeful in our drives. If we want to have a better Plateau, it can never be other than the purpose of Christ. I want to encourage everyone that God can do new things in our lives individually and collectively.” He called on Plateau people to join hands together now that the elections are over, and support government in its drive to bequeath good governance for the prosperity of the entire state.