LAGOS  – An Ikeja High Court has been shown the video of how some thugs attacked one of the leaders of All Pro­gressives Congress, APC in Ikorodu, Oluwatosin Onamade, in his office and allegedly murdered his Personal Assistant in his office in, Ijede, Ikoro­du, Lagos. The suspects namely Atunrase Sodiq Omolabi ‘M’ 28 years, Shittu Michael Olawale ‘M’ 28 years, Olaide Opeifa ‘M’ 40’ years, Olanrewaju Adebiyi aka Maja ‘M’ 35 years and Jamiu Omosanya aka Orobo, are be­ing prosecuted by the Lagos State gov­ernment and facing trial for attempted murder and murder of Ifeanyi God­frey Etunmuse at Western Funeral Home, Ijede Ikorodu, a company which belong to Onamade. The incident occurred on April 16 2021 during the build-up to the lo­cal government election in Lagos in which Onamade contested for the post of the chairman of Ijede Local Council Development Area. At the resumed trial of the suspects on Tuesday before Justice Hakeem Oshodi, the prosecuting counsel, Mi­chael Adewoye, Deputy Director from the office of the Directorate of Public Prosecution, DPP, while examining the prosecution witness, Onamade, presented before the court a Close Circuit Television, CCTV, which re­corded the attacks and the murder of the victim. While showing the video in the court, the witness identified the sus­pects as the ones that invaded his office. Jamiu Omosanya a.k.a ‘Orobo’ was identified as wearing a brown polo and light brown shorts to the scene and brandished cutlass, while Atun­rase Sodiq wore a cream coloured polo shirt and shorts and was seen also holding a cutlass attacking the victims and destroying property in the office. Others seen in the video were Shit­tu Olawale Michael who was wearing brownish up and down cloth, Olaide Opeifa aka ‘Inspector “ who wore green shorts and short hand jersey, Olanrewaju Adebiyi aka ‘Maja’ in a white Jalabiya.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The video showed the moments the suspects invaded the premises in ash-coloured RAV 4 Jeep and proceed­ed to unleash mayhem on the workers after which they matcheted Ifeanyi to death. POLL They also cut off the wrist of Olu­wafemi Onamade, the younger broth­er to Tosin Onamade. The witness told the court that while the attack was going on, he put a call to the police but they arrived after the thugs had left. They later removed the body of Ifeanyi and deposited it at Ikorodu General Hospital mortuary. While being cross-examined by counsel to the suspects, Mr Olanre­waju Ajanaku, the witness denied doctoring the video,and confirmed that the scenes recorded were the true reflection of what occurred. The court adjourned further hear­ing till May 19 for continuation of trial.