Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has admitted that he has questioned his own future after Chelsea sacked Graham Potter. The Reds have endured a poor season in the Premier League with the German freely admitting that his side are underachieving. Potter was relieved of his duties on Sunday after Todd Boehly finally lost his patience in the Blues on-field performances domestically. The Englishman’s sacking followed that of Leicester boss Brendan Rodgers a few hours earlier bringing the Premier League’s firings to a record 12 this season. “What can I say?” Klopp said when asked about Sunday’s development ahead of Liverpool’s encounter with Chelsea. “The elephant in the room is why am I still sitting here in this crazy world? “Last man standing! So, I think both clubs are not where they expect to be, I cannot really say a lot more about it. I respect them a lot. I like both, good people, fantastic managers both of them but still things can go wrong and when decision-makers at a club feel they have to change, they change. “I think we all have to accept that part of the business. It’s been a strange week, Conte, Nagelsmann and now these two. The season is in a decisive part. People are afraid of not reaching their targets.” Liverpool are one of the teams who may struggle to reach their targets after a disappointing campaign. The Reds no longer have any chance of silverware while they must claw back an eight-point deficit to Manchester United and Newcastle in the final weeks of the season just to make it into the top four. Klopp admits that his team have underperformed this season and that he may have been relieved of his duties had he not enjoyed so much success at Anfield in the past.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I think some clubs are underachieving, us too,” he said. “There are expectations out there, rightly so and if you don’t reach them, you have to accept the decisions. POLL “I’m aware I’m sitting here because of what we’ve done in the past, not on this season. There is no need to be afraid, I’m not here as a mural on the wall, I’m here to deliver. I am fully in but we have to sort it. “We cannot just continue playing how we do from time to time. I am really disappointed about us that we do this but it happens. We have to find a way out.” The Reds will look get to winning ways at Stamford Bridge after three consecutive defeats in all competitions as Bruno Saltor takes to the Chelsea dugout as interim boss for the first time. Klopp will hope the Blues do not get any kind of new manager bounce as he seeks the points needed to hunt down Manchester United and Newcastle.