BENIN – Ahead of the forthcoming elections into Local Government Councils in Edo State, the Labour Party, LP, Candidate for the chairmanship seat of Ovia North East Local Government Areas of Edo State, Edwin Usunobun Omoregie, has appealed to the Edo State Independent Electoral Commission, EDSIEC and the state government to ensure a free level playing grounds for all candidates irrespective of party affiliations. Omoregie said the call became imperative against the background that states government manipulates and determines who emerges as chairmen of their various states. The real estate developer also advocated for the autonomy of councils as a sure way to fast-track meaningful development, accountability, and good governance at the grass-root level. The grass root politician said if voted into power part of his agenda is to revamp rural health, schools, agriculture and ensure security for the people of his locality and rural electrification. He said, “I am aware that before now local government elections results were written by the state government but this time around I believe that the government of today need to realize that power belongs to the people and must allow a free and fair election. “The people should be allowed to choose who they want. I am very sure that the people want change and want to vote for candidates that are accessible with the competence to serve the ready. I expect the present government of the state will allow the will of the people to prevail “I am using this opportunity to appeal to them to allow the vite of the people count. We should work for a new Nigeria and a better society for our children.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On Councils autonomy, the LG hopeful said, “For me, I believe autonomy will the right answers for the local government in Nigeria because the problem we are having and why we are facing difficulties in our various communities is because the money meant for local government are taken to states and peanuts are sent to the councils. POLL “This deprives them of carrying out projects that will benefit the people. If we have autonomy, it will help to assist the council in embarking on projects for their people.