ABUJA – Through a historic collaboration between the National Health Insurance Authority (NHIA) and the pharmaceutical giant Roche, 55 cancer patients now have access to cutting-edge cancer treatments at a reduced cost. Essentially, the alliance uses a costs-sharing approach to make sure recipients can afford cancer medications.The patient pays 20%, the NHIA pays 30%, and Roche pays 50% under that arrangement. Director General of NHIA, Prof. Mohammed Sambo, made this known at the presentation of the partnership’s progress report, “This partnership shows that it is assisting Nigerians affected by cancer in proactively avoiding financial hardship and supports them to concentrate on the most important thing of all their health. “We are very pleased with the impact this is having and this is why we are going to now focus on rolling this out even further, by expanding to more centres nationwide. “I also want to use this opportunity to remind everyone that health insurance under NHIA is available to all Nigerians. We have offices across the country for purposes of enrollment so that they can access innovative treatments as being implemented under the partnership”. Also speaking at the occasion, Dr Ladi Hameed, General Manager, Roche Nigeria, said, “The barriers that are preventing access are persistent and complex, but they are solvable and together, we are making a difference. Roche is very proud to partner with the NHIA to make innovative treatments broadly, rapidly and equitably accessible to Nigerians when they need them. We commit to continuing this partnership, and to contributing to bold solutions that support sustainable health ecosystems and a future where every Nigerian can access world-class healthcare.” POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ This partnership is inspired by three themes: the need for patients to access medicines for diagnostic solutions, the need for capacity building and policy advocacy. We clearly see that patients are starting to get the access that they need. The 55 patients who have received innovative cancer care through the partnership are enrollees of the NHIA and patients in the seven pilot centers; University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH), University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), University College Hospital(UCH) and the Federal Teaching Hospital, Gombe.