MAKURDI – A group under the aegis of Alia Alliance has stated that the victory of the Governor-Elect of Benue State, Reverend Father Hyacinth Alia, was a resolve of the people of Benue to change and redirect the course of the history of the state. Peter Ashiekaa, Board Chairman, Alia Alliance, made the statement when he, officials and other members of the Board paid a congratulatory visit on the Governor-Elect in Makurdi on Tuesday. While he urged Alia to strive to meet the expectations of the people who voted him to bring about changes in the state, Ashiekaa said Alia’s victory was a resounding testimony to people’s resolve to change and redirect the path and course of history of the people of the state. He said, “As a group, we at Alia Alliance are proud to be associated with this process and the outcome, and we pledge and commit to supporting your administration in all ways possible to ensure its success. “It is also a resounding statement of the people’s confidence in your ability to lead them out of the woods to a Benue of growth and prosperity. “We pray God to guide and direct you, and give you the knowledge, wisdom and strength needed for your journey. Jimmy Ajim, a Board member who spoke at the occasion, commended the Governor-Elect for his doggedness “that calmed the storms before, during and after the general elections”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Ajim who is also the President of ‘Ior’ Gboko Foundation, said they would also partner Alia to transform, empower, reform, uplift and build a better and safer state. POLL Responding, the Governor-Elect thanked the group for its support and pledged to work hard with divine directions to meet the people’s expectations. He stated that “God rewards hard work, especially when you don’t count the cost, it pays more. “I am not coming for money, I have learnt to work and make money. I am not coming to seek fame, I have worked to make a name. “We need to work together to develop the state, it is ours and nobody will do this for us and we are not doing this for anyone but for ourselves. “God has chosen me not because I am the most qualified. He doesn’t call the qualified but qualifies who He calls. I know with your prayers and assistance, we will prevail.” He further tasked the group to help mentor the youth on good conduct and to play active roles in the renewal and development of Benue. According to Alia, “It is paramount to start correcting wrong deeds, especially as it concerns leadership and mentorship. “The idea of having or acting as a stooge, having manipulative leaders and followers should be corrected.” Rev Fr Alia pledged not to dash the hope and expectations of the ordinary people who voted him to provide good leadership and direction to the state.