From the beginning of life, water has remained an essential resource for survival and the sustainability of the planet. It fuels our factories, powers agriculture, drives urbanization and supports the optimal functioning of our ecosystems. Thus, water is not only an indispensable resource for the survival of people and the planet; access to safe drinking water and adequate sanitation are crucial drivers of sustainable development and poverty eradication. This is why the United Nations commemorates March 23 of every year since 1993 as World Water Day to advocate the sustainable management of freshwater resources and restate its importance. This year’s theme is, ‘Accelerating change’ in recognition of the reality that 2.2 billion people are currently living without access to safe water. In line with The Coca-Cola Company’s mission of making a difference in communities where it operates, Coca-Cola Africa launched JAMII, the company’s platform that is focused on three strategic pillars where it has made considerable progress; water leadership, women and youth economic empowerment and packaging waste management to deepen its ESG impact. Through JAMII, The Coca-Cola System in Nigeria has been leading to improve access to safe water, and sanitation and protect our natural water resources through meaningful partnerships with the government, the private sectors, NGOs, and local communities. “We recognize that water is essential to our business and to the communities where we operate and are committed to being responsible stewards of this vital resource,” Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability Director said. “We want to do this by improving water availability, quality, access, and governance – and taking a more granular watershed-based approach. In short, we’re focusing on doing what matters most, where it matters most.” For this reason, the company has announced a holistic 2030 water strategy that aims to achieve water security in our operations, local watersheds and communities—where we operate, source agricultural ingredients for beverages and touch people’s lives. The company announced three goals related to the strategy’s key focus areas as follows: ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ •Achieve 100 per cent circular water use – or regenerative water use – across 175 facilities identified as “leadership locations” by 2030. POLL •Work with partners to help improve the health of 60 watersheds identified as most critical for the company’s operations and agricultural supply chains by 2030. •Aim to return a cumulative total of 2 trillion liters of water to nature and communities globally, between 2021-2030. Coca-Cola and its bottling partner Nigerian Bottling Company have delivered various water projects across various communities providing improved access to clean water and sanitation to over 1.2 million Nigerians in hard-to-reach vulnerable communities and its host communities. This leadership has been recognized, and received various awards with the most recent being the OPSWASH award for the best company in water and sanitation in recognition of our commitment to water use and stewardship in our host communities during the 2022 SERA- CSR Awards. In addition, Replenish Water for Africa (RAIN), a flagship clean water intervention African project of the Coca-Cola Company that was launched in 2009 impacted over 6 million Africans by the end of 2020 and provided opportunities for empowerment to over 480,000 women and girls. Hundreds of jobs in infrastructure operations, management, and agriculture have also been created as a result of WASH-related businesses. This year’s Water Day Celebration saw Nigerian Bottling Company lead a water sensitization to walk across its manufacturing locations, particularly in Ikeja Lagos and Idu area of Abuja to connect with its host communities, educate them on the responsible use of water and how best we can protect this essential resource. It also commissioned a water project to one of its host communities in Abuja restating its commitment to water stewardship. “Coca-Cola’s 2030 water security strategy will continue to deepen our impact on our host communities along with like-minded private sector groups, NGOs and governments, Onyemelukwe added”. In 2022 alone, our philanthropic arm, The Coca-Cola Foundation, provided over $1.3m to two NGOs namely the Rural Africa Water Development Project (RAWDP) for Disaster Risk Reduction and Urban Resilience (IDRRUR) in Imo state and GETF is partnering with WaterAid on an 18-month project targeted at improving access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene services in four communities within and around the Maiduguri Metropolis of Borno State. The IMO State project seeks to strengthen long-term access to safe drinking water for 2.5million IMO residents, lower levels of water-borne diseases and protect watershed sources by preserving forest and woodland ecosystems and improve the Imo State Water Corporation’s water security and resilience, as well as those of the 25 towns that border the Otamiri River, it’s the supply of water. It is our belief that the intervention will lessen morbidity and death among vulnerable mothers and children that are associated with WASH. With the system’s efforts centered around sustainable water practices, Coca-Cola will continue to accelerate change in sustainable water use and replenishment while impacting rural communities; thereby, improving the quality of lives of beneficiaries and ensuring better conditions of living for all.