Following the increase in the risk of disasters in Africa and other parts of the globe, Nigeria has been advised to heed cautions against the very challenging threats by taking early warning systems seriously. A Professor of Political Institutions, Governance and Public Policy in the Department of Political Science, University of Ibadan, Remi Aiyede, gave the advice at the grand-opening of the Gen. Leo Irabor Early Warning Systems Centre at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Lagos, on Tuesday. In his keynote lecture at the event, Prof. Aiyede noted that the early warning systems centre and defence architecture delivered at the NIIA is very apt, adding that “Disasters are very challenging and we should take early warning systems seriously. The risk of disaster is increasing in Africa.” He said that the early warning systems centre generates alerts and cautions against crisis situations, adding that “This can only be meaningful when it is directed at the right place and managed by the right people. It must be effective and have capable hands to man it.” According to Prof. Aiyede: “The centre is supposed to respond to the needs of Nigeria, of the friends of the country and the entire African continent.” He said that technology has evolved to address early warning systems, such as tracking cyclones, among other disasters. “Disasters threaten our comfort, strength and social stability. We need to know when and how to intervene whenever there is a disaster, as well as know what should be done,” he added.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Prof. Aiyede called on all stakeholders to collaborate to promote the centre. POLL Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, represented by Foreign Service Officer at Nigeria’s Ministry Of Foreign Affairs Ambassador Max Ogbede, said that the Gen. Leo Irabor Early Warning Systems Centre will help Nigeria, Africa and others to “begin to nip in the bud insecurity situation, even as we can mitigate and prevent insecurity when we get the early signs.” “It’s a global phenomenon. We need to know before it happens and we need to prevent it before it happens. Prevention they say is better than cure,” he added. Also at the event, a Pharmacist and Lawyer, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi of Juli Pharmacy Plc, who was chairman of the event, said the Gen. Leo Irabor Early Warning Systems Centre will launch Nigeria into international level. Adelusi-Adeluyi affirmed that the centre would provide adequate information, help improve Nigeria’s security architecture, as well as better manage problems of security because of the advanced information coming from the centre. He congratulated the institute on the achievement. Chief of the Defence Staff, Gen. Leo Irabor, commended the NIIA as a learning research centre that proffers solutions to problems and expressed the belief that “This centre that has just been added to the institute will help to work on researches, give early warnings and proffer possible solutions to problems on time.” Gen. Irabor congratulated the NIIA DG, Director General NIIA, Prof. Eghosa E. Osaghae, and the entire management of the institute for the centre. The Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate for the 2023 Presidential election, Prince Adewole Adebayo, said the early warning systems centre is important “because the world is a volatile place and a republic like Nigeria is like a safe home.” He cited the event in Sudan and that of Ukraine, and the number of Nigerians that are in a hurry to get back home to Nigeria. Stressing that it is important that the home is kept safe, Adebayo added that “An early warning system is one of the ways by which to keep the homeland safe. For us as leaders of the Black people, home for us is Nigeria, West Africa and Africa. The capacity that Nigeria has to make all these things work is what we are trying to do today.” Convener, People of Indian Origin Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PIOCCI) Indo-Nigeria Business Forum, Sanjay Srivastava, commended the wonderful initiative opened at the NIIA. According to Srivastava: “I am very impressed with the state-of-the-art laboratory and the work station. They are not only monitoring the weather but also the political situation – the community, schools, the business and so many other factors – political, geology and economics. All they are engaging in the analytics will definitely help Nigeria to move to another level. “The early warning system involves a lot of analytics, data, and with this, you can correct many things on time.” He congratulated the institute on the feat, even as he wished them a great success.