AWKA  – Although Ogbaru as a local government and Federal Constituency is a riverine agricultural area, its contribution to Nigeria’s human capital is very rich, making it a Constituency to watch. Ogbaru has 17 communities most of which are flood ridden on a yearly basis, but its closeness to Onitsha, a centre of learning in the South East must have contributed to its greatness. Here, there are such prominent figures as Hon. Henry Oseloka Obaze, retired United Nations diplomat, former Secretary to Anambra State Government and currently Deputy Director-General and Campaign manager of the Labour Party Presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi. Obaze flew the gubernatorial flag of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2017 in Anambra State. No doubt he has a stake in Saturday’s Supplementary election for Ogbaru Federal Constituency taking place in 45 polling units. His candidate, Hon. Victor Afam Ogene who represented the Constituency in 2011 already has an edge leading by 1000 votes. Then, there is Mr Oscar N. Onyema, Group Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Exchange Commission. Although he is not a run-of-the-mill politician, Oscar’s younger brother Wilfred Chukwuka Onyema, popularly known as Chu-Chu Onyema is gunning for a third term to represent the people. Then came Senator Stella Oduah. Before February 25 and the Peter Obi tsunami many people thought that Senator Odua will leave the Senate only when she wills. She and Hon. Onyema had used the PDP to colonise Ogbaru and by extension Anambra North Senatorial District. Then the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), a candidate who is also the immediate past transition Committee Chairman of Ogbaru local council, who later became a Special Assistant to former Governor Willie Obiano, Hon. Arinze Awogu has his own ambition. Being a candidate of the party in power, Awogu and his party’s nature tall ambition, especially as APGA surprised many with its performance on February 25. But like in 2011 when Ogene, former editor of Source Magazine waited patiently for the right moment, the time is here again. Like then, Senator Victor Umeh and Mr. Peter Obi were there for Ogene just as they are there now for him. So, the battle for Saturday’s election can only be imagined. The Titans who are not directly involved have their image to protect and are expected to work behind the scene to ensure their candidate wins. POLL Saturday INDEPENDENT learnt that Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo had charged top government functionaries led by the Political Adviser to the Governor, Dr. Alex Obiogbolu, who met with some stakeholders from Ogbaru Local Government Area, to ensure they take Ogbaru. Further meetings were held between Soludo’s advisers and stakeholders from Ogbaru where they were threatened if the election is lost, just like in the general election. At the meeting held at the office of the State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Hon. Collins Nwabunwanne, it was learnt that the APGA chieftains agreed to make available wristbands that would grant only APGA supporters unfettered access to the polling area, a source close to the meeting disclosed. On his own, Mr. Obi led a road show of Ogbaru Federal Constituency in support of Hon. Ogene on Thursday. Like John the Baptist, Obi urged the voters to turn a new leaf. At the various spots where he presented Ogene, Obi who was accompanied by Senator-elect Dr. Tony Nwoye and Hon. Oseloka Obaze told the people that Ogene is committed, his Labour’s philosophy of “building a new Nigeria” and told the people “I am here to beg you to vote for us, vote for Labour Party, vote for Afam Ogene, we will support him, and, he will rebuild here (Ogbaru)”. He reminded the people that he built all the roads in Ogbaru when he was governor, and that “if you vote for us in this Saturday re-run election, we will come back to thank you; Afam Ogene will develop here. “There is too much suffering in the country, that is what Labour Party wants to end by creating a new Nigeria, so we are begging you to vote for us”, Obi urged further. It will be recalled that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had after the February 25 Presidential/National Assembly polls declared the election in Ogbaru federal constituency inconclusive citing the inability of the commission to conduct an election in about 45 polling units. It stated that it could not deploy electoral materials in some of them due to violence while the election in some units was cancelled as a result of malpractices. Although Hon. Ogene led both candidates by over 1,000 votes, it was not enough to declare him the outright winner, as his margin of lead was smaller than the number of registered voters in units where elections did not hold within the federal constituency. The affected polling units were those elections did not hold in them due to INEC’s inability to deploy materials as a result of violence while in some the election was cancelled due to overvoting.