ABUJA – The military high command has described the call for the installation of an Interim National Government (ING) in the country by some Nigeri­ans as illegal and unconstitutional, saying it would do everything in its powers to defend the constitution of the country. Director, Defence Media Opera­tions (DMO), Major General Musa Danmadami, disclose this while fielding questions from newsmen on Thursday at the Defence Headquar­ters, Abuja. Maj. Gen. Danmadami said the mil­itary as a reputable institution doesnot support illegality and would do everything in its powers to defend the constitution of the country. He said the call by some ag­grieved persons in the country of an interim government following the outcome of the just concluded general elections is illegal. Danmadami said the elections have been held, concluded and a new president elected, while de­scribing those calling for an inter­im government as mischievous and nothing more. “On the issue of the Interim National Government, I don’t know why people are bringing up this issue, it is rather unfortunate. Election has been conducted and INEC who is mandated has an­nounced the president-elect. “It is not our responsibility to speak on that issue but I know that several calls have been made from the presidency that there is nothing like Interim National Government, so I think people are just trying to be mischievous. It is unconstitutional and all of us know about it.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The constitution does not provide for an Interim Nation­al Government and that is the point that the presidency has been hammering and so that is the stand. POLL “It is not our stand because that is what the constitution says. It is unconstitutional so anything that is unconstitutional as far as I am concerned it’s not applicable.” Reversal Of Cashless Policy Respon­sible For Increase In Kidnapping—DHQ Meanwhile, the Defence Head­quarters (DHQ) on Thursday claimed that the huge volume of cash in circulation now is responsible for the increase in kidnapping incidences across the country. Director-General, Defence Media Operation (DMO), Ma­jor-General Musa Danmadami stated this while answering questions at the biweekly media briefing which took place at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja. According to him, kidnappers were finding it difficult to operate when there was cash crunch, but with the availability of cash now, he said “kidnappers are gradual­ly returning to business.” He said, “I don’t want to say it categorically, but we are all aware that during the cash crunch, I am not aware if they kidnapped any­body. “There was no cash to pay for ransom, so criminals understood the fact that there was no cash. Unfortunately, with the reversal of the policy, making cash avail­able, the criminals have impetus to do what they are doing, though I know that there is still some ele­ments of cash squeeze going on. We are equally faced with that problem of cash crunch.” He, however, assured that the “military is still doing its job, we have not rested.” While briefing newsmen on troops activities and operational successes recorded in the vari­ous operational theaters within the six geo-political zones of the country in the past two weeks, Danmadami noted that both ki­netic and non-kinetic operations were conducted in the various theatres of operations with sig­nificant outcomes recorded. The brief, he said, covered op­erational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other se­curity agencies conducted in addressing the various security challenges across the country between the period of March 23 and April 6, 2023. He said, “Troops of Operation Hadin Kai in the North East zone of the country have sustained the offensive operation to curb the activities of Boko Haram terrorists/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists in the joint area of operations within the zone. “Precisely, on 23 March 2023, troops conducted offensive oper­ations to villages in Bama, Askira Uba and Mafa local government areas of Borno State. During these operations, troops made contact with terrorists and fol­lowing the fire fight, troops neu­tralised seven terrorists while others fled. “Troops recovered 1 NSTV gun, 1 NSTV barrel, 1 QJC barrel gun, 14 Dane guns, 1 pump action gun, 1 x 36 hand grenade, 27 car­tridges, 81 rounds of 7.62mm spe­cial, 7 rounds of 12.7mm ammo, improvised explosive device wires, 7 motorcycles, 8 bicycles, 2 boafeng radios, 2 solar panel and 2 grinding machines among other items. “Also, on 24 March 23, troops responded to intelligence about terrorists activities around Mais­amari village in Damboa Local Government Area of Borno State. “Troops mobilized to the area and made contact with the terror­ists. During the encounter, troops neutralized 2 terrorists and re­covered 2 PKT MG, 188 rounds of 7.62x54mm ammunitions, 1 hand grenade, 4 Ak47 magazines, pouches, boafeng radio, assorted drugs and other sundry items. “Furthermore, on 25 March 2023, troops had a meeting en­gagement with terrorists close to their location in Kawuri in Kon­duga Local Government Area of Borno State. “During the encounter, troops neutralized 2 terrorists while oth­ers fled with gunshot wounds. Following the incident, troops recovered 2 AK47 rifles, 1 NSVT AA gun, 1 Gun Truck, 140 rounds of 7.62mm special, 1 vulcanizing machine, 3 shovels, 1 mechanic tool box and other sundry items.”