Social safety net programmes need to be improved and expanded to contribute towards the realization of the right to food, facilitate access to food for the poor and vulnerable, alleviate hardship and promote well-being.’ SIAKA MOMOH A new report issued by the WTO, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Bank Group (WBG) on 13 April urges the G20 to coordinate efforts on tackling the root causes of food insecurity. The report emphasizes the need for a unified approach and suggests that the G20 is in a unique position to facilitate collective action. It recommends focusing on improving the supply of development finance to support agriculture investments and to promote sustainable and inclusive economic growth in rural areas. The report, titled “Rising Global Food Insecurity: Assessing Policy Responses”, was produced at the request of G20 leaders in their G20 Bali Declaration of November 2022, where they asked the FAO and WBG to undertake a mapping exercise on the global response to rising food insecurity, identify any gaps in this response, and recommend further actions to eradicate hunger. At the beginning of 2022 global food security was already in a state of deterioration as a result of the measures adopted to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, new or pre-existing conflicts, weather shocks and global economic slowdown. Up to 828 million people were hungry in 2021. The number of people affected by chronic hunger had grown by about 150 million since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. After remaining relatively unchanged since 2015, the prevalence of undernourishment in the world jumped from 8.0 in 2019 to 9.3 percent in 2020 and rose at a slower pace in 2021 to 9.8 percent. Severe food insecurity increased in every region of the world in 2021, including in high-income regions. Nearly 30 percent of the world population were moderately or severely food insecure in 2021 and 11.7 percent faced food insecurity at severe levels. The estimates also suggest that 3.1 billion people globally could not afford a healthy diet in 2020, an increase of 112 million more people than in 2019. Projections suggest that nearly 670 million people globally, equating to 8 percent of the world population, would still be undernourished in ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ 2030, placing the world off track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal of Zero Hunger. Moreover, the disparity between men’s and women’s food security is 8.4 times as great as it was in 2018 and will likely increase with the compounding effects of the global food security crisis. POLL The fact that severe food insecurity rose across all regions should prompt a reflection on national policy priorities, as well as on the global responses. Rising hunger has reverberations upon other dimensions of malnutrition, including micronutrients deficiency, and impacts peoples’ ability to engage productively in the broader economy. At the same time, a confluence of factors led to increasing food prices in 2020 and 2021. As demand started to recover in mid-2020 from the dramatic decrease in economic activity at the beginning of the pandemic, agricultural commodity prices rebounded from a 10- year low in May 2020. Increasing fuel and transportation costs added momentum to the surge in food prices. On the supply side, weather-related production shortfalls and logistics bottlenecks also contributed, though less significantly than the demand-side drivers Recommendations In details, the report recommended the following: • Emergency humanitarian assistance: Funding must keep pace with the needs. More funds are needed for emergency food and livelihood operations and for other emergency measures that preserve livelihoods and reduce future short-term needs. • Social safety net programmes: An integrated, people-centered policy approach is needed, which must include food-related policies. The countries with the greatest need have the fewest resources and the smallest capacity to protect vulnerable households. Social safety net programmes need to be improved and expanded to contribute towards the realization of the right to food, facilitate access to food for the poor and vulnerable, alleviate hardship and promote well being. • Increasing resilience: Key to building the shock-absorptive capacity of an agrifood system is diversity in food sources, diversity in actors in food supply chains, including small and medium agrifood enterprises, efficient transport networks, effective early warning systems, early action plans and social protection, and affordability of a healthy diet for all households, particularly the poorest and most vulnerable. • Fertilizer: Urgent action is needed to facilitate access to fertilizers for farmers invulnerable areas, while also increasing investment in long-term solutions. Efforts must also be deployed to improve fertilizer use efficiency, for instance by investing in and using soil nutrient maps, and reduce dependency on mineral fertilizers. The AfricaFertilizer and Soil Health Summit will be key to set priority actions for the continent, and its outcomes should be supported with concrete actions. • Finance: Countries need to be provided with fiscal space to protect their populations from the impacts of the soaring food price inflation. Donor funding, concessional loans,and emergency relief through the IMF Food Shock Window are critical. A broader food import financing facility, such as that proposed by FAO, which will expand the IMF Food Shock Window, will ease their immediate food import financing burden of vulnerable countries and help them mitigate long-lasting impacts on their agrifood systems, reducing future needs for emergency assistance. While recommendations on debt relief and restructuring are beyond the scope of this report, there is no question that such actions would provide more fiscal space to offset the impact of elevated food, fuel and fertilizer prices on poor households.