P/HARCOURT – In an attempt to cushion the unfortunate effect of food insecurity in Nigeria caused mainly by terrorist activities in some parts of the country, the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, said it was committed to transforming agriculture from its current rudimentary level to modern commercial business that will guarantee food security for residents of the Niger Delta region. Speaking during a presentation meeting by the KASHA International Agricultural Development Organisation, at the NDDC headquarters in Port Harcourt, Rivers state, the Executive Director, Projects, Mr. Charles Ogunmola, stated that the Commission will partner with other organisations to promote modern agricultural practices in the country. He stated that agriculture remained a key sector with enormous potential to create jobs for our teeming unemployed youths, noting: “The Goat Multiplication Project could be a very effective way of introducing creativity in the agricultural sector. “As a dynamic Management, we are looking for ways to drive productive outcomes in our region through agriculture.” He said further: “We do not want to engage in bogus programs and Projects, but projects that are sustainable and achievable through agriculture.” In her presentation, the Country Representative and Director African Project for KASHA International Agricultural Development Organisation, Ms. Hilda Josef, said that the organization was willing to work with the NDDC in introducing modern reproductive methods in the breeding of animals, especially goats, in the Niger Delta region. Josef said that agriculture was pivotal to the development and sustenance of every society, stressing that the use of scientific methods in the area of reproduction enhances the efficiency and productivity of the food production process.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She stressed the need for farmers to be passionate about what they do. “When you are passionate, you will think differently and stand out. Agriculture has so much prospects and opportunities available to be tapped,” she said. POLL In his own speech, the NDDC Director Agriculture and Fisheries, Mr. Seigha Glasgow, said that the focus on agriculture would help to diversify the resource base of the country and reduce the dependence on oil and gas in the Niger Delta. He observed that the NDDC had always recognized agriculture as the way forward for Nigeria, adding that it would continue to support IFAD to integrate rural dwellers into agricultural entrepreneurship. He said that the NDDC is making efforts in the Niger Delta region to remove thousands of youths and women from poverty through various creative agricultural enterprises. In another development, the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, has reaffirmed its commitment to work with key stakeholders to determine the arears of priority in the conception and execution of projects in the Niger Delta region. The NDDC Managing Director, Dr. Samuel Ogbuku, stated this at the Council Chambers of the University of Port Harcourt while on working visit to the University. He was accompanied by the NDDC Executive Director Finance and Administration, Maj-Gen. Charles Airhiavbere (Rtd), the Executive Director, Projects, Mr. Charles Ogunmola and other Directors. Ogbuku told members of the University’s Governing Council that the NDDC would incorporate the needs of major stakeholders in its 2024 budget. He said: “We are here to understand what your priorities are, we believe it is not enough to conceive projects. We have to interface with the beneficiaries, including stakeholders like state governments, to execute meaningful projects and avoid duplication of projects.” Ogbuku said it had become necessary to involve the Commission’s stakeholders in the formulation phases of the NDDC’s planning in order to give stakeholders in the Niger Delta region what was needful and sustainable. He noted that members of the university community across the nine NDDC mandate states were critical stakeholders of the Commission. “You are very important to us because amongst the stakeholders of the NDDC, we believe that you are very important.” The NDDC Chief Executive Officer explained that inadequate financial resources necessitated the Commission’s adoption of a Public Private Partnership, PPP, approach to developing the Niger Delta region. “We have made provisions for partnership in our budget. Partnership brings more mileage to development where finance and technical limitations will be significantly reduced or eliminated. The Commission is open to partnership with the University in the area of research and other benefits it can offer.” Speaking earlier, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Port Harcourt, Professor Georgewill Owunari, commended the NDDC boss for being an exemplary alumnus of the University. He said that the main campus of the University was flush with NDDC projects but noted that the burgeoning population of the University called for more infrastructure. He described Dr. Ogbuku as “one of the Icons that have passed through this university. Your hard work and dedication as an individual have opened higher doors for you.” The NDDC has made several remarkable interventions in the University of Port Harcourt, all of which were more than 80 per cent completed. In his own remarks, the Pro-Chancellor, of the University, Senator Andrew Uchendu, commended the NDDC boss for identifying with his Alma Mater, noting: “You are a very focused, humble, and humane gentleman. This charisma is worthy of emulation.” Ogbuku’s working visit was well received by the university community, especially for the students, who were led by the President of the Students’ Union Government, Comrade Dickson Senibo, to give the visiting