WARRI – Chief Nick Ovuokporie, the former Secretary of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, has called on the APC Governorship flagbearer, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege to congratulate the Governor-elect in the State, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ovuakporie who spoke in Warri said “the Deputy President of the Senate should demonstrate the spirit of sportsmanship and be patriotic enough to congratulate the Governor-elect rather than wasting energies on election petition that will lead him nowhere”. The former Delta State APC scribe who defected to the PDP on January 24th, few weeks to the Presidential/Governorship election made the call while speaking with journalists in Warri, Delta State, on Friday. According to Ovuokporie, Senator Omo-Agege should congratulate the Governor-elect. He should congratulate His Excellency in the waiting, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, the Governor-elect, Ovuokporie emphasized in his speech that Senator Omo-Agege should congratulate Oborevwori because it is not a wise thing to challenge or appeal the verdict of the electorates especially when it is very clear that the Delta gubernatorial election was conducted in a free fair and credible manner. Speaking further , he remarked: ” Senator Omo-Agege should prove himself as a Statesman by making a call to congratulate the winner, RT Hon Sheriff Francis Orohwedor Oborevwori join hands with him to move the State forward. He explained that there is no need for unnecessary bickering, rather the most reasonable thing to do is for Senator Omo-Agege to tow the path of honourand congratulate the winner .‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Chief Nick Ovuakporie who was a pioneer member of APC in Delta State is believed to have contributed imersesly to the Political fortune of Ovie Omo-Agege, primarily in assisting him to take over the control of Delta State leadership structure of the APC as reported in the events that surrounded the APC congresses before their relationship got frosty. POLL Ovuokporie maintained that , his move in defecting from APC to PDP altered the political equation in Delta State and gave final blow to Omo-Agege’s governorship dream. A dependable source also affirmed that the defection of Ovuokporie was what gave a final blow to the APC and ended Omo-Agege’s dream of becoming governor, of Delta State. Looking into the Political horizon of Delta State, Ovuokporie said: “I have no regret for leaving the APC at the time l did, l must express my delight over the emergence of Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori of the PDP as the Governor-elect in Delta State. He spoke further, “The PDP victory was a confirmation of the good work and purposeful leadership of Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa in the State particularly his infrastructural revolution.“Above all, it is victory of democracy over evil. It was a victory for the masses and average Deltans. It was a defeat of the actions of evil. He added :“I was very happy. But I was not surprised because I knew PDP was going to win due to the landmark achievements of the incumbent Governor, Senator (Dr.) Ifeanyi Okowa, who has developed all facets of the State economy. Continuing, he posited: ” Góvernór Okowa has impacted on all areas of development, there is no part of the State that is left undeveloped, as it were,l saw clearly ahead of me, and my action was well guided by divine direction . It was about the interest of our dear State and, like I said, a defeat of the actions of evil.” He further asserted: ” I have no regret at all for joining the PDP and partaking in this victory. I did my best to ensure victory for the party within the Statehort period I joined, and that is evident in the elections result from my unit 12 in Oyede ward 12 Isoko North L.G.A. I won my Unit and I won my Ward in the Governorship and State House of Assembly elections. I defeated APC and all other parties at the polls. In the Presidential election, I also won my Unit for the Atiku/Okowa ticket. I have no regret at all”. Chief Nick Ovuakporie who urged his kinsmen across Isoko nation of Delta State to “keep faith with the PDP and the Governor-elect said: ” I am fully convinced that “Oborevwori would consolidate on the achievements of the outgoing Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, and advance the Delta State to the next level”