Leicester City have sacked Brendan Rodgers after the Foxes dropped into the relegation zone following a deflating 2-1 defeat to Crystal Palace. Former Celtic, Liverpool and Swansea boss Rodgers took over at the King Power Stadium in 2019 and guided Leicester to its first FA Cup trophy two years ago. Leicester secured successive fifth-place finishes in Rodgers’ first two seasons at the club, narrowly missing out on Champions League football on the final day of the 2020-21 season. There was a slight drop-off last season, when Leicester finished eighth, but few would have predicted the club’s struggles this term. The Foxes have won just seven of their 28 league games and suffered a fifth defeat in six on Saturday as they lost 2-1 to Crystal Palace. Leicester took the lead at Selhurst Park through Ricardo Pereira’s 56th-minute strike but Palace soon equalised before Jean-Philippe Mateta scored an injury-time winner. The result left Leicester one point adrift of safety in 18th with ten games remaining.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Leicester chairman Aiyawatt Srivaddhanaprabha said: ‘The achievements of the team under Brendan’s management speak for themselves – we’ve experienced some of our finest footballing moments under his guidance and will always be grateful to him and his staff for the heights they helped us to reach on the pitch. POLL ‘Off the pitch, Brendan embraced the culture of the club and helped cultivate an outstanding developmental environment, particularly during the transition to Seagrave, and provided strong leadership during the unprecedented challenge of the coronavirus pandemic. His place in Leicester City history is assured. ‘However, performances and results during the current season have been below our shared expectations. It had been our belief that continuity and stability would be key to correcting our course, particularly given our previous achievements under Brendan’s management. ‘Regrettably, the desired improvement has not been forthcoming and, with 10 games of the season remaining, the Board is compelled to take alternative action to protect our Premier League status. The task ahead of us in our final 10 games is clear. We now need to come together – fans, players and staff – and show the poise, quality and fight to secure our position as a Premier League club.’ Leicester have confirmed that Rodgers’ assistant Chris Davies has also left, with long-serving first-team coaches Adam Sadler and Mike Stowell in charge of training and match preparation until a permanent manager is appointed. The Foxes host Aston Villa on Tuesday night before facing relegation rivals Bournemouth at the weekend.