MultiChoice, the leading enter­tainment company in Nigeria, has announced that it will be renumbering channels on the GOtv platform to improve the viewing experience of its cus­tomers. The renumbering of the GOtv channels will group similar channels together to make it easier for viewers to find and watch their favorite shows. GOtv is embarking on this journey to optimise its channel numbering system and make it easier for customers to find their preferred programs and movies. The aim is to improve the overall entertainment ex­perience for GOtv viewers by making it easier to discover new content and keep up with their favorite programs. Speaking on the objective of the renumbering, Executive Head of Content and West Af­rica Channels, Dr. Busola Te­jumola, stated that the goal of MultiChoice is to provide the best family entertainment ex­perience to viewers. “The new channel numbering system will make it easier for customers to find their favorite programs and discover new content, while also allowing for new channels to be added without too much disrup­tion”. The improved GOtv chan­nel numbering approach will include blocks for flagship channels, popular local chan­nels, movies, and telenovelas. This will help customers find the channels they want with­out excessive scrolling. After the channel renumbering, Af­rica Magic Yoruba, Hausa, and Igbo will air on GOtv channels 2, 3, and 4 respectively. Africa Magic Epic, Family, and Urban are now housed on channels 6, 7, and 8, respectively. Sports channels have also been relocated. SS Blitz, SS Football, and SS La Liga are now on channels 60, 61, and 62, while channels 80 to 86 now fea­ture all kids’ channels including JimJam, Nick Junior, Disney Junior, PBS Kids, and more. Movie channels M-Net Movies 4, Movie Room, and TNT Africa have been reassigned to chan­nels 50, 51, and 52 respectively. The channel renumbering will commence on Wednesday, 19 April 2023, and will provide an even more seamless experi­ence for GOtv customers. The company’s commitment to de­livering quality entertainment remains unchanged, and the new numbering system will ensure that GOtv continues to offer the best viewing experi­ence to its esteemed customers. Customers can subscribe or upgrade and enjoy a world of pure entertainment on GOtv by visiting www.gotvafrica.com or downloading the MyGOtv App.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒