The leadership of Nigeria’s Nursing and Midwifery Council has granted the request by the management of Okezie School of Midwifery, Akhaba General Hospital, Abiriba in Ohafia local government area of Abia State to admit two streams of students. The approval came on the heels of the request submitted by the management of the Abia School of Midwifery on November 30, 2022 to the Nursing and Midwifery Council, seeking their approval to admit two streams of students in the school. The Nursing and Midwifery Council in a letter dated April 12 which was signed by Ndagi Alhassan, Director(Nursing) and Head of Department (HOD) Standard and Accreditation Department for the Secretary-General/Registrar of the council; Dr. Faruk Umar Abubakar, directed that the approval for the intake of the two streams of nursing and midwifery students was with immediate effect. Abubakar further charged the management of Okezie School of Midwifery to reciprocate the council’s gesture by continuing to promote and maintain standard in Nursing and Midwifery education in their institution. The statement read “I am directed to acknowledge receipt of your letter date 30th of November, 2022 on the above subject the content is noted. “I am further directed to inform you that the Secretary-General/Registrar has gracious considered and approved your request to have double streams in your institution as requested. “Please note the approval takes immediate effect.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is our hope that you will reciprocate this gesture by continuing to promote and maintain standard in Nursing and Midwifery education in your institution.” POLL Reacting to the development, indigenes of Abiriba community, including the state Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Commerce, Chief John Okiyi-Kalu who thanked the state government for citing the school in the area, also thanked the Nursing and Midwifery Council for giving approval for intake of students in the school which they said has opened a new vista of opportunity for millions of Abians and Nigerians seeking to study nursing and midwifery. Information has it that this was the first time that all schools of nursing and midwifery in Abia were fully accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council.