Lionel Messi has reportedly been spotted arriving in Barcelona this weekend along with his family and ’14 suitcases’ in tow. Barcelona have made no secret of their attempts to bring the Argentina superstar back to the Nou Camp this summer. His Paris Saint-Germain contract expires at the end of the season and the Ligue 1 giants appear to have given up on talks over a new deal. Messi broke down in tears during an emotional farewell to Barcelona back in 2021 when he left the club he joined at the age of 13 on a free transfer. He’s set to win his second Ligue 1 title with PSG as the French side sits nine points clear at top of the table with just six games remaining. But he looks set to depart the Parc des Princes stadium this summer in a sensational return to Barcelona. Adding to the speculation of an impending return, transfer expert Gerard Romero claims Messi has arrived in Barcelona this weekend. It’s claimed the Argentina international made his trip on a ‘private flight’ and had his family with him while he was ‘hidden in terminal one’. Messi is also said to have had ’14 suitcases’ with him, further suggesting he has prepared for a full-time return to Barcelona. The purpose of Messi’s visit is not made clear, but his arrival in Spain only adds to the speculation on his future. Barcelona president Joan Laporta has admitted repeatedly over recent months that the club are trying to bring Messi back. “I have to find a way to improve Messi’s current relationship with Barcelona,” he said recently. “We’ll see, but he knows that Barcelona’s doors are open to him. Messi is the best player in history. He has been the most important player in Barcelona’s history.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I have to be very careful with what I say because he is a PSG player and I have to have respect.” Xavi has also been asked on several occasions about the prospect of Messi returning with the Barcelona boss echoing Laporta’s statements. POLL “It will depend on many factors,” said Xavi. “We must see what the Financial Fair Play rules allow us to do. “There are many things at stake but I think the most important factor will be Leo’s desire to come back here. Leo knows this is his home and that our doors are open, and that we will be delighted if he decides to come back to Barca. But it depends on many factors.”