KANO – The 15th Fulani Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero on Sunday expressed profound appreciation to the outgoing Governor of Kano, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and for his support that paved for him to ascend the throne of his forefathers. The scion of Dabo dynasty was first installed as emir of Bichi by Dr. Ganduje’s administration following the balkanization of once monolithic emirate into 5 before he was eventually appointed Emir of Kano shortly after the erstwhile CBN governor, Malam Muhammadu Sanusi II was dethroned May 9th, 2020. Aminu Ado Bayero who paid the traditional Sallah homage “Hawan Nassarawa” to the Governor at the Government House explained that he would never forget the gesture till the end of his life Bayero said “We will never forget till the end of my life the kindest support you accorded that pave way for me to ascend the throne of my forefathers”. The emir who was accompanied by member of Kano enirate Council, Royal Guards, Royal Jesters, and thousands of artisan prayed unto to “Allah to continue to guide and promote you in your endeavours the Emir prayed”. The first class monarch stated that Kano state under the leadership of Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje witnessed alot of giant strides and transformation. Bayero however stressed that “This was achieved due to the strong relationship between the emirate and the state government”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Emir also commended the commitment of the government for enhancing the security in the state which made Kano one of the most peaceful states in the country. POLL He urged people in the state to give their maximum cooperation towards the success of the population census which will take place in the country. Gov.Ganduje who was represented by his deputy Dr.Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna at the historic visit said the administration is appreciative of the support given by the Kano Emirate in executing laudable programmes and policies for the development of the State in the last eight years. He also noted that the recent official trips made by the Emir to various countries have brought development to the State.