Former Nigeria’s Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar (retd) has called on Nigerians within and in the diaspora to give peace a chance by respecting and tolerating one another irrespective of religious, tribal and regional affiliations. Also, the Etsu Nupe and Chairman Niger State Council of Traditional Rulers, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar has challenged adherents of the Islamic faith to fervently pray for a smooth and successful transition, handover of power by President Muhammadu Buhari to an incoming civilian administration. Both personalities spoke after observing the two rakaats prayer to mark the year’s eid-el-fitr at the Minna Central prayer ground and at the Bida eid praying ground after the congregational prayers on Friday. The need for Nigerians, wherever they may find themselves to be peaceful and respect one another, former President Abdulsalam said has become necessary because there can be no meaningful development in a society where there is no respect for one another, especially in a heterogeneous society like Nigeria. Peace is the pre requisite for any meaningful development without which the needed quest for Nigeria’s economic and socio-political growth and development would continue to elude us, adding that, “Elections have come and gone let’s try and see how we can support the incoming administration”. While saluting the Muslim Ummah in Nigeria and world over for celebrating eid el fitr, the former President advised them to imbibe the tenants Islam and as well put into practice what they have learnt during the Ramadan fast. Also in Bida, the Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubarkar while addressing his subjects shortly after the two Raka’at prayers at the Bida Eid praying ground during congregational prayers on Friday emphasised that only fervent and ceaseless prayers would ensure peaceful transition of power to the incoming administration. The Royal Father also stressed the need for the Muslims to sustain the good lessons learnt during the holy month of Ramadan and to pray for those in leadership position for sustainable peace and unity in the country. In a related development, the former state Governor, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu stressed the need for Muslims to be thankful to Allah for his mercies that has made it possible for us to be part of the 2023 eid-el-fitr, pointing out that ‘many people died this morning and they saw the last day of Ramadan but were not able to be part of the eid el fitr’. Babangida Aliyu also encouraged well to do Muslims to make sure they uphold the act of charity and giving especially to neighbours by making sure they are happy hence the reason for given out Zakkatil fitr as ordained by Allah to assist poor Muslims who cannot feed themselves. Our correspondent reports that the eid-el-fitr celebration in parts of Niger state was generally peaceful and orderly, while Governor Abubakar Sani Bello performed his eid-el-fitr prayers in Suleja with Emir of Zazzau Suleja, Malam Muhammad Auwal Ibrahim.