The royal family is A-OK with Meghan Markle missing King Charles III’s coronation. “I think everyone’s delighted she’s not coming,” former BBC reporter Tom Bower tells Page Six in an exclusive new interview. “They made sure that she wasn’t going to come by making sure that she was told she’d have to curtsy three times, that she wouldn’t be in the spotlight, that she wouldn’t play any part in the whole thing and that if she came, they’d be put in row 54 in the back behind the column,” the “Revenge: Meghan, Harry and the War Between the Windsors” author jokes. After weeks of speculation, Buckingham Palace announced earlier this month that Prince Harry will attend his father’s crowning ceremony by himself. “Buckingham Palace is pleased to confirm that the Duke of Sussex will attend the coronation service at Westminster Abbey on May 6,” a palace spokesperson told Page Six on April 12. “The Duchess of Sussex will remain in California with Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet.” The historic event falls on the same day as Archie’s 4th birthday. Page Six exclusively reported that Markle felt it would be “inauthentic” for her to go to the coronation in light of the drama that has followed her and Harry’s royal exit in 2020.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “They had to make a decision that felt genuine and authentic, especially after everything that has been said and all the things that have gone down,” an insider familiar with the family told us. POLL “The words that Harry and Meghan have said about the importance of their family are lining up with their actions. “They care about their family, so Meghan is going to stay [in California] and Harry is going to support his dad.” The “Suits” alum, 41, previously accused the royal institution of driving her to suicidal thoughts. “I just didn’t want to be alive anymore,” she told Oprah Winfrey in a 2021 interview. “I would sit up at night, and I was just like, ‘I don’t understand how all of this is being churned out,’” she added, referring to the avalanche of criticism. Markle said her mother and friends told her, “‘Meg, they’re not protecting you,’” referring to the palace. “And I realized it was all happening just because I was breathing,” the duchess shared before noting that it was “very clear” she was harboring suicidal thoughts. Another member of the royal family who will not be attending is Sarah Ferguson, the ex-wife of Prince Andrew. The novelist shared that she is not offended about not making the star-studded guest list. “You can’t have it both ways. You mustn’t sit on the fence. You’re either in or out, but don’t muck around,” the Duchess of York, who divorced Andrew in 1996, said on “Good Morning Britain” Thursday. This will be the first time Harry, 38, sees his family since the release of his controversial memoir, “Spare,” in January.