MAKURDI – Apostles Dr. Paul Ameh, a Chris­tian cleric of Paula Ameh Minis­tries based in Lagos, has insisted that the killings and other forms of insecurity in Benue State are spiritually sponsored. The cleric, who disclosed this in Makurdi while addressing a press conference organised by his ministry in conjunction with Covenant Believers Centre, Mak­urdi, Benue State, also noted that the state was sick and in dire need of healing. Ameh, who pointed out that Benue needed the intervention of God through prayers, further noted that the planned Revival Conference to be held in the state is a spiritual revival to meet the needs of the people. According to him, “The insecu­rity in the state calls for prayers. All the killings and chaos in the state are sponsored spiritually. No matter what you do if you try to curb it physically, it will come (back) in another form. “And because I see a lot of spiritual suffering; the people are going through a lot of pain. This conference is a spiritual revival for Benue State for God to meet the needs of the people, spiritually. It is a revival service to reach out to the spiritual needs of the people. “There should be unity in the religious sector of the state. There should be religious coop­eration and harmony. Our land is sick and that is why it is pro­jecting blood. “Spiritual leaders should come together and pray against whatever had gone wrong that made God withdraw His hand from the land.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I believe that once we call for prayers God will heal the land. The land is sick. All of the killing is a reflection of a sick land. POLL “We have to manage politics and religion very well so that we do not throw innocent people into painful situations. Men of God need to be united because God does not work in disunity. I believe we are going to see a new season in Nigeria.” Answering questions from newsmen on the transition to a new government, Ameh opined that politicians elected to serve in various positions have a vision which must be utilised to impact positively on the lives of the peo­ple. While he advised incoming governments at the first and sec­ond tiers of governance to stick to the vision and promises made to the electorate, he observed that corruption is no longer in vogue, so leaders should strive to leave legacies which are of great influ­ence.