Monkeypox is a rare disease caused by infection with the monkeypox virus. Monkeypox virus belongs to the Orthopoxvirus genus in the family Poxviridae. The Orthopoxvirus genus also includes variola virus (which causes smallpox), vaccinia virus (used in the smallpox vaccine), and cowpox virus. There are two clades of monkeypox virus: the West African clade and the Congo Basin (Central African) clade. Description A double-stranded DNA virus is related to the variola virus (the cause of smallpox), vaccinia virus, and cowpox virus. Discovered first in monkeys used for research in late 1950s; first human case in the 1970s in the Democratic Republic of Congo Epidemiology ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Predominantly found in Africa POLL In the United States in 2021, an outbreak occurred in Texas related to imported pets. Detected in a variety of animals, including man, rodents, and monkeys. As of June 10, 2022, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports 1,300 cases worldwide with 45 U.S. cases. For non-endemic countries, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom have the greatest documented cases. Etiology And Pathophysiology Transmission can be through contact with infected bodily secretions (including saliva), via the respiratory tract, skin injury, or fomites. Natural reservoir is unknown; however, rodents and primates have been found to harbor the virus and infect humans. Animal-to-human transmission has occurred with animal bites, scratches, contact with infected secretions, and skin lesions. Human-to-human transmission has been reported via respiratory and direct contact with infected secretions and skin lesions as well as sexual contact. Incubation is seen within 21 days of exposure. Risk factors Travel to Africa Physical or respiratory contact with contaminated exposures General prevention Smallpox vaccine may be effective at limiting the severity of Monkeypox infection. Limit exposure to those infected Diagnosis History Almost 100% of patients have a prodrome of fever with chills, malaise, and headaches. Travel to or exposure to someone who has traveled to an endemic region. Physical Exam Evolving rash begins within 1 to 3 days of fever onset, starting on the face and progressing to the rest of the body. Initially macules that become papular, then vesicular to pustules that eventually scab Rash can become painful as it evolves. Treatment Monkeypox is usually self-limiting but may be severe in some individuals such as children, pregnant women, or persons with immune suppression due to other health conditions. Smallpox vaccine may be of benefit. Vaccinia immune globulin (VIG) may be considered. Antivirals have been considered based on outcomes in animal studies. General Measures Supportive care Patient education: isolate until the scabs have fallen off and abstain from sex, including oral sex. Alert Anyone caring for a person sick with monkeypox should use personal protective measures, including wearing a mask and cleaning objects and surfaces that have been touched. Prognosis For those without immunodeficiency, the infection is usually self-limited. Complications Severe scarring from healed lesions, ocular complications (keratitis, corneal ulceration, and eventual blindness), pneumonia, respiratory failure, cyanosis, bacteremia, sepsis, hemodynamic shock, and death Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is a Harvard Medical School scholar affiliated with Parkland Hospital, Texas, United States. He specializes in internal medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com