DAMATURU – Governor of Yobe state, Mai Mala Buni, has felicitated with the Muslim Ummah, and the people of Yobe state on the Eid-el-fitr Sallah celebration marking the end of the one month Ramadan fasting. The Governor also in a statement made available to newsmen in Damaturu congratulated Muslims who were privileged to perform the lesser Hajj (Ummrah) in Saudi Arabia and wish them safe return to Nigeria. He prayed to Allah (SWT) to reward everyone for the Ramadan fasting and forgive their shortcomings. The Governor urged the faithfuls to pray for a lasting peace and prosperity in Yobe state and Nigeria. Buni said the Ramadan fasting inculcates patience, devotion, self-control, truthfulness, humility, kindness, tolerance, forgiveness and other virtues of Islam which should be maintained after the fasting period. He reminded the faithfuls to give out Zakatul Fitr to the needy as a climax to the one month religious obligation. “Giving out measures of foodstuff to the poor and needy among us as stipulated by Islam is an act of worship that strengthens bond of unity and promotes happiness, mercy and love.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Let us also be reminded that the Sallah celebration is also a period of sacrifice and generosity. We should continue to be generous to our neighbours to make life more meaningful to others. POLL “I wish to express my utmost gratitude to Almighty Allah for the relative peace enjoyed across the state. We should not loose faith by the sad and unfortunate killing of some people around Buni Gari in Gujba Local Government Area. “It is with sadness that we also recorded the sad car crash in Damaturu killing some and injuring others. “May the souls of the departed rest in Peace and, l wish the victims hospitalised speedy recovery” Governor Buni prayed. He commended the security agencies for their commitment to duty, urging them to remain vigilant and proactive to curb the menace of bad elements. Governor Buni further called on Nigerians to pray for a peaceful and successful transition of power in the country. The Governor wished everyone a successful and peaceful Sallah celebration. Similarly, the Emir of Fika and Chairman Yobe State Council of Traditional Rulers Dr Muhammadu Ibn Abali Muhammadu Idrissa has appealed to parents to closely monitor the behavior of their children to avoid involving in drug abuse and other associated crimes. He used the forum to urge farmers to clear their farms and remain ready “experts predicted early rainfall this season”.