The Leader Of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele has revealed the states where some elected governors can be sacked and replaced with the candidates of opposition parties. In a statement signed by his media aide, Osho Oluwatosin, Primate Ayodele noted that the PDP candidate in Kaduna, Isah Ashiru can reclaim his stolen mandate in court and ensure the sack of Uba Sani of the All Progressive Congress (APC). In Enugu state, Primate Ayodele mentioned that the PDP candidate, Peter Mbah shouldn’t rejoice yet because the Labour party can be declared as the rightful winner of the election in court. ‘’The governors-elect of Kaduna and Enugu states should not rejoice yet. I don’t see their victory standing for long because the candidates of the PDP and Labour Party respectively can still reclaim their mandate. The court may sack them and give victory to the opposition parties’’. In Ogun state, Primate Ayodele explained that Governor Dapo Abiodun’s seat is shaking and that the PDP has a chance to get him sacked by the court but the party isn’t serious. He urged Dapo Abiodun to strategize well to make it difficult for him to be removed. Also, Primate Ayodele urged the governorship candidate of Labour party in Lagos, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour not to pursue any case in the court because it will lead to a mere waste of money, likewise Abia state governorship candidate. ‘’In Ogun state, the PDP has a chance to reclaim its mandate but the party is not serious. If Governor Dapo Abiodun strategizes well, it will be difficult to remove him even though his seat is shaking.’’‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ‘’In Lagos state, the Labour party cannot record any success at the tribunal, it will be a mere waste of money. Abia state PDP governorship candidate should not also attempt to approach the court, he will be disgraced’’Speaking on the supplementary elections to be held in Adamawa state later this month, Primate Ayodele revealed that the APC candidate, Aishatu Binani will not win the election but warned the PDP candidate, Ahmadu Fintiri to stay on alert as he foresees the APC engaging in some manipulations. POLL ‘’In Adamawa state, the APC candidate, Aishatu Binani cannot win the governorship election, the PDP candidate, Ahmadu Fintiri will still retain his seat but he has to be on alert because APC will want to try to manipulate the election.’’