REPORTING FROM WASHINGTON DC – Amid rising public debts and debt servicing burdens among low-income countries, including Nigeria, the In­ternational Monetary Fund (IMF) has implored the governments to undertake fiscal consolidation when conditions are favourable, tight fiscal policy, along with policies that include structural reforms aimed at promot­ing growth. Nigeria’s total public debt stock, consisting of the domestic and exter­nal debt stocks of the Federal Govern­ment, 36 state governments and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) was N46.25 trillion ($103.11 billion) at the end of December 2022. This is a  14.46 percent increase compared to N39.56 trillion ($95.77 billion) recorded on December 31, 2021. With the planned securi­tisation of the N23.7 trillion CBN loan the debt stock could amount to about N77 trillion by middle of this year. Finance Minister, Zainab Ahmed, recently said that total public debt would rise to 35.3% of GDP from 22.97% with the loan securitisation. Paulo Medas, Division Chief, Fiscal Affairs Department of IMF, while speaking at the on­going Spring Meetings of the World Bank Group in Washing­ton D.C. USA, on Wednesday, stated: “What we have seen in the dynamics, especially in African countries, is that debt continues to rise. “The problem is because the deficits remain elevated, but the other part is because interest rates are rising, and many of these countries are also recording depreciation of the currencies which also raises debt. “So, this has intensified tax system sustainability concerns that need to be addressed.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “At the same time, you are dealing with these very difficult conditions, including food inse­curity, as there are more than 130 million people in Africa alone who are living under extreme food insecurity.” POLL Giving more general clue on what is happening in these coun­tries while making recommen­dations on the way out, Medas stated: “What we recommend in this perspective is that there is a need for tight fiscal policy. “The first set of measures should be focused on containing inflation, but the other challenge here is heightened debt sustain­ability concern and a lack of ac­cess to financing. “But we need to do this in a way that protects the most vulnerable, and there are two things we see which are that tax revenues remain low in most low-income countries in Africa. For example, tax revenues in low income countries remain five percent of GDP on average for people in emerging markets. So, there should be more efforts to increase tax capacity, create fiscal space, not only to manage the debt burdens, the rising debt burden, but also to address these other priorities to achieve the de­velopment goals. “The other part we see is im­proved quality and efficiency of spending in many of these coun­tries where you have untargeted subsidies like energy subsidies, but structuring these subsidies make it much more targeted while protecting those that are more vulnerable and this will help those who really need it and increase savings or other priorities. “Speaking further on mea­sures to address these difficul­ties for countries that can afford a moderate and gradual reduc­tion in debt ratios, it’s best to undertake fiscal consolidation when conditions are favourable, along with policies that include structural reforms aimed at pro­moting growth. Having strong institutional frameworks can prevent ‘below the line’ opera­tions that undermine debt re­duction efforts and ensure that countries indeed build buffers and reduce debt during good times. “Countries facing increased funding pressures or already in debt distress may have no viable alternative than a substantial or rapid debt reduction. Fiscal con­solidation will likely be needed to regain market confidence and recover macroeconomic stabili­ty in these countries. “In addition, policymakers should also consider timely debt restructuring. If pursued, the restructuring will need to be deep to reduce debt ratios. “For restructurings to suc­ceed, global policymakers must also promote mechanisms to enhance coordination and con­fidence among creditors and debtors. The Group of Twenty Common Framework should be improved to bring greater pre­dictability, earlier engagement, a payment standstill, and further clarification on comparability of treatment.”