ABUJA – The House of Representatives ad hoc committee investigating the ‘alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue from illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export in 2015, including all crude oil exports and sales by Nige­ria from 2014 till date’, has summoned the Finance Minister, Zainab Shamsu­na Ahmed and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, to provide details of status of remittances into the federation ac­count and the Whistle Blower Protec­tion Bill before the House. The panel which issued the sum­mon on Tuesday at an investigative hearing on the subject matter also slammed Oriental Energy Limited with a one-week ultima­tum to provide all necessary details regarding its involvement in crude oil lifting and sales within the peri­od under review. Chairman of the ad hoc com­mittee, Hon. Mark Gbillah, from Benue gave the ruling at the end of day one of the investigative hearing in Abuja. Addressing participants and his colleagues at the hearing, Gbil­lah said the focus of the panel is on the alleged sale of crude in China which was not remitted back to the federation account, as well as oth­er related matters contained in the panel’s terms of reference. “We are looking at the issues that have to do with allegations of 48 million of crude oil barrels sold in China. We are looking at the is­sue of crude oil export in general from Nigeria for the period under review. We are also looking at the whistleblower revelations and re­coveries, which the Federal Gov­ernment publicly declared that they have made recoveries. “It’s unfortunate that the min­ister of finance is not here, the At­torney General of the Federation is not here. “This is a formal request from the committee that they should appear before this committee be­cause they have received formal in­vitation to do so. And a lot of what we have to investigate regards to whistleblower policy is saddled within the Ministry of Finance and the Attorney General of the Federation.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “There are responses received from the Accountant General’s Office which shows that the min­ister of finance has been approving payments to whistleblowers in per­centages at variance with the poli­cy which says they should be paid. POLL “There have been allegations of the Attorney General being in­volved also in the receipt of funds from outside the country without these funds being remitted into the federation account in line with the provisions of the constitution. “There have been allegations that there has been expenditure from these recoveries been done in complete violation of the pro­visions of the constitution,” he said. Hon. Gbillah further revealed that “the CBN made a formal re­sponse to this committee indicating that. You see the TSA policy of this administration, agencies operate their Treasury Single Account, and make expenditure from these accounts without recourse to the CBN. “This is something that’s alarm­ing for the CBN to declare before us, because we are aware of con­stitutional provisions that states all revenue accruing to the federation must be paid into the federation ac­count. “So if there are recoveries be­ing made from whistleblower these monies need to be paid into the ac­count of the federation as required by law. “So we are inviting minister of finance, the Attorney General of the Federation, Secretary to the Government of the Federation and stakeholders in the implementa­tion of the whistleblower policy to appear before the committee to pro­vide clarification on the operation of this policy and the approvals being made by the finance minis­ter,” he said. Listing further, Gbillah said, “In regards to the issue of crude oil, we are expecting the Nigerian Up­stream Regulatory Commission, NEITI, oil and gas companies who operate fuel stations and engage in export. “The Office of the Accountant General of the Federation and the Accountant General himself to be present including the Budget Office of the federation to be present and provide clarification,” he added. Declaring the hearing open, the House of Representatives Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, earlier stated the resolve of the 9th Assembly to pass the Whistle Blower Bill, urg­ing the panel to turn its report so as to guide the House in deciding on the bill. “Corruption continues to be the bane of Nigeria’s development with Nigeria ranking 150th out of 180 countries in the most recent Transparency International’s Cor­ruption Perceptions Index (CPI). While the government through its anti-graft agencies continues the onerous fight against corruption, the task remains daunting and requires the cooperation of all Nigerians to curb and eventually eradicate. “The recommendation of the committee after its investigation will no doubt, guide the House in making an informed decision in considering the Whistle-Blower Bill currently before it. The legis­lation when passed into law will address mirage of issues associat­ed with the implementation of the policy as well as take adequate care of the whistle blowers involved, which is very significant in the success of the policy and law when passed. “Let me state emphatically, that whistle-blowers that volunteered information to this honourable House will receive the maximum legislative protection and confiden­tiality,” Gbajabiamila, who was rep­resented by Hon. Isiaka Ibrahim from Ogun State stressed. A former member of the House in the 8th Assembly, Hon. Johnson Agbonayinma, from Edo State also made presentation be­fore the panel, informing his former colleagues that he moved a motion which necessitated a probe in 2016. He said the quantum of money involved in the crude oil heist was way more than what the panel is investigating, suggesting that rele­vant agencies be summoned to give explanations, just as he promised to avail the committee of the sensitive documents at his disposal.