LOKOJA – Hoodlums believed to be bandits has abducted the traditional chief of Oghara in Kabba Bunu Local Government Area of Kogi state, an aide while a female domestic worker was shot dead by the gunmen The incident occurred around 3 am in the early hours of Tuesday. Our Correspondent gathered that one person identified as Toyin Onare,a domestic worker in the palace lost her life in the attack, while two others, Chief (Pa.) David Obadofin, the traditional ruler of the village and one Temidayo Elewa were abducted by the hoodlums. The Kogi state police command spokesman,SP William Aya while confirming the incident said the hoodlums were said to have arrived the palace around 3 am while residents were sleeping and shot sporadically to scare residents before gaining access to the palace. In the process,Chief Obadofin, a major cashew farmer and,a traditional ruler with one of his boys were seated in front of his house enjoying the cool breeze, when a staccato of gunshots jolted them to alert. Toyin, a widow who had gone to lend a hand in the farm received a bullet. Promptly, the gunmen whisked the traditional ruler and Temidayo, another farm hand to the bush, abandoning the poor widow in a pool of blood. One person, however, escaped, to tell the story.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Toyin was rushed to hospital in Kabba, headquarters of the LGA, about 35 minutes drive where Doctors confirmed her dead on arrival. POLL On hearing the report,the state Commissioner of police Hekeem Yusuf deployed a tactical team of officers to the area to fish out the perpetrators and rescue the victim”.Aya said in a telephone chat with our Correspondent. At the time of filling this report, the kidnappers have not made any contact, raising the level of apprehension among the locals. “This is a terrible situation. Fulani herdsmen have long surrounded us. We raised alarm when they started coming, but our concerns were ignored. Now we are seeing the result. This is unfortunate. Government should quickly come to our rescue,” a source who pleaded anonymity lamented