Obi’s traducers Intensify Attacks, trail him to the UK ABUJA – As the plot to hijack the Labour Party gathers momentum in the country, Peter Obi’s traducers have orchestrated a sinister plot to rope him in shady criminal activities in London, the Obi-Datti Media office has alleged. The latest plot emerges following the revelation by the United Kingdom Immigration Service that the Labour Party Presidential Candidate is being impersonated in the United Kingdom by unknown person(s). Peter Obi, just back from London, United Kingdom where he celebrated Easter, has confirmed that he was harassed by London immigration officials and placed in detention but for the spontaneous reaction of Nigerians at Heathrow Airport. Confirming the alarming development, Diran Onifade, Head, Obi-Datti Media said the LP candidate in the February 25 Presidential poll arrived the Heathrow Airport in London from Nigeria on Good Friday, April 7, 2023, and was unusually harassed by immigration in a country he had previously lived for over ten years. The unassuming politician, according to a statement from the Obi-Datti Media office, had on arrival, joined the queue for the necessary Airport protocols when he was accosted by an immigration official who handed him a detention note and told him to step aside. He was questioned for a long time and it was very strange for a man who lived for over a decade in that country. “Since Obi’s face was already an international frame, especially for Nigerians, Africans home, and in Diaspora who are likely to be Obidients, the people quickly raised their voices wondering why he was being delayed.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The immigration officials who were also taken aback at the reaction of the people were forced to reveal that Obi was being questioned for a DUPLiCATION offense meaning that someone has been impersonating him in London. POLL “The high implication of the offense is that the impersonator could be committing all kinds of weighty crimes and other dubious acts and it would be recorded in Obi’s name. “Since the impersonator is still at large, the scenario is unimaginable as Obi could be implicated in a series of forbidden acts and even be framed in a manner that could be a huge embarrassment to him, his family, his party, the Obidient Movement, and indeed Nigeria, where he currently and indisputably remains the conscience of the people”. Since he opted to challenge the February 25th, 2023 Presidential election in the court pf law, the Obi -Datti Media office notes that the Labour Party standard bearer has come under all manner of attacks. “He (Obi) put up an outstanding showing coming third out of 18 contestants as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, even though his supporters and many other election watchers including international observers believe very strongly that he won the election but was manipulated out. “Since he was told to go to court if he feels strongly about the election which all international monitors chorused were flawed and full of imperfections and he accepted, there have been severe attacks on him from all corners. “Even Federal Government who directed him to go to court even despatched the Minister of Information Lai Mohammad to the United States to attempt at de-marketing him and accused him of treason. “Obi’s telephone line was also bugged when they were possibly looking for information to portray him badly before a section of the country who had voted for him massively. “As if they were not getting the desired results of denting his image, and possibly placing the traducers under a heavier conscience load, they tried to persuade him to leave the country and go take a rest. “It’s also not impossible that those urging him to leave the country may have planted the impersonators ostensibly to tar the Eagle’s immaculate appearance”. Against the orchestrations, the Obi-Datti Media office has therefore assured all persons of goodwill especially the Obidients that no amount plot will make the party back down “The Rock is not deterred as he is ready to suffer the pain and remain even more determined to pursue whichever path his creator destined for him in Nigeria. “Finally, let it be known that In the face of the flurry of unwarranted attacks and cogs being placed in the wheel of rescuing our dear country, Obi strongly believes that a new Nigeria is possible where the people will be able to live in a secure and productive country they will all be proud to own. “Meanwhile, the former Anambra state Governor is back in the country and has continued his charity work visiting health and educational institutions making donations, and bagging awards.”