ABUJA –  The Labour Party Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) has disclosed mounting pressure by security agents linked to the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) on Peter Obi, the LP’s presidential candidate in the 2023 elections, to leave Nigeria on exile. Tanko Yusuf, Chief Spokesman of the PCC, on Wednesday, said that those making the call are citing fears for Obi and his family’s safety. Tanko also highlighted that the former Anambra State governor has “been repeatedly and categorically told that he has a choice to leave Nigeria or face the prospect of being arrested on false charges of inciting insurrection in the country.” He said that recent events confirm this allegation, noting that the plan involved “circulating a fake doctored audio call”. In a statement made available to Daily Independent, the Labour Party PCC Spokesman also called on religious leaders, especially in the north to discountenance attempts being made to give Obi’s legal pursuit to recover his allegedly stolen mandate, a religious tone. Tanko emphasized that “At no time throughout the campaign did Mr Peter Obi ever say, think or even imply that the 2023 election is or was a religious war”. The statement reads this, “We continue to thank all Nigerians especially the youths and Obidients as they have remained focused on the core mission of a New Nigeria that is possible, even after the presidential elections of 25th February 2023.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Before, throughout and after the campaigns, it is on record that Mr Peter Obi maintained his commitment and focus on issues-based campaigns, about a New Nigeria that is possible, a shift of emphasis from consumption to production, as well as a New Nigeria characterized by inclusion, justice, equity, fairness and prosperity. POLL “He repeatedly stated that no one should vote for him based on tribe or religion, but rather on the assessment of Character, Competence, Capacity, Credibility and Compassion, to create a New Nigeria! “Most unfortunately, in the past few weeks, Mr Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate in the February 25th, 2023 presidential election has been contacted by associates, elder statesmen, family and friends with concerns for his personal safety. “These concerns have increased intensely in the last few days as immense pressure, has been mounted directly on Mr. Obi to leave the country, no doubt, from sources allied to the All-Progressive Congress (APC) and its agents in the security services. “Mr Obi has been repeatedly and categorically told that he has a choice to leave Nigeria or face the prospect of being arrested on false charges of inciting insurrection in the country. “It is difficult to fathom and regrettably unfortunate that state institutions have become part of a well calculated, deliberate and orchestrated campaign of calumny by the APC to discredit and delegitimize Mr Peter Obi and compel him to abandon his right to seek redress in court following the outcome of the last election which was adjudged both locally and internationally to have failed to meet any standard of credibility or fairness. *As part of the grand design, they are circulating a fake doctored audio call. At no time throughout the campaign did Mr Peter Obi ever say, think or even imply that the 2023 election is or was a religious war. *It is very sad and wicked the attempts to manipulate Nigerians. Our legal team has been instructed to take appropriate legal actions against media outlets that make themselves willing tools in the hands of APC’s malicious propagandists. “Despite the public denunciation of the fake audio call, its contents have been translated into other Nigerian languages and circulated in most parts of Northern Nigeria with some of our Moslem clerics deceived and instigated to use the contents for their sermons at various Mosques during the usual Friday prayers. “This is a dangerous development at a time when the APC led-government and the APC party which have been awarded undeserved and unfair victories should be more concerned in addressing the ethnic and religious frictions unfortunately created by the outcome of the elections. “Yet unsatisfied but determined to cause more problems, Mr Lai Mohammed, who fancies himself as modern day Goebbels is on a tour of some selected countries to present an alternative story about the 2023 discredited election, and from his first statement in Washington have assumed the role of the courts by stating that Mr Obi has no pathway to victory. This is a direct intimidation of the courts and a waste of Nigerian taxpayers’ money. “There are many more campaigns of calumny against Mr Peter Obi planned for the near future both before and during the court process. However, we want to make it clear to the APC party, APC led-government and its agents that Mr Peter Obi, a widely traveled man, has no intention to leave the country at this time irrespective of the pressure on him and his family. “He is determined as he had stated in his first and only press conference after the election to challenge the outcome of the election and the process has begun. It is his fundamental right! “While we call on all concerned Nigerians and the International Community to caution APC and the APC Led-government to stop their nasty attacks, Mr Peter Obi’s focus and commitment to lawfully and peacefully retrieve our mandate to secure and unite our Nation, take Nigeria from consumption to production, pull millions of Nigerians out of multidimensional poverty especially in the North and jumpstart prosperity through agricultural, industrial and technological revolution remains unchanged. “He has continued to impress upon his supporters the essence of the legal process and will not now or in the future encourage any violence against the state. “He has absolutely no reason for this nor is he desperate especially as throughout the campaign, he called for a new Nigeria defined by opportunities for all, an end to poverty and criminality in government, especially corruption and an end to tribal and religious division and bigotry. “It is for these reasons that we appeal to revered religious leaders especially in the North not to be part of the grand design of the state apparatus to further increase the religious and ethnic divides in the country. “Irrespective of the outcome of the court process, we have the obligation to strive for the peace and co-existence of all Nigerians. We call on President Buhari to rein in his desperate officials at all levels as their actions or inactions could lead to unnecessary crises in the country. “Elections are over, and we are in court to retrieve our stolen mandate. We reiterate that we are doing so through all lawful and peaceful options in line with our legal system and constitution, and we continue to implore all Nigerians to remain peaceful and law abiding. “Those fixated with heating up the polity, creating divisions, tensions and hatred within and outside Nigeria should remember that Nigeria is our only country. Our focus should be on how to address the litany of challenges facing us such as deliberate non-adherence to the election process, parlous state of our economy, unsustainable debt burden, lamentable unemployment and inflation, insecurity and multidimensional poverty. A New Nigeria is Indeed Possible and God will help us”.