The Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has called on media practitioners in the country to pay more attention to critical issues affecting Nigeria and shun compromise in their reportage. He made the call when he received a delegation of the state chapter of the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) led by the chairperson, Grace Orunimieghe, in Government House, Yenagoa, on Thursday. This was contained in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Doubara Atasi. Ewhrudjakpo said that while the media plays the statutory role of informing, educating and entertaining society, it should also be in the vanguard of moulding society through investigative journalism and its agenda-setting role. The deputy governor observed that the information space was being inundated with compromised information and the social media was fast pushing the conventional media away from its responsibility. While describing NAWOJ as a formidable association, he lamented that the media had been awash with a lot of issues that were diversionary as regards the just-concluded general elections in the country. He particularly tasked journalists to do more in the area of investigative journalism to expose societal ills as well as nurture the young ones in the profession.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Ewhrudjakpo said, “Society must learn to realize that if you don’t improve on what you met on ground, then you have helped to destroy that system. POLL “Investigative journalism is the key to journalism, and so, you don’t hear only one side of the story. That’s why as journalists you are called the Fourth Estate of the Realm because what the Executive, Legislature and judiciary cannot mould properly, the journalists are there to moderate. “But unfortunately, there is a very shallow river on which that is being driven. Look at what has happened concerning the 2023 elections. I’m still very worried that the debate about the elections are not purpose-driven and engaging enough.”