The Oyo State government under Governor Seyi Makinde in the past four years has paid different tranches of over N7bn in a backlog of gratuity to state government retirees. This was revealed on Friday by the Commissioner for Establishment and Training, Siju Lawal, who revealed that the Makinde’s first term in office has trained 9, 000 staff members in various disciplines. Mr. Lawal, who was featured on a special programme on Aloore radio, the Conversations maintained that the era of civil servants working and dying without enjoying their gratuities and pensions is over. The Commissioner said that as of today, Governor Makinde’s administration has paid over N22bn out of the 55.9 billion backlogs inherited from the previous administration. He added that pensioners from 2019, when Makinde assumed office till date have received their gratuity. Commissioner added that Governor Seyi Makinde and his team were firm believers of integrity in governance. He called for the cooperation of the citizens for the Governor’s second-term administration to be able to serve them better, even as he admonished civil servants and politicians to live a life of sacrifice and sincerity.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL In his remarks, the Commissioner for Public Works, Infrastructure and Transport, Prof. Daud Kehinde Sangodoyin affirmed that connecting all zones in the State, through road networks has fostered infrastructural development. He said the State Government has completed 76% of roads connecting different zones in the state to one another, adding that no zone is left out in the State. Prof. Sangodoyin said the ongoing 76.67km Ogbomoso-Fapote-Iseyin road connecting Ogbomoso and Oke-Ogun Zones is in the middle of completion. He said the Oyo State Government embarked on major road projects to increase access to all geographical zones in the state. He said the reconstruction of the 65km Moniya-Ijaiye-Iseyin Road which connects Ibadan with the foodbasket of the state, Oke-Ogun is a big relief to commuters. “The road has improved access between both zones cutting journey times from about 3 hours to about 45 minutes on the 65km stretch”, he said. Prof. Sangodoyin asserted that the reconstruction of Oyo-Iseyin Road (34.85km), a federal road, which connects Oyo and Oke-Ogun Zones is a big plus to the state. Sangodoyin said the road is also the main artery for accessing the Fasola Agribusiness Industrial Hub. Sangodoyin implored citizens to be patient, as Makinde’s Government has flagged off the reconstruction of the link road from Ibadan to Ibarapa zone. He said the reconstruction of the 48km Ido-Eruwa Road will provide easier access between Ibadan and Ibarapa Zones when it recommences later this year. Prof. Sangodoyin added that construction of other link roads are underway, which will be completed during Makinde’s second term. He said the expansion of Oyo State’s economy is key to Governor Makinde, adding that businesses have begun to spring up on both sides of Moniya-Ijaiye-Iseyin Road since its reconstruction. Prof. Sangoyin also hinted that the State Government, under Governor Seyi Makinde will focus on feeder roads, streets, market roads and farm estates under Omituntun 2.0.