One of my favourite aversions is the insistence of some Nige­rians to seek solutions to their political problems abroad de­spite having seen the futility of the action over the years. Perhaps, no era demonstrated this more than the years of Nigeria’s most overt dictator, the late General Sani Abacha, who drove al­most all progressives away to America and the UK. I demand to be convinced that it was the U.S. of UK that brought down the tyrannical government. For all I know, Sani Abacha, like all mortals, died and his monument of bloodshed crashed into oblivion. Neither the U.S. nor UK could help Nigerian exiles, even at the peak of the late dictator’s butchery, when he – with a blood-cuddling flick of his pen – signed Ken Saro-Wiwa’s death warrant amid global outcry against the judgement. Decades after Africa’s anti-colonial struggles, during which we told the world that we could run our affairs our­selves, why do we still run to the West for solutions to the least political challenges? Why do we seek to hang our problems on the neck of the world? Do they come here when they have challenges? The only time they did – during WW1 and WW2 – they only came to pick foot sol­diers to fight their power-hunger wars. I find our leaders’ compulsion for advertising our domestic issues abroad at the slightest opportunity to be very embarrassing. Sardonically embarrass­ing such as when leading presidential candidates in the last election took their campaigns to Chatham House in Lon­don even when Nigeria has yet to start diaspora voting. What was the use cam­paigning in a foreign land where your citizens there would have no opportunity to act on your oral performance. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu knew the Chatham House charade was worthless, which was why he turned it into a circus show. But many Nigerians didn’t understand. Today, like it or not, he is the president-elect. Now, weeks after that damned elec­toral rubbish that took them to London, some people have shamelessly gone to get approval for a protest against the out­come at the White House even though the event took place here in Nigeria and the U.S. can do nothing about people’s observations on the matter, so long au­thorities here in Nigeria have made their pronouncements. According to reports, permission has been granted to supporters of Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, to use the Lafayette Park in Washington D.C. to protest the outcome of the 2023 presidential election, and at least 100 persons have been allowed to do this on April 3. Reason: “We in (the) diaspora are demonstrating to call the attention of the US government and Biden admin­istration to not recognize the winner,” the organisers of the proposed protest have said. The United States Department of the Interior said the organisers and anyone at the protest must “comply with all rea­sonable directions of the United States Park Police”, and they were warned that “all sideways, walkways and roadways must remain unobstructed to allow for the reasonable use of these areas by pedestrians, vehicles, and other park visitors.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Expectedly, the other side heard about it and cried foul. The United States chap­ter of the All Progressives Congress on Thursday condemned the proposed political demonstration. In a statement issued on Thursday, the Chairman of the United States chapter of the APC, Prof. Tai Balofin, disclosed that many Nigeri­ans in Diaspora were unperturbed by the proposed protest because they knew the presidential poll was free and fair. He said: “We wish to inform the public that a group of the Nigerian 2023 Presidential election losers are current­ly protesting at the park in front of the White House. It is important to note that the US government is not involved or in support of the protest, as anybody can get approval for a peaceful protest. “It is our belief that the Nigerian presidential election was free and fair, and Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu won the election. The majority of Nigerian voters gave him their mandate, and no propaganda, manipulation or tissue of lies can stop his inauguration. “The APC-USA assures Nigerians not to be perturbed by the actions of the protesters. We want to assure Nigerians that Nigeria will not secede, and it will remain united. We must work together to salvage it.” Regardless, the same group still de­cided later to schedule their own version of the protest on the same day and same place. Nigerian day of NONESENSE. What will be the outcome of the protest? Will Joe Biden or the Congress ask Nigeria to annul the election? Will the sympathy of the world change the results already dished out? Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi, the two candidates that rejected the results announced by INEC, have since gone to court to take a second look at what INEC did, and the court – the Supreme Court, with supreme decisions, no matter how controversial – have accepted to play the role of arbiter, and the legal process has even begun. Why do we still need all the side shows? In my humble opinion, nothing else matters at this point but the ruling of the Supreme Court – and the litigants should be prepared to accept whatever comes out, because they took the matter there on their own volition. And when the court has splattered its damp squid, let there be calm thereafter. After all, there is life after elections. So, countrymen and women, wherev­er you are, take my advice: protests and demonstrations at this time is no longer necessary. We can learn, no matter how we feel, to move on. If there was any doubt that the court was not the right place to go, then there was no need going there, but after we had decided to go the whole legal hog, it is childish to continue to prance about, whether in Nigeria or U.S., over a matter we have handed over to the forces of adjudication. The trouble with unending protests is that they continue to stir bad blood and intensify emotions that are begging to go to bed. Above all, everything eventual comes to an end. Soon we’ll be preparing for an­other round of elections. So, let Nigeria be.