Ainsley Maitland-Niles is set to depart Arsenal at the end of the season after the Gunners decided against triggering an option to extend his deal for an extra year. The versatile Maitland-Niles – who can operate in central midfield and at full back – came through the youth ranks at Arsenal and made his debut at the age of 17. He racked up 132 appearances for the Gunners and shone in their FA Cup triumph in 2019-20, but grew frustrated at having to play in defence, with the five-time England international repeatedly outlining his desire to play in midfield instead. Maitland-Niles has had loan spells at West Brom, Roma and Southampton over the past three seasons, with the 25-year-old racking up 23 appearances for the Saints this campaign during his season-long stint. And, according to The Athletic, he will move on from the Emirates at the end of the season after Mikel Arteta’s side took the decision to allow him to depart on a free. Maitland-Niles claims he hasn’t spoken to anyone at the club since the start of this campaign but it has long since been agreed between him and Arsenal that he would leave in the summer. As a result, the 25-year-old – who joined the Gunners at the age of six – will become a free agent, ending a 20-year association with the club.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The versatile Englishman confirmed the news about his departure and refused to rule out staying with Southampton on a permanent basis. POLL He told The Athletic: ‘It’s been a great journey but it has come to an end now (at Arsenal). It’s time for a fresh start and to find a new home. ‘I’m looking forward to that but, at the same time, my head’s not quite there yet and it’s all about what’s happening now with Southampton. ‘I’m just fully focused on trying to help us stay up and stay positive on a day-to-day basis and win games. ‘When the time gets closer towards the end of the season, I’ll have something else to think about. But right now, I’m just focused on football and the task at hand. ‘Southampton is a great club to be at and progress and get some minutes under my belt. Of course, if they were to make an offer, I’ll be more than happy to stay.’ In the original loan deal with Ruben Selles’s side, the south coast outfit did have an option to buy Maitland-Niles in the summer, but given the choice by Arsenal to let him depart on a free, a purchase will not be necessary. The Saints remain bottom of the Premier League despite Friday’s shock 3-3 draw with Maitland-Niles’s parent club. However, they are only four points off safety and face crunch games against fellow strugglers Bournemouth and Nottingham Forest over the next two weeks.