LAGOS – Nicolas Felix, the Deputy National Youth Coordinator of the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a presidential aspirant in the just concluded general elections on the platform of the ruling party has said that the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu won’t remove the fuel subsidy immediately he is sworn in. Felix who spoke on Tuesday on Arise TV said that Tinubu is a leader with huge experience and would consult with his cabinet members before a decision would be taken on the removal of subsidy. He said, “I don’t think that Asiwaju is going to pull out the fuel subsidy immediately. I think he is going to do some consultations especially with his cabinet members. I am not scared about his capacity because when he was Governor of Lagos State, even when the then President withheld his federal allocation, he was able to get Lagos State running without receiving money from the federal government. “Things are very tough in Nigeria and that is why I am glad that Nigerians picked a man that is very experienced, a man who understands how to run an economy. I know that as soon as he is sworn in as president, he is going to get working. Felix added, “For the fuel subsidy, I don’t expect him to just pull it off immediately, it is going to take time. I think fuel subsidy withdrawal will be done in phases. When he is sworn in he will put heads together with his cabinet members to decide when he will do that. Speaking about the possibly of Tinubu operating a government of national unity, Felix said, “Looking at his administration, what he did and how he was able to put his cabinet members in Lagos State, we expect him to do the same and even better.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Of course members of the party would be rewarded. Asiwaju is a man who rewards loyalty and hard work. Nigerians who are talented, may be considered, but it doesn’t mean that he would look beyond his party and start picking those who are out there. POLL “I am also sure that he can stretch his hands and say he wants to build a government of national unity, if you are in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party, or other parties, we are all Nigerians. I did say that if a president is elected, it is expected that every Nigerian should join hands with the president to work. “If you really love Nigeria, whatever you have to offer, you have to present yourself. He is not going to be running after people. “Asiwaju’s door is open for anybody who wants to join hands with him, but it is up to those in opposition to approach him as the President-elect,” he said.