Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operator of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two (MMA2), Ikeja Lagos, has threatened to sanction criminally-minded travellers and other users of its facilities, warning that any form of unlawful acts would not be tolerated. The warning is coming against the backdrop of an Ibom Air passenger who recently raised a false alarm that his checked-in luggage was missing. The passenger was purported to have fraudulently removed the baggage tag to try to beat the system, but his criminal act was exposed through the review of the Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) camera footage of that day from Bi-Courtney after the insistence by the airline. Mr. Oluwatosin Onalaja, the Head of Corporate Communications, BASL, in a statement, warned that sophisticated surveillance systems and other security measures are put on 24 hours guard to detect and deter any acts of criminalities at the terminal. Onalaja stated that this warning was necessary because of security and safety exigency, with reference to the event within the MMA2 terminal, which otherwise would have created panic, had it not been nipped in the bud. Onalaja said part of the recent success story of BASL’s security surveillance system and its Aviation Security (AVSEC) team, was about the detection and arrest of a fraudulent passenger that claimed to have lost his luggage and made aggressive demands for compensation until he was exposed. Onalaja explained that from the CCTV footage, it was discovered that the Ibom Air’s passenger alleged missing bag was actually his checked-in bag.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The statement added: “The footage showed him (the passenger) picking up the bag from the conveyor belt with a bag tag on it and taking it to the restroom where he removed the checked in tag from the bag. POLL “He then went straight to the Ibom Air counter where he raised the false alarm. When it was established that there was no missing bag, the case was reported to MMA2’s AVSEC and police. He maintained his innocence until he was confronted with the CCTV footage, at which point he broke down and confessed to the crime. “He was charged to court where he pleaded guilty, showed remorse for his actions and promised not to repeat them again. He was convicted with an option of a fine.” The statement also quoted BASL’s Head of AVSEC, Monica Oguta as saying that the safety and security of air travellers and other stakeholders was the priority of the terminal operator. Oguta insisted that the management had committed vast resources towards the maintenance of modern security surveillance systems, assuring all travellers of a safe and peaceful experience at the terminal. “To those with criminal intentions, I strongly advise against attempting any illegal activities at the MMA2 terminal. We have a highly trained security team, advanced technology, and a zero-tolerance policy for criminal behaviour. We will take swift and decisive action to ensure the safety and security of our travellers, stakeholders and staff at our terminal,” she said.