The Ogun State govern­ment has urged corporate organisations and wealthy individuals in the country to continue giving succour to non-governmental organ­isations (NGOs), individuals and other less privileged or­ganisations, so as to give back to the indigents in the society. The state Commission­er for Special Duties and Inter-Govermental Affairs, Olufemi Ilori-Oduntan, stat­ed this while declaring open the 11th annual charity lec­ture of the Less Privileged Children Encourage Initia­tive (EI), themed: “Access to Justice: The Dilemma of the Less Privileged and the Way Out”, held at Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. She stressed the need to support the humanitarian project of the NGO, which distributed school uniforms, sandals, school bags, writ­ing materials, free mid-day meals, free textbooks and provided free medicare to over Thirty Five Thousand (35,000) less privileged chil­dren in different parts of Ni­geria, including Ogun State. Ilori-Oduntan showered encomium on EI for com­plimenting government ef­forts at supporting the less privileged people for over 20 years despite the economic challenges in the country. “I am highly impressed with this initiative and I sincerely commend the Less Privileged Children Encour­agement Initiative (EI) for its steadfastness, drive, dogged­ness, consistency and per­sistency through the years in its service to humanity re­gardless of age, race, gender, culture, religion or current life situation”. “Permit me to specially thank and appreciate Dr. Rotimiolu Akinlesi and his very supportive wife, Dr. Bukunola Akinlesi, for birthing this initiative and keeping this NGO going despite myriad of chal­lenges over the past twen­ty (20) years”, Ilori-Odun­tan said. She also expressed her readiness to personally work closely with EI in its health outreach project in support­ing sickle cell patients in var­ious communities.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Your work in the area of donation of drugs every first Friday of the month to the Sickle Cell Warriors Club in the last 20 years is a tes­tament to the resolve of EI to better the lives of the less privileged. I am also passion­ately involved in providing succour to children living with sickle cell and will be happy to join hands with EI in reaching out to these chil­dren.” POLL She expressed confidence in the capacity of EI as an NGO with over 450 volunteers in sustaining its humanitari­an services to Nigerians for a better society