ABUJA  – An aspirant for the position of the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, Hon. Muk­tar Aliyu Betara, has assured all members-elect across par­ty lines of his resolve to carry everybody along if elected. Betara, who doubles as the incumbent Chairman, House Committee on Appro­priations, gave the assurance during the expanded consul­tation with various leaders and members of State Cau­cuses during the lesser Hajj in Saudi Arabia. The meeting was attended by returning and newly elect­ed National Assembly mem­bers from Adamawa, Katsina, Kaduna, Gombe, Jigawa and Bauchi states, respectively. The House Appropriation Committee Chairman who is currently in the holy land to perform the lesser Hajj (Um­rah) ahead of the completion of the Ramadan Fast is using the opportunity to meet and consult members-elect to ad­vance his campaign Photographs sighted shows the Borno lawmak­er meeting and interacting with fellow lawmakers at his apartment in the holy city of Makkah on Monday evening. A statement by his cam­paign office in Abuja quoted some of the Members-elect who attended the meeting as pledging their “unflinching” support for Hon. Betara, just as they applauded his lead­ership quality and support provided over the years to his contemporaries irrespective of religious, ethnic and party affiliation. The statement also quoted one of the lawmakers (un­named) after the meeting say­ing: “We are here in solidarity support for our Leader and es­teemed Colleague for heeding to the clarion call to provide quality leadership.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We are all aware of the significant roles played by Rt. Honourable Muktar Ali­yu Betara in the emergence of successive Speakers and Principal Officers in the cur­rent and successive Assem­blies. POLL “Most of us are also aware of his resolve to shelve his ambitions of becoming the Speaker in the previous Assemblies and as a loyal party-man aligning with the party’s zoning arrangement. “For those in the know of how things panned out in the outgoing Assembly, I can tell you for free that Honourable Betara played a significant role in averting serious crises, which helped in stabilizing this Assembly. “But as human beings, we are not too surprised about what is playing out now. As you can see, so many of them forget so soon. “Let me ask you this ques­tion, have you ever seen Hon­ourable Betara bully any of his Colleagues either as the Chairman of Defence or Ap­propriations? But all we are asking for is that the Mem­bers-elect should be allowed to exercise their franchise as provided by the Standing Order and relevant sections of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “For us as a formidable team and Caucuses, we have all it takes to rally required support for Honourable Betara and of the assurance that whatever plays out will be in his favour In Sha Allah during the inauguration of the 10th Assembly,” the state­ment quoted the unnamed lawmaker. The lawmakers who are ex­pected to be sworn-in in June, 2023 acknowledged the high sense of humility demonstrat­ed by Hon. Betara whom they described as “an achiever, bridge-builder, unifying fac­tor, team player, detribalised leader of uncommon virtues and role model.”