MAKURDI  – Throughout the weekend, the Governor Samuel Ortom-led Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) administration and the incoming All Progressives Congress (PDP) led by Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia locked horns over issues of governance, lad­en with allegations and count­er-allegations over who should do what and who shouldn’t. While the APC alleged that Governor Ortom has awarded contracts in the twilight of his administration, which he ought not to have awarded, the Ortom government and indeed the PDP in the state have alleged that the incoming administration led by Rev. Fr. Alia has made attempts to usurp the powers of governor from Ortom. Comrade Austin Agada, the APC Chairman in Benue, who made several allegations against Governor Ortom also alleged that the Ortom administration has engaged in “massive illicit financial dealings, including al­leged falsification of financial documents, amongst others.” However, in a swift reaction to the allegations, Terver Akase, Special Adviser, Media and Pub­licity to the governor, stated that the allegations were false, add­ing that the APC in Benue was laying a foundation for excuses to hold unto in the event that it failed in governance. Similarly, Bemgba Iortyom, the spokesperson of the PDP in Benue, who warned the APC of its excesses, advised the party to desist from what he described as “extreme form of impunity and immaturity”, insisting that there can never be two gover­nors in a state at a time. Speaking at a press confer­ence in Makurdi, last weekend, Comrade Austin Agada, the APC chairman who revealed that the state government has awarded multi-billion contract for an airport, noted that “the APC, has received reports from reliable sources that the out­going Samuel Ortom-led PDP government has embarked on emergency awards of contracts worth billions of naira. “On October 29, 2016, Gov­ernor Samuel Ortom led PDP administration flagged off N38 billion cargo airport in Daudu, Guma Local Government, a project he assured will be com­pleted in 18 months.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Four years after with no vis­ible site of an airport, Governor Ortom while presenting the 2020 budget announced the re-award­ing of the same cargo airport to another company for 12 billion, with extra N3 billion as compen­sation to land owners which re­portedly didn’t get to the actual owners of the gazetted lands. POLL “The N38 billion contract and its N12 billion re-awarding all squashed with the flagging of a mega city for internally dis­placed persons (IDPs). “In derivation of the above we wish to state that the above decision by the outgoing PDP government in Benue State to build an airport is malevolent, malicious, and ill-timed with reference to the incoming gov­ernment which was not con­sulted, informed, or involved in the deliberations for a new state contract as it is rationally expected under a transitional political arrangement. “We are aware that the gov­ernment is awarding contracts and back-dating same as well as back-dating of employment let­ters. We also have information on other massive illicit financial dealings ongoing within the gov­ernment, including alleged falsi­fication of financial documents, amongst others. “We are also aware that some amounts of monies belonging to the Benue State people in some different bank accounts, monies the outgoing PDP government can conveniently use to at least clear two months of the over two years arrears of pensioners and salaries of serving workers in the state. “Governor Ortom has com­menced the employment of staff to the tune of 2,500 at the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) and other min­istries, an exercise he initiated three years ago shifting the fi­nancial burden to the incoming government, we view this as a clandestine move to pitch the people against our government even before it starts. “It is sad to mention that up to this moment, the outgoing PDP government in Benue State has not deemed it necessary to inte­grate members of the incoming government into a harmonised transition committee that will agree or disagree over certain critical decisions taken at this last moment by the outgoing PDP government. “The party wishes to advice all consultants and contractors to refrain from entering into such deals with the outgoing administration. This is neces­sary because the Rev. Fr. (Dr.) Hyacinth Alia’s administration will not be held accountable for any nefarious contractual obli­gations. “We hereby warn financial institutions, permanent sec­retaries, MDAs, Ministry of Finance, Office of the Accoun­tant-General and Local Gov­ernment that are collaborating with the outgoing government to increase Benue indebtedness through loans, overdrafts or oth­er financial obligations to stop forthwith, as this will be viewed as financial sabotage to the in­coming administration”, Agada warned. But in his reaction to the al­legations, Terver Akase, Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to Governor Ortom, stressed that the APC was undermining the Ortom administration. He said, “The APC in Benue State is on a desperate mission to subvert the administration of Governor Samuel Ortom whose tenure will constitutionally last till May 29, 2023. “In the last one week, APC has written to heads of govern­ment agencies and some perma­nent secretaries to stop obeying directives from the governor. This is in addition to making false, inciting and misleading press statements against the present administration. “On Friday, APC chairman, Austin Agada, addressed the media and made spurious alle­gations against Governor Or­tom, particularly as it relates to financial transactions and gen­eral governance. Agada also il­legally asked heads of state gov­ernment agencies to henceforth stop complying with the gover­nor’s directives and approvals. We wonder where on earth such rascality is obtainable. “The Benue APC should desist forthwith from making inciting and provocative state­ments while issuing threats to officials of government as if they are already in power. They are yet to assume duty and must be seen to conduct themselves lawfully and in a manner devoid of mischief. “It is absurd and disturbing that the Benue State leadership of APC has waged a war of attri­tion on a legitimate government whose tenure is yet to end. They are in a hurry and have resort­ed to arm twisting tactics using falsehood as a tool to disparage and blackmail the current ad­ministration. “We wish to remind the APC that Governor Ortom remains the duly elected governor of Benue State and has the consti­tutional authority to direct gov­ernment agencies and make ap­provals while carrying out any other business of government till May 28, 2023. We demand that the party desists from its acts of sabotage and subversion against the present administration. “It is equally pertinent to state that the Benue State government under Governor Ortom has not entered into contract with anyone for the construction of the civil airport approved for the state by the Ministry of Aviation, contrary to the speculation by the APC chairman and his team. “It was also a figment of the imagination of the Benue APC chairman and his co-travelers when they claimed that the state government was involved in some unspecified contractual engagements of various sums which they curiously could not substantiate.”