JOY ANIGBOGU The frightening reports of the killings, almost on a daily basis in Benue State should be a source of concern to every Nigerian. It seems as if the problem requires a solution beyond the capacity of the state government, since with the inauguration of the forest guards and other measures put in place by the state government to combat the crime, the problem has persisted, one would have expected that the federal government would have sincerely looked into the issue. Just a few days ago there were reports that no fewer than 36 people have been confirmed killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Nyiev council ward of Guma Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State. The attackers, according to the report razed down an undisclosed number of houses, set fire on barns of yam seedlings and other farm produce warehoused in the affected houses, and majority of the victims of the attacks were women and children. The incident is coming at the heels of the last killings by herdsmen in Umogidi community of Otukpo LGA of the state, where about 50 persons were killed on Tuesday and Wednesday last week. It was gathered that the attack occurred at the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp, Mgban in Guma LGA along the Makurdi-Lafia road between 9 pm and 10pm on Friday night. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The assailants who carried out the attack on the hapless peasant farmers at LGEA primary school, Mgban, situated behind the house of Tyoor u Nyiev, Chief Bernard Shawa also attacked some surrounding villages in the area. POLL Governor Samuel Ortom, while lamenting the increase in herdsmen attack on Benue communities, confirmed the attack and number of deaths in Friday’s killings and stressed that Tyoor u Nyiev, Chief Bernard Shawa lost two of his children to the attack. Ortom also conducted an on-the-spot assessment of the damage caused by the marauders and further lamented that with the spate of attacks across the state that have left over one hundred persons dead in the last one week, if allowed to continue, the Benue people may be annihilated in a short time. While describing the attack as, “unfortunate and condemnable”, the governor noted that it was for one of those reasons that the State Government enacted the Anti-Open Grazing Law. Ortom noted that the Anti-Open Grazing law was supposed to be a win-win for all; a law enacted by the Benue people, adding that the perpetrators are well known and should be fished out and punished for their acts. He was quoted to have commended President Muhammadu Buhari for condoling with the people of Benue State, and he advised that the President should go beyond that and make everything possible to smoke out the bandits from Benue. He advised that whoever assumes the mantle of leadership after him and decides to repeal the Anti-Open grazing law was welcome to do so, insisting that it would not happen under his watch. In a bid to find a lasting solution to the perennial killings of the Benue people, the governor had to suspend the operation of the livestock guards in the state for two weeks. The question on the lips of many is whether this action can really put an end to the killings of these Nigerian citizens in the North-Central part of the country. Ortom who lamented that death had hit 130 in a few days said that the state Livestock Guards has been suspended for a period of two weeks to pave way for herdsmen that are within the state to move out. According to the Governor he took the decision to suspend the operations of the Guards as part of the fallout of an Emergency Security Council meeting that was held in the state on Tuesday to find a solution towards checking the recent upsurge of killing of peasant farmers in the state by herdsmen. The Governor lamented that the death toll carried out by herders’ attack in less than two weeks has hit an all-time high of 130 deaths. He maintained that the Benue State Ranches Establishment and Open Grazing Prohibition Law would not be repealed during his tenure, and advised Fulani herdsmen who were not ready to comply with the law to move to states where the law is not in existence. “Recently within a short period of 10 days we have recorded over 130 killings in Benue state and we are still counting. “This is not acceptable to the Security Council but we commend the security agencies for their prompt responses to distress calls; they have not relented despite the obvious challenges they face,” he said. Ortom added, “We commend the support of the Community Volunteer Guards who are directly under the supervision of the Nigerian Police and urge them to continue to be of good behaviour and patriotic in carrying out their responsibilities. “We equally condemn the unholy alliance of some of our youths here in Benue State with Fulani terrorists joining hands and sometimes rustling cattle and conniving with some indigenous youths to slaughter or dispose of them, we condemn that unholy alliance. “And we also condemn; though a rumour and subject to investigation, some traditional rulers and stakeholders in various communities who are also aware of this. We condemn these acts. According to him, they have charged security agencies to apprehend anyone that is found wanting as far as disobeying the law is concerned. “Whoever you are, and whatever tribe you come from, it does not matter you will be apprehended,” Ortom said. The Governor added, “We allowed the suspension of the operations of the Livestock Guards for two weeks to allow those who came with their cattle into Benue to return back and allow our people to live in peace. “And so I want to urge our foreign brothers who believe in open grazing to go to other states where there are no laws to do it, but here the opportunities are still there for you to establish your ranches and keep your cattle and live a peaceful life and coexist with others. But anything short of this for now is not allowed. “So the security agencies are there to enforce the law against anyone that preaches any form of dissolution of the law. So all those conniving with Fulanis for the purpose of rustling cattle, security forces have been mandated to apprehend them and bring them to book. “And let me also commend the President; it’s our duty to also encourage and commend him because in the recent massacre he sent condolence messages to Benue people and also directed security agencies to ensure they apprehend the perpetrators of these killings,” he said. Governor Ortom also charged the people of Benue from politicking with security issues, which are capable of leading to chaos in the state. “We have allowed the suspension of the operations of the Benue State Livestock Guards for two weeks so that those Fulani herdsmen who came into the state with their cattle can go back to where they came from and allow our people to stay in peace”, Ortom said. “Let us be guided and be mindful against making inflammatory statements that will cause chaos, anarchy and lawlessness. Let us not encourage evil and I want every indigene to remember that I am still Governor of the state, until May 29th, 2023 and whether you are elected or not, you should be law abiding. “But today we are not repealing any law including the Benue State Ranches Establishment and Open Grazing Prohibition Law”, he insisted. However, Ortom stresses that they are committed to the unity of the state and the Security Council is committed to protecting everybody in Benue state that is engaged in legitimate business in Benue state. No one will be intimidated irrespective of where he comes from. “Whatever is your ethnic or religious background, you have the right to practice here in Benue State as long as you do it within the ambit of the law, and you are permitted. No one should ever be harassed for whatever reason. And we implore our people to be law abiding. “Where you have issues with your neighbours you should report to security agencies. That is why they are there and they are ready to work with you. All we are saying is that nobody should take the laws into his or her hands no matter the provocation. Two wrongs will never make a right. “So the security agencies are there to enforce the law against anyone that breaches the provisions of the law,” he said. Recall that Ortom has been in a dagger drawn with the Federal Government over what he called the lack of political will on its part to end the killings in Benue State. From all indications, it is also obvious that the killings may not stop until the federal government through the police and other security agencies is determined to flush out the criminals in Benue land. Recall that Ortom in February 2018 had accused the then Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris of being an accomplice to the attacks by suspected herdsmen on Benue residents, a day after the police chief reportedly demanded a suspension of anti-open grazing law. Ortom said, “If truly the IGP said what was widely reported by the media, our conclusion is that his is a clear case of a man who is either on a mission to mislead the nation or is complicit in the attacks on Benue communities and the killing of many people by terror herdsmen. Recall also that as at March 2022, the Benue State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), disclosed that there are 27 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps in the state that are home to close to two million IDPs. According to the Executive Secretary of the Agency, Dr. Emmanuel Shior who made the disclosure in Makurdi while flagging off the months’ distribution of relief materials to the IDPs explained that the camps comprised seven official and 20 unofficial camps scattered across the state. He also lamented the worsening humanitarian crisis in the state occasioned by the frequent attacks and displacement in several communities of the state disclosed that agency had received reports that eight communities in Kwande Local Government Areas, LGAs, of the state had been attacked and occupied by Fulani herdsmen who displaced the locals. The sooner the federal government takes decisive action to end Benue attacks and killings, the better for the Benue people and Nigeria at large, because it is indeed a frightening situation.