Prof. Stephen K. Odaibo, England trained surgeon, pioneer staff, University of Ilorin and University of Maiduguri Schools of Medicine, say, in this interview, that Sen. Ike Ekweremadu’s ordeal is made complicated because of poor knowledge of how things work in UK. He also explained to NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE how the country blew its chances of creating good medical facilities and avoid the embarrassment of having a serving senator sentenced in a foreign country. Excerpt: Having studied and practised in England, what is your view on the recent travail of Sen. Ike Ekweremadu who was recently found guilty on charges of organ/human trafficking? If you are arrested, then it means you have transgressed the law of that country. If you live in England and you are in need of an organ transplant, they will ask you if you will wait for an organ or you will bring your own donor. So, you are permitted to bring your own donor. But the issue here is that if that person is not already living in England, you must do the tissue typing where that individual is coming from. That involves knowing the blood group, the HLA and other typing. And they must be seen to be fairly compatible with that of the recipient. So, there is no law against bringing your donor from wherever. Except you have transgressed part of the law, there should not be any problem. If it is kidney transplant, that can be done in two ways. These are the live kidney or cadaveric kidney donation. Live is when the donor is still alive; cadaveric means the patient or donor has died. The deceased donor would have accepted that his kidney be taken out and given to someone else, may be at the point of death. That is cadaveric; it means the patient is dead or being kept alive by machine. In this instance the patient and donor are usually put side by side in the operating theater; as you take the organ out of one, the recipient takes it. Usually the left kidney is given to the right. That is, the donor’s left kidney is given to the recipient’s right side. Why so? Shouldn’t the right go for right side and vice vasa? It is done in that manner so that the organ can sit properly. So that it doesn’t form a bump and people will not notice it. It sits well on the right side. You may remove the bad kidney or leave it there. There is enough space to put it. The space is not on the left side of the recipient. Are there other ways of getting donations that we may not be aware of in this matter? There are two types of live donors. These are related and the unrelated donors. Related donors are likely to have compatible kidneys to the recipient. But if you are not really related, you know that is a bit distant. If you are not related, you are not likely to have HLA compatibility. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ People are saying that Nigeria would have been spared the embarrassment caused by the Ekweremadu case if there were facilities to perform such operations here. POLL Well, some people want secrecy. Some believe that our infrastructure cannot support such procedures. We don’t have sound energy system, I mean electricity. You have to cool this kidney, you know. O yes, it is in a special solution that you cool. Do you know that we have refrigerators that can cool up to -23 degree centigrade? So, they probably believe that the energy system cannot sustain such procedures, except live related donation. In this instance, the patient walks into the theater, alive, lies there on one table, the recipient on another table. So, you start from the recipient, you remove the kidney from the donor and you put it there. That process doesn’t require much electricity, but hardly can you find such. You may but it is rare. There have been calls from elder statesmen on the matter, asking the British authority to tamper justice with mercy. What is you view on such call? You know, my view is that the actual offense hasn’t been committed. This, as it is, is an intent to commit an offense. It is not the same as actually committing the offense in question. So, I don’t believe that it should be that severe. Secondly, donors are invited from the age range of 20 to 40, at most 50. Beyond that, it is believed that such individuals are diseased already. The belief is that a kidney beyond 50 years is no longer good for donation. So, it is usually within the age range mentioned, preferably 40. But the issue was that this individual was underaged. In an organized society like England, it is possible to know an underaged donor after conducting the pelvic x-ray. What they will look for is to see from the epiphysis which one has ossified. If evidence shows that this patient is not underage, there is no reason why a case should be brought against Sen. Ekeweremadu. So, they would have seen from a pelvic x-ray that ossification has not taken place. There would have been concrete evidence. Do you know that at the age of 25 a child stops growing? You don’t grow again. This is because that piece of cartilage that forms new bone has already gone to the main bone. So, the individual won’t grow again. Before that age, the epiphysis would not have ossified. So, if the victim is overage, there wouldn’t have been any reason to incriminate Sen. Ekweremadu. He has a right to import his own donor. But he must not be underage. Well, they said the boy ran to the police and laid the complaint. In fact, even if he slipped through all the checks, at the hospital they would not have accepted the boy because they will say that he is too young. Ekweremadu should have consulted doctors here; take their views and know how things like these are done. Money doesn’t do everything. No matter how much money you have, knowledge beats it. He would have got doctors here to compare with doctors there in England about the compatibility status of their tissues. This chap would have been thoroughly investigated to make sure that he has clean healthy kidneys. Well, I feel sorry for him. But when you have a standard hospital in Nigeria, you can get practitioners from anywhere in the world to come and operate here. I feel sorry for him. Still on the standard health facilities – is there anything Nigeria can do about it? Indians once brought the best cardiologist to operate on their Prime Minister. James Blalock, he is the father of cardiovascular surgery, actually. They brought him to operate on the Indian PM right in India. You know, Christian Bernard also transplanted a heart in South Africa and it worked. Somebody like that you could bring him to Nigeria if we have standard and world class hospital. Some of us who trained in England weep everyday in Nigeria. Over there, the whites believe we will never make it. And we are not trying at all to prove to them that we can make it. It is very unfortunate. When I was leaving England, my own colleague asked me if I was going back and I said yes. ‘Is there anything wrong with you’, he asked me. Can you imagine, a white boy, asking if anything was wrong with me simply because I wanted to return to my country? He went further, “Do you think Africa would ever make it,” he asked me. What I am talking about now is some 45 years ago. And where are we today? When we obtained independence in 1960, we were on same pedestal with Malaysia, Singapore, even India. But because we spent so many years under military rule we are like this. They didn’t know how to govern. A lot has happened in the country recently, do these show that we are making efforts as country? Well, there was the naira redesign policy that also attempted to make us go into cashless banking and transaction. You see, this is a change. But there are two ways people respond to any change. There are the innovators. These people will adapt to any new system they get. Then you have the diehards. These ones will never change, no matter what you do. They will fight that change except you force them. They are usually very powerful. This is because their existence depends on that old order of doing things. This is what we suffered during the cashless policy. You will also discover that other countries are on cashless policy. But we don’t want to change. Forty-five years ago, while still a lecturer, we would go to the bank to collect salary. I was usually amazed that a lecturer would come in and drain all the money in his account and put it in his pocket and walk away. It was amazing. So, we have to change. That is restructuring from the economic point of view. We have been talking about restructuring, so let us restructure the way we do our transaction. So, it is a good thing. But the thing is that this cashless thing makes you spend more money.