***Says N31M Fraud Figment Of Their Imagination LOKOJA – The Vice Chancellor, Prince Abubakar Audu University Anyigba, Kogi state, Professor Marietu Ohunene, Tenuche said no amount of blackmail and falsehood targeted at the institution by the Alumni Association can derail her from achieving the development agenda set for the institution This is just as she said, the allegations of fraud purportedly levelled against her by the Alumni Association was farther from the truth as the suit was instituted by rival faction against the others . Professor Tenuche made the clarification in a world press conference held at the university auditorium, Anyigba in Kogi state. The Vice Chancellor said the attention of the University was drawn to publications by some news platforms with derogatory headlines “Female Vice Chancellor dragged to court over #31M fraud, the story she considered to be false , malicious with imputation to tarnish her image and cause distraction to the mission and vision of her administration for the ivory tower.” She explained that contrary to the purpose of Alumni Associations, the world over, the Kogi State University Management has been, for many years, dealing with a few individuals, who, rather than seek to pursue the ideals of an Alumni Association, resorted to devising ways of milking the University dry, at all cost. According to her, to set the records straight, the general public should be informed that Suit No.: AYHC/03/2023 pending before the Kogi State High Court of Justice, siting in Anyigba, has no link whatsoever, with an allegation of fraud against the office and person of the Vice Chancellor of the University.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She added that it was no longer news that the Alumni Association of Kogi State University has been enmeshed in leadership crises for years, with two factions, laying claim to legitimacy as National Executives of the Association. POLL “The crises have resulted into legal action and counter legal actions in court. While the various actions are still pending, one of the factions, championed by two individuals, in particular, approached the University on several occasions, demanding funds and that they be invited to attend Meetings of the Governing Council of the University, on the basis that they are the legally elected national Executives of the University Alumni Association. “Since an Upper Area Court, sitting in Lokoja had granted an interlocutory injunction restraining the other faction from parading themselves as the legally elected Executives of the Alumni Association, pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit.” “Clearly seeing that the contents of the Interlocutory Injunction is entirely different from the claim of that faction, the University would rather not invite any of the factions until the matter pending in court over legitimacy of each faction’s claim to the national leadership of the association is resolved. “Angered by the decision of the University not to give recognition to their faction, the arrow-heads of that faction filed an action against the University and made the Vice Chancellor a co-defendant. Their claim in the case is that the University be mandated to invite their acclaimed National President to Council Meetings and that previous Council Meetings held to their exclusion and the decisions taken at such meetings, be nullified. ” They are also asking the court to mandate the University to give account of what they term Alumni finances of the association. That their demands for funds, they claimed, belong to the Alumni Association, a reason why they dragged the immediate past University Management to Court; the University should pay their Lawyer the bills the Association incurred by taking the previous University administration to Court” she said.Professor Tenuche disclosed with dismay, that the purported Alumni Association caused the accounts of the University to be garnishee to the tune of Twenty Five Million Naira and by an order of the Kogi State High Court, sitting in Idah. She added that part of the demand is for the court to mandate the University to return their original certificate of incorporation, which they claimed is in the custody of the University. Based on the demand and to allow peace to reign, she said the University released the sum of Seventeen Million Naira to the Alumni Association and subsequently closed the University Development Account which was hitherto Alumni Account and stopped further collections levies from graduating students of the University as was previously done before the emergence of the present Administration. “To this end, the present University Management has never collected any Development Levy or Alumni fees from graduating students. The University vehemently objected to the demand to pay their Lawyer and has filed an appeal against garnishee order of the Kogi State High Court, Idah, at the Court of Appeal, Abuja. “On their demand for inclusion as members of the University Governing Council, the University has since filed its defence and motion for restraining order as University Governing Council has directed that the University Management should commence the process for the review of several anomalies observed in the 2018 University Law, in line with the report of the last Visitation Panel and other global Universities best practices. ” A simple check at the High Court, Anyigba Registry or a call to the University Management or its lawyers, would have revealed these fact, rather, publishers of the unfortunate news, went to town with the stories they probably were told by the individuals who were bent on bringing their alma mata and her leadership to disrepute, under the guise of “pursing the interest of the alumni association”She clarified. She decried the unprofessional conduct by the publishers of the stories for throwing decorum to the mud without verifying the issues, cautioning that gender should not be a basis for derogatory remarks. She called on the warring factions to embrace peace and join her to build a world class university that trains graduate worthy in character and learning. Recall that the media space was awash with stories that the female Vice Chancellor of Prince Abubakar Audu University Anyigba dragged to court for thirty one million naira fraud.