Multimedia executive, Idris Bello has commended the productive efforts of Femi Adebayo, Toyin Abraham and Funke Akindele for their huge nominations at the ninth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards (AMVCA). In a statement made available to On Screen, Bello lauded the trio for their brave creative investments, as it is an indication of more successes to come. In his words, “the nominations, to a greater extent, further places Nollywood in a better position in global ratings. Notably, the nominated movies being original contents from our socio-cultural realities imply that Nollywood continues to impact creatives in ways that project strengths of filmmakers. The three movies also did fantastically well at the box office and on global streaming platforms respectively.” It would be remembered that on Sunday, April 16, the duo of Bisola Aiyeola and Adjetey Anang alongside child actors, Jasmine Olarotimi and Nifemi Lawal announced the nominees of the ninth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards. The AMVCAs recognise and celebrate outstanding performances in African television and film across diverse genres, and the 2023 edition is billed to hold on May 20. Of the announced categories, 10 are opened to public votes, while others will be decided by the AMVCA panel of judges headed by veteran filmmaker, Femi Odugbemi. Femi Adebayo’s epic movie ‘Ageshinkole’ (King of Thieves) had eight nominations, while Toyin Abraham’s ‘Ijakumo’ got three nominations and Funke Akindele’s ‘Battle On Buka Street’ sits comfortably with 10 nominations. Idris Bello specifically ticks two of Femi Adebayo’s nominations as ‘best actor in a drama’ and ‘best overall movie’ to hopefully be bagged by him at the awards celebration slated for May 20. He further enjoins existing and aspiring filmmakers in Nigeria to exercise more level of research and commitment in their productions, as it is the only proper way to grow and excel as a filmmaker. A public relations expert, Bello sits as the lead consultant at Emiralty Africa. He also teaches Performing and Film Arts at Elizade University, Ondo State.