ABUJA  – Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) has stated that gas resources Nigeria has in abundance would play a key role in energy transition for most power consumption hubs like Abuja and other places. The petroleum experts insist that the country needs to effectively harness the potential of gas resources to ensure not only energy transition but energy security. The Chairman, SPE, Nigeria Council, Mr. Felix Obike, said this recently while briefing journalists in Abuja. He highlighted the need to deepen programmes and projects on gas utilization and policy implementation in the realization of net zero carbon emission. According to him, the just concluded 2023 Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum (OLEF) was geared toward policy formulations and implementation to ensure delivering effective and sustainable energy in the country, the SPE Chairman said. The 2023 lecture series, had as its theme: “Effective Gas Resources Utilisation: A Lever for Enhancing Energy Security and Achieving Net-Zero Emission Goals in Nigeria”. The Chairman noted that gas, which Nigeria has reserves of more than 200 trillion cubic feet, is a cleaner-burning fossil fuel than oil or coal, and can play a significant role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On the move to achieve net zero emission, he said, Nigeria as a gas country had readily available gas resources to exploit and guarantee energy security. POLL He said apart from investments, funding, infrastructure and technologies coming to play in energy transitions, capacity building was also paramount to harnessing gas potential. Obike said the capacity building was also being spearheaded by the Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF) in the tertiary institutions by ensuring the development of professionals to project this development. This, he said was being done by encouragement and inclusive of gas generation and technology courses among others in tertiary institutions’ curricula and sponsoring them. He said in as much as we are trying to decarbonize, we still need to develop our reserves to harness opportunities in the oil and gas industry which was the mainstay of the Nigerian economy. “Gas as cleaner energy for energy transition will be effective for Nigeria looking at its affordability, sustainability and energy security. “We are now trying to harness these resources, having modular approaches by different companies of developing gas reserves, producing them in a safe manner to reduce emission through technological applications,” he said.