BUREAU CHIEF BENIN  – Former Chief Press Secretary to Edo State Governor, Mr. John Mayaki has called on the United States of America (USA) to ban the Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obase­ki and some members of his cabinet for allegedly sponsor­ing election violence and rig­ging against the Labour Party (LP) and All Progressives Con­gress (APC) candidates in the just concluded National and State Assembly elections in the state. Mayaki said the United States should stop being hypocritical and selective in its punitive measures against anti-democratic ele­ments if they must be taken seriously. Particularly, he said the $75m World Bank grant to Obaseki’s administration was a tacit support for a govern­ment that denied and blocked the inauguration of 14 elected House of Assembly members in the state and making sure that the case was never men­tioned in court. He accused the governor of resorting to draconian measures to avoid facing the electoral judgement of the peo­ple over a self-induced fear that the outcome could result in the termination of his hapless reign in charge of the state. According to him, “Gov­ernor Godwin Obaseki was haunted by the shadow of incompetence and general failure he cast since his unfor­tunate emergence as the lead­er of the state. He knew that a free and fair result could only produce one result; the total and complete rejection of his party at the polls. “Unwilling to submit himself to the checks and balances of a legitimate state house of assembly filled with independently-minded rep­resentatives of the people, he resorted to violence, voter re­pression, and naked rigging of the polls.” Faulting those he described as “the abettors of Governor Obaseki’s lawlessness and tyr­anny,” Mayaki trained the fire of his criticism on the World Bank and the Buhari-led ad­ministration for “propping up the evil regime” by consistent­ly failing to demand account­ability for his alleged persecu­tion of opponents, denial of constitutionally-guaranteed freedoms, and disregard of the rule of law marked by his illegal denial of access to 14 lawmakers-elect in the last state assembly.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said, “The World Bank has sadly continued to give oxygen to an administration that is literally persecuting the opposition in Edo State. It is a sad betrayal of the institu­tion’s values. Obaseki, through violent and abhorrent tactics, forced a one-man rule in Edo State.” POLL “He unilaterally denied rep­resentation to representatives of the people in the last state assembly election and granted access to a select-few minority who were willing to surrender the autonomy of the House and bow to his wishes. “Through this totalitarian control achieved with violence and flagrant disregard of the constitution, he went on a borrowing spree, racking up loans with neither the approv­al of the people as would have ordinarily been the case with a functional assembly, nor a transparent account of gov­ernment expenses, including bogus and inflated contracts awarded to friends and cronies in his elaborate patronage net­work. “If the World Bank is tru­ly committed to sustainable development, eradication of poverty, and the strengthen­ing of democracy across the globe, then it must review its role and come to terms with its complicity in the daylight rob­bery and egregious violation of rights committed in Edo State by a man it continues to empower. “The same applies to the Buhari-led Federal Govern­ment. It will go down in histo­ry that under the president’s watch, a state governor was allowed to shut the door to the state assembly to elected lawmakers over suspicion that they would not do his bidding and he successfully maintained the lopsided and illegal status quo throughout the life of the Assembly with­out check,” Mayaki said.