Gunmen have abducted a for­mer President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Okey Wali (SAN), in Rivers State. Wali was intercepted by the gunmen when his convoy was attacked along East-West Road in Obio/Akpor Local Govern­ment Area of the state. It was gathered that two of his aides were killed while three policemen in his convoy were shot. Spokesperson of the Rivers State Police Command, Grace Iringe-Koko, confirmed the incident. Iringe-Koko said the injured police escorts are being hospi­talised at an undisclosed med­ical facility. She said the Commissioner of Police in the state has made adequate police mobilisation to ensure the unconditional re­lease of the kidnapped victim. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has condemned the incident.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ A statement by the Presi­dent of the association, Yaku­bu Chonoko Maikyau, (SAN), appealed to the abductors for the release of Wali. POLL The statement read: “It has come to my attention that one of our respected elders and for­mer President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Okey Wali, SAN, was reportedly abducted in the early hours of yesterday, 17 April 2023, after his convoy was attacked along East-West Road, in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Riv­ers State. ­ “Mr. Okey Wali, SAN, was the 26th President of the NBA and has served this nation in varying capacities, contribut­ing immensely to the growth of legal practice and in the pro­motion and entrenchment of the rule of law. He is a known philanthropist, who has helped in the development of his com­munity in no small measure. “I, therefore, hereby plead with the abductors not to harm Mr. Wali, SAN and make a pas­sionate appeal for his release to his family. “The NBA stands with and assures his family of our full support in this trying period, even as we join in praying for his safe return home. “This ugly incident is yet another sad reminder of the weakness in our security sys­tem and the failure of succes­sive governments to live up to the constitutional duty of providing for the welfare and security of all Nigerians. “We urge the Inspector-Gen­eral of Police and the Com­missioner of Police, Rivers State Command, to leave no stone unturned as they work towards the safe release of our dear learned friend.”