IBADAN – The federal House of Representatives Lawmaker-elect, Honourable Ojo Makanjuola popularly called Smarto has felicitated with Muslim faithfuls in his constituency and across the country over the successful completion of the 2023 Ramadan fasting. The lawmaker, while also rejoicing with the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP leadership and Muslim Ummah in Ogo-Oluwa/Surulere federal constituency, also expressed gratitude to God over the successful conclusion of 2023 general elections amidst various predictions that got many apprehensive ahead of the exercise. A press statement by Honourable Makanjuola on Thursday made available to journalists by his Special Assistant on Media, Henry Odeh, indicates that Nigerians have so much to be thankful for rather than being distracted by the challenges which he said are surmountable with concerted efforts. This was as he also stressed the need for Muslim faithfuls to endeavor to exemplify the lessons derived from the teachings of Ramadan in their daily lives, even beyond the Eid-el Fitr celebration. While expressing special Ramadan felicitation to the Governor of the state, His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde and his deputy, Barrister Abdulroheem Bayo Lawal over the relative peace and tranquility that currently permeate the state, Hon. Smarto stressed the need for all, especially party members to shun political bickerings and refocus energies and attention on deepening the good governance being championed by the Governor. The Lawmaker-elect particularly commended the leadership of the ruling party in the state under the state chairmanship of Honourable Dayo Ogungbenro for the successful showing at the 2023 general elections saying the PDP has set an unprecedented example of a casualty-free general elections in Oyo state which should henceforth, become a template for others to follow. “I want to use this special occasion of 2023 Eid-el Fitr celebration to first of all, felicitate with all our Muslim brothers and sisters in Ogo-Oluwa/Surulere federal constituency over the successful completion of 2023 Ramadan fasting.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Ramadan is a holy month of sobriety and rededication to the course of Allah through fasting and strictly adhering to the tenets of Islam as well as advancing the course of humanity. POLL “It is very important to sustain the teachings of this holy month and exemplify them in our daily lives, our interpersonal relations, and in our interactions with one another in the society, even beyond this period of celebration. “I also want to specially felicitate with the great leader and father of our great party in Oyo state and south west Nigeria, His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde for the relative peace and tranquility that currently permeate the entire state, making our people to celebrate 2023 Eid-el Fitr with peace of mind. “I want to specially join our party leaders, elders, and the entire PDP leadership and family in Ogo-Oluwa/Surulere federal constituency. It is my earnest prayer that as we prepare to refocus our energies on governance, my commitment shall be in the fear of Allah and to the general wellbeing of my constituents.” Hon. Smarto stated.