ABUJA – Labour Party Chairmen Forum comprising 36 Chairmen of LP across the federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), have called for a meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC) of Labour Party to immediately address the crisis in the party. Recall that on Friday in Abuja, 28 States Chairmen of the Labour Party overpowered a team of police men mounting guard at the gate of the National Secretariat in Utako, Abuja. The law enforcement officers were reportedly at the facility to enforce a court order barring the national chairman and some Excos from parading themselves as such. Speaking through the Chairman of LP Chairmen Forum, Rotimi Kehinde, they said that, “Those who grossly violated the provision of our party’s constitution and take internal matters of the party to the court without exhausting all the appropriate instituted channels to resolving disputes and went ahead to court are by the dint of this communique directed to immediately effect withdrawal of the matter from court and return to the part of rectitude for due process”. The 36 Chairmen also condemned what they described as an act of political brigandage perpetrated by a faction of the NWC which it claimed was led by Comrade Apapa. It alleged that Apapa and others involved in the police action at the party Secretariat “do not seem to appear as appropriate members of LP as no one member with the required sanity will destroy his own home”. The group also expressed confidence in the leadership of the national chairman, Julius Abure, as it emphasized that actions by the ringleader of the splinter faction, Apapa Lamidi’s “along with his gang is accordingly repudiated and cannot stand”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It added that “Those who were suspended by the party led by Comrade Julius Abure remain suspended until NEC decides otherwise. POLL “The 36 state chairmen as members of NEC of Labour party met in Abuja, the headquarters of LP to review the recent development in the party where few insignificant members of NWC led by comrade Apapa Lamidi and his gang criminally declared themselves the new leadership of our party. Hence the 36 chairmen resolved as hereunder: “36 chairmen recommend that NEC should be called without further delay. 36 Chairmen uphold that the NWC meeting called by Apapa Lamidi was a nullity and it failed ab-initio. Therefore, any decision reached therefrom is of no legal effect”.