Chimamanda Ngozi Adiche, a Nigerian writer, and multiple international award winning author in this interview on Arise TV, speaks about the 2023 general elections, how the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) failed to live up to expectation in terms of its promise to deliver free, fair and credible elections, why President Buhari missed the opportunity of heroism with regard to the election, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: You said that the 2023 election is a slap to the face of Nigerian people and insult to the collective intelligence of Nigerians, tell us why you see it that way? I wrote that letter to be able to present the truth. I thought that something was happening to the country and it is really important to tell the story. One of my favourites poems has these lines, “And yet why not say what happened? I wanted to say what happened and what happened at the presidential election was really unforgivably flawed. There was evidence for that and I felt that it was important to say that. I wanted to call out the US for what I considered a two ‘faceness’, when it comes to Africa. The US has complicity for nondemocratic when it comes to election in this continent. Recently, in Congo, the US endorsed an election that was absolutely sham, and then the same US will turn around and criticize Congo for being undemocratic. So, my point was to say be what you say that you are. You cannot criticize Africa countries for being undemocratic while at the same time endorsing something that is quite evidently undemocratic. In your letter you were quite categorical in saying that the electoral process was imperiled not by technical shortcoming but by deliberate manipulation, is there enough evidence from your assessment to support that claim? We saw how Nigerians spoke about mutilated election result sheets, and we all saw them. We saw polling unit agents saying that what they had from the polling units was not what was announced officially. To me it is a striking example of how this election was manipulated and not because of technical breaches. Nigeria is full of very bright people in tech. and there is no reason for that excuse of technical breach. Another question that may be asked, is, if there was a technical breach, why was it possible for most people to upload results of the other federal elections, and not the presidential? We saw also this unfortunate silence from INEC chairman. I think Nigerians deserve respect from an institution that is supposed to shepherd democracy. The INEC should come out and explain to Nigerians how it happened. It is not about technical breaches, because it is not convincing. Knowing how much hope and trust that Nigerians have invested in this election, knowing that Nigeria is a low trust society. If there is nothing to hide he should make an extra effort to go out and explain to Nigerians what happened. Exactly, how a lot of people feel, but in reacting to your letter to some of the things that you said, the APC has suggested that you were not in Nigeria during the election and that you did not vote and therefore, you should not make categorical statement about an election you do not witness…… Yes, I received a lot of criticism from certain quarters and. I read a few things people said to me and it is amazing, what they said about juvenile and non-juvenile people. I have two homes, I have a home here and I have a home in the US I am very often here. I tried very hard to get my Permanent Voter Card (PVC) and the reason I tried very hard is because I have been assured that technology would save us. It worked in Osun, it worked in Ekiti, it worked in Edo and I think Anambra State, so I tried. People talked about how difficult it was to collect Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) and that in itself is a form of disenfranchisement. I tried the first time and I couldn’t get my PVC. Again not voting does not mean that I cannot comment in an election. I am a Nigerian citizen and every Nigerian citizen has a right to have an opinion about this election. Some people said that the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) worked and the IReV didn’t work, which is a good way to say that the technology was manipulated. They both have to work for the election to be credible, so BVAS was to ensure that we didn’t have ghost voters and that people actually voted. The aim is defeated if you don’t upload results because it is those results that you have to uploaded that will confirm who voted. We cannot see those results as Prof. Yakukubu has promised. As Prof. Mahmood said, I want to quote him, “The public would be able to view the polling units results as soon as the elections are finalized on election day” So, it is an important thing to be addressed with the Nigerian people. The electoral act gave INEC the legal backing to transmit election result electronically and did say, in the format that INEC will decide. The chairman did tell us that the result would be uploaded at the end of voting from the polling units, and that was not done. People seem to deflect from that important real thing and they are talking about, she is not in Nigeria, and all that, but these are the points. The point is, what happened? In response to the letter that you wrote to Mr Biden, Mr Tinubu is suggesting that you may face some legal suit over the allegation contained in your letter that Mr Tinubu may have compromised the chairman of INEC Mahmood Yakubu, that there is no evidence of the astronomical dollar amount that has received from the President-elect, are you worried about the possibility of a law suit? POLL No, I am not worried at all and again these are the things that try to deflect what is really important. It is important if people will point out what is untrue in the letter. We heard of people who complained about how they voted and it is not reflected in the result. In all of these INEC should give us a little insight of what really happened in that election in a way, and all of these added together becomes a kind of tidal waves. I think that the rumours surrounding this election are part of the story in the election. If you leave a gap in information, people will try to fill that gap, it is how human mind works. Our country is such a low trust society and are so desperate to believe in rumours. There are so much rumours in this election and nobody is giving a convincing reason, so people are going to rumour about it. Also our political landscape is steeped to people being compromised. I am not worried about that, I think that any fair minded person in this country who is honest who is honest will acknowledge that these rumours are circulating. I said clearly that there is no evidence for them and I said that it is important to say in the story of this election many people are starting to think that it is a scheme to say that what happened is the case of compromising. You support Peter Obi the candidate of the Labour Party, according to official result came third in the election, we saw a number of spokesmen from APC suggesting that you are supporting your tribes man to use some rather old term, what do make of the polarization or the ethnic division as a result of this election, ethnicity is so politicised and if so, how dangerous is that in your assessment? The word tribes man such an outdated and archaic expression, which also says something about whoever is using it. I think that kind of accusation is a practice of what psychologists call projecting. You are doing something and then you accuse someone else of doing it. I did not support Peter Obi because he is an Igbo as I am. While I very much admire Peter Obi, I respect him, there are many other Igbo men who I admire and respect but I will never vote them for president. My support for Peter Obi is rooted in my faith in his ability. I got to know Peter Obi years ago when he came to pay homage to my parents, because he heard that my father was the first professor of statistics in Nigeria and my mother had retired as the first female registrar of the University of Nigeria, So, the man decided that he wanted to pay homage and I was very interested because it showed how much he valued education. When he was the Governor of Anambra State, he took Anambra State to the number one in education. I remember being very impressed by the story of how he had given his personal phone numbers to all the Senior Prefects in secondary schools in Anambra State. This also shows you that he is interested in what ordinary people are doing. He just didn’t want to hear from the school administrators he wanted to hear from the students about what was happening and he was focused on security and he tackled kidnapping in Anambra State. I also remember that he clashed with Anambra elites when he was tackling insecurity and kidnapping in Anambra State, and that shows that he is quite decisive. He is very focused on things and that is really why I support him. This idea of ethnicity is just really a way of deflecting, so let us focus on the real issues. It is unfortunate that it is only one part of the political spectrum that is politicizing ethnicity, and I think that it is rather unfortunate. I think that most people in Nigeria don’t care about ethnicity as much as caring about having a country that works. They want good leadership, they want the hospitals and the schools that are good, and that affects everyone, whether you are Yoruba, Ijaw, Efik, Hausa etcetera. I know that hold Soyinka in high esteem. I want to know your thoughts on Nobel Laureate, Wole Soyinka reaction to the election results by the Labour Party Vice Presidential candidate, Yusuf Datti Baba Ahmed comment which Prof. Wole Soyinka describes as fascistic, do you see as part of attack of Peter Obi and his running mate as some people suggested, do you think that Datti Baba Ahmed over stepped his bond?. I still do. I have a lot of love for Prof. Soyinka, I admire him, I respect him, as a writer and I think that everyone should read “The man died”. At the same time, I disagree very strongly him about this particular issue. Because I respect Prof. Soyinka so much, I went back at watched the interview. I actually went back to watch to ensure that I was not missing something. I think fascistic is a very strong word. You don’t use to address this kind of issue. If you look at the situation you can see why they have been termed fascist. I do not see any reason Datti Baba Ahmed interview should have been termed fascist. I think he was making a very strongpoint about the elections and what he was saying was very reasonable that if our democracy is rooted in our constitution, and if you swear in a person who was elected unconstitutionally, then you are in fact ending democracy. It is quite a reasonable decision and of course we can argue about what that beat in the constitution means. The election period really made me read some of the things that I never would have, such as the Nigerian constitution. I think now we are talking about what does “And” means? Datti Baba Ahmed was saying that it is two third of the 36 states and the Federal Territory (FCT), that is separate. It is a reasonable argument, “And” is a conjunction. If we use it in that context it means. Of course the court can interpret but I don’t think is unreasonable for educated people in Nigeria who can read, who know what the word And mean to make their own interpretation and to argue it. The fact that the Labour Party is in Court means that they do nt believe in this election, it is constitutional. I don’t see why it should be termed fascist. I think the charitable way of reading Prof. Soyinka’s comment is that, Prof. Soyinka himself is not given to restraint in language in general and I am sure that is where the word fascist came from. However, I have suggestion for what we can use fascist for. We could use fascist for INEC because as it is right now many Nigerians feel deeply cheated and greatly disenfranchised by INEC. There is authoritarianism which is the basis of fascism at the centre of manipulating an election, because disregarding people is forcefully taking away their votes, that is fascist. Fascist is all the violence that happened during the elections. Fascist is the way that some people have remained silent about the violence and fascist is the body that hasn’t come out to address the very tangible and palpable discontent in this country. I think that the fact that we can use fascist for INEC, is further fact that so many people were watching and were so inspired by what happened before this election, the obedient movement and the rest of them. So, I also think that President Mohammadu Buhari missed an opportunity for heroism. He missed the chance that he had because what Nigerians felt before the election, I don’t think that many Nigerians feel that way now. The opposition political parties are challenging the election in court, do you think that they will get a fair hearing? I hope that thy will but I think that there is a reason to doubt that because the Supreme Court has had occasions where justice had not been accessed to most people. There is reason to worry, but I am hopeful. I am generally hopeful. I am optimistic that they will do the right thing and people will get justice.