LAGOS – The International Monetary Fund (IMF), has implored the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to separate monetary policy objectives from financial stability goals to address inflationary pressures, adding that the emergence of stress in financial markets has complicated the task of Central Banks at a time when global inflationary pressures are proving to be more persistent than anticipated. The IMF also called on Policymakers in Nigeria to act swiftly to prevent any systemic event that may adversely affect market confidence in the resilience of the global financial system. The Fund emphasised that should policymakers need to adjust the stance of monetary policy to support financial stability, they should clearly communicate their continued resolve to bring inflation back to target as soon as possible once financial stress lessens. Paulo Medas, Division Chief, Fiscal Affairs Department of IMF, while in chats with Daily Independent at the just concluded Spring Meetings of the World Bank Group in Washington D.C. USA, said financial stability risks have increased rapidly as the resilience of the global financial system has been tested by higher inflation and fragmentation risks. He said: “What we have seen in the dynamics, especially in African countries, especially Nigeria is that debt continues to rise. “The recent turmoil in the banking sector has highlighted failures in internal risk management practices with respect to interest rate and liquidity risks at banks, as well as supervisory lapses. Giving more general clue on what is happening in Nigeria while making recommendations on the way out, Medas stated: “What we recommend in this perspective is that there is need for tight fiscal policy.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The first set of measures should be focused on containing inflation, but the other challenge here is heightened debt sustainability concern and a lack of access to financing. POLL “But we need to do this in a way that protects the most vulnerable, and there are two things we see which are that tax revenues that remain low in most low-income countries in Africa. For example, tax revenues in low income countries remain five percent of GDP on average for people in emerging markets. “So, there should be more efforts to increase tax capacity, create fiscal space, not only to manage the debt burdens, the rising debt burden, but also to address these other priorities to achieve the development goals. “The other part we see is improved quality and efficiency of spending in many of these countries where you have untargeted subsidies like energy subsidies, but structuring these subsidies make it much more targeted while protecting those that are more vulnerable and this will help those who really need it and increase savings or other priorities”. “Supervisors should ensure that banks have corporate governance and risk management commensurate with their risk profile, including in the areas of risk monitoring by bank boards and the capacity and adequacy of capital and liquidity stress tests. “For nonbank financial intermediaries (NBFIs), policymakers should close data gaps, incentivize proper risk management practices, set appropriate regulation, and intensify supervision. “Adequate minimum capital and liquidity requirements including for smaller institutions that, individually, are not considered systemic, are essential to contain financial stability risks. “Prudential rules should ensure that banks hold capital for interest rate risk and guard against hidden losses that could materialise abruptly in the event of liquidity shocks. “In the current environment of persistent inflation and high interest rates, authorities should pay specific attention to bank asset classification and provisions as well as to exposures to interest rate and liquidity risks. “Central banks’ liquidity support measures should aim to address liquidity, not solvency issues. The latter should be left Mr Tobias Andrian, Financial Counsellor and Director of the IMF’s Monetary and Capital Markets Department, called for concrete steps by emerging economies, especially Nigeria, that will make the financial stability process operate faster, and in a more transparent way this year He said: “The global economic growth is expected to be lower than earlier projected this year, signaling potential economic downturn. “What we’re looking for is concrete steps by emerging economies that will make the process operate faster, and in a more transparent way. And something that debtor countries can look at and understand more clearly on how long things will take.” Adrian, who emphasised that lower interest rate, is a choice by Country’s Central Bank (CBN), said: “Developing countries may face mounting debt and insufficient international support, risking another lost decade”. He noted that the fact that emerging markets sales of share is lower than in the USA market is to ensure the security of their shares. “It is the policy tool of the emerging markets to curb slowdown by both the fiscal and monetary authorities to slow down He noted that: ” the banking crisis highlights long-neglected financial fragilities and regulatory weaknesses. “Declining energy costs lead to lower inflation, but elevated food prices maintains a high cost of living in many developing countries”. According to Adrian, “Growing global asymmetries threaten developing countries’ resilience, requiring stronger multilateral action and an urgent focus on sovereign debt architecture. On debt crisis, he argued that a record number of developing nations are at risk of a debt crisis, with ballooning inflation, escalating borrowing costs and a strong dollar jacking up the cost for borrowing countries to repay loans and raise fresh money. David Malpass ,the WBG President, told Daily Independent that the nation’s economic growth would be subdued during the year with a forecast growth rate of 2.8 percent, a further drop from its earlier forecast of 2.9 percent and also a significant drop from its estimates for 2022 at 3.3 percent. Malpass said: “For Nigeria, the growth was 3.3 per cent in 2022 and 2.8 per cent for 2023 is within our forecast, and our high priority in the World Bank is shared prosperity in a sustainable way. And so, as we think about Nigeria, there are many changes that are needed in order to make that happen. “Nigeria has a big chunk of its GDP coming from the oil sector and it means that a lot of people in Nigeria are facing poverty due to the global difficulties in the sector as well as Nigeria’s peculiar challenges, and that needs to be a direct focus. “And they (Nigeria) also face insecurity across the northern regions that are incredibly challenging. “And so, the World Bank is working hard within Nigeria but also working to try to have an economic system that can be more productive. “Nigeria has trade protection that blocks market development; they have a dual exchange rate that is very expensive for the people of Nigeria; They have high inflation and not enough diversification of the economy to really make sufficient progress”. Malpass, while speaking to the broader perspective of African economies also affecting Nigeria, said: “I wanted to give you the context for Nigeria, Egypt, and for other countries where we wish that the true success of the World Bank would be if there can be countries where the people are doing well into the future. And that I think is going to take a substantial change in the world. “My hope would be that we can break through on the debt overhang that’s weighing on countries and break through the structural blockages in so many of the big developing countries where rather than converging and having their growth go up faster than the advanced economies which would be their goal there is a slow down over the decade.