JOS – Senator representing Plateau South Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Prof Nora Ladi Daduut on Monday distributed 30 sets of tricycles popularly known as Keke Napep to Youth organisations in Plateau South Senatorial district. The tricycles are meant to assist in empowering the beneficiaries to jumpstart their entrepreneurial journey and enhance their independence. Daily Independent findings reveals that Senator Daduut has been providing empowerment and skills acquisition programmes for youths in her constituency since she was elected into the National assembly in 2020 , and has made this empowerment a regular and continuous exercise till date in her Plateau South Senatorial constituency. While distributing the tricycles , Senator Daduut noted that the gesture was in fulfillment of her promise to empower Youths in the Senatorial district. “This programme is aimed at eradicating poverty and empowering our youths in Plateau South Senatorial district to have access to economic well being.” She promised to continue her various youth empowerment intervention programmes as a means of fighting poverty and restiveness in her constituency while in the Senate . Senator Nora Daduut would be recalled recently distributed empowerment facilities worth millions of naira to youths and women of her Senatorial District .‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to her, ” the Youths are very critical to nation-building ,I have carried out several empowerment programmes for them since assumption of office.” POLL Prof Daduut added that “we had recently given out laptop computers to hundreds of unemployed graduates trained on Information Communication Technology (ICT) in my Senatorial district.” “As Senator representing Plateau South ,I have also constructed schools ,equipped several health centers and would soon be commissioning some other projects we embarked upon “. She added that”We have provided lifeline to over 10,000 widows Youths as well as indigent persons from the six local government areas of my constituency.” She urged the beneficiaries to use the tricycles to improve the lives of their families and communities. The beneficiaries praised the senator Daduut for bringing succour to the people of Plateau South and called on other well meaning indigenes of the Senatorial district to emulate Prof be Nora Daduut by contributing their quota to the development of the senatorial district.