The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, has declared a Port Harcourt based popular prophetess and found­er of Christ Power Adoration Ministries, Faith Ugochi, and a celebrity couple: Igho Ubiri­bo and Danielle Simba Allen, wanted for recruiting teenage girls into drug trafficking while they serve as the arrowheads of an international syndicate op­erating from Los Angeles, USA. According to Mr. Femi Babafemi. NDLEA’s Director, Media and Publicity, the lid was blown off the cartel when the operatives at the NAHCO import shed of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja Lagos, inter­cepted a consignment of 32.70 kilograms of Loud, a strong variant of cannabis concealed in cartons of used wears on No­vember 16, 2022. ”A freight agent, Ukoh Ifeanyi Oguguo, was immediately ar­rested while further investiga­tions led to the arrest of four more suspects: Chikodi Favour; Obiyom Shalom Chiamaka; Nnochiri Chidinma Promise and Edward Omatseye (aka Montana). “The 15-year-old Favour was the first sales girl to be arrested at a fuel station in Ajah area of Lagos. She thereafter led the operatives to a duplex accom­modation around Ikate area of Lekki, which was later discov­ered to be a rented apartment by the criminal group purpose­ly for four young girls that the syndicate uses for marketing and distribution of illicit drugs. “Another girl, Shalom, who is a fresh graduate of Agricultural Science from Rivers State Uni­versity of Science and Tech­nology, was picked up from the house along with Favour,”:he said Furthermore, he said during their preliminary interviews, it was learnt that the syndicate rented another building used as drugs warehouse inside Richmond Estate, Lekki. “By the time operatives located the house, it was discovered that other members of the syndicate had broken into the store and carted away bags of illicit sub­stances. However, some illicit drugs paraphernalia including sealing machine, bloating ma­chine and packaging bags were recovered from the warehouse. “A follow-up operation led to the arrest of Edward Omat­seye at his residence around Lekki area. Edward confessed during interview to be working for Igho and his wife, Danielle, who are identified as the overall heads of the criminal group. “Investigation was able to es­tablish that Favour and Shalom were recruited as salesgirls in the illicit drug trade by Prophet­ess Faith Ugochi of Christ Pow­er Adoration Ministries, using her church platform to recruit teenage girls brought to her for help, on behalf of the celebrity couple: Igho Ubiribo (aka Tiny) and Danielle Simba Allen (aka Dani), who are the owners of the business, while Edward Omatseye (aka Montana) co­ordinates the illicit drug trade activities for them in Nigeria, with Nnochiri Chidinma Prom­ise as representative of Ben Cargo Ltd, a freight company responsible for the shipment of illicit consignments into the country,” he stated. He disclosed that while Nnochiri Chidinma Promise and Edward Omatseye (aka Montana) have already been charged to court and are cur­rently facing trial at the Federal High Court, Lagos along with Ben Cargo Ltd, a freight com­pany which had been linked to two previous drug seizures and also involved in the current case, several attempts to get Prophetess Faith Ugochi, Igho Ubiribo and Danielle Simba Al­len submit themselves for ques­tioning have proved abortive. In the same vein, letters of invitation were also extended to Igho Ubiribo and Danielle Simba Allen. A reminder was also sent when the couple didn’t show any readiness to respond to the first invitation. While Prophetess Ugochi fled her home and went into hiding but continued her prophetic ministration on Facebook, the duo of Igho and Danielle initially sent a legal represen­tation to ask for another time to honour the invitation, they have since gone incommunica­do, he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Meanwhile, the Agency in collaboration with other stakeholders including the Customs Service on Friday 31st March conducted a joint examination of two contain­ers marked TRHU 4758549 and TRHU 6936803 where One Hundred and Forty-Three Mil­lion Eight Hundred Thousand (143,800,000 tablets) pills of Tramadol 225mg were discov­ered in 720 cartons weighing 10.3tons (10,386kgs).