AWKA  – The Chairman, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) Anambra State Chapter Comrade Humphrey Emeka Nwafor says in the next 16 years, Anambra local government system may no longer have workers as people retire and die. Nwafor bemoaned the fact that the last recruitment exer­cise in the local government ser­vice was done 19 years ago and since then no state government has conducted another recruit­ment to replace workers who re­tired or died thereby resulting to dearth of personnel in the local government system. Nwafor, who spoke exclu­sively with our correspondent concerning workers’ welfare in Anambra State as the 2023 May Day approached, said there was need to pay more attention to the local government system in order to sanitise and revital­ise it. Although he admitted that Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo have been forthcoming with rapid response to workers’ welfare as seen in the 10% sal­ary increments, N15000 Christ­mas largesse, payments of pro­motion benefits, payments of pensions and gratuities, he said a lot more needed to be done to ameliorate the conditions of Anambra workers. The State NLC boss said, “As you know the governor is just one year in office and within this one year, he increased our salaries by 10% and he equal­ly gave us N15000 Christmas bonus. So that is what we have benefitted as workers at least for this one year. “Again is that he has been paying our salaries as he prom­ised. He has not owed any worker any month and that of gratuities and pensions have been coming regularly as they suppose which is part of the welfare.” The Anambra NLC Chair­man, who recalled that the gov­ernor recruited, deployed and paid 5000 teachers in both pri­mary and post primary schools and also recruited human re­source for health, said there was need for such recruitment exercise to be extended to min­istries, departments, parastatals and agencies of government.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said currently, schools across Anambra State no lon­ger have security guards to watch over pupils, teachers and the school premises; that even drivers were lacking in schools. POLL Nwafor was equally of the opinion that the most pathetic situation is in the local govern­ment system. He said it is over 19 years now that the state had a recruitment exercise in the local governments. That in the next 16 years, there would be no staff in the local government system because all of them must have retired. He said there was need for the state government to conduct a recruitment exercise to fill the gaps in the local government system.