Hon Sam Onuigbo, House of Representatives Committee Chairman on Climate Change and member representing Ikwuano -Umuahia Federal Constituency of Abia State has of Chief Ikechi Emenike, governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the last election over his purported suspension along eight other chieftains of APC in Abia, noting that the desperate action was only diversionary. He said the APC governorship candidate was merely trying to evade scrutiny over how he deployed and misused campaign funds placed at his disposal by the party with effect that Abia APC could muster a paltry 8000 votes for its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Hon has therefore urged the national leadership of the party to direct Emenike to account for how he disbursed the huge sums given for the election, as no cover up would suffice with the show of shame the party returned during the general election. Chief Emenike had in a letter signed by the party’s Secretary, Chief Chidi Avajah, suspended nine chieftains of the party, among them Hon Onuigbo, for alleged anti party activities during the just-concluded general elections. How Onuigbo who held the party’s Abia Central Senatorial District ticket but was surprisingly excluded from the scheme of things by Chief Emenike and his cohorts apparently because of the campaign funds dismissed the purported suspension as an action of a desperate man. ” They gave him money from the national party and he has to account for how he disbursed it. ” He was going about campaigning against me instead of campaigning for the APC and the President -elect. He lost in all the places he campaigned against me including his polling unit.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ” Despite all the money that the national leadership confirmed to us that was given to him for Abia, he was only able to deliver a paltry 8000 votes for the President- elect.” POLL The lawmaker who said he remained a bonafide member of the APC, insisted that his purported suspension “holds no water”. ” Suspension of members of a party is based on established anti-party activities. You don’t wake up in the morning and start suspending people; gather men like puppets and ask them to sign suspension letters. ” My Ward didn’t suspend me. I remain a bonafide member of APC, and I’m working here in Abuja with the National leadership, handling some very important matters concerning our party in the state. “So, I don’t see the basis for such frivolous, and absolutely irresponsible and reckless letter”. Rep Onuigbo said the most ridiculous of the allegations was the claim that he was working for Peoples Democratic Party, candidate for his federal constituency, Rt. Hon. Chinedum Orji, the very person and the very reason he left PDP to join the APC in the first place, and wondered the wisdom in such reasoning ” They said that I worked for Hon. Chinedum Orji of the PDP. Such allegation is very ridiculous because it was the same Chinedum Orji that was instrumental to my leaving PDP because he was angling for my position. ” So, how on earth will I go and work for the person who conspired and worked against me because he was angling to take over my position in the House of Representatives? Is it as a reward for his efforts or in recognition of his achievements? He worked with Col. Akobundu for me to leave PDP.” Chief Emenike, Onuigbo stressed embarked on a journey to destroy Abia APC because of his selfish interests, wondering how he thinks he could run the party without other chieftains. According to him Emenike has turned Abia APC into a small kiosk, which he alone can manage ” I have never seen anybody like Emenike who wants to dismantle anywhere that he finds himself. ” For a primary election that I won in the afternoon, the person I defeated was rewarded with ministerial appointment, then Emenike went and brought somebody who was coming in like unknown flying object who never participated in the primary election. ” Ikechi and his team continued to lead that man to eight courts ending up in the Supreme Court where the apex court affirmed my candidacy because the meddlesome interloper never participated in the primary election.” Despite all these , he said Emenike subverted the ruling of the Appeal that affirmed by candidacy, and threatened to invite the court into the matter at the appropriate time. Hon. Onuigbo advised Emenike and his co-travellers who he accused of destroying Abia APC, to stop engaging in actions that would bring further disgrace to the party as he recommended the Abia APC leader for immediate psychiatric examination. ” I am recommending Chief Emenike for psychiatric examination considering his role in the continued destruction of APC in Abia State instead of working with well meaning members to rebuild the party after a disastrous outing which was caused by him,” Onuigbo advised. Otherwise how can someone say that im from Ward 3, Ikwuano “Chief Avajah and Kingsley Ononogbu stated that I did not participate in APC activities at the Ward level, LGA, and State level. My ward is Ibere Ward 2, and I led campaigns at that level. Can Chief Avajah, Kingsley Ononogbu , and their cohorts who never joined me for a day to campaign point me to the Ward activity that I was not part of? “At the LGA level, at what point did they invite me and I did not join? This attitude of completely cutting me off was further proven during the Presidential campaign of our President-elect His Excellency Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu where despite subsisting court orders that I am the Senatorial Candidate of our party, they conspired and put another person’s name on the brochure. Despite the fact that the campaign held in my constituency, I was deliberately ignored despite my presence there. “Before the end of the event, my campaign team made several attempts to get them to recognize me as the host House of Representatives member present, but were rebuffed each time. Was it at that time that I failed to join party activities at the State level?”