Says Tinubu’s Victory Was Ordained By God ABUJA – As politicians jostle for positions in the forthcoming government, a group, under the aegis of National Support Project for Tinubu/Shettima (NSPTS) is urging the President-Elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu to consider Rt.Hon James Abiodun Falake, for the position of Chief of Staff (COS). The National support project for Tinubu/Shettima (NSPTS) comprises over 400 support groups cut across the leading opposition political parties with structures in the 36 states of Nigeria respectively. The group, in a statement by its National Leader and chieftain, Ochachangolo Armstrong Adah while congratulating the President-elect on his victory at the polls, urged him to seed the position to Falake, adding that such action will be a just reward for loyalty. He also described it as respect for the current national approval ratings and symbolic of the character of the President elect as the elected President of all Nigerians and not a section. “As a group we live up to our faithfulness and fidelity to promises made. We promised to give our full and unalloyed support to the sustenance of Nigeria’s unity and stability as expressed by the majority of Nigerians through the instrumentality of the ballot. The results of the presidential elections have shown, we delivered. “A feat that was made possible by the dynamic and liberal leadership style displayed by Rt.Hon James Falake. We are therefore appealing to the president-elect’s good conscience to adopt the principle of fairness,equity and Justice to correct any perceived imbalances that may arise as he assembles his team for Nigeria and Nigerians.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Rt.Hon James Falake has demonstrated rare capabilities and capacity in organization,’’ Armstrong stated. POLL Speaking on the challenge in the Election Petitions Tribunal of Tinubu’s victory by some opposition political parties and Presidential candidates, Ochachangolo said, ‘’we believe that Tinubu’s victory was ordained by God so we are very confident that he will prevail and overcome all obstacles that will come his way before and after his swearing-in on May 29, 2023. ‘’The group re emphasized that whatever the President elect does he should allow the spirit of geopolitical balancing, fairness and reciprocity to prevail.”