Says, lack of Women participation in technology results to $42trn economic losses globally By , Abuja Motunrayo Opeyinka, Founder of Womenovate, a female-focused online learning platform globally offering women in STEAM(Science, Technology, Entering, Agriculture Agriculture, and Mathematics) disclosed that over the past few decades, women have broken barriers and shattered glass ceilings in many fields, including business, politics, academia, STEM, and the arts. She said this in an interview with Journalists on a Fireside Chat in commemoration of Women’s History Month, in line with this year’s theme, “DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality. Opeyinka noted that women are increasingly starting businesses and pursuing entrepreneurial ventures, and this trend not only empowers women to pursue their passions, but also helps to create more diverse and inclusive workplaces. According to her, women are in greater positions of power than ever before, but success always comes with struggle. She shares her insights and strategies to help women take the reins and achieve their most thrilling visions of impact, reward, and influence by using their core strengths of bravery and power. She urged Nigerian women to embrace technology, she said that, them that have experience have good intentions for women‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ With grave concern, Opeyinka stressed that there is globally $42 trillion economic loss from lack of women participation in technology, and this has caused a pandemic. POLL She said that this meeting is to encourage women to take steps and to close the gender gap. “We need to have more women been participative and inclusive in textures, in designing of new technology and bringing more diversity into the whole texture space,” she said. This meeting is to encourage younger women to stand up and fill the space, so that women will be seen in leadership inorder to inspire more women. On his part, Edosa Oviawe program Manager Global Rights said the edition of the Fireside Chat is aimed at highlighting and celebrating women who have leveraged technology to attain success across various fields. He said there is every need for the conversation inorder to educate more women “The fire chat is to bring together the experienced women to educate and inspire the younger women on the need to take challenges to be part of technology invention. “Women has been abused in the society by technology, it has also provided additional fertile grounds for gender-based violence against women and girls to an alarming extent, and with little accountability. “It has fuelled the perpetration of insidious harmful actions, often by partners and ex-partners but also anonymous individuals, perpetuating an environment in which violence against women and girls seems to be normalized by society,” he said.