More stakeholders and professionals in the Nigerian aviation industry have continued to criticise the State governments for investing in airport development at the expense of other capital projects begging their attention. Speaking with our correspondent, Comrade Olayinka, Abioye, the former General Secretary of the Nigerian Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), described the rush for construction of additional airports by State governments as aberration and fraudulent. In recent time, no fewer than 15 State governors in Nigeria are focusing their energies on the construction of agro-cargo airports alone in the country. Among the states are Ondo (Akure), Rivers State (Calabar), Kwara (Ilorin), Taraba (Jalingo), Plateau (Jos), Kano, Benue (Dauda), Niger (Minna), Imo (Owerri), Anambra (Umuleri), Akwa Ibom (Uyo) and Ogun (Remo). Abioye specifically queried the plan of the Edo State Government to construct another airport at Auchi, wondering if the facilities of the existing Benin Airport was overstretched by users. Like other industry professionals who have kicked against the plan, Abioye insisted that what most of the states required were good road networks and train services for the transportation of farm produce and commuters. He insisted that most of the State governors did not carry out adequate feasibility studies before embarking on the airport project.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “For instance, we have Benin Airport, how well have we utilised the airport? Does it mean that Benin Airport is not satisfying all indigenes of Edo State? The answer is no. What is the essence of setting up another airport in Auchi? POLL “What we need are good roads that can move people around. Good a thing, the Federal Government has also assented to some laws giving states the authority to construct railways. What we need more is railways, particularly more so when we don’t have good roads. Railways will transport far more people even than the road transportation. “So, I see the establishment of more airports by State governors as an aberration. It’s a very fraudulent action and a way for them to cover their tracks so that they will tell people that they have expended some billions of naira on the capital project.” For instance, Abioye explained that the cargo-allied airport commissioned by Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the former Governor of Ekiti State in October 2022, was yet to commence operations six months after. The multi-billion-naira cargo airport is cited almost close to the Afe Babalola University in the state capital and awarded to the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation Ltd. CCECC (CCECC) in 2019. Abioye further called for the overhaul of the entire system by the impending new government, decrying that Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation had failed in the last eight years of the present administration. He regretted that despite being the longest serving aviation minister in the annals of the country and aviation professional, Sirika could not complete any of its roadmap agenda for the