LAGOS  – A Federal High Court in Lagos has remanded Blessing Okoro, a relationship blogger, in the Ni­gerian Correctional Services (NCoS), till May 30, when the trial on six-count charges of al­leged cyber-bullying, libel and exhibiting uncensored movies, will commence. Justice Yelim Bogoro, who presided over the court, or­dered the remand of the blog­ger after she pleaded not guilty to the charges. The prosecutor, Rotshang Faith Dimka, of the Force Headquarters of the Nigeria Police, Abuja, while arraign­ing the blogger, told the court that the blogger, a resident of 1b, Tunbosun Osoby Street, off Kuboye Road Lekki, Lagos State on October 16, 2022, did intentionally sent messages using her Instagram handle @officialblessingceo to bully, threaten and harass one Fo­lashade Samuels, a.k.a Mam­ajazz, a younger sister to late Bimbo Ogbonna. The blogger was also ac­cused of using her Instagram handle @officialblessingceo, to injure the reputation of one Folashade Samuels, a.k.a mamajazz and her late sister Bimbo Ogbonna, by exposing them to hatred, contempt and ridicule. The police further accused her of exhibiting a film and video work titled “Sweet Sour” without a censorship certif­icate and without holding a licence as issued by National Film & Video Censors Board, among others. The defendant’s actions, according to the police con­travened Section 24 (2)(a)(1) of the Cybercrime (Prohibition, Prevention, etc) Act 2015. And under Section 375 of the Crim­inal Code Act. The offences also contra­vened Section 33 of the Nation­al Film & Video Censors Board Act, Laws of Federation of Ni­geria 2004, and were punishable under the same Act.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The relationship blogger however pleaded not guilty to the charges. POLL Following her plea, the pros­ecutor asked the court for a tri­al date, while also urging the court to remand her in NCoS’ custody, till the determination of the charges against her. The defendant’s lawyers asked the court for a short date to enable them to file their cli­ent’s bail application. Justice Bogoro, after hear­ing from parties, adjourned the matter till May 30, for a hearing. While ordering that the Relationship Blogger be remanded at the female Section of the NCoS facility in Kirikiri, Apapa, Lagos.