Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsanjani), the Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, on the sidelines of the just concluded IMF/World Bank Spring Meetings in Washington DC, speaks on why the Nigerian economy is really suffering from corruption, mismanagement, misplacement of priority, lack of compliance with financial regulations and deliberate efforts by public officials to undermine even the revenue by creating leakages to further put the economy in jeopardy. He, however, urged the international lenders to be wary of granting loans to the Nigerian government without proper monitoring framework. Excerpts: In the course of the meeting between the IMF and World Bank with civil society groups, you spoke extensively about how to grow the Nigerian economy; can you share some insights with us? This year’s meeting which is taking place here in Washington DC came with certain revelations or rather concerns that at the global level the economy generally is not doing very well. The prediction of economic growth is very low globally, and even worse for Africa where a lot of challenges of resource diversification is even of a greater concern. But in particular, the Nigerian economy is really suffering from many problems, ranging from corruption, to mismanagement, to misplacement of priorities, to lack of compliance with the financial regulations and including what we may even call a deliberate effort by public officials to undermine even the revenue by creating leakages to further put the economy in jeopardy. The oil theft amounts to a very large amount of resources that is disappearing. We cannot even meet our quota in OPEC because of the activities of the oil thieves, who are obviously in cohort with some people in the government.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Oil theft is not done by ordinary community people or ordinary persons. You are talking about ships; you are talking about large quantum of oil, and because of lack of political will to stop it, it has continued. POLL Secondly, which is the most embarrassing thing is that the refineries have been made not to work. This administration when it came on board, promised that by 2016, Nigeria will no longer import fuel because the refineries were going to be working. The former Minister of Petroleum, Ibe Kachukwu assured the nation that by 2016, the refineries were going to work, and a lot of money has been spent on their turnaround maintenance. Today as I speak to you, none of those refineries are working in Nigeria. So the justification for the fraud which is called subsidy, a scam, has continued unabated. The government is spending a huge amount of our budget to finance subsidies. Nigeria is also borrowing a lot of money to finance subsidies and we don’t understand the justification, because Nigerians are not seeing any subsidy. Nigerians are buying petroleum products even more costly than some that are not oil producing countries. Again, Nigeria continues to pay this money despite the deficit in our infrastructure, in other social factors that suffer significantly, including the near collapse of education, and healthcare system, and other important aspects of governance like security. We are worried that the Nigerian government is borrowing money to finance subsidies. Closely related to this is the recent pronouncement by the government to spend over $800 million in the name of subsidy palliatives. This is another scam, because in 2020, during the COVID, the Nigerian government approached IMF for a loan of $3.4 billion with a view to cushioning the effects of the COVID. But ,that money was not judiciously utilised. And ordinary Nigerians that were promised palliatives did not see any palliative. In fact, because of the official corruption, the money was spent by different agencies and parastatals in the name of palliatives. We all remember how the NNPC came to the National Assembly to testify about the billions they used in the name of COVID palliatives. We also remembered how the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs told Nigerians that while children were at home, that they were doing school feeding program. So, this is how the money borrowed by Nigerian government and the contributions and donations by international partners and even Nigerian philanthropists disappeared without accountability. So, for you to now at the last minute of your regime; you are leaving next month, and you are borrowing $800 million to share without any clear accountability framework, calls for alarm and worry and concern. So, we are economic wise with the increase in inflation, increase in unemployment in the country, increase in poverty, the country’s economy is becoming more and more worrisome. That is why the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, came to the Spring meeting taking place here in Washington DC to have discussions with the World Bank and IMF officials, alongside other civil society organisations. The Nigerian economy is really suffering from many problems, ranging from corruption, to mismanagement, of compliance with our financial regulations… What was the nature of discussions with these institutions, especially on Nigeria? We have made it clear that Nigeria, like many other developing economies has, however, suffered huge, but reconcilable fiscal, monetary and trade deficits, if only it acts now. We are worried that the fiscal, monetary policies in Nigeria are characterised by profligacy, delayed implementation of key reforms, poor financial framework, which is strengthened by mismanagement of monumental oil revenue that pose a threat to macro-economic stability. So, we met with the directors of the IMF and World Bank, with a few select civil society groups from Africa, and I happen to be one of them. We came to discuss our concerns on the way and manner in which our country quickly runs to come and borrow money even in deviation of the Fiscal Responsibility Law, which clearly states how governments should borrow money. But they borrow this money, and they finance non profitable projects. In many instances, the so-called constituency projects are also taking a chunk of the money they are borrowing to finance the budget. So, we have come to discuss with them to express our worries and concerns about the non-transparent spending of the monies borrowed by the governments from various countries in Africa, and that they must not continue to give these monies without putting accountability mechanism and also safe reporting for whistle blowers. And if these monies are meant for the people of Nigeria, then they must involve non-state actors at least to observe and monitor how these monies are being spent. We have done that before; when Amina Mohammed was the SA to the President on MDGs, civil society worked with her office to ensure that all the resources that were given to the state governors were monitored and documented. And that is how it is supposed to be. Now, the Nigerian government continues to borrow money from all sorts of commercial banks. The worst part of it is that we are borrowing at the highest interest rate which is difficult to pay back. Even the conventional ones that they earlier borrowed, we are finding it difficult to pay back not to talk of those from other commercial banks that their charges are very high. Are you saying the non-state actors have no voice in the governance of Nigeria? Yes. We are worried and concerned that there is no civic space to discuss the economic management of Nigeria with non-state actors. For example, the Minister of Finance is here, the CBN Governor is there, so many government agencies are also here, but they are not able to have this kind of discussions with non-state actors that are also attending this meeting, unlike what we see with other countries. They sit together with their non-state actors like civil society organisations to discuss how to even approach the IMF and the World Bank. But, the arrogance of some few public officials of Nigeria is closing the space for civil society to give valuable contributions to address the economic deterioration in Nigeria. So that is why since we have a voice here, we have an opportunity to interact with them. They are the ones who are giving this loan; they are the ones who are also talking to the Nigerian government. We are talking through them sadly, which is not supposed to be the case. We are supposed to be talking to our government but because our government has decided to close the civic space to enable civil society give concrete recommendation and suggestions on how to rebrand the economy. So, it is of a great concern to us, because we believe that if the Nigerian government can work towards blocking leakages, corruption, mismanagement, diversion of public funds, we would have been able to manage our economy better. But, because there is democratization of looting at local, state and national levels by various public officials, they are not willing to run the system transparently. But, civil society groups will not get tired of drawing the attention of the country of the consequences of continued dilapidation of our economy through the laziness of the government to explore other streams of revenue that can complement government’s revenues. We have come to discuss with them to express our worries and concerns about the non-transparent spending of the monies borrowed by the governments from various countries in Africa, and that they must not continue to give these monies without putting accountability mechanism and also safe reporting for whistle blowers. What are CISLAC’s expectations from the government, going forward? A lot of revenue leakages are happening, tax evasion is happening, and a lot of laziness to explore more avenues at local, state and national levels is what is going on. So, the Civil Society Advocacy Legislative Centre has come here to also advise the new incoming government to ensure that the economic framework that they’re going to have must be a proper framework that can deal with issues of artificial poverty that some public officials have created for Nigerians. Also, that the government must close all leakages that enable illicit financial flows out of Nigeria, using our financial system because of the failure of the financial regulator, which in this case, is the Central Bank of Nigeria. The money laundering and financial illicit flow is happening because of the poor regulatory framework and monitoring by the Central Bank of Nigeria. That is why ECOWAS in its report said the Nigerian financial institutions are being used to finance terrorism. Yet the Nigerian government is not able to point out or arrest the people that are doing this. The economic policy framework that we have has been proven to be a disaster. It has not been able to address the numerous problems arising from inflation, even in terms of policy inconsistency that we have, which is also as a result of the consequences of the lack of foresight and lack of having economic management team that can help galvanise the economy, is all part of the problems that we are calling on the new administration to stay clear of. So we want the new administration to make sure that the economic management team is put in place. We also want the government to review the existing economic policy framework, so that we will not continue to repeat the kind of development setbacks we are experiencing in the country. We want the incoming administration to also focus on diversification of the economy, not just on oil. We want the incoming government to ensure that they also embark on industrialization because a country can only grow and develop when it is able to produce. We cannot be just consuming, we must make our factories and industries to work. And we must revitalise agriculture to be very productive, because most of the materials that we are importing can actually enhance our agriculture to become effective and efficient to be able to give us the necessary materials to turnaround the economy. It is absolutely necessary that the incoming administration looks at that aspect. It is also our prayer that the incoming administration will do away with the fraud called subsidy regime. And not only that, to also investigate the last 10 years of public tax payers monies that have been squandered in the name of subsidy. We all know and we have heard from people who know that there is a lot of scam in the name of subsidy. Some people will bring in two ships and they will say they have brought in 10 ships and they get paid. In fact, in most cases like they said, payment is made even in advance. So, we also want the incoming administration to ensure that they strengthen our fiscal responsibility law, so that whenever we are borrowing, we are in compliance with the law. And those borrowings must not be just for consumption but must actually be for production that will even pay back those loans. Again, we want the incoming administration to ensure that the public procurement law is also complied with, because if we continue to deviate or undermine this law, it means that we will continue to do business as usual. We also want the incoming administration to ensure that the new Petroleum Industry Act is put in operation, especially the community development fund. This is because communities have suffered a lot of exploitation and degradation of their environment as a result of corruption, where public officials connive with oil companies to undermine communities without even carrying out environmental impact assessment to see the extent of damage done to the communities. So, the people who have been deprived of their livelihood would be compensated or at least be protected from the harmful exploration activities. A lot of young children and women die in Zamfara as a result of illegal mining. You recall the lead poisoning that killed many people, and till today nobody has been punished. So we are here to advocate all these policy reforms that will revamp our economy, because if the economy continues to be stagnated, added with rising inflation, high unemployment, the collapse of industries and manufacturing companies will continue. And more importantly, the Central Bank of Nigeria needs to be reformed. In the last couple of years some of the bank’s policies have landed us into problems. You recall the unnecessary naira redesign policy, which has thrown a lot of Nigerians into crisis. The Central Bank of Nigeria must give account of this.       