The Police Command in Lagos State says it has arrested a couple (name withheld) over alleged self-kidnap for N5 million ransom. The command’s spokesperson, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday. Hundeyin said that the husband, a 53-year-old technician and wife, 48 years old body massager and bone setter, were arrested on Wednesday and Thursday respectively after a family member of the man reported the purported kidnapping. He said the couple, who admitted to the crime, claimed they planned the self-kidnap with a view to raise N3 million to buy back their house in the Badagry area of Lagos. “The man brought the idea and sold it to his wife. He did not deny it before the police. He said he did it through text message for a purpose. He said he did it because he wanted to re-buy his house back with N3 million. “The man claimed he decided to organise self-kidnap because none of his brothers and sisters doing well and some living abroad are willing to assist him financially. “He claimed that if they hear of his kidnap with his wife, they would negotiate with the kidnappers and pay the money,” the spokesperson quoted the man as saying.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Hundeyin noted that the couple was still living in their house in Badagry when they sent out text messages of their kidnap to their relations, stressing that when police visited the house on Tuesday, they met the wife and three children. POLL He said the police requested the woman to follow them to the police headquarters, Ikeja, but the woman pleaded with them to allow her to come the next day Wednesday, which was granted. The image maker said that the woman came to the station as promised and was arrested for self-kidnap, while the husband was arrested on Thursday. “She admitted that she supported her husband in the crime. She also admitted that her husband discussed the matter with her and she gave her approval because they never thought it will turn out negative. “The woman claimed if the plan worked out, it would have been the easiest way to raise the money to buy back their house since her husband’s brothers in the UK are not willing to help him,” he said. The police spokesman said the couple will be charged in court soon. (NAN)Crystal Palace 4-3 Victory Against West Ham Seal Premier League Survival Nigerian-born Eberechi Eze was on target as Crystal Palace effectively sealed their Premier League survival with a thrilling 4-3 win against West Ham on Saturday. Roy Hodgson’s side moved 11 points clear of the bottom three thanks to goals from Jordan Ayew, Wilfried Zaha, Jeff Schlupp and Eze at Selhurst Park. Palace have won four of their six matches since Hodgson returned for a second spell at the club in place of the sacked Patrick Vieira. Tomas Soucek, Michail Antonio and Nayef Aguerd were on the scoresheet for West Ham.But a second successive defeat leaves David Moyes’ men five points above the relegation zone with daunting fixtures against Manchester City and Manchester Unite…Police Arrest Lagos Couple In Self-kidnap Plot For N5m RansomCrystal Palace Seal League Survival With 4-3 Victory Over West HamThanks sir