LAGOS  – History was made on Wednesday April 26, 2023 when The Chartered Institute Of Purchasing And Supply Management Of Nigeria (CIPSMN) began its 2023 Batch ‘A’ mandatory proficiency development programme, leading to the induction of fresh entrants into the profession. In all, 250 young men and women were inducted during the three-day event that was held in Ikeja, Lagos, and ended on April 28. Kick-starting the programme, the CIPSMN President, Alhaji Sikiru Oladepo Balogun, a Fellow of the Institute, while welcoming the participants, said the programme is a must for every class of the registered members in the field of Supply Chain Management (Procurement) once a year due to the importance and benefits of professional development. He stressed that no one is born brilliant at their job as every successful person has been learning and working at their skills for a long time, taking advantage of professional development opportunities over the entirety of their career. He maintained that the professional world is becoming increasingly competitive and is constantly changing, hence professional development and continual learning is more important than ever in being successful and achieving career goals. Balogun noted that technologies and best practices are evolving and progressing in every industry, making it crucial for both new and experienced professionals to continue developing their skills and honing their knowledge. He maintained that professional development refers to continuing education and career training after a person has entered the workforce in order to help them develop new skills, stay up to date on current trends and advance their career. According to him, Supply Chain Management (Procurement, Warehousing, and Logistic) in vogue in Nigeria today requires professionals to participate in continued education and ongoing learning as prerequisites for keeping their jobs or maintaining their license, designation or certification. This, he said, will keep off those he termed as ‘mid-carrier officers’ from encroaching in the field. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Balogun stressed that any practitioner in the profession must, therefore, be adequately trained, certified, knowledgeable and competent by CIPSMN through examination. He added that its strict adherence to the rules and regulations as stipulated in the enabling law shall knock out intruders that believe that the profession is for anyone who has two ears on the head. POLL According to him, “Our knowledge put into use shall drive quacks off our profession. For your information, our Institute shall start to be stricter in the aspect of flushing out quacks or reducing quacks to the barest minimum in the field, hence, it is a must for anyone to attain professional Chartered Certificate membership status after passing the professional stage three examination and duly inducted as a holder of graduate diploma certificate. “It is a must to attend three compulsory proficiency development training programmes as set out in our Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management Nigeria Act 21, 2007. Hopefully, our name shall soon be changed to Chartered Institute of Procurement.” Then came the nitty-gritty of the programme which is a keynote address titled ‘Perceived Adequacy in the Implementation Of Public Procurement Act 14 Of 2007: So Far, So Good’, delivered by By Alhaji Mohammed Jimoh Aliyu, a Fellow and Registrar/CEO of the CIPSMN. He said the programme was a necessary professional gathering for members of the institute with a view to continually cross-fertilise ideas as well as discussing latest thinking and way forward as regards Procurement and Supply Chain Management best practice in Nigeria and beyond. Aliyu wondered when Nigerians will “change for good by upholding or respecting the rule of law so that we can attain National Economic Development because the country’s economic growth is dependent on our individual growth as well.” He harped on the need to check unending evil and corrupt practices in the procumbent chain as obtained in the country. Aliyu stated that the theme for this year’s programme, ‘Strategy for enhancing sustainable procurement process for goods, works and services with recourse to the provisions of Presidential Executive Order 05, which is the panacea for reducing procurement related corruption in Nigeria.’ He stressed that procurement and supply chain management and its professionals across various economies play very important roles to ensure good governance. He stressed: “Ensuring procurement best practices in Nigeria, has always been very difficult and risks business in a government setting. If we look back into the past, we will find that poor procurement practices, low calibre of personnel who are not good at themselves were dumped in the procurement field and many more, were the root causes of the major problem facing our dear country’s economic development till date. “Nigeria government needs to wake up on Public Procurement matters. It has been observed by several studies that nothing can help the country other than the promotion of transparency, accountability, conduction of free and fair elections, corruption free society, procurement policy and procedures. “It is in the process of procurement, and contract award that prices are inflated, goods are improperly stored and fraudulently distributed and issued to the wrong places by unqualified personnel saddled with the responsibility.” He lamented that some senior government officials steal government property and resell it to the same government. According to him, a country like Nigeria that has a chartered recognised by Act of Parliament 21 of 2007, the institute should have been involved in the affairs to assist the government in ensuring policy compliance is totally neglected. Aliyu stressed: “In this regard, what our members want from the President-elect is to involve the institute in his administration because procurement takes 80-90 percent of total budget according to country.” Speaking on ‘Procurement Assessment Report and Recommendation (CPAR 2000), Aliyu stated: “Our members are anxious to rebuild and modernise the nation’s public and private ethics. We have abiding fate in our members as a positive contribution to some Nigeria economy development problems. “Procurement professionals must be empowered to work with finance and account persons for the benefit of the economy because money is nothing, but materials and supplies. Now is the time for the implementation of Public Procurement Act 14 of 2007 to the letter and give recognition to the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management of Nigeria and her professionals to participate in rebuilding Nigeria’s bastardised economy. The CIPSMN Registrar stressed further that “Procurement and supply chain management no doubt plays a pivotal role worldwide and the world being a global village, is primarily linked through supply chain management concept. In other words, public procurement is an important part of the government’s administrative policy and an important means of achieving its administrative policy and objectives, namely, an innovative and collaborative system of central administration that is legally certain, an efficient delivery of high standard quality, service and availability thereby, contributing to national development and effective work system at all levels. “Procurement and supply chain management role of acquisition of right materials, supplies and services, storage of goods, movement of goods across the globe, distribution of goods to final user and above all concerns about green procurement with respect to the need for disposal of those unserviceable materials and many more, is sufficient to explain its significant importance and also how it serves the bottom line of good governance and most businesses. “It is worthy of note that this is so with small or big organisations, public or private. Therefore, this implies that most business entities are affected by the role of procurement and supply chain management.” Quoting Naushad Khan, Aliyu maintained that public procurement is an important government system for spending public money on acquisition of goods, works, and services needed for public programmes and projects. According to him, “Frankly speaking, procurement and supply chain deals with the sensitive areas required for national development equation in our country Nigeria, at the time of dwindling resources, corruption in high places and many other ugly vices facing our country today. “Procurement and supply chain management need serious attention because it’s not an easy job. Stock control, purchasing, storage, quality control, preservation, distribution, security and inventory management, coding and classification, in fact, the job has many aspects. “Therefore, a failure in any one part of the system can lead to losses of materials, supplies and time cum holdup a successful completion of any national project.” On the objectives of the programme, Aliyu stated that the CIPSMN is charged among others, to maintain maximum standard of procurement and supply chain management practice in Nigeria, in terms of knowledge and skills required of members within and beyond. This, he said, is because sound procurement and supply chain management has made an important contribution to the affluent countries of the world and such is equally required in the developing countries such as Nigeria, with budgetary challenges so as to plug the loopholes in the public treasury. He emphasised: “It is very doubtful if any country can ever become affluent without strong and well-thought-out, procurement and supply chain management policy, procedures and educational framework like scholarly programmes to bring to bear, the potentiality in engendering good procurement best practices towards stabilising an economy, using existing knowledge-based institutions with focus on elevating the capacity and capability of her members within and throughout the world. “The political will to solve problems associated with procurement best practices in Nigeria is very key on the part of the government at all levels. The Mandatory Professional Development Programme (MPDP) of the institute is therefore important for members with the aim of developing and upscaling our professional knowledge on the latest thinking and new concepts in procurement and supply chain management (SCM) components as well as benefits. “The current challenges and potentials are to: Ensure that all members, irrespective of status or grade, maintain and enhance their managerial potentiality, technical knowledge, and professional expertise, practical cum managerial competence; Provide reasonable professional and commercial advice to their employers, colleagues effectively and efficiently. Because gone are the days when low calibre staff is dumped in the procurement and supply chain management field. “This is to tell you that it is no longer a field just for anybody with head on his shoulders or having any qualification but a profession for the procurement professionals.” Other objectives of the programme, he added, are to maintain and enhance the Institute’s reputation and ethical standards; usually meant as a form or meeting point for procurement and supply chain professionals to share ideas, promote and enhance status of their professional practice.” He rejoiced that the CIPSMN is far more prominent than it was before now due to the chartered status upgrade. He stressed that the body is now a strong local institute with strong members backed by the Local Content Parliamentary Act and Presidential Executive Order 5 of 2018. Concluding, he pleaded: “Let us set aside our differences and strive for a rightful place for our profession in the scheme of service of the federation. As a proud member of your profession, let us discard the habit of low expectations of ourselves or belittle ourselves before outsiders. Let us support our leaders as well as ourselves all the time. The unity of our institute is a paramount objective of our Code of Ethics. Without unity, there will be no peace and without peace there will be no progress.”