The price of staple foods such as cheddar cheese, white bread and pork sausages soared by up to 80% in some shops over the past year, in further evidence of how inflation is hitting those on the tightest budgets the hardest. Porridge oats topped the price increase ranking among a basket of British basics measured by the consumer group Which?, with prices up by an average of 35.5% followed by skimmed milk, which was up by 33.6%, and cheddar cheese, which rose by 28.3%, The Guardian reported. However, an 180g pack of Dragon cheddar cheese in Asda was priced 80% higher than a year before – putting it top of the study’s inflationary list for individual product lines. The same retailer’s own-label cheddar sticks were up by just under 79%. Asda’s budget Just Essentials pork sausages were up by 73%, a similar increase to Tesco’s Woodside Farms best-value pork sausages. Sue Davies, the head of food policy at Which?, said, “Our latest supermarket food and drink tracker paints a bleak picture for the millions of households already skipping meals of how inflation is impacting prices on supermarket shelves, with the poorest once again feeling the brunt of the cost of living crisis.” “While the whole food chain affects prices, supermarkets have the power to do more to support people who are struggling, including ensuring everyone has easy access to basic, affordable food ranges at a store near them, particularly in areas where people are most in need,” Davies added. The Which? survey reflects a recent trend for price rises in supermarkets’ budget ranges as well as to their regular own-label goods and international brands as retailers pass on cost hikes linked to energy and commodity cost increases. Such increases appear to confirm fears, raised over a year ago by the food campaigner Jack Monroe, that the poorest are being hit hardest by inflation.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Which?’s tracker shows that while supermarket own-label budget items remain the cheapest overall, prices rose 24.8% in March year on year. The price of standard supermarket own brands was up by 20.5% in the same period, while branded goods and premium own brand ranges rose by 13.8%. POLL Year-on-year price increases for all groceries reached an all-time high of 17.5% in the four weeks to March 19 , according to figures from the data firm Kantar. Analysis of government data by Labour also found dramatic increases in the wholesale price of everyday fruit and vegetables with carrots up 80% since 2019, cauliflowers 161% and tomatoes 142%. The Shadow Environment Secretary, Jim McMahon, said, “The Tories’ shambolic handling of food security over the last 13 years has resulted in huge vegetable price increases across the country.” “The environment secretary might be all for turnips, but the latest figures shows the reality that British families are having to fork out even more for their tomatoes, carrots and cauliflower,” he added. An Asda spokesperson said, “We’re working hard to keep prices in check for customers despite global inflationary pressures and we remain the lowest-priced major supermarket – a position recognised by Which? in their regular monthly basket comparison which has named Asda as the cheapest supermarket for a big shop every month for the last three years.” A Tesco spokesperson said, “With household budgets under continued pressure, we remain absolutely focused on providing great value for our customers. Our market-leading combination of Aldi Price Match, Low Everyday Prices, and Clubcard Prices means we are the most competitive we have ever been.”