As the people of Oyo await the completion of the process that will culminate in the emergence of a new Alaafin, a rumoured emergence of Alaafin-elect on social media on Wednesday afternoon has been debunked by a palace source. Tension started brewing up in the ancient town on Wednesday as one of the contestants to the highly coveted royal stool, Prince Lukman Adelodu Gbadegesin was rumoured to have declared himself the Alaafin-elect in a Facebook post. The Source, who is also one of the kingmakers, dispelled the rumour describing it as “a widely spread rumour” by one of the contestants to the throne, Prince Lukman Adelodu Gbadegesin, parading himself as the Alaafin-elect. Speaking with journalists over the phone on the condition of anonymity when contacted, the palace source said the process for the selection of a new Alaafin is still ongoing and the report of the consensus candidate has not been presented to the governor for final ratification. He disclosed that Prince Gbadegesin has been over-ambitious using the media to pursue his personal ambition. The source further noted that Governor Seyi Makinde just forwarded to the Oyomesi to expedite action on the selection process, saying the outcome of the process would be made known soon. He said: “He is only too ambitious. He is using the media to make himself popular. No new Alaafin has emerged. The selection process is still on and we must follow due process as instructed by the governor.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I am saying this without any equivocation that the public should disregard the news widely spread around by him.” No one has selected him as the Alaafin-elect.” POLL “You know, he did his birthday yesterday and he’s trying to use the media to help himself and find favour.” “According to Oyo tradition and the Alaafin Chieftain Declaration, the law governing the process of succession, the Baba Iyaji would present the list of the princes to the Oyo Mesi whose head, the Bashorun, would then convene a decision after some screening.” “The decision meeting, to be witnessed by government officials, would feature a consensus or voting where there is a plurality of choices,” he declared. As at the time of filing this report, efforts to reach the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Barrister Olasunkanmi Olaleye proved abortive as phone calls and a text message sent to his phone line were not responded to. Recall that thehe Alaafin stool became vacant following the demise of the late Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III on April 22, 2022 after a brief illness at a well advanced age of 83. INDEPENDENT had earlier in a report disclosed that the Alaafin stool rotates between two ruling houses in Oyo Kingdom – Agunloye and Alowolodu. The late Oba Adeyemi was from the latter. This means that the Agunloye ruling house will produce the next Alaafin. Following Alaafin Adeyemi’s death, an intense competition ensued between the Agunloye princes, who registered their aspiration to mount the throne to the Oyo Mesi through the Baba Iyaji, the lead of ruling houses. According to Oyo tradition and the Alaafin Chieftain Declaration, the law governing the process of succession, the Baba Iyaji would present the list of the princes to the Oyo Mesi whose head, the Bashorun, would then convene a decision after some screening. Findings by this medium from the royal family indicates that no aspirant to the exalted throne has any power or right to declare himself the Alaafin-elect as laid down processes and procedures leading to the emergence of a new Alaafin remain sacrosanct.