LAGOS – Nobel laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka, has thrown more light on how Nigeria can achieve a revolution in the process of resolving its political challenges. He also described the ‘Obidients,’ supporters of Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, as the most repulsive set of people he has witnessed in any political arena. Soyinka also condemned the fine of N5million imposed on Channels TV recently by the National Broadcasting Corporation (NBC) for alleged­ly violating the NBC code in a programme with the Labour Party vice-presidential can­didate, Datti Baba-Ahmed, saying he watched the pro­gramme and the valiant efforts of the interviewer to ensure fair hearing. Soyinka made this known in a statement released on Fri­day following his clash with Peter Obi’s supporters known as Obidients. The statement partly reads: “Project NIGERIA, I must confess, has become near ter­minally soul-searing. Do I still believe in it? I am no longer certain but – first, we must rid ourselves of the tyranny of the ignorant and the oppor­tunism of time servers. In any case, there is not much else to engage one on a foundation of ownership stakes. There is of course, always the possibility of a Revolution, with a clarity of purpose and acceptance of all attendant risks, including costly errors. Revolutions are not however based on the im­petus of speculative power en­titlement. No matter, until that moment, the structures that en­sure just and equitable cohabi­tation must be protected from partisan appropriation – be it from material inducement, fake news, or verbal terrorism – the last being the contribu­tion of one who is positioned to assume co-leadership of the nation, no less. Revolution is not about lining up behind the nearest available symbol. When a symbol does emerge, however, we are still obliged to examine every aspect of what is fortuitously on offer, and con­tinue to guard our freedoms ev­ery inch of the way.” He said the instigating con­test – Nigerian Democracy 2023 – has witnessed much that is innovative – largely in the ret­rogressive vein. “Easily overlooked however are those missives of violence directed against dissenting voices, real or suspect. Such, for instance, were the virulent attacks and threats to the musi­cian Seun Kuti, his family and iconic music Shrine. His crime consisted of nothing more than declaring the name ‘Obidient’ derogatory to his sense of civ­ic dignity and activist history. Such beginnings – and instanc­es are numerous – have culmi­nated in the open intimidation of the Court of Last Resort, even before proceedings have begun. By the way, I do agree with Seun Kuti; ‘Obidients’ is one of the most repulsive, off-putting concoctions I ever encountered in any political arena. Some love it, howev­er, and this is what freedom is about. Choice. Taste. Free emotions. By contrast, I have no quarrel with ‘Yes Daddy’. Roman Catholics are used to saying ‘Yes, Father’. Secular­ists say ‘Enh, Baba’. The context and content are what matters, and lies – where established – raise bothersome issues such as Integrity Deficiency.” Soyinka insisted that the fine of N5million imposed on Channels TV was inappropri­ate. He argued that to sustain the penalty is to give joy to oth­ers he did not name who turn the Internet into a septic tank for depositing their waste, yet feel that others should be si­lenced.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It would be recalled that NBC slammed Channels Tele­vision with a fine of N5million for violating the NBC code in a live interview of the running mate of the Labour Party Vice presidential candidate, Dr Datti Baba-Ahmed, by the anchor of Politics Today, Seun Okibaloye, on Wednesday, March 22 where Dr Baba-Ahmed had said it will be unconstitutional to swear in an elected president on May 29, 2023, because of election irreg­ularities. POLL The Nobel laureate made the assertion while stating his position on what he described as fascism and a climate of fear being generated by politi­cal actors whom he said have refused to entertain corrective criticism. “May I seize this opportuni­ty, by the way, to condemn the sanctions imposed on CHAN­NELS Television which an­chored the performance of the LP candidate. As stated, I watched the programme keenly – saw the valiant efforts of the interviewer to ensure fair hearing. I fail to under­stand just where the station could be faulted, except from a disposition for injustice. To sustain that penalty is to give joy to others who turn the In­ternet into a soakaway for their rancid emissions, yet feel that others should be silenced. If CHANNELS feels up to it, I of­fer myself willing to engage Mr. Datti – or any nominee of his – on its platform on this very bone of contention – one-on-one – without the malodorous intervention of media trolls, and with the same interview­er as mediator. That should be taken as a serious offer.”