REPORTING FROM WASHINGTON DC – The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projected global economic slow­down is expected to mount pressures on developing and low-income coun­tries such as Nigeria, with worsening debt burdens and without support from the international community. Tobias Andrian, Financial Coun­sellor and Director of the IMF’s Mone­tary and Capital Markets Department, gave these indications on Tuesday, while calling for concrete steps by emerging economies that will make the financial stability process operate faster, and in a more transparent way this year at the on-going Spring Meetings of the World Bank and the IMF in Washington DC, United States of America. ­ Speaking on 2023 Global Fi­nancial Stability Report, Andri­an said: “The global economic growth is expected to be lower than earlier projected this year, signaling potential economic downturn. “What we’re looking for is concrete steps by emerging econ­omies that will make the process operate faster, and in a more transparent way. And something that debtor countries can look at and understand more clearly on how long things will take. “Developing countries may face mounting debt and insuffi­cient international support, risk­ing another lost decade”. He noted further, “The bank­ing crisis highlights long-neglect­ed financial fragilities and regula­tory weaknesses. “Declining energy costs lead to lower inflation, but elevated food prices maintain a high cost of liv­ing in many developing countries.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Growing global asymmetries threaten developing countries’ re­silience, requiring stronger multi­lateral action and an urgent focus on sovereign debt architecture”. POLL On debt crisis, he argued that a record number of developing nations are at risk of a debt cri­sis, with ballooning inflation, escalating borrowing costs and a strong dollar jacking up the cost for borrowing countries to repay loans and raise fresh money. Adrian, who emphasised that lower interest rate is a choice by country’s central bank (CBN) pol­icy, said: “Developing countries may face mounting debt and in­sufficient international support, risking another lost decade”. He noted that the fact that emerging markets sales of share is lower than in the USA market is to ensure the security of their shares. “It is the policy tool of the emerging markets to curb slow­down by both the fiscal and mon­etary authorities to slow down.” He noted that “the banking crisis highlights long-neglected financial fragilities and regulato­ry weaknesses. “Declining energy costs lead to lower inflation, but elevated food prices maintain a high cost of living in many developing countries”. According to Adrian, “Grow­ing global asymmetries threaten developing countries’ resilience, requiring stronger multilateral action and an urgent focus on sovereign debt architecture. It would be recalled that the IMF Managing Director, Kristali­na Georgieva, last week also took aim at China, saying she had told the country’s new top economic leader that Beijing needed to “speed up” its work on debt re­structuring requests. World Bank chief David Mal­pass said on Monday he hoped meetings this week with Chinese officials could help “break the ice” on desperately needed debt relief for poor countries. Yellen has no formal meetings with Chinese counterparts on her schedule, but the U.S. official said officials from the Biden administration and China will continue dialogue “where we’re able to manage the process”. Nigeria’s Economy May Face Negative Growth To 3% In 2024— IMF Again, the International Mon­etary Fund (IMF) has indicated that Nigeria’s economic growth, at the backdrop of the in-coming new regime, may see further slowdown to 3.0 percent, one year down the road, in 2024 while maintaining its projection of 3.2 percent growth in 2023, which also indicated slower growth rate against its 2022 figure of 3.3 percent. The new leadership at the Fed­eral Government level is expect­ed to kick-off May 29, 2023, follow­ing the February 25, 2023 general election that was declared won by Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the rul­ing All Progressives Congress (APC). The IMF’s position also placed Nigeria’s economic growth rate below the sub-Saharan Africa’s average of 4.2 percent for 2024 and 3.6 percent for 2023. According to the IMF, Nige­ria’s slowdown was contrary to stronger growth prospects for emerging markets and develop­ing economies during the periods. A recent forecast by the Fund also indicated that Nige­ria would be performing below low-income developing coun­tries, where GDP is expected to grow by 5.1 percent on average. However, the new projection by the IMF also indicated that the global economic growth rate would be challenged in the short to medium term due to crises as­sociated with the global financial sector distress and the on-going Ukrain-Russia war. These were some of the high­lights of its World Economic Out­look (WEO) report titled, ‘Feeble and Uneven Growth’, released in Washington DC during the on-go­ing Spring Meetings of the World Bank/ IMF. The report stated: ‘‘The base­line forecast is for global output growth, estimated at 3.4 percent in 2022, to fall to 2.8 percent in 2023, 0.1 percentage point lower than predicted in the January 2023 WEO update, before rising to 3.0 percent in 2024. “This forecast for the coming years is well below what was expected before the onset of the adverse shocks in early 2022. “Compared with the January 2022 WEO update forecast, global growth in 2023 is 1.0 percentage point lower, and this growth gap is expected to close only gradually in the coming two years. “The baseline prognosis is also weak by historical standards. During the two pre-pandemic de­cades (2000–09 and 2010–19), world growth averaged 3.9 and 3.7 per­cent a year, respectively. “For emerging markets and developing economies, econom­ic prospects are on average stron­ger than for advanced economies, but these prospects vary more widely across regions. On aver­age, growth is expected to be 3.9 percent in 2023 and to rise to 4.2 percent in 2024. “In low-income developing countries, GDP is expected to grow by 5.1 percent, on average, over 2023–24, but projected per capita income growth averages only 2.8 percent during 2023–24, below the average for middle-in­come economies (3.2 percent) and so below the path needed for standards of living to converge with those in middle-income economies’’.