LAGOS – Business Africa Online (BAO), an African online media platform that focused on retelling the African story and enabling emerging leaders, entrepreneurs, change-makers, and businesses to make an impact across the globe, on Wednesday organized a summit on how entrepreneurs, startups, and others can position themselves for sustainable growth amidst uncertainties. The event was held in Lagos. Speaking at the event, the guest speaker, Prof. Chris Ogbechie, the Dean of Lagos Business School, said there will always be uncertainties in the business environment, adding that startups and businesses should devise strategies that will enable them to achieve sustainable growth. He stated that startups and business owners should have passion for the business they are running in order to be able to face challenges amidst uncertainties. He stated that startup owners need to be disciplined and acquire the skill and ability to run their businesses effectively, adding that they should have the humility to learn and go through basic governance training. Ogbechie, who also is the founding Director of the Lagos Business School Sustainability Centre, argued that startups should not just focus on accessing funds, adding that they should seek to understand the environment they are operating in. He also stressed the need for businesses to be environmentally friendly in their operations.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ There were panel discussions and presentations at the event. The panelists agreed that there is a need to improve security in the country in order to increase the inflow of funds into the country. POLL They said that startups should be flexible and not rigid in their business, adding that they should pivot to another related business in instead of shutting down. They stated that there is optimism in the system, because, according to them, the inflow of capital into the Nigerian economy has been on the rise over the years. They asked young people to define what they want to do before starting a business they just want to start a business.They urged young people to partner and collaborate in order to succeed, adding that they should defer their gratification for the business to grow. They said that percentage of funds to go to women-owned or led businesses was small and for an increase in the funds that go into women-owned or led businesses in the country.