LAGOS  – One month after Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari assented to the bill giving state governments the nod to li­cense, generate, transmit, and distribute electricity, there are indications that the decision may be affected by hitches in the electricity value chain in the country. The action of the presi­dent had continued to receive applause from stakeholders in the power sector who said the development will strength­en cash inflow from Foreign Direct Investment (FDIs) and partly fulfilled the aspirations and yearnings of the quest for resource control and true fed­eralism. But, there are fears that the inherent hiccups challenging governance structure in Ni­geria will undo the decentral­ization of Electricity in the country. Some stakeholders ex­pressed that the decentraliza­tion of electricity chains and the expected value addition would end up as an academic exercise if it’s not backed by requisite corporate gover­nance and will power on the part of the state government. Tayo Adegbenle, Exec­utive Director, Power-Up,a power sector pressure group, told Sunday Independent that politics could be the bane of implementation of the decen­tralization of the electricity chain in the country. He added: “Professionals should be allowed to design and implement the system. “If politics is allowed to play a role, it might derail and make it a failure.We can see the experience of the privat­ization exercise.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He reasoned that constitu­tional amendment allowing states to generate, transmit and distribute electricity of­fers a massive and tonnes of investment opportunities for the states with resources to develop their own local elec­tricity market POLL He said:”We can see the examples with what Edo and Lagos States are doing al­ready… Both States are already advanced in setting up struc­tures and legal frameworks. “A state like Oyo that we warned when they initiated their Light Up Oyo can now adopt a better model to pro­vide electricity to the States, and power their local indus­tries “Investment opportunities exist in the generation, and especially distribution of the same to consumers,distribu­tion networks can be built and concessions made to private companies to run, Metering Industry will benefit from providing Metering solutions to States as well. The legal industry is also poised to ben­efit as all these activities will need legal interpretations and interventions. “But the states must be able to identify their strong areas, is it the market that they have? Or access to generating fuel? “Either way, states have a lot to benefit from implement­ing this amendment.” An energy expert, Bayo Adesanya, said lack of good corporate governance struc­ture will mar the smooth im­plementation of electricity decentralization programme. According to him, the programme will also be chal­lenged by infrastructure is­sues in the country. He told Sunday Indepen­dent:”Infrastructure has been the bane of most sectors in the country. “Power sector is no excep­tion of business that has been challenged by the infrastruc­ture deficit last. “This is likely to come to the fore when some states which are gasping for survival are now handed the opportu­nity to generate and transmit electricity in the country.”