And the aforementioned agencies are being adjudged to be incubus/succubus because with the obnoxious policies and programs being forced down the throats of the long suffering Nigerian masses, the hoi polloi is bemoaning the belief that they are being raped in the manner that incubus/succubus victims believe some extra-terrestrial beings are having intercourse with them in their dreams without their consent. Before proceeding further, allow me to digress by elucidating on the concept of incubus/succubus for the benefit of those unfamiliar with the strange occurrence that borders on hallucinations. Wikipedia depicts incubus as a demon in male form in folklore that seeks to have sexual intercourse with sleeping women; the corresponding spirit in female form is called a succubus. People suffering from the delusion that they have been sexually approached at night by an unseen lover are said to be suffering from incubus syndrome. The narrative about the concept of incubus/ succubus is being applied to illustrate this essay simply because a generality of Nigerians feel that the incumbent government at the center has been having unwholesome interactions with them, some of which have resulted in the multidimensional poverty currently crushing the masses. It was expected that following the reforms of the electoral process last year, INEC would be taken off the club of agencies of government exhibiting incubus/succubus tendencies wreaking havoc on their lives. And a critical lesson that is intrinsic in the electoral process reforms that have occurred in our beleaguered country since 1999 is that it has been a trigger for the deepening of democracy in our cherished motherland. It indicates that the executive and legislative arms of government need to embrace the policy of constantly reforming our electoral system, so that our practice of democracy can ratchet up our country’s global rating as a nation that practices democracy in its true spirit and letter. That is as opposed to practicing an amorphous system with inclinations towards incest that only serves the interests of and is at the whims and caprices of a few political power wielding demagogues at different points in the annals of our beleaguered country. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The beauty of US constitution and her electoral system is the continuous reforms that they have gone through over the years based on experience and reflecting the constantly changing dynamics of the society. POLL For instance, the US constitution has been amended 27 times since its introduction in 1789 and the electoral system is also constantly being adapted to changes to accommodate evolving realities. The latest adoption of reforms in the electoral system is reflected by the flexibility of allowing Americans the option of voting by mail during the last general elections which is a development compelled by COVID-19 pandemic that discouraged, and even prohibited the gathering of large number of people or crowds queuing up to vote which is the traditional and common methods of voting. Another thing that can be taken away from the electoral process reforms in our country is that whenever it happens, the innovators or promoters are often the victims for lack of a better phrase to characterize the phenomenon. But, rather than diminish them, such patriotic acts make such leaders heroes of democracy. It is disappointing that election 2023 appears to be an exception as it did not produce such an epochal outcome. Based on trend analysis, it would not have surprised me if President Buhari were swept off the presidency if the electoral reforms in 2022 had been carried out before 2019 when he sought re-election. But he ducked it by shying away from giving assent to the electoral bill when it was first brought to his desk during his first tenure. Does that not indicate that Nigerian leaders typically lack the mettle to be selfless by not making sacrifices via decisions that do not only directly benefit them, but serve the best interest of the generality of Nigerians and for the good of our country as a whole? As American political actors are wont to put it, President Buhari kicked the can down the road from 2018 to 2022 when the National Assembly, NASS, first requested that he signs off on the electoral bill. That meant that the reforms got introduced after he became term barred as he could no longer be on the ballot in 2023. As such he did not face the risk of being swept off the office of the president by the forces compelling sweeping changes. As I have stated in other interventions, a national rebirth could have been possible if all the elections for the five (5) elective offices were held on February 25 as opposed to staggering it because the shocking outcome in the National Assembly, NASS, results would have permeated all the way down to the sub-national levels with a new crop of leaders emerging on the scene. That assumption is anchored on the belief that the electorate had developed confidence in the promise by INEC chairman, Prof. Yakubu, that election 2023 process would be technology driven hence they trooped out in their numbers to register to vote on February 25 and March 18. Hence, the high point of elections 2023 is a total of 93.4 million Nigerians initially recorded as registered by INEC with 87 million collecting their PVCs. It is worthy pointing out that reliance on technology conferred fidelity on the system as voters were reasonably assured that their votes would count. But Prof. Yakubu seems to have dashed the hopes of the masses by not keeping to his promise. One more amazing, if not perplexing thing about elections 2023 is that against all permutations, and even with great odds stacked against him, in light of the terribly poor performance of APC that has been in governance in the past eight (8) years, its presidential flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, surpassed the expectations of most Nigerians by coming out triumphant. That is in spite of all the murk raked up from his past and heaped on him in the course of his campaign to become president of Nigeria. He commenced the journey to success in the race by stunning his rivals within the APC when he emerged as the party’s presidential candidate during the primaries where it had seemed like his victory was going to be like passing the head of a camel through the eyes of a needle. For instance, based on the look on the faces of key stakeholders at Eagle Square witnessing the primaries, it was clear that they were dazed because it seemed as if it was against the grain of expectations for Mr. Tinubu to win the APC primaries. Thereafter, against the expectations of pollsters and pundits, Tinubu appears to have once again been triumphant by being declared the winner over his competitors in the February 25 presidential poll if the process is proven in the tribunal to have been conducted freely, fairly and transparently. In a development that can be deemed as rising in global stature, instead of being diminished, the highly influential Time magazine has just named him one of the top 100 most influential people in the world alongside President Joe Biden of the USA and King Charles of England, amongst others. That is amazing because Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a man that was mocked for what seemed like a gaffe when he was making a pitch in Ogun State in the nascent stages of his quest to become Nigeria’s president ‘emilokan’ translated as ‘it is my turn’. By getting into the Time magazine list of top 100, it does appear indeed as if it is his turn to shine. Having said that, the existential reality that democracy watchers in Nigeria must keep in mind is that election exercises in our country since it was first held in 1922 have never met up to the standard or stipulated criteria in the constitution or electoral laws. And it is heart wrenching that over a millennium after an election to choose political leaders was first conducted in Nigeria, election 2023 has been tagged the worst in the history of Nigeria by the INEC declared losers. But the camp of the winner relying on statistics from past elections since the return of multi-party democracy in our clime since 1999, have pushed back by insisting that election 2023 is indeed the freest and fairest using amongst other criterion, the number of lives lost during previous elections as their barometer. That in my view is exactly why much earlier than now, the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, should have explained his rationale for not keeping to his much vaunted promise to upload the results of the presidential election real-time-online from the BVAS into its server for public viewing as he repeatedly promised Nigerians and which is why the declared winner’s mandate is currently branded as tainted. Failure to convince Nigerians of its impartiality and sincerity of purpose is the bogey of the otherwise fairly well organized election exercise at accreditation and voting stages until the process of arriving at the result got subjected to the biases of the election umpire. To resolve the current disputations over INEC’s award of victory to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to the chagrin of his closest rivals, Waziri Atiku Abubakar and Mr. Peter Obi, who have rejected the verdict, apart from providing the true results captured in the BVAS, lawyers (individually or as a group) would have to come out with a less controversial new formula for determining what can be considered 2/3rd majority of the FCT (if it applies) in the manner that in 1979, Chief Richard Akinjide, then lawyer to NPN, came up with the imperfect number twelve (12) and half (1/2) as the two thirds (2/3) of then nineteen (19) states that made up the federation. While it is welcoming that the attorney for INEC is now shedding light on what informed INEC’s decisions earlier, the obvious lack of transparency and communication about how the exercise was conducted by INEC chairman and his team has been an avoidable major blithe on elections 2023. That is because it smacks of lack of accountability to the citizens of Nigeria who the electoral umpire owe the duty of explaining its actions, inactions and constraints. Furthermore, one is also wondering why up till now, none of the twelve (12) members men and women comprising of a former media practitioner and a civil society advocate that constitute INEC board have broken ranks with the chairman to let Nigerians in on any impropriety in the form of sinister action or inactions that might have taken place in the course of the conduct of the 2023 election, if indeed that is the case as being alleged by the aggrieved. During the election process in Kenya, last year, some members of the electoral body expressed dissenting views on the verdict. In Nigeria, it was alleged by a governorship candidate from the stable of Africa Democratic Congress, ADC, in Akwa Ibom State, Mr Ezekiel Nya Etok, that the Director of Information and Communications Technology, ICT, Chidi Nwafor, was six months before the conduct of the polls transferred to Enugu, ostensibly to keep him out of the loop in order for the electoral umpire to circumvent the technological system in favor of the ruling party’s candidate. It may also be recalled that the returning officer in Rivers State had alleged that there was threat to his life and threatened to, before indeed resigning from the position. So, also was a certain Prof. Ibrahim Adamu Yakassai who was the returning officer for Tudun/ Doguwa elections in Kaduna State also under threat and therefore in mortal fear for the safety of his life. Although the chairman of INEC, Prof. Yakubu, is being lampooned in the public square as the villain of election 2023, none of the board members seems to be keen on being the hero by exposing the dirty tricks that took place in INEC if indeed there was such perfidy. Or is it that there is none after all? It is instructive that in the United States of America, USA, an election returning officer and Secretary of State in the state of Georgia, Mr. Brad Raffensperger, had claimed with a recorded audio evidence that former President Donald Trump had attempted to induce him to compromise the last presidential election process in that country by awarding him votes that he did not earn. And he instantly became a hero of democracy. Not in the manner that PDP chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, in the aftermath of the party’s presidential primaries hailed Governor Aminu Tambuwal as ‘the hero of democracy’ which fanned the embers of dissent and division that eventually consumed the party. It is even more remarkable because Mr. Rafenseberger is actually a Republican Party member, but for the sake of integrity and as a patriot, he did not only decline the request of then President Donald Trump’s request to illegally award him unearned votes, he bravely spoke out against the leader of his party or blew the whistle against him, as it were. To arrive at a balanced analysis, I would like to crave the indulgence of readers to allow me play good-cop and bad-cop here. Why has the type of patriotism exhibited in the US by Rafenseberger not been exhibited in Nigeria by INEC officials? Does it mean we no longer have men and women of integrity in our country or there is really nothing untoward worthy of hiding because they were all transparent and the entire board members were unanimous in the decisions? Why is it that there appears to be a magnificent firewall around INEC officials hence there has been no dissenting voices amongst them, and there has not been an equally formidable firewall (cybersecurity etc) around its technology to prevent the glitch in the transmission of results which it claims as having marred the collation of some of the election 2023 results? Without doubt, there is clearly disconnect between INEC elections processes, promises and action and the reality after the elections. And the identified gaps need to be filed going forward. At the end of the court processes, I cannot foretell whether the presidential elections would be upturned as demanded by the aggrieved candidates and parties that have proceeded to the tribunals to seek justice. That is the prerogative of My Lords the justices in the temple of justice. But one thing that is guaranteed is that the Electoral Act 2022 would be updated to cover the inherent gaps being exposed, just as there would be a review of the 1999 constitution of which some aspects constitute ambiguities that are in the center of the current political imbroglio. It is rather fortuitous that there is already a consensus of opinion that our current statutes document has been overdue for amendments, therefore the lawmakers that would form the 10th NASS would be compelled to attend to that duty urgently. • Magnus Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, development strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, sent this piece from Lagos. To continue with this conversation, please visit www.magnum.ng