***Pegs Maximum Penalty At 10m ABUJA – Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on Tuesday said it has reviewed penalties upwards for violators in the industry with the maximum penalty for airlines standing at N10 million while the minimum is N1 million. Capt. Musa Shuaibu Nuhu, the Director General of NCAA, disclosed this during the kicked off of a three-day consultative meetings with stakeholders in the nation’s aviation industry to brainstorm on the proposed amendment of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig. CARS) 2015. Nuhu said there are also plans to increase the validity of Airlines Operating Certificate (AOC) to 5 years to avoid disruption in the operation of airlines, adding that fees and charges had not been updated since 2009. The NCAA boss noted that the Stakeholders’ Consultation is in accordance with the obligation imposed on the Authority in Section 31(5) of the Civil Aviation Act 2022 which states that “in the exercise of its power to make regulations under this section, the Authority shall consult with stakeholders including airlines, aerodrome operators, air traffic control service providers, consumers and other relevant bodies and organizations in the aviation industry. Capt. Nuhu said the purpose of the proposed amendment is to bring the regulations up to the current standards in line with international best practices, stressing that the Nigerian aviation industry is currently underserved. He insisted that the upward review of penalties is not punitive but was guided by current realities in line with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is with great joy that I welcome every one of you to the Stakeholders’ consultation on the proposed amendment to the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig. CARs), organized by Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) coming shortly after the publication of the Civil Aviation Act 2022. POLL “The powers of the NCAA to regulate civil aviation in Nigeria are captured throughout the Civil Aviation Act 2022 .Section 31 of the Act empowers the Authority to make regulations on all aspects of civil aviation matters. “As required by Article 37 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Adoption of International Standards and Procedures), these Regulations are made to cover and domesticate all ICAO Standards that arecontained in the relevant Annexes. The regulations also address pertinent national matters. “The Stakeholders’ Consultation is in accordance with the obligation imposed on the Authority in Sec 31(5) of the Civil Aviation Act 2022 which states that “in the exercise of its power to make regulations under this section, the Authority shall consult with stakeholders including airlines, aerodrome operators, air traffic control service providers, consumers and other relevant bodies and organizations in the aviation industry. Iknow you are all well represented at this platform. “Stakeholders are invited to note that all comments received from stakeholder pursuant to the Notice of Proposed Amendments (NPA) published on 12th February 2023 in accordance with approved NCAA rule making process manual will be responded to by the NCAA. “I am optimistic that during these three days of deliberation, the aviation professionals and experts present physically or virtually will assist the Authority to derive a near perfect Regulations for the advancement of Civil Aviation in Nigeria” he said. Also speaking, Engr Godwin Balong Bagasoo, the Chairman CAA Regulations Committee, said the journey of the amendment started in August 2021, when the DG took note of challenges in rule making process take up to five years, and decided to make it and more robust by overhauling the regulation. Bagasoo said the Committee received over 20 comments from individuals, corporate organizations and stakeholders, which NCAA responded to and would publish on its website, adding that while the old regulation was in 20 parts, this new proposed regulation comes in 21 parts, each of which is structured in three parts. The event was witnessed by representative of the Minister of Aviation, Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Aviation, Directors of the Federal Ministry of Aviation, Chief Executives of the Aviation Parastatals and Agencies, Chief Executives of service providers, aviation experts, colleagues in the aviation industry, stakeholders, and members of the press.