The Federal Government has come under strong criticism from the Arewa Youths Consul­tative Forum (AYCF) over the government’s failure to evacu­ate trapped Nigerians in warring Sudan. The group said it found it un­acceptable that while other gov­ernments were rescue their citi­zens from the deadly situation in Sudan, the Federal Government was acting helpless. In a statement on Saturday, National President of the group, Alh. Yerima Shettima, said the Forum was very uncomfort­able with the fate of Nigerians trapped in Sudan due to the on­going war and killings there, and “feel duty bound to unequivocally state our final stand on this blood­shed and arson”. Part of the statement read: “It is totally unacceptable that while several countries were evacuat­ing their citizens from Sudan, ours is the only African nation giving excuses. “With thousands of Nigeri­ans in Sudan, especially male and female Northern students being the majority, we reject the lame excuse given in a letter by the Nigeria Embassy about the difficulty of evacuating our sons and daughters. No Northerner in this country is at peace since the killings and arson started in Sudan. “We are aware that the Suda­nese government had already warned that the situation would escalate, and gave 72 hours ulti­matum for countries whose cit­izens are either doing business or schooling in that country to be evacuated. “We cannot fathom why all we get at the moment is the ex­cuse by our Embassy that doing so would be difficult. What held us from taking advantage of the 72 hours ultimatum in the first place?”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It continued: “It is abundantly clear that lives are now at stake, especially for our Northern brothers and sisters schooling in Sudan, considering the esca­lation of this war, that involves the use of heavy-duty incendiary. POLL “As a group, we wish to make it categorically clear that if our innocent Northern brothers and sisters schooling in Sudan get killed in this war, we shall hold the Nigerian Embassy in Sudan accountable. “We wish to emphasize that on no account should these young and innocent Nigerians be left to their own devices, because they have a fatherland that has the constitutional and legal respon­sibility to protect the lives of cit­izens anywhere they are on this planet.”