Manchester United are all set to part ways with 25-year-old midfielder Donny van de Beek amid interest from his former club Ajax.According to a report by Football Insider, Manchester United will look to offload Donny van de Beek in the summer. The 25-year-old midfielder has failed to live up to expectations at the club since joining them back in 2020. And, with Ajax interested in re-signing him, the Dutch international is likely to be on the move in the summer. Van de Beek joined the Manchester-based club in the summer of 2020 after an impressive run at Ajax. The 25-year-old made a name for himself while for the Dutch club. There were a lot of clubs interested in his services. However, United managed to sign him for a reported fee of almost £40 million. The Dutch international made 175 appearances for the Ajax first team during his time at the club and was involved in 75 goals. Van de Beek found the back of the net on 41 occasions and registered 34 assists. While United signed him to potentially became one of their regulars in the centre of the park. The 25-year-old never really got going despite being at the club for almost 3 years. He has made 60 appearances for the Red Devils and has been involved in just four goals. He was also subject to a loan move which saw him join Everton. As far as the ongoing season is concerned, he has featured in 10 matches and has been on the pitch for less than 300 minutes. The 25-year-old suffered a major injury in January which has already ended his season. Nothing has really gone right for the Dutch international since making the move to England. As a result, United are looking to offload the 25-year-old in the summer. The Red Devils want to strengthen their squad before heading into the next season. And, they are looking to offload quite a few players in the summer to raise funds. Van de Beek is a part of that list of potential players who will be offloaded. United could accept a bid of around £25 million for the 25-year-old whose current contract runs until the summer of 2025. Ajax are interested in having him back at the club.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Dutch side believe Van de Beek could once again return to his best. And, are willing to bet on the Dutch international. Ajax want to further strengthen their midfield, they want more depth in the centre of the park. And, are interested in having the 25-year-old midfielder in their ranks. But, there are other clubs who are interested in the United midfielder and might make it difficult for Ajax.