ABUJA – Budding football talents in the country will have the rare opportunity to showcase their raw talents as Prestige Football Academy (PFA), an Abuja-based football academy, Prestige undertakes a nationwide talent hunt exercise with aim to discover young talented footballers for placement in the various national teams, local and foreign clubs. Uchendu Nwabara, President of the football Academy who announced the impending talent hunt said that the exercise will be executed via Global Grassroots Football Tournament (GGFT) that will feature players between 16- 19 years. According to Nwabara the competition would commence in Port Harcourt (South-South zone) from April 17 and end in Bauchi (North-East zone), on May 5, while the grand finale is scheduled for Abuja from May 23 to May 26. The seaire of the project he said is to create opportunity for young players . “GGFT is a project that creates opportunities for young talented players to participate in football scouting tournaments and competitions at regional and state levels,” Nwabara said. He explained that outstanding players who meet some skills set required by some foreign football clubs would be sponsored and signed up immediately to play for those clubs, from where they can advance their career. “We have capable regional coordinators that will handle the assignment in every region.“Edwin Yobo, the elder brother to former Super Eagles Captain, Joseph Yobo, is the Zonal Coordinator of GGFT South-South and he will partner with Obafemi Omobowale, President, H2U Football Academy.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The Zonal Coordinator of the North-East is Elisha Bako Dauda, NFF Intermediary, while Joshua Dabo (Joe K), President, Heroes Football Academy, Jos, will coordinate the North-Central. POLL “The South-East will be coordinated by Obinna Winners, while Babatunde Ibrahim, Liaison Officer, H2U Football Academy Global Limited, Lagos, and her Secretary-General, Bola Olugbemi, will together coordinate South-West.” Nwabara noted that the preliminary screening would be conducted at local governments and state level, while the semifinals would hold at the state representing each of the geopolitical zones. “The grand finale will hold at Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja, where foreign football clubs presidents and representatives, football scouts from Africa and beyond as well as National League representatives will be in attendance” he disclosed. The Regional Chief Coordinator of the project Elkanah Ombugala, an ex-International, emphasised that the tournament is aimed at showcasing talented Nigerian football players.Ombugala said the tournament would promote efficient and effective football scouting without bias or favour. He said football scouting had taken a new turn with the involvement of GGFT in football scouting.“In the past, so many talented but less-privileged footballers have been left behind due to the lack of opportunities to showcase their talents and get sponsorship. “This event will provide opportunities for the less-privileged young talented football players at the grassroots level to sign up with International football clubs. “GGFT is one of its kinds as it cuts across all the geo-political zones in the country giving footballers equal opportunities without marginalisation,” Ombugala said.