BENIN – The Provost, Edo State College of Nurs­ing Sciences, Prof. Patricia Ukaigwe on Tuesday explained why the school could not give admission to one Pre­cious Umoru, saying that admitting her to study Nursing and Midwifery would place her in a difficult situation due to her physical health condition. Prof. Ukaigwe who disclosed this while diffending the school authority on why Precious Umoru was denied admission into the institution said the school has nothing against the appli­cant but felt that she (Umoru) cannot cope with the rigours of the profession as a result of her condition. The Provost gave the explanation at a press briefing organised by the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation Chris Osa Nehikhare in Benin City. According to her, I have to comment that the nursing and midwifery profes­sion is a very tasking and challenging profession. “It has a lot of demands on the physical ability of the individual prac­titioners because you have to stand, bend, and walk to do your job. “Standing for most five, six, even up to seven hours in a day and this re­quires somebody who is physically fit, has some problems in standing those rigorous things that the person has to go through. “Now, that you have to take care of your patients, you have to be able to maintain your balance, you have to be able to give your medication, you have to be able to respond quickly to emer­gency situations, you have to be able to resuscitate your patients if there is anything.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “All these things are really very se­vere and require somebody who is very stable on their feet to do that,” Ukaigwe said. POLL Ukaigwe, however, added that upon the management’s thorough investiga­tions of the applicant’s physical health condition, the situation can still be cor­rected through surgical means. “So, we spoke with the individual and we also look at the possibility of us getting her into treatment because the condition she has simply requires treatment if noticed on time, even so at this time that it is so complicated, the condition can still be treated by surgical intervention though it will take some time and additional efforts because of the complications that can happen. “So having that in mind, we proceed­ed to explore the possibility of finding a physician that we can refer her to for possible screening and possible inter­vention if everything is in agreement. “So, with that said, and with the dis­cussion, we ended it that we are going to consider her from being withdrawn from the Programme pending the time we can complete the treatment and find an alternative course in the school for her to undertake. “Right now, the only programme we have in the school is Nursing and Midwifery Programmes and these are severe tasking on anybody”, Ukaigwe further explained. She also said the Nursing and Mid­wifery profession is a highly sought af­ter job all over the world adding that the Edo State College of Nursing Sciences aligns itself with the best practices.