LAGOS – It was praise galore as the women’s wing of the Christian Pentecostal Federation of Nigeria (CPFN) and Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) bloc of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) inaugurated a new 11-member executive to manage its affairs. Archbishop (Dr.) Mary Oluwaseun Ajisafe from PFN was sworn in as the new Chairperson/Coordinator of the women’s wing of the bloc of CAN in Lagos State and will be assisted by Deaconess G. Adewunmi from the CPFN. In his opening remarks at the inauguration which was held at the secretariat of the body, Pastor (Dr.) Samuel Adeosun, the Lagos State Chairman of the CPFN/PFN bloc of CAN, urged the new executive to hit the ground running and work assiduously in allegiance to God, the bloc and CAN. Quoting from Ephesians 4, 11 and 12, Dr. Adeosun an Apostle in the Apostolic Church, explained that the verses talked about the gift of men to the church and the new executive as women also as a gift to the church to perfect the work of the ministry and establish the women in the ministry. He stressed: “We have appointed them today to take over the affairs of the women wing of the CPFN/PFN bloc of CAN in Lagos State. We advise them to be up and doing. They should conduct the affairs of the bloc as God wanted them to do. “If you read through their oath of office, they have assured the creator and the bloc that they will function and work according to the will of God.” To other members of the new executive council, Adeosun said, “Leadership is measured by the distance between the leaders and the led. So, they should close ranks. When the leader moves, they should also follow without losing track.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He charged other members of the bloc not to disobey the words of God, be loyal and obedient to their leaders and be faithful to the direction of the bloc and CAN. POLL Dr. Adeosun lauded the contributions of the immediate past exco led by Evangelist Mrs. Ayodele who was assisted by Rev. (Dr) Glory Akpabio for performing well while the tenure lasted. Also, Bishop (Dr) Theophilus Ajose, Director, Directorate of Policy and Governance (DPG), Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), urged members of the new executive to abstain from partisan politics and refrain from passing comments about their political affiliations. Earlier, Apostle (Dr.) Eyinnaya Okwuonu, PFN Chairman, Lagos State chapter, appealed to the immediate-past executive to share their wealth of experience with the new council, even as he encouraged and counselled them on the way forward. To the new executive, he said, “They should realise that the responsibilities on their shoulders are not a personal empire but kingdom work. “They should give their best and do so selflessly. The follower should be loyal to the leadership. They should subsist together as one.” The Chairperson, Archbishop (Dr.) Mary Oluwaseun Ajisafe, in her maiden address and response, expressed appreciation to the CPFN/PFN men’s wing of CAN in Lagos State for their God-given wisdom that resulted in her inauguration, even as he lauded the efforts of other members of the new executive. She appreciated God for the orderly conduct of the inauguration and sought the cooperation of other members of the executive, saying her council would work with the humility of God. “I can’t do it alone. CFPN and PFN are Pentecostal and we are prayerful. The new executive members are prayer warriors and with that, we will go places,” she added. Asked what she was bringing to the table, she said, “As women, we will work and be prayerful about our homes and marriages. We will support stability in marriages among Christian women, and support CAN in Lagos and Nigeria.” Archbishop Ajisafe who lauded the performance of the immediate past executive appealed to other members of the new exco to be committed to ensuring the success of the new council for the kingdom of God, the glory of CPFN/PFN bloc of CAN in Lagos State and the association in Nigeria. Other members of the new executive are Deaconess Grace Olanipekun, Secretary, Pastor (Mrs) Olasimibowale Babalola, Assistant Secretary; Pastor (Mrs.) Bidemi Soneye, Treasurer and Deaconess Bolajoko Olanrewaju as the Financial Secretary. Others are Pastor (Mrs.) Folashade Obidare, Assistant Financial Secretary; Deaconess (Mrs) Tabel Jaja and Mrs. Rebecca Ayanniyi, Assistant Welfare Secretary; Mrs. Elizabeth Bolarinwa as the Publicity Secretary.