LAGOS – Moruf Oseni has been announced by Wema Bank Plc has announced as its substantive Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer effective April 1, 2023. The just announced MD who served in the position in an acting capacity since January 1, 2023, has succeeded Ademola Adebise, following approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). According to a press statement on Friday, by Wema Bank, Oseni’s journey with Wema Bank began in 2012 when he joined as an Executive Director, the bank. Report had it that before he was appointed as the MD/CEO, Oseni served as Deputy Managing Director for the last four years, “a role where he demonstrated the capacity to lead the bank to even greater heights as it continues to evolve into a financial powerhouse.” With over 25 years of experience, including more than 16 years at senior to executive management levels, Oseni was the MD/CEO of MG Ineso, a principal investment and financial advisory firm. He also served as Vice President at Renaissance Capital and was an Associate at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney/Citigroup Global Markets in London. According to the bank Oseni’s credentials “speak for themselves, with an MBA from the Institut European d’Administration des Affaires (INSEAD) in France, a Master’s in Finance (MIF) from the London Business School, and a B.Sc. in Computer Engineering from Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU).‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He is also an alumnus of the Advanced Management Program (AMP) of the Harvard Business School and King’s College, Lagos.” POLL “In addition to Oseni’s appointment, the CBN also approved the appointments of Wole Akinyele as Deputy Managing Director, and Tunde Mabawonku as Executive Director,” the statement noted. “Wole Akinleye previously served as the Executive Director in charge of Corporate Banking and the South-West Business, while Tunde Mabawonku served as the Bank’s Chief Finance Officer. “The Board is confident that these new appointments will be crucial to the continued transformation and growth of the Bank as it positions itself as a market leader in Nigeria’s banking industry through technology and innovation,” the statement added.