LAGOS – Nigerians have been assured of rich dividends of democracy which they have never experience in the history of the country before when the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu comes to power. This assurance was given by a chieftain of All Progressive Congress (APC), Prince Hammed Olanrewaju, who alongside other eminent APC chieftains held a world press conference in Lagos on Easter Monday on the State of the Nigerian Nation- The Way Forward in Ikeja, Lagos. Prince Olanrewaju, who thanked Nigerians across various ethnicities and regions, from the Kanuris, the Hausas, the Fulanis, the Igbos and more importantly the Yorubas, for believing in Tinubu and voted massively and overwhemingly for the former Governor of Lagos State, noted that Nigerians should expect nothing less than good governance that will forever remain a reference point in the country’s political history from Tinubu when he assumes power. “Mark my words, our father, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, would change the face of governance in Nigeria after his inauguration. We knew him to be the man of his words. He has the experience. His records in Lagos State are there for the world to see. The votes across Nigeria showed that he is holding the mandate freely given to him by the majority of Nigerians and we don’t see any reason for some people to be calling for the Interim National Government (ING),” said Prince Olanrewaju. According to him, the mandate is not a personal mandate but a Nigeria mandate because it is the choice of Nigerians for him to be elected as the next president. “Asiwaju will deliver as he has been preparing for this exalted office for a very long time. I strongly believe that Nigerians would have the cause to thank God for having him as president. The President of Lagos State Hoteliers Association, Oluomo Jamiu Talabi, said his association, which members cut across all ethnic groups in Nigeria, believes so much in the capacity and capability of Tinubu to hold the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, adding that “that was the reason we mobilised and voted for him in the presidential election and did same for the performing governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “I must confess, we are proud to associate with Tinubu and Sanwo-Olu and we can’t wait to see the renewed Nigeria we have been craving for. What we did for Sanwo-Olu in Lagos was our votes for continuity and good governance,” Oluomo Talabi said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ For Princess Olushola Oladimeji, who is the State Welfare Officer of the hotelier’s association and the Chairman of Alimosho Hoteliers Association, it is the joy of the Nigerian women to have Distinguished Senator Oluremi Tinubu as the incoming Nigerian First Lady. POLL “This is a woman that she is so loved by many people. She cares and she is a good mother,” Princess Oladimeji said. Other chieftains of APC at the conference included Alhaji Bashir Olaseu Ajibola, Mrs. Esther Ifeoma Okereke, Hon. Titilayo Idris, former Councillor, Itire-Ikate Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Hon. Abdukareem Quadri, Hon. Afolayan Oluwafolakemi and a host of others.