LAGOS  – 11Plc , formerly Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc, is considering huge investments on its operation this year to shore up the company’s performance in the downstream sector of the nation’s oil industry. The integrated oil company also aims to increase profitability from the business inherited from the firm it acquired as well as the new ones with a view to competing favourably in the economic environment. Mr Tunji Oyebanji, Chief Executive Officer of 11Plc, who disclosed these during a facility tour of the company at the weekend, also said the company was prepared to boost distribution of petroleum products in the country and launch solar system in some of its retail outlets this year. The company, he said, has launched two Compressed Natural Gas Plants in the western part of Nigeria, adding that it is also considering additional plant in the region before the end of the year. According to him, the company’s current market share in the lubricant sector is 20k,placing it among top five in the market, stressing that it would not rest on its oars to ensure that it occupies first position in rating in no distant future. On expansion, in terms of LPG, he said the company had increased its investment as part of the efforts to deepen the use of the product, popularly called cooking gas. He said that the company had embarked on expanding its LPG filling plants across the country, while it had already expanded its storage to 8,000 metric tonnes capacity. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The company is consciously and aggressively investing in its packaging of its lubricant to achieving the desired distinct identity in the market as well as shields it from counterfeiting of the product POLL He said the company is working with the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, SON and other regulatory agencies to prevent adulteration of the products. He told newsmen that the company’s performance last year was encouraging in terms of high yields, quality product and patronage inspite of the country’s challenging economic environment. He attributed the development to his company’s high level of efficiency and readiness to withstand inherent challenges in its match to meet its set goals. The 11Plc’s boss also said the company has invested in human capital development through regular training and retraining of its workforce to enable them adapt to the changes in the company’s operations. He also told newsmen that since NIPCO Plc acquired the old Mobil Oil Plc,the operation and corporate outlook has changed significantly through innovation, aggressive marketing strategies, quality products and desirable expansion. The new owners of the company, he said, are bullish in their approach to business, adding that the development explains the resuscitation of gas plants, functional machineries, fuel, lubricant storage facilities and other tools that have modernize the face of business in the company. He spoke on the incoming government’s economic policies, adding that his company was prepared to adapt to changes same will bring to bear on the nation’s economic environment. On planned total deregulation of the downstream sector of the nation’s oil industry, the company boss hinted that 11Plc,is also prepared for the dynamics of the policy. He implored other stakeholders in the economy to brace up for the challenges they may be confronted with on account of the deregulation policy, adding that on the long run Nigeria will benefit hugely from the policy.