ISEGHE AJAYI It is crucial for every right thinking employee to commence planning for retirement the moment he/she starts earning a source of livelihood because time does not wait for anybody and the earlier one starts, the better will be the financial future of such an individual. Retirement must surely occur regardless of the age and status of the individual, and as such must be properly planned. It is critical for everyone with a source of livelihood to have aspirations while still in active service, knowing full well that a day would come when that job will no longer be there and it is what you have that will speak for you. But, what if retirement comes early and securing another paid job becomes difficult; what are you going to fall back on? Food for thought! Also, what if you retire at the required age and you have nothing to show for it due to lack of financial vision or planning after several years of working. Do you know that your inability to have a retirement goal will certainly bruise your financial self-worth especially when faced with emergencies or challenges that require money and getting that financial support turns out to be very tough? ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ That is why it is very crucial to set attainable requirement goals and try as much as possible to reach your goals to avoid future financial regrets. POLL Some people prefer to be self-employed and as such retire early particularly if they are not getting financial fulfillment and job satisfaction to enable them prepare for the rainy day and also to experience financial freedom in their old age. While planning for retirement, it is important to settle all your debts, develop the culture of paying yourself and if possible invest your savings to reap the multiplier effect on your earnings. The under listed tips will help you to make your retirement dream a reality. Comprehend Your Retirement Vision Achieving your retirement dream entails understanding what your dream is all about coupled with the fact that you have to a give a serious thought on the following: What do you want to do during retirement? What is your dream? You need to answer these questions objectively if you really desire a fruitful retirement life. Have A Vision/Plan Several people fantasise about their retirement and how to actualise it. However, it is good to think and plan for retirement as you cannot run away from it. To achieve your dream, you must be vision and focus minded, such that you must have positive mindset towards retirement as some people talking about it never change their financial behaviours,. They only have an aspiration but fulfilling it becomes a struggle or problem. It is important to take a personal obligation of your retirement by having a vision and a plan to accomplish it. Define Your Goal Define what you will need for retirement even if it is a long-term goal. A rough estimate will help you. Also, you can evaluate what you currently have, in terms of income sources and investments. Then, analyse the amount you need to set aside monthly or save yearly to meet your retirement goal. Again, your written monetary policy does not have to be excessively complex; it can be as simple as a one-page plan for easy implementation. Implement Your Plan Putting your plan into implementation is the most vital step as postponement would only serve as a barrier on your route to financial independence. However, if you notice that your current paycheck and savings will not allow you to reach your retirement goal, you may take further action by ascertaining ways to save more, cut your expenditure, jettison debt, or adjust your original plans. However, if you are almost reaching your retirement age without having a second thought or plan for it, it is not and never too late to start planning and setting a goal for it. Review Your Financial Performance Evaluating your financial performance yearly is a good one as it would keep you on track to meet your retirement set goals. Mind you, your plan is exciting, not stagnant and as such there is need to review your progress constantly or at least once a year to know how you are faring financially. It is imperative to also think about the effect that life happenings such as a marriage, promotion, layoff, birth of a child and funding an education would have on your retirement plan. Still, if possible, make alterations to your plan as your situation changes. Manage Your Debt/Loan If you have a mortgage, ponder on ways to lessen the principal. This could include shrinking the repayment period by increasing monthly payments or the rate of payments. Besides, your payment will increase but you will be able to save a substantial amount of money on interest. Or, you can take the benefit of advance payment/quicker payment options. Some organisations will allow you to pay a reasonable amount say 15 percent or more of the principal once or twice a year. Avoid Reckless Spending The decisions you make can ruin or make your retirement dreams a reality. Many people rejoice over a pay rise but fail to effect the raise in to their retirement plan by increasing their savings or investments. Rather, they accumulate more debts for themselves by spending recklessly, not minding what they actually need. Increase Your Income If you are troubled about not having enough income to put towards savings owing to your earnings, think of other ways to increase your income by working overtime, getting a part-time job or starting a business. Extra income obtained can be used to reduce debt and also, increase your savings. Have A Spending Plan A personal spending plan is a principal step to retirement attainment. Living below your earnings paves way for savings so that you can invest it in a retirement vehicle for the future. Also, you need to go beyond simply tracking where your money has gone in the past and where to go before the month begins. Outline your monthly expenses and try to cut it by doing away with items that are not really needed or expedient.