The National leadership of New Nigeria People’s Party has debunked the plan withdrawal of the petition against the Ogun state Governor-elect, Dapo Abiodun, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the omission of the name of the party on the ballot paper used in conducting the 2023 governorship election in the state. The party debunked the notion in a letter dated April 27th, 2023 sent to the Secretary, Ogun State Governorship & State Houses of Assembly Election Petition Tribunal Abeokuta, Ogun State by the National Legal Adviser of NNPP, Robert Hon (Esq). It could be recalled that the Ogun state Chairman of the party, Olaposi Oginni on Sunday said the party is withdrawing his petition against Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State before the Ogun State Election Petition Tribunal, noted that the political calendar of Ogun State would be disrupted should the petition succeeds. But in a swift reaction by the National leadership of the party in a letter titled, “NOTIFICATION OF UNAUTHORIZED WITHDRAWAL OF PETITION NO: EPT/OG/GOV/01/2023 PENDING BEFORE THE OGUN STATE GOVERNORSHIP/STATE HOUSES OF ASSEMBLY ELECTION TRIBUNAL HOLDEN AT ABEOKUTA” debunked the insinuation. According to the letter, “The attention of the National Working Committee (NWC) of our great party, the NNPP has been drawn to the fact that a Notice has filed to withdraw the above captured suit on behalf of the party. “We wish to state unequivocally that we do not authorised anybody or group of people nor the counsel on record PETER 1. OGAH ESQ to withdraw the suit pending before the Honourable Tribunal and we do not consent to such withdrawal. “By the provisions of the Constitution of New Nigeria People’s Party, 2022, particularly Article 27.18 (iii), (v) and (vi); it is only the National Legal Adviser of the Party that can engage the services of an external solicitor where desirable subject to the approval by the National Working Committee (NWC). “Article 27.18 (v) is hereby reproduced for your ease of reference: “The National Legal Adviser shall: (iii) attend to litigations and legal defence on behalf of the party at all levels including its organs, officials and assets (iv) Coordinate the activities of Legal Advisers at all levels on legal matters affecting the party including but not limited to the terms of engagement external Solicitors. POLL “(v) Be responsible for engaging external retainers, where desirable, and counsel to handle all litigations involving the party at all levels, with the approval of the National Working Committee. A copy of the said Constitution is hereby attached for your ease of reference. “The purported notice of withdrawal of the said petition is not part of theterms of engagement of the external counsel and therefore violates the tenets of our Constitution which we hold very dear as a party. “We most humbly urge on the Honourable Tribunal to discountenance the said notice of withdrawal as the Petitioner NNPP is desirous of prosecuting the Petition before your noble lords to its logical conclusion. “We therefore urge the members of our great party and the general public not to allow the confidence they reposted on the party to be perforated by any person or group of persons”.