UJU NWEKE Nigeria has achieved an important milestone with the successful conduct of the February 25 poll in spite of the apprehension ahead of the exercise and the challenges encountered with the process. The deployment of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) delivered a significant impact on the credibility of the process. More than ever before in the history of elections in Nigeria, valid votes counted as against the allocation of the hitherto arbitrary votes perpetrated through ballot box stuffing and the abuse of Incident Forms allegedly for voters that couldn’t be captured through the now discarded Smart Card Reader. A major takeaway from the outcome of the poll relates to the significant differences in votes recorded in previous elections where the number of registered voters and actual Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) collected were far less than the figure computed for the 2023 poll. The totality of the improvement recorded with the use of BVAS points to an outcome that fairly and correctly represented the choice of the generality of actual voters who turned out for the exercise. Therefore, the deafening disaffection over the outcome of the February 25 presidential poll points to the high level of enthusiasm and expectation that preparations for the 2023 ggeneral elections elicited amongst Nigerians. The depth of disaffection should, however, be located within the latitude of robust interrogation which underpins the building blocks of popular democracy. The election is a game of numbers that is open to disagreeable outcomes regardless of how the process is deemed to be flawless. Democracy thrives on the strength of valid contentions over the outcome of the election that must be addressed within the framework of enabling guidelines for seeing redress within the ambit of extant laws. To this extent, rather than detract from the legitimacy of the outcome, deep-seated displeasure across the opposition camps bears eloquent testimony to the abundance of hope invested in the electoral process ahead of the poll. For whatever it is worth, therefore, those who invested passion and faith in the process should feel sufficiently justified to vent frustration as a result of unfulfilled expectations. It must be appreciated that post-election narratives that seek to delegitimize the outcome of the poll through elaborate remonstrations could not have been unexpected considering the high-octane curiosity and anticipation that heralded the February 25 exercise. To a large extent, however, the failure on the part of the umpire; the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to deliver on an aspect of the guidelines with respect to the real-time upload of polling unit results on Result Viewing Portal (IReV) precipitated tension and the attendant perception of manipulation. Unfortunately, the shortcoming associated with the reported glitch experienced with IReV provided the basis for discrediting the outcome. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The poser however remains to what extent the failure to transmit results in real-time as promised by INEC could have provided grounds for manipulation of the process and the ultimate outcome of the poll as alleged. POLL While allegations of manipulation and the likelihood of non-compliance with the guidelines of the election have become subject of petitions before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT), it is imperative to maintain that the process leading to the declaration of the President-elect ranks high above the 2015 presidential poll that has been adjudged as relatively free, fair, and credible in the country. Indeed, but for the hitch which INEC attributed to the delay in polling unit results upload, the poll could be described as relatively satisfactory notwithstanding likely infractions which the judiciary should be allowed to adjudicate upon. Misgivings over the outcome of the poll, to a large extent, would appear misconceived and untenable considering that the results posted across the country clearly demonstrate that some formidable political actors and contenders alike lost elections in their neighborhoods against popular expectations. One of the posers yet unsettled by the narratives of wide scale manipulations of the process to the extent that the final outcome of the poll was significantly impacted relates to how results posted across the board produced shocking surprises in the stronghold of gladiators. Until allegations of rigging are proven, it would be difficult to accept the narratives that delegitimise the outcome. Good enough that those who allege infractions will have the opportunity to validate their claims. No doubt, those who maintain optimism regarding the outcome of the election must be interested in the outcome of the election petition. The nefarious activities of political actors who instigated voter intimidation and suppression could not however be ignored in assessing the sanctity of the process. Unfortunately, INEC appears helpless in curbing the excesses of political gladiators who deliberately undermine the process in isolated cases. While pockets of voter suppression as witnessed in parts of the country are undemocratic and condemnable, it would amount to red-herring to suggest that the unfortunate isolated incidents substantially; negatively impacted the outcome. It has therefore become imperative for the security agencies to prosecute individuals apprehended for instigating voter intimidation and suppression as well as other electoral offenses during the poll to serve as a disincentive for a repeat of such negative tendencies in future elections. It is however of paramount importance that political parties and their candidates, particularly those in the opposition, keep faith with the democratic process by recognising that the poll has returned a winner in line with the electoral law. It is also in the interest of democracy to encourage those who feel dissatisfied with the outcome to fully explore the window of redress as provided for in the Electoral Act and in line with the dictates of the Constitution. The faith of citizens as critical and most important stakeholders in a democracy must never be allowed to wane notwithstanding how exuberance appears to have been misdirected through disputation and protests over the outcome of an election. More importantly, it is in the overall interest of democracy that gladiators and their supporters must keep within the framework of rules and dictates of the electoral process. This is the only way the right democratic culture could be deepened and entrenched to guarantee good governance and sustainable development. Nweke, a public relations expert, writes from Enugu.