LAGOS  – An Abuja-based businessman, Alhaji Mubarak Musa, the Chair­man, Al-Mubee Group, has peti­tioned the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba; the Attor­ney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, as well as the Department of State Service over alleged threat to his life and family. According to Musa, it was per­tinent to make those petitions be­cause one Achema Stephen Akpa had on two occasions stormed his construction site in Abuja and physically assaulted him, destroyed his property and made threats to his life. In a series of petitions ad­dressed to the Office of the Attor­ney General of the Federation and the Inspector General of Police, the complainant had alleged that the said Akpa had not just intim­idated him but also went a step further to assault him physically, after which he made threats to his personal life and property. The petitions was filed by Mu­stapha Mahmud Ibrahim Cham­bers, for the said incident that happened on December 1, 2022 and February 4, 2023. In the petition titled, “Petition against Achema Stephen Akpa for Criminal Intimidation, As­sault and Threat to my Personal Life and Property,” the solicitors craved for the intervention of the AGF and the IGP. The petition read thus, “We are the Solicitors of whom we repre­sent and hereby write to your good office for your kind intervention. “Our client is a law-abiding citizen who is into Real Estate management here in Abuja. Our client and Mr. Achema have been good friends for awhile until this afternoon around 12.40 p.m. when Mr. Achema stormed our client’s site located at Emperor City and Almubee Estate in Wuye District of Federal Capital Territory Area of Abuja with hoodlums in their numbers.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “To my greatest surprise as Achema Stephen came down from his Vehicle, he came to me directly and started chanting all sort of words and before I could realize, he slapped me and start­ed punching me with some heavy blows on my face together with his boys. POLL “In fact, they chased those who wanted to come to my aid away. I was humiliated in front of the public mercilessly for reason I don’t know. “Afterward, he returned to his vehicle and told me to watch out what will happen to me within 24 hours. He then said to me, “I will kill you”. I immediately reported to the Police at Wuye Division for swift action. “After assaulting me, Mr. Ache­ma left with a serious warning that he would come back to finish what he has started, threatening that I should either leave Abuja now or he would wipe me out with my family entirely from the face of the earth.