The Gombe State Police Command has paraded some notorious criminals terrorizing some parts of the State including a two man gang of alleged kidnapers in Nafada LGA over the week. The Police also reported that two victims kidnapped within same Nafada were rescued unhurt through a collaboration of the Police and local hunters who raided the kidnapers den in another area of Nafada. Parading the suspects on behalf of the State Police Commissioner, Oqua Etim, the Command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Mahid Muazu Abubakar, said one Alhaji Adamu Bello reported the kidnap incident at the Nafada Police Division on the 15/04/2023 thatsome unknown persons armed with guns and cutlasses stormed his residence at Papa Village, attacked his relatives inflicting various degrees of injury on them and kidnapped one Fatsuma Buba ‘f’ and Manu Adamu ‘m’ both of the same address to an unknown destination. He told Journalists that upon receipt of the complaint, the Police operatives activated its intelligence platform and traced the hideouts of the suspected kidnappers. Mahid Muazu said, on 19/04/2023, Police tactical team in Collaboration with hunters raided the kidnapper’s den where they successfully arrested one Adamu Buba Baje ‘m’ 30 years old of Jauro Musa village and rescued the two victims unhurt. He said other suspects fled to an unknown location. Exhibits recovered during the raid include: Seven (7) Cows, Four (4) Donkeys, Nineteen (19) sheep’s, Ten (10) Goats, one (1) Techno Handset, chain and padlock. Victims were later taken to Hospital for medical checkup. Other suspects paraded by the Police were Joshua Dogo, 27 years and Muazu Abdullahi, 22 years who were arrested for criminal conspiracy, armed robbery and being in possession of illegal firearm. He said, the duo criminally conspired among themselves and attacked one Abubakar Usman ‘M’ 18yrs old of Garin Barde in Kwami LGA with a pistol and a knife and robbed him of his Bajaj Motorcycle. POLL According to the PPRO, the tactical team attached to Tumfure Division arrested the two suspects, and recovered one Locally made pistol, (2) A Knife and one motorcycle. He said the Case has been transferred to SCID for descrete Investigation and that the suspects will soon be charged to court. Also paraded by the Police was Salisu Ahmed Yahaya alias Lebel, 26years while Murtala Mohammed, Adamu Dodo, Abba Wuro, Adamu Harka who were all at large, were alleged to have conspired among themselves while armed with cutlasses and knives. The suspects were said to have attacked one Abdullahi Mohammed ‘m’ in his shop in new Market Gombe, stabbed him severally on his neck and hand with intent to kill him. They thereafter robbed him of the sum of #200,000. Investigation is ongoing and the suspects will soon be charged to court for criminal conspiracy, attempt to commit culpable homicide and armed robbery. Also arrested and paraded for same offence above were Salisu Ahmed Yahaya alias Lebel, Haladu Abdulsamad, Walid Babawuro and one muazu whose surname is unknown. Another set, Mohammed Adamu 20years, Sani Mohammed Kembu line 27 years and Suleiman Umar 28 years all ‘m’ of kumo town were paraded for criminal conspiracy, causing grevious hurt, attempt to commit culpable homicide and armed robbery when they attacked one usman Mohammed and Sadiq Umar all of kumo town. The attack inflicted severe injuries on the duo with an intention to kill them. The criminals thereafter robbed them of their assorted handsets. For Abdulmajid Muhammed ’m’ 20 years of hayin kwari BCGA Gombe, he was arrested and paraded after he was said to have armed himself with cutlasses and knives and entered 6 different houses and criminally intimidated his victims and carted away with their properties. Members of the community upon good suspicion went to the house of the suspect and raided the compound and arrested him. Men of operation Hattara were called and the suspect was handed over to them, exhibits recovered from him included ten phones one cutlass and one knife. End