Mr Hakeem Olusegun Adetu, the Chief Executive Officer of Honeygate International Limited, a financial services consultancy company that is based in Lagos,in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, speaks on the state of the financial service industry in the country and his experience in the sector. Excerpts: What services does Honeygate International Limited financial render? We are into financial and business consultancy; what this means is if a company needs money, they consult us and we help them to raise the money. We also render financial and business advisory to companies and other entities and business processing. How did you get into the financial industry? I am a retired banker; I worked in the banking sector for more than 28 years. I started at Afribank, I left for Equity Bank, later I ran a micro finance bank before I left to run my own company. How long have you run the company? ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ About seven years POLL How has it been so far, how will you describe the experience? There were teething problems and it has been interesting but there is nothing as good as having your own business; it gives you the time to do other things you want to do. How will you describe the financial system in the country? We can do better in the financial sector in Nigeria; I am an economist, I am a member of Nigerian Council of Economists and I have a good knowledge of the Nigerian financial sector; the country is not good in terms of the financial system because we are devoid of quality leaders who have experience and knowledge and skill to pursue massive infrastructure development, which would have given our youths employment. That has in a way prevented the government from collecting more taxes from citizens and others; the value of taxes you can collect depends on the number of infrastructure you can provide and the number of people working. And that will assist SME to develop. This will generate employment and more taxes. If people are employed, the number of miscreants will reduce. As it is today, there is hope for us. How will you describe the Nigerian economy? The Nigerian economy as at today is not at its best, when compared to other countries but when compared to other African countries we can say we are doing well. But, other developing countries like Egypt, India, Singapore, are doing better than us. What does it take to become a good financial consultant? You must have taken some courses in economics, accounting or business administration, and you must have had a cognate experience, maybe from banking sector, from consulting firm, or civil servants who have the opportunity of interacting with the corporate world. You need to take some exams in some fields. If a young man comes to you and says he wants to do what you are doing, what advice will you give him or her? I will ask him, what you have done before; that will determine where I would start with him. If he has experience in these areas I have mentioned earlier, I will put him through, I will advise him to take some professional courses like ICAN, and others; he can even go for management courses. You have to belong to one or two of those Institutions for you to do well. You are aware of self-acclaimed consultants who cannot provide services they claimed to provide, how can somebody know a good consultant? You will know from his CV and when you interact with him. When you listen to a good consultant, you will know whether he can deliver or not. In Nigeria because of the way we have structured ourselves, we have consultants and then we have consultants. Consultants are consultants because there are some people who have their friends sitting somewhere and help them get jobs that they are not qualified for. They would take a consultant’s proposal and give it to him and put his name there. They would tell him you are equally a consultant. When the time for delivering the job comes they will not be able to deliver.