The governors-elect of 28 states who are assuming office on May 29 or those re-elected and the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory would meet about N5.8tn sub-national debts amid an economic crunch. The way they would handle the debt burden in order to deliver the dividends of democracy is the reason all eyes are on them to perform magic. Report by ROLAND OGBONNAYA, SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, and PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU Nigeria held its general elec­tions on February 25th for the presidential and national assembly and the governors and state house of assembly elections on March 18th, 2023. Some of the gov­ernors were seeking a second term in office. They include Governors Mohammed Yahaya of Gombe; Baba­gana Zulum (Borno); Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa); Seyi Makinde (Oyo); Mai Buni (Yobe); Bello Matawalle (Zamfara); Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos); Ahmadu Fintiri (Adamawa); Dapo Abiodun (Ogun); Bala Mohammed (Bauchi) and Abdulrahman Abdulrazak of Kwara State. The states that elected new candi­dates are Akwa Ibom, Benue, Ebonyi, Gombe, Katsina, Kebbi, Niger, Sokoto, Plateau and Taraba. Others are Kadu­na, Kano, Abia, Enugu, Cross Rivers and Rivers. The governors-elect of these states and political and economic observers agree that they are going to face a herculean task in driving a state overburdened by debt. According to reports, some of the sub-national debts are classified into domestic borrowings from local credi­tors and external borrowings from for­eign or international creditors like the World Bank. The domestic and external debts published on the DMO’s website were as of September 30 and June 30, 2022, respectively. According to the re­ports, sub-national domestic debts were about N4.38tn while their external debts were about $3.15bn or N1.42tn based on the exchange rate of the Central Bank of Nigeria of N449.53 to a dollar as of Thursday. The data further showed that Lagos has the highest debt, with N877.04bn do­mestic debt and $1.27bn foreign debt. It is followed by Kaduna, with a domestic debt of N86.86bn and external debt of $586.78m. The third highest debt is Riv­ers, with a domestic debt of N225.51bn and foreign debt of $140.18m. In the fourth highest debtor position is Cross Rivers, with N175.2bn domestic debt and $215.75m external debt. It is followed by Ogun with N241.78bn domestic debt and $122.73m foreign debt. Others include Bauchi (N144.28bn domestic debt and $172.76m external debt); Enugu (N89.89bn and $123.02m); Kano (N125.19bn and $109.42m); Abia (N104.57bn and $95.63m) and Adamawa (N122.48bn and $77.01m). Other debtor states are Akwa Ibom (N219.62bn and $46.567m), Benue (N143.37bn and $30.47m), Borno (N96.33bn and $18.7m), Delta (N272.61bn and $60.05m), Ebonyi (N67.06bn and $59.84m), Gombe (N139.1bn and $46.93m), Jigawa (N44.41bn and $27.61m), Katsina (N62.37bn and $55.82m), Kebbi (N60.13bn and $42.40m), Kwara (N109.55bn and $45.94m), and Nasarawa (N72.63bn and $53.73m).‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Also on the list are Niger (N98.26bn and $69.27m), Oyo (N160.07bn and $76.97m), Plateau (N151.90bn and $33.74m), Sokoto (N85.58bn and $37.13m), Taraba (N90.81bn and $22.28m), Yobe (N92.86bn and $23.09m) and Zamfara (N109.69bn and $29.33m). The FCT had a domestic debt of N112.49bn and exter­nal debt of $25.38m. POLL Director, Portfolio Management De­partment of the DMO, Dele Afolabi, had clarified that each state was expected to send in quarterly information on their domestic debts, explaining that by being transparent with their debt profiles, states would be able to access more funding. This is despite that in its December 2022 edition of the Nigeria Development Update; the World Bank noted that states’ debts would rise above 200 per cent of the revenue generated in 2022 and 2023. The report read, “Debt levels for an average state are estimated to increase from 154.6 per cent of rev­enues in 2021 to above 200 per cent of revenues in both 2022 and 2023.” The most interesting thing about the debt burden of some states is the governors-elect and the outgoing gover­nors are already locked in controversy. For example, in Abia State, the Gover­nor-elect, Dr. Alex Otti of the Labour Party and the outgoing Governor Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu traded words on the recent court order freezing the state’s bank accounts. An Enugu-based political analyst, Martins Ezeh, who spoke with Satur­day INDEPENDENT during the week, expressed worry over the battle the gov­ernors-elect will face to pay workers’ salaries when they resume office due to accumulated debt by their predeces­sor. He said “Our new governors-elect will struggle to boost the economies of their states due to the domestic debts and from debt they will take over from their predecessors. “With such development, one wonders how they will be able to im­plement new projects as they will re­sume to battle with unpaid workers’ salaries, pension liabilities and many others. It’s a terrible situation, how can Nigeria move forward with this ugly development? It will take the new gov­ernors-elect several months to battle the debt before they can settle down and work for the state.” Chief Goddy Uwazurike, President of the Cultural Credibility Develop­ment Initiative (CCDI) however said that there are governors, and there are father Christmas-governors and of course, there are governors who are kleptomaniacs. He said that the rate of stealing and reckless spending will increase until May 29. “There is nothing the governor-elect can do be­yond raising the alarm and shaming the outgoing governors. There are two states where this scenario is playing out, Abia and Kano. This is more be­cause the governor-elects are from the opposing parties. “Some outgoing governors have resorted to massive employment, in­discriminate award of contracts and issuing payment orders without cash backing. Some have signed irrevocable payment standing orders. There is noth­ing the legislature can do to checkmate this extravaganza because the legisla­ture is probably complicit. The judicia­ry only attends to cases brought before it,” he added. Adewale Adeoye, Executive Direc­tor, Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER) in his own view stated that it is going to be very difficult for the gover­nors, as most Nigerian states are indebt­ed. “They will be facing a new challenge that some of them did not anticipate. This is compounded by the economic downtown occasioned by the Central Bank of Nigeria cash swap. Many busi­nesses have collapsed. “People have lost confidence in the financial system. Many who took loans could not redeem their debt. Most af­fected are Small and Medium Scale Business enterprises. People’s funds were forcefully taken away from them by the CBN which they refused to re­lease to the owners when needed. He however said the governors need to be creative that they need to focus on the low-hanging fruits. “They need to focus on agriculture which is the easiest project that can em­bark on as agriculture and promptness in payment of salaries. They need to explore foreign investment at the least cost. They need to cut down on frivolous projects like buying new cars for Oba and political appointees. “The Governor of Ekiti State Oye­banji said he wanted honest and cre­ative people to work with him. That is a good and excellent way to start. They also need to avoid fresh loans. They need to invest in agriculture and cut down on travel. When lawmakers are appointed by the state Governors, and not by the people, the lawmakers will be loyal to the benefactor instead of being loyal to the people. “We need to create a paradigm shift from democracy as government of the party for the party members to democ­racy being a government of the people by the people and for the people. This will involve a lot of mobilisation and education of the masses. Organised in­stitutions like the Labour movement, the students’ movement need to engage in politics in a meaningful, constructive and productive ways.” For Femi Aborishade, a Lagos- based legal practitioner while speaking, said in most cases, where the incoming Governor is sponsored by the outgo­ing Governor, the incoming Governor should not be expected to do anything contrary to the interest and directive of the outgoing Governor. “Therefore, the solution does not lie with the incoming Governors. The solution lies with organised labour. The trade unions have to wake up, organise, and demonstrate with facts and figures that the state governments have the resources to pay the backlog of unpaid salaries and pensions but that the outgoing Governors merely made a choice not to pay salaries and pensions. On what the governors-elect can do to survive and deliver the dividend of democracy, he said his perspective is that the freedom of the slave does not lie with the slave owner who is sitting on the backs of the slaves. “It is for the slaves to shake off the burden of the persons sitting on their backs. In other words, the ruling class, any­where in the world, does not rule in the interest of the downtrodden without a fight by the downtrodden. The ruling class acts or implements policies in the interest of the masses either as a result of threats of the peaceful social revolt of the masses or in reaction to actual peaceful strikes, protests and rallies. “Left on their own, the incoming Governors would not do anything in the interest of ordinary people. The ruled should take action to compel the rulers to rule in the interest of the gen­eral interests of the public,” he added. He said the last eight years of the Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari/All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) Government have shown convincingly that Nigeria’s democracy is abnormal. “Constitutionally, sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Constitution recognise that the legislature, executive, and judiciary, respectively, are separate, autonomous and independent. But in practice, the executive has sufficiently intimidated, overwhelmed and overawed the legis­lature and the judiciary. “In Nigeria, the Executive appears to have usurped the functions of the other arms of government. Recently, the Supreme Court made the remark that disobedience of court orders by the President shows that it is an illusion to say we have democracy in Nigeria. Re­call the physical midnight attacks on the residences of Supreme Court Jus­tices under the Buhari regime. “What could be more intimidating than that? That event means the emas­culation of the judiciary, unfortunately. No president ought to do that without being impeached because intimidation of Justices at the apex of the judicial system means the death of democracy. Enforcement of court orders is by the security agencies which are under the control of the Executive. But under sec­tion 308 of the Constitution, the Presi­dent, Vice President, Governor and Deputy Governor enjoy immunity.” The 2018 introduction of the World Bank-assisted States Fiscal Transpar­ency and Accountability Programme (SFTAS) was to nudge sub-national governments into imbibing fiscal transparency and tame their appetite for indiscriminate borrowing. Unfortu­nately, the programme has not worked. If anything, recent statistics from the Debt Management Office (DMO) pres­ent disturbing signals that just as the government at the centre goes on a bor­rowing binge, the states are also neck-deep in debt accumulation. Governance without management is a viral affliction that has come to af­fect both the federal government and the states in recent times, according to a recent report. Unfortunately, the tem­plate under which state governments exist as mere pay offices for redistrib­uting the monthly proceeds of oil rent from Abuja is fast losing value. “As oil prices plummet and the num­ber of oil producer nations multiplies, there may soon be little or nothing to re-distribute. The states must therefore become centres of productive activities. But that would require a critical review of the socio-economic system operated in the country,” the report stated. According to the World Bank, states’ debts will rise above 200 per cent of revenue in 2023. How these states will survive in the face of the increasingly asphyxiating fiscal squeeze exacerbat­ed by poor revenue generation presents a jigsaw puzzle.