…..Aremu Calls For More Educational Support To Less-privileged Nigerians ASABA – Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu, UNESCO Laureate and Vice-Chancellor Crown University International Chartered Inc., USA with its teaching hospital campus located at Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, South America and other partner constituents campuses at government regulated Universities Worldwide and online operation, has tasked Muslims all over the World on fear of God and love for one another, and patriotism as Islams today marks Sallah, Eid-el-Fitri celebration in grand-style. The media learnt this today being on Friday, April 21, 2023 from World Acclaimed Distinguished Universities Research Professor of Computer Science, Information and Communication Technology in a press statement personally signed by him, which was made available to some group of Journalists in Asaba, Delta State capital by UNESCO Laureate’s Executive Assistant On Media, Publicity and Communication Matters, Comrade Sir Bieni Victor Emenike as he harped on love for one another. For Muslims all over the world, Ramadan is a sacred spiritual obligation as one of the five pillars of Islam. We have engaged in fervent prayers and supplications to Allah, a spiritual exercise that has improved our faith, refined our minds. With the help of Almighty Allah, we have gone through a period of abstinence, self-discipline, self-reflection, self-purification and total submission to the will of Allah. Prof Aremu noted that the fear of God helps to overcome every other fear, that Islam teaches us to love one another, love our neighbours, that love is one of the divine qualities of Allah, that patriotic living regardless of ethnicity, religion, creed and love for one another are the major pillars of Islamic teachings . The statement by UNESCO Laureate and VC CUICI, USA reads in parts:”The fear of God, Allah keeps the heart of a believer awake and enables him to distinguish right from wrong. The fear of God is the only virtue that brings honor to a believer, man or woman in Islam”. “Islam teaches us to love one another; love our neighbours. ‘Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God and he who loves is of God. He who does not love does not know God, for God is love. ‘Quran 7:57’, God has this level of love for all creations”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We must pursue higher ideals, commit to wholesome living, help our fellow believers, neighbors, support the downtrodden in the society; show patriotism to all in our various communities, countries, continents and globally; most especially to the less-privileged citizens”. POLL “Finally, I, Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu, UNESCO Laureate use this medium to call on critical stakeholders to give more Educational support to less-privileged citizens, Nigerians, Africans and the rest of the world to meet the United Nations SDGs on agenda 2030”.