ABUJA  – The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gba­jabiamila, has urged Julius Berger, the contractor execut­ing the construction of the over N50 billion permanent site of the National Institute for Leg­islative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), situated along the Air­port road in Abuja, to complete the project before the May 29 handover to a new government. Giving the marching order during an on the spot assess­ment of the level of execution of the project, the speaker in­sisted that the facility must be ready in 30 days’ time. This, he said, is to enable President Muhammadu Bu­hari (who is due to hand over the reins of government to a new president declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the win­ner of the February 25 presiden­tial election) to commission it. A visibly disappointed Gba­jabiamila expressed dissatis­faction at the level of work at the site, as he added, “I was here in September 2019 and came here again about a year ago when the project was said to be at 95% completion stage but disappointed to be here to­day and see the project at the same level and without work­ers on site. “Take it or leave it, this proj­ect must be completed within the next 30 days for commis­sioning by President Muham­madu Buhari. “The client (NILDS) said it to your hearing here that is not indebted to you. So why the de­lay? Please use the 30 days win­dow given to you now, to get the project completed”, he said. He also directed the project executors to table their finan­cial difficulties on the project to the governing council of NILDS in the first week of May for expeditious solution.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ But one of the project con­sultants, Architect Zingart Gonwalk said fluctuations in exchange rate within the last three years, resulted in an out­standing balance of N7.5 bil­lion to be paid to Julius Berger. POLL The Director-General of NILDS, Prof. Abubakar Su­laiman, told officials of Julius Berger in the presence of the speaker that the Institute is not owing the construction firm even as N2.5 billion is pro­vided for in the 2023 budget for completion of the project. “This project has come a long way and should be deliv­ered for the required usage within the stated period by the speaker. “The most important thing to be done between now and then, is for all the offices and lecture rooms to be furnished preparatory to the commis­sioning”, he said. The project, earlier billed for commissioning in May 2019, is located in Piwoyi District along the Nnamdi Azikiwe Interna­tional Airport road on 8.12 hect­ares (81, 200m2) of land, Plot 307 Cadastral zone. The ultra-modern infra­structure when fully complet­ed and commissioned, will en­able the Institute carry out its mandate of building capacity among legislators at the na­tional and regional levels and foster collaboration with other organisations and internation­al institutions. It will most importantly en­able students and lecturers in the Institute have a very condu­cive environment for teaching and learning.