Plateau Stakeholders under the aegis of Concerned Former Senators, House of Representatives, Speakers and Members of the State Assembly, have thrown their weight behind the candidature of the current Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, to become Speaker of the 10th National Assembly. The team led by a former Senator representing Plateau Northern Senatorial Zone in the 3rd Assembly, Senator. Timothy Adudu, while addressing newsmen in Jos on Saturday held at Jos Press Centre, demanded that the North Central geo-political zone should be given the chance to produce the speaker of the 10th National Assembly. According to Senator Adudu, it is no longer news that the race for the leadership of both Chambers of the National Assembly is what is currently on the front burner in the Nigerian political arena and they have found it expedient to join in the discourse on those who are qualified to lead both the Houses in the 10th Assembly. ‘”In this race for the leadership of the National Assembly, the one we are most interested in is the leadership of the House of Representatives, where two of our illustrious sons have indicated an interest in contesting for the leadership.” He noted that in going into a contest of this nature that is very competitive, one has to go with its best so as to compete with others. ” Given this scenario therefore, by our own estimation, our very best is Rt. Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase (popularly known as Maje in Plateau State), the current Deputy Speaker of the House. We believe Hon. Wase has the requisite credentials that can compete favourably with any member from around the country”, they enthused. He described Hon Wase as their worthy son irrespective of party affiliation saying, “our brothers and sisters in Plateau State, this is the time for us to come together to persecute this agenda”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The former Senator, however, stated irrevocably that the choice of Hon. Wase, was drawn from their tracking and resolve in the quality of his person and they, as experienced former members of the National Assembly and Speakers of the Plateau State House of Assembly felt they have an insight than anyone and called whoever is contesting with Wase should fold his or her mat. Senator Adudu stressed.