As relevant stakeholders warm up for this Saturday’s supplementary election in two federal constituencies of Oyo State, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed optimism that it would emerge victorious urging voters to honour the President-elect, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, by voting its candidates at the poll. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared April 15, 2023, as the date for the conduct of fresh election in two polling units in Oluyole Federal Constituency as well as three each in both Ibadan North East and Ibadan South East local government councils which make up another Federal Constituency following reported infractions which necessitated the inability of INEC to declare winners in the February 25 presidential and national assembly elections. The leadership of Oyo APC, in a communique issued after an extended Executive Committee members meeting held today at the Oke-Ado State Secretariat of the Party, reiterated support for Hon. Tolulope Akande-Shadipe and Hon. Dapo Lam-Adesina who are seeking to represent Oluyole and Ibadan North East/South East federal constituencies for second term respectively “because the two candidates remain the best option as representatives of their people this time. “The duo shares similar attributes of competence, experience and responsibility, unlike the candidates of the PDP and other parties in the contest. It is in this regard that we are urging voters in the affected polling units to go for the best and reject those who would only go to Abuja to warm the bench. We also urge the electorate to mindful of the fact that voting the candidates of the APC would further cement the confidence that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has developed in them as he prepares to start reciprocating the gesture as soon as he is sworn-in on May 29”. In the Communique, stakeholders also passed a vote of confidence on the Hon. Isaac Omodewu-led State Executive Committee “which delivered the biggest winning votes for the President-elect, delivered the three Senatorial and eight House of Representatives seats in the first election only to lose out to grand conspiracy of many forces in the second poll. Those calling for the dissolution of Oyo APC executive committee are the same set of disgruntled elements who worked against our party on March 18 and their place in the black book of history is already guaranteed. “We make bold to eulogize all the leaders, stalwarts and loyalists of our Progressive party for the yeoman’s job which they did before, during and after the general election. We single out the party’s gubernatorial candidate, Sen. Teslim Folarin, for his rare demonstration of courage and statemanship as he forged ahead in spite of all odds to make a loud statement as a democrat and dogged fighter. “Meanwhile, we kick against the surreptitious moves being made by some unscrupulous political jobbers to twist facts and present themselves as the facilitators of the electoral feat recorded for the APC on February 25 with a view to getting juicy appointments and patronage from the President-elect. Also, we would like to use this medium to announce that the doors of our party is open to people from other political parties to come on board while nobody would be discriminate against whether as new or returning member.” The Communique read. The stakeholders meeting was attended by all state executive committee members as well as chairmen, secretaries, women and youth leaders of the party from across the 33 Local Government Councils in the state.