LAGOS – Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has congratulated Dr. Olufemi Adekoya, the immediate past Business Editor of The Guardian Newspaper, on his appointment as the Editor of the newspaper. The governor also congratulated the company’s Head of Finance, Patience Ilesanmi, for her elevation to the position of Chief Financial and Operating Officer. He described Adekoya and Ilesanmi’s appointments as deserving, considering their experience, commitment, and long years of service in The Guardian Newspapers Limited. In a statement issued on Tuesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, Governor Sanwo-Olu said the appointment of Adekoya is an inspiration to young journalists that they can get to the top position in The Guardian Newspapers Limited if they are faithful and committed. He said: “The appointment of Dr. Olufemi Adekoya as The Editor of The Guardian Newspapers is an inspiration to young journalists, especially the staff of Guardian Newspapers Limited, that they can get to the top of their career in the company. “Dr. Adekoya’s appointment is thoroughly deserving having proved his mettle in the journalism profession and I do not have any doubt in my mind that the cap fits him. He is a seasoned journalist and media manager with a proven track record of excellence in journalism, especially in business reporting.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I want to urge Dr. Adekoya to bring his wealth of experience to bear in strengthening the journalism profession and also be a good gatekeeper against fake news, which is not good for our country. POLL “He should also see his new appointment as a crucial assignment for the media, especially The Guardian Newspapers, to be more circumspect and developmental in playing its role as the watchdog of society. “I also congratulate Patience Ilesanmi on her new appointment as the chief finance and operating officer. I urge her to use her office for the growth and development of Guardian Newspapers Limited.” Sanwo-Olu Hails New Editor, Chief Finance Officer Of The Guardian Newspapers Victoria Ojugbana, Lagos Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has congratulated Dr. Olufemi Adekoya, the immediate past Business Editor of The Guardian Newspaper, on his appointment as the Editor of the newspaper. The governor also congratulated the company’s Head of Finance, Patience Ilesanmi, for her elevation to the position of Chief Financial and Operating Officer. He described Adekoya and Ilesanmi’s appointments as deserving, considering their experience, commitment, and long years of service in The Guardian Newspapers Limited. In a statement issued on Tuesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, Governor Sanwo-Olu said the appointment of Adekoya is an inspiration to young journalists that they can get to the top position in The Guardian Newspapers Limited if they are faithful and committed. He said: “The appointment of Dr. Olufemi Adekoya as The Editor of The Guardian Newspapers is an inspiration to young journalists, especially the staff of Guardian Newspapers Limited, that they can get to the top of their career in the company. “Dr. Adekoya’s appointment is thoroughly deserving having proved his mettle in the journalism profession and I do not have any doubt in my mind that the cap fits him. He is a seasoned journalist and media manager with a proven track record of excellence in journalism, especially in business reporting. “I want to urge Dr. Adekoya to bring his wealth of experience to bear in strengthening the journalism profession and also be a good gatekeeper against fake news, which is not good for our country. “He should also see his new appointment as a crucial assignment for the media, especially The Guardian Newspapers, to be more circumspect and developmental in playing its role as the watchdog of society. “I also congratulate Patience Ilesanmi on her new appointment as the chief finance and operating officer. I urge her to use her office for the growth and development of Guardian Newspapers Limited.”