ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has dismissed the purposed suspension of its members in Rivers state, Senator George Thompson Sekibo and Hon. Dr. Austin Opara from the party. The National Working Committee (NWC) of the party charged its leaders, critical stakeholders, members, teeming supporters in Rivers State and the general public to disregard the purported suspension of the duo. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon Debo Ologunagba said, “the attention of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been drawn to the purported suspension of Senator Dr. George Thompson Sekibo and Rt. Hon. Dr. Austin Adiele Opara from the Party, reportedly by the Ward Executives of Ward 2 of Ogu/Bolo Local Government Area and Ward 10 of Port Harcourt City Local Government Area of Rivers State, respectively. “The NWC, after a thorough consideration of the petitions by Senator Sekibo and Rt. Hon. Austin Opara dated April 17, 2023 against the purported suspension, hereby declares the action by the said Ward Executives which borders on issues of discipline, as null and void and of no effect, not being consistent with the provisions of the Constitution of the PDP (As amended in 2017). “For clarity, Section 57 (7) provides that ‘Notwithstanding any other provision relating to discipline, no Executive Committee, at any level except the National Executive Committee, shall entertain any question of discipline as may relate or concern a member of the National Executive Committee, Deputy Governor or member of the National Assembly.’ “The NWC therefore charges all leaders, critical stakeholders, members, teeming supporters of our Party in Rivers State and the general public to disregard the purported suspension of Senator Dr. George Thompson Sekibo and Rt. Hon. Dr. Austin Adiele Opara. “The NWC enjoins all Party members in Rivers State to remain united and continue to work together in the overall interest of our Party and the Nation.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The NWC is steadily progressing in our reconciliation efforts among all members of our Party across the Country and we are encouraged by the success so far achieved.”