The Chelsea first-team squad are reportedly in favour of the appointment of Mauricio Pochettino as the club’s new head coach.The Blues have endured a turbulent campaign where four different bosses – Thomas Tuchel, Graham Potter, Bruno Saltor and Frank Lampard – have spent time in the dugout. As a result, Chelsea sit in 11th position in the Premier League standings and will miss out on European qualification for 2023-24. Nevertheless, having shelled out over £600m on new players and more expected to arrive in the summer, there remains a sense of optimism at Stamford Bridge. The Chelsea hierarchy have spent nearly four weeks looking for a permanent replacement for Potter, yet it appears to be a foregone conclusion that Pochettino will become the next head coach. With previous favourites Luis Enrique and Julian Nagelsmann no longer in the running, talks have proceeded with Pochettino who is said to have made a positive impression on the powers-that-be at the West Londoners. Furthermore, it has been suggested that only contracts need to be signed for an agreement to be formally put in place ahead of the Argentine being confirmed in the lead role at Chelsea from June. According to Football Insider, the first-team squad are relishing the prospect of working with Pochettino.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The report claims that many of the senior players at Chelsea feel that the 51-year-old is capable of instigating an upturn in fortunes next season. POLL Pochettino is familiar with the Premier League having enjoyed a widely-positive five years at Spurs, leading the club to their first-ever Champions League final in 2019. Although his time at Paris Saint-Germain is viewed in a negative light, Pochettino still won a Ligue 1 title before his departure last summer. Pochettino had been in the running to take over at Manchester United in the months preceding his exit from Parc des Princes before the job went to Erik ten Hag. Since then, Pochettino has been linked with a number of vacant positions, including at former club Spurs and Leeds United, but he is now in line to take over at Chelsea with an announcement possible within days.