The Ibadan Mega Voice, IMV, on Thursday paid a congratulatory visit to the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, after his appointment as the Chancellor of  Sa’adatu Rimi Varsity, Kano. Ibadan Mega Voice is a body of renowned Ibadan indigenes of over 50 members who are into professional media practice within and outside Nigeria. Speaking, IMV’s President, Prince Kola Olomide pledged the group’s loyalty and support to the Olubadan and the growth of the ancient city of Ibadan at large. He described Oba Balogun’s reign as one that has brought development to the city of Ibadan due to the wealth of experience of the first class monarch . He said: “Your name and personality preceded your enthronement as the Olubadan owing to your philanthropic gestures, detribalised posture, politics, and activism”. He explained that IMV’s mission is to add its voice to the development of Ibadan city, especially as it concerns the throne of Olubadan. He stated further that the group seeks to form a conglomerate of Ibadan-indigenes who put Ibadan’s interest first.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to him,, “We must also add, that your reign as the Olubadan of Ibadanland has birthed many developments, one of which is Ibadan Mega Voice.“We therefore have dimmed it fit to lend our voice as professionals in different fields of Mass Communication to the development of our city”. POLL “We see this as a divine call, Kabiyesi and we have come for your divine blessings, so that God will direct our affairs”, Olomide added. The monarch, while speaking remarked that Ibadan is lucky to have a group of professionals, such as Ibadan Mega Voice. While the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland said he was amazed at the intellectual capacity of members of the group, he prayed to God to lead the group aright in its aspirations. Similarly, the members of Ibadan Mega Voice have commended an indigene of Ibadan, the Chairman, Prince FM, Mr. Babatunde Balogun, for investing in Broadcast media business, saying the launch has further accelerated the growth of businesses in Ibadan city. Speaking on behalf of IMV, Mr. AbdulRasaq AbdulGaneey, said the innovative style of Prince FM, Ibadan, in reaching out to members of the public and performing its broadcast duties has set it out among its contemporaries. He said the new radio station, being run by an Ibadan indigene, will not only enhance broadcast experience in the state, but will also accelerate development. He added, “As a group, we are proud of you. You have become a force to reckon with. Keep doing what is good.” Earlier, the CEO, Prince FM, Mr. Babatunde Balogun, appreciated the visit by members of Ibadan Mega Voice. He said Prince FM is open to collaborations and advice from members of the group, adding that the radio station is guided by principles of professionalism and balanced reportage.The visitation had in attendance the executive and other members of Ibadan Mega Voice.