The Executive Council of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Gamawa Local government area of Bauchi state has expelled Alhaji Sirajo Dada, a National Ex-Offico of the party from the membership of party in Gamawa LGA, over what they described as his alleged involvement in anti-party activities. The development is coming on the heels of an emergency meeting of the Executive council of the party in the Local government. The Chairman of the APC in Gamawa LGA, Ahmed Saleh Super who announced the stand of the party concerning the matter on Saturday at party Secretariat in Gamawa Local government, said that the party will fold it’s arms and condole any act of indolence, indiscipline and betrayal on the part of any member no matter how highly placed in society. He alleged that Sirajo outrightly worked against the progress of the party in the LGA during the conduct of the general elections, pointing out that he was literally caught campaigning for candidates of PRP. ” We are here today to announce to you that we the Executives of the APC in Gamawa LGA have expelled Alhaji Sirajo Dada from the membership of the party here in Gamawa LGA. He worked against the success of the party during the last 2023 general elections by campaigning for candidates of the PRP and we have evidences to prove what we are saying” “Sirajo Dada was caught at one of the polling unit during the Presidential and National Assembly Election telling voters not to vote for APC candidates.He campaigned for the candidate of the PRP for the House of Representatives seat. He was warned by leadership of the APC but he refused to listen” ” Due to his stubbornness in showing no sign of remorse for his action, we held a meeting where we unanimously agreed to expell him from being a member of the APC in Gamawa LGA. We have served him a letter to that effect and copied the State EXCO through the State Chairman.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Though the APC won the House of Representatives seat for Gamawa Federal Constituency as well as the presidential election, it could not add up votes to make the party win the Bauchi North Senatorial seat due to the anti party activities of Sirajo Dada” he said POLL Reading the decision of the EXCO earlier, the Vice Chairman of APC in Gamawa LGA, Garba Musa stated that the decision was in line with the provision of the constitution of the APC particularly Article 21.2 offences against the party, anti party activities or any conduct which is likely to embarrass or has adverse effects on the party, or bring party to hatred, contempt, ridicule or disrepute. He explained that the party called his attention to the allegations against him but he was adamant about it and the party had no choice but to apply the provisions of the party’s constitution. Also speaking, the Secretary of APC in Gamawa LGA, Nasiru Abdulkadir Malami stated that the decision was taken after an extensive deliberations by all segment of the party in the LGA particularly his Gamawa ward. The Secretary said that the letter to the effect of the decision has been forwarded to the State Secretariat for onward transmission to the national Secretariat of the party. “We have to take that decision in order to instil discipline among members of the party. We cannot afford to allow this to continue” he said Members of the Elders Committee of the party expressed support to the decision taken by the EXCO of the party saying that there must be discipline in the conduct of party activities. The Women leader of the party, Hajja Buwa Gamawa expressed the support of the women wing to the decision of the EXCO stressing that it is in line with party discipline. The letter expelling Sirajo Dada from the APC in Gamawa LGA was duly endorsed by 15 members of the EXCO.