JOY ANIGBOGU The race for who will be the next Speaker of the House of Representatives is already gathering momentum, and as usual aspirants and their supporters are consulting politicians and relevant stakeholders to assist them achieve their ambition to lead the lower arm of the National Assembly. The position of the Speakership of the House of Representatives has over 10 persons who have indicated interest to take over from the Speaker, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila in June when his tenure as number one in the House would have ended. The position is expected to be zoned to the various geopolitical areas of the country in line with the federal character arrangement to achieve a balance for the sake of national unity and peace. Considering what is on ground at the moment, the President-elect is from the South-West while the Vice President-elect is from the North-East. So, in line with the existing arrangement, South- East, South-South, North-Central and North-West, are expected to fill other positions in the National Assembly. For the fact that religion plays a vital role in the political space, there are also calls to balance the religious faiths as both the President-elect and Vice President-elect are Muslims. However, lawmakers are divided over the geopolitical zones to produce the presiding officers of the federal parliament, which is why the aspirants are intensifying efforts to consult relevant stakeholders to ensure that their voices are heard. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Members elected on the platform of opposition political parties are not leaving any stone unturned in making themselves relevant in the whole arrangement. POLL Report has it that they have formed an alliance to upstage the All Progressives Congress (APC) if they have the opportunity to do so. A few days ago, members-elect from the opposition parties met and formed an alliance ahead of the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly in June, 2023, with the aim of determining the leadership of the parliament. While everyone is waiting to know the regions the ruling party will zone the positions to, the APC aspirants are not relenting in their efforts to ensure that they draw the attention of relevant stakeholders to what they have to offer, which is the most important thing. It is not enough to desire to lead the House, it is very important to have the capacity to lead so as to deliver good governance to the citizens, which is one of the things that the lawmakers should consider in choosing one of their own to superintend their affairs. Bearing in mind that the lawmaker’s constitutionally-vested duties are lawmaking for peace, order and good governance, establishing the budget of the government, representation, oversight, passing laws, confirming executive appointments, investigating infractions by the executive, addressing constituents’ grievances among others. Considering the score card of Yusuf Gagdi, the lawmaker representing Pankshin/Kanam/ Kanke constituency in the 9th National Assembly, a 41-year old aspirant to the position of House of Representatives Speaker. His rise to prominence affirms the truism that hard work, diligence and a commitment to the welfare of the downtrodden will take a politician to the top. Though a first term lawmaker in the House of Representatives, his achievements already dwarf those of his colleagues who have been privileged to do four terms in the national assembly! Gagdi set a record as the first first-term federal lawmaker to have 6 self-sponsored bills assented to by the President. Two of the bills are for federal universities. The seventh bill awaits the accent. Details of the Bills A bill for the establishment of the Federal University, Pankshin, Plateau State. A bill for the establishment of Admiralty University, Edosa, Delta State. As the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on the Navy he established this university for the Navy to improve its capacity. A bill for the repeal and re-enactment of the Police Act. The Nigerian Police Act had been in existence since 1947 (during the colonial era). President Buhari assented to this bill on the 16th of September 2020. This new Police Act addresses the flaws in the old Act: The old practice of arresting the wives of crime suspects has been outlawed. A relative of the crime suspect shall not be arrested until the suspect himself is found. Women now have equal rights as men in the new Police Act, and can even rise to become the inspector-general. The new Police Act has given power to communities, having recognized Community Policing. Paramount traditional rulers will co-chair the community policing committee with the commissioner of Police. This is cascaded down to senatorial and federal constituency levels. A bill for the establishment of the National Hydrographic Agency. It shall relate with the ports authority to give nautical information about activities on our waterways. The new agency shall be headed by Hydrographer- General of the nation, who shall be a naval General. A bill for the establishment of Federal Polytechnic, Nyak in Shendan, Plateau state. A bill for the establishment of Federal College of Education, Dengi- Kanam, Plateau state. A bill for the establishment of a Maritime Security Trust Fund for the Navy. This will enable the Navy to acquire modern platforms to boost its capacity to combat piracy, oil theft, vandalism and other maritime-related crimes. Given that the Nigerian waterways constitute a cash cow the importance of this bill cannot be over emphasised. Infrastructure Development Hon Yusuf Gyadi has built 24 palaces and befitting offices for traditional rulers and secretaries to the traditional councils at a cost of over N100m each. He has built 28 units of classroom blocks in 28 locations in his federal constituency. He has built 14 modern primary health care units. He has built three befitting police posts in his constituency. He has built six town halls and skill acquisition centres in his constituency. He has constructed 23 roads across Pankshin, Kanke, Kanam, including township roads in the three local government areas. He has provided 2100 units of solar street lights across the constituency. He has drilled 264 boreholes (hand pump and motorized) across the constituency with the boreholes present in almost all polling units in the constituency. Apart from boreholes he has done eight culverts and bridges, and constructed two secretariats for the community development associations in the constituency. School Fees and People Empowerment Hon. Gagdi has paid NECO, JAMB, WAEC fees for all SS3 students of his constituency amounting to N3324million. He procured Hilux vans for three local police divisions in his constituency. He provided 1618 motorcycles, 80 tricycles and 118 cars so far, to empower young people in his constituency. During the Coronavirus pandemic, Hon. Gagdi supported the downtrodden with about N36m, in addition to the distribution of food items worth about N54m to his constituents. Last December he shared 14 trailers of rice to the three Local Governments in his constituency and 77 cows to Christians and Muslim in the communities that make up the constituency. He also donated cars to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Jammatul Nasril Islam across the constituency. Popularity Hon Yusuf Gagdi is very popular with both Christian and Muslims, thanks to his fair-minded nature. He does not discriminate against any religion. His constituency is 70 percent Muslim, yet because of his generous and detribalised nature clerics across religious divides preach that their adherents should vote for him, as he is the sort of person Nigeria needs at the helm of affairs. In addition to his impressive six bills that had a Presidential accent, he brought 18 motions on the floor of the House of Representatives, largely security-related. In the course of his oversight functions as chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on the Navy, he visited all naval formations in the country three times. This was meant to put them on their toes, ensure discipline in the service and ensure that the rights of junior officers and men were not trampled upon. A lot of what he achieved above was done using his personal resources. As a former deputy speaker of the Plateau state house of representatives he is tested, trusted and highly favoured by age. In a season in which young people are disillusioned with the ruling class, as a young man Hon. Gagdi knows the problems confronting the youths in the country, he’ll certainly be the bridge between the young and the old in bringing about meaningful growth and development in our country.