KINGSLEY BENNETH; CHUKWUJEKWU ILOZUE; RAYMOND OZOJI ABUJA/AWKA – Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri, has urged Nigerians, particularly Chris­tians and residents of the state, to emulate the virtues of love, compassion, sacrifice, peace and humility demonstrated by the Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ. Governor Diri, who stated this in his Easter message is­sued by his Chief Press Secre­tary, Daniel Alabrah, on Satur­day, said it was love, compassion and the highest form of sacri­fice that made Jesus die on the Cross. “The major lesson in the death and resurrection of Jesus, that Easter signifies, is that of hope for everyone. “As I join other Christians to celebrate the significant season of Easter, I urge all to rekindle their hope in God and in govern­mental institutions. “I call on Christians and residents of Bayelsa to show compassion, ensure unity and peaceful co-existence as well as continuously pray for good governance and progress of our state. “I also use the opportunity of the Easter celebrations to ex­press appreciation to people of our state for their unrelenting support to the Prosperity Ad­ministration under my watch. I am humbled and encouraged by your overwhelming support and prayers at all times.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Governor Diri assured that his administration remains firmly committed to its peo­ple-centred projects, policies and programmes that are of benefit to the generality of Bayelsans. POLL “Good governance remains our abiding social contract with the Bayelsa people.” The Governor of Anambra State, Professor Chukwuma Charles Soludo, has called on Anambra people and Nigeri­ans to use the period of Easter to show love and affection to one another. The governor noted in his Easter message that the signif­icance of Easter celebration called for self-introspection and a renewed commitment in en­throning a better society where love, tolerance, forgiveness, peace and unity will continue to reign According to him, “Easter is an important event in the Christendom. By His death, Christ offered Himself as sac­rificial lamb for the sins of the world. By His resurrection, He redeemed mankind and strengthened our faith in ever­lasting life”, he stated. Noting that it is a season of discipline and sacrifice, the Governor urged the people to celebrate with modesty and to remember the less privileged amongst them Governor Soludo therefore urged the people to imbibe the virtues of forbearance, forgive­ness, kindness, humility love, peace and patience as demon­strated by Jesus Christ in offer­ing Himself for crucifixion. He further enjoined the peo­ple to share love and joy this period and beyond, and also solicited for support from Ndi Anambra towards actualizing the lofty vision of building a liveable and prosperous home­land for all Also, the Labour Party pres­idential hopeful, Peter Obi, has urged Christians not to despair, but to remain hopeful and peaceful in the face of trib­ulations and provocations. Obi said this in an Easter message on Saturday, to Chris­tian faithful. In the message, he also joined Muslims to pray for a peaceful and prosperous country, espe­cially as believers mark the mid­dle of 30 days of special prayers and fasting ahead of the Eid El- Fitr celebration. The 2023 presidential con­tender said, “To our Muslim brothers and sisters who are well into the Ramadan fasting period, which will culminate in the Eid El-Fitr, my special greet­ings and prayers are with you as we look forward to a joyous celebration. “Given that we are all united as brothers and sisters, and in our trust in the mercies and infinite benevolence of God Almighty, I urge all Nigerians particularly the youths not to despair in the face of many challenges and tribulations we are facing as a country. “We continue to thank God for all His blessings on Nigeria and pray for a better and New Nigeria where equity, fairness, peace, unity, accountable lead­ership, and prosperity shall reign”. About Easter, he said, “If Jesus our messiah died for us and rose from death to fight for us why should we be hopeless at anything? “Every religion believes that God our creator is of justice, so why should we as his children not expect it from him? “The main significance of Easter that the Christendom celebrates this time is that it marks the Resurrection of Je­sus Christ three days after his death by crucifixion. The three most significant events in it are the trial of Jesus, the death of Jesus, and finally the resurrection. “What is the strength here for us, it gives all who believe in Christ the courage and hope that the Lord they serve, wor­ship, and adore is alive and not dead. And that Good Friday must come before Easter Sun­day. Meaning that the road to Alleluia is not smooth but it must come. “Easter is therefore a cel­ebration and festival of hope knowing that our messiah is alive and not dead. Easter gives us hope of eternal life which is what every believer is working for. “If therefore we know that Easter gives us hope that our savior is alive after dying for our sake, why should we despair?” Similarly, the Commission­er of Police in Anambra State, CP Echeng Echeng, has tasked Christians nationwide and the good people of Anambra to emulate and adopt the selfless lifestyle of Christ as they join other Christians around the globe to celebrate Easter; the remembrance of the victori­ous death and resurrection of Jesus Christ as the price for the redemption of mankind. The CP equally sued for peaceful co-existence among Nigerians irrespective of their religious, political and socio-cul­tural leaning in consonance with the principles and teach­ings of Christ. The CP whose Easter mes­sage is contained in the press statement released by the Police Public Relations Officer of the Command, DSP Ikenga Tochuk­wu Anthony on Saturday, said the Police will intensify security to ensure a hitch-free Easter cel­ebration in the state. Given the above, the Area Commanders, Heads of Tactical Units, and Divisional Police Of­ficers (DOP’s) have intensified routine patrols and improved operational positioning to pro­tect vulnerable points within their jurisdictions, including major highways, places of worship, residential areas, rec­reation centres, motor parks, financial institutions, Govern­ment/Private Infrastructures and all places of public resort. They are also directed to en­sure that their officers and men conduct themselves profession­ally in line with extant laws and standard best practices before, during and after the festivity. Echeng said the command is also collaborating with other se­curity agencies and stakehold­ers within the State to provide adequate security and safety in this regard. The CP while wishing Ndi-Anambra a happy, fruitful and hitch-free Easter celebra­tion, enjoins them to be secu­rity conscious and continue to provide the Police with useful information that will assist in effectively tracking down crim­inal elements in the society. He therefore encouraged the people to request any secu­rity services through the com­mand control room number on 07039194332 or PPRO 08039334002 for a prompt response. On its part, the Anambra State Association of Town Unions (ASATU) has called on Ndi-Anambra to use the Easter celebration to pray for the state governor Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo and lead­ers of various communities in the state. National President of ASATU, Chief Barr. Titus Nnab­uike Akpudo, who made the call in a press statement he released to journalists in Awka on Good Friday, also urged citizens to show love and compassion to one another especially the down­trodden and less privileged ones, emphasising that there is love in sharing with others. Akpudo said Gov. Soludo and community leaders needed the prayers and supplications of the people to enable them carry on with the onerous task of im­proving their living conditions through interventions as well as life-changing programmes. He categorically stated that the governor required the prayers and support of the peo­ple to enable him actualise his mission and vision of a prosper­ous new Anambra state, judging from what he has put in place in the last one year.