LAGOS – Nigerians have expressed dismay over the claim by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that the whereabouts of the Residential Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Adamawa, Hudu Yinusa-Ari is unknown to the commission. Hundu Yinusa-Ari, who announced the Anamawa governorship poll midway into collation, giving it to Aisha Dahiru (Binani) in the absence of the properly appointed Returning Officer, Prof Hudu Yunus Ari, and since then has not been sighted anywhere whereas he is expected to have reported to the INEC headquarters in Abuja. Festus Okoye, INEC’s National Officer on Voter Educational and Information broke the news on Friday that the REC had not reported to the agency’s headquarters as directed and that his whereabouts remain unknown, saying that it is the duty of the police to arrest him. Expressing his anger over the latest development, a public affairs commentator, Dr. Victor Mathew, stated that any right-thinking Nigerian with a noble conscience should be grossly disappointed with the despicable action of the Adamawa REC. He stressed that President Muhammadu Buhari will not be leaving a good legacy if the REC is not prosecuted for such a heinous crime against democracy and the Nigerian State. He stressed: “The man by now should be facing charges if the government is serious. “Even the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Binani, should equally be arrested and persecuted for being part of such a disdainful act.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It will be a very dangerous precedent if the perpetrators are allowed to go scot-free because tomorrow an unauthorized can just announce election results at any level. This to me is a major setback for Nigeria’s fledgling democracy. POLL “The REC and the governorship candidate and anyone associated with that shameful act must be heavily sanctioned. Their actions were desperation for power taken to unacceptable height.” Adding his voice to the dramatic disappearance of the Adamawa REC, Comrade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi,a National Working Committee (NWC) member of Afican Action Congress (AAC), and the party’s former chairman in Lagos State, lamented that after crime, Nigerian officials always go on AWOL. Ajayi stressed: “Even the president is used to disappearing and reappearing. Things are so abnormal here. But, I know the police knows where the Adamawa REC is. “They are only just raising alarm to show that they seem helpless. What matters is that the REC burst. And that will be the victory for the people’s democracy.” Also reacting, Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Imo State stated: “Today’s INEC is a master fraudster, propelled by a fraudulent APC government. “To declare the whereabouts of Adamawa Resident Electoral Commissioner as unknown is to say the least, more embarrassing and criminal than the crimes of the REC. “You employed someone, posted him to Adamawa State with the mandate of truncating the people’s mandate. “There was a clear winner in the PDP candidate during the March 18 governorship election, but the announcement was stepped down for a re-run. “Unfortunately, the REC mismanaged the rigging process and he was tracked down by vigilant PDP faithful. And the bubble burst. “If the INEC Chairman was not in league with this malpractice, he would have done everything to get the man detained. But, I can tell you that our Nigerian public servants in high places are fast and too clever. “How would you expect Mahmood Yakubu to get the man arrested and the man will expose the conspiracy of the topmost ladder in the heinous electoral crime of the 2023 elections? “There is a deal and it is clear… We will let you go away and you shut your mouth… Simple, but very shameful. “On the other hand, if the Nigerian government is serious and not giving any backing to this electoral fraud, then every effort should be made to fish out the REC and get him prosecuted. “But, I assure you, the man is as free as the air without any blemish, no thanks to the APC mega corruption policy.”