Hon. Waliu Taiwo, former Ogun State Commissioner for Works and the current Chairman of Ogun State House of Assembly Service Commission, in this interview, speaks about the achievements of Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, countered insinuations in some quarters that Governor Abiodun was not duly re-elected in the March 18, 2023 general elections. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: You are one of the leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ado-Odo/ Ota Local Government Area, and there is an insinuation by a journalist recently that the party didn’t win the governorship election in the local government and that the election was generally rigged? I don’t know where he got that information from. Was the journalist in the Ado-Odo/Ota area during the election? He was not here and how did he know that they rigged the election. People would just sit down and cook up stories, probably trying to satisfy their paymasters. There is no doubt that the governorship election in Ogun State was very tough. I knew that the election would be very tough and I used to tell the people around me that the election would be tough, but that Governor Dapo Abiodun would eventually win. That was exactly what happened. We really prepared for it, apart from our House of Assembly candidates that moved round, the leaders followed them to the Community Development Areas (CDAs), Community Development Committees (CDCs) and we tried to let them know what the governor had done. Unfortunately, the opposition were able to manipulate members of the public such that people continued to ask, what has the Governor done? His achievements gave him victory. Why do you say that? They didn’t know what Prince Abiodun had done in Ota. There was a time, when things were so bad and Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway was impassable. You couldn’t come to Ota or leave the place. The Governor came to Ota and provided alternative roads by constructing roads to AIT and another one leading to Ikola so that anybody going to Abule Egba, Festac, Apapa and other places didn’t need to go through the express. All the feeder roads were gone because the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway is a federal government road. Later, the road from Iyana Iyesi to under Sango Bridge was almost impassable. Coming from Iyana Iyesi to Oju Ore would take you three hours. I remember, when Prince Abiodun came to campaign for the local government election in the Honda area, we intentionally made him pass through the road to the under bridge in Sango. When he got to the front of Domino Pizza, the road was bad. He saw it and he did the road before the last election. They are federal roads, but the people of the state pass through the roads. Remember that the same APC is at the federal level. He couldn’t do what Asiwaju Bola Tinubu did when he was Lagos State Governor and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was ruling at the federal level. Then Ikorodu road was bad, and Tinubu now put a signpost that said, “Please, bear with us, this road belongs to the Federal Government.” But the Governor cannot do that because his party is at the federal level and people don’t know the difference between the federal and the state. He embarked on the construction of Joju Road and Lagos-Abeokuta Road was so bad that you could spend a whole day around Owode and Iyana Ilogbo Road, when coming from Abeokuta. Governor Abiodun then made efforts to meet the Governor of Lagos State and they met the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola. He also approached the Sukuk Fund, which gave money to Julius Berger who spent about three months repairing parts of the road. Ado-Odo/Ota extends to Agbara-Igbesa, Lusada, and other places, and from there industries were relocating to Shagamu. The Governor embarked on the construction of the roads there, which is the costliest project this government has done. What are his other achievements? Ado-Odo, Ikoga-Badagry Road had been neglected before Governor Abiodun came. These are apart from the renovation of classrooms, hospitals and others. So, these projects can speak for themselves. When one side of the express was completed, the other side was too bad, there was a day the Governor wanted to visit the area and Ijoko Ota to Under Bridge Sango was another nightmare, it was terrible. Majority of us didn’t want him to come because we knew the embarrassment he would face there. People were so sad, but when he met the politicians, he was hailed. He then came down and we advised that he should go back to the vehicle, when we were going to Ijoko. As we were going, we got to where we saw something like a lagoon on the road, around Plaza Junction. I pitied the Governor, and that day, I hate to be a Governor. You need to see the way the people were talking and abusing him. But the man took time to explain to them and he told them that he had been talking with the Minister of Works and that if the Minister didn’t do it, he would do it. That was a Saturday and to my surprise, on Monday, I saw him in Abeokuta. He told me that he had ordered contractors to move to the place immediately. The following day, I saw him in Ifo during the Fidau prayer for the father of Rt. Hon. Oluomo, the Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly. He called me again and said that he would fix the road from Sango to Ijoko and the one that leads to Alagbole, and Ojodu. Go and see those places and you will see people moving there. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The journalist was particular about the roads, probably because he did not go to Ota regularly, he didn’t know that the roads have been fixed POLL ….That is why you should not take him seriously. Maybe the last time he came to Ota was about two years ago. Whoever has been to Ota in the last one year would know that the nightmare had disappeared. Oliyide should come and tell us which road he is talking about; is it Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, Ijoko Road or Ota-Idiroko Road. It appears he doesn’t know what he is saying. Of course, the fellow is somebody I know very well. He is like a younger brother to me. So, I know what is responsible for his outbursts. Some people said the Senator-elect of Ogun West, Senator Solomon Adeola Olamilekan, popularly called Yayi helped a lot in Ota and that people are pushing that he should have his eyes in Ogun State Governorship in 2027, is that true? Any man that has the spirit of God will know that Senator Solomon Adeola Olamilekan contributed a lot for the success of Ogun West, not to that of Ado-Odo/Ota alone. When he came, he started with empowerment. He did one for about 500 people in Ogun West and almost 200 people benefitted from Ota. They came home with various items such as sewing machines, dryers, burners with cylinders, generators, and make-up kits. He did another one for about 3,500 people out of which about 1,000 people benefitted from our local government. He did another empowerment for about 5,500 Iyalojas, people from all the markets in Ado-Odo/Ota benefitted and they came home with N25,000 each. On infrastructure, in Ado-Odo/Ota, he donated about nine transformers. He gave the communities one million naira each for the installations. After that, he did a very big empowerment, when elections were approaching. About 4,000 people benefitted, they went home with generators, sewing machines, make-up kits, dryers and so on. Some people were given cash of N80,000 each to start businesses. I know we have issues along the Itele axis that we don’t know how to handle. When I was Commissioner for Works, I opened up the place, it was only former Governor Gbenga Daniel that constructed the road from Ota to Ayobo-Itele. The road is no more there, so we don’t know what to do. It was one of the conditions Olota of Ota spoke about towards the end of October that before December something must be done. Truly, they’ve started doing it. Yayi started that, we invited the CDC, when they wanted to flag it off. From the Ota axis here, they started from the Ayobo-Ayetoro axis and people appreciated the efforts. Go and see the pattern of any vote that came from there. Also before the governorship election, Yayi met with all the royal fathers in Ado-Odo/Ota at the Olota’s palace where he assured them that the Governor will attend to all their needs in the various communities, the Obas and the Baales. They are talking about rigging, is it thumb printing or what? Is it possible to do that one now? You cannot rig again with Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS). The only rigging that can happen now is if they fight and they cancel the votes. You cannot remove or add. So, I don’t know what he is talking about.