Prof. Rufai Ahmed Alkali has announced he is stepping aside as the National Chairman of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). In a letter communicating his decision and directed to the Party’s National Secretary, Prof Alkali said he is stepping aside to pave way for the restructuring and reorganization of the NNPP which he said has a great potential to win the presidential election in the near future. According to him, NNPP “will require major and fundamental structural and systemic changes and reorganization at all levels of the party in order to strengthen its base, improve its operational capabilities and generally enhance its competitive advantage over and above all the other 17 political parties on the INEC nominal roll”. These fundamental changes he said cannot take place if the leadership of the party does not make the needed sacrifice. The letter which was copied Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, the NNPP National leader and presidential candidate in the concluded election, Elder Chief Boniface Aniebonam,Chairman, Board of Trustees NNPP and Engr Buba GaladimaSecretary, NNPP Board of Trustees takes effect from March 31st.The letter reads in part: ” Following keenly the events efore, during and after the recent General elections held on 25th February and 18th March 2023, it is my humble view that our party, the NNPP, has a great future and potential to emerge as the leading political force that is capable of winning the Presidential and all other elections in 2027. “To achieve this, we must think ahead and plan ahead. And the time is now. Our great party, the New Nigeria People’s Party will require major and fundamental structural and systemic changes and reorganization at all levels of the party in order to strengthen its base, improve its operational capabilities and generally enhance its competitive advantage over and above all the other 17 political parties on the INEC nominal roll.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Since, we as a party, all believe in and aspire to bring in a better Nigeria though the astute leadership of our Leader, His Excellency, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, I believe, no sacrifice is to much from each and every one of us. POLL “I am convinced, this change must start from me. This is precisely why I have decided, with all sense of responsibility, to step aside from the office of the National Chairman of our party to give room for fresh hands to take over and build upon and improve on our modest contributions. I wish, I have done more. “By this letter, I also wish to inform our National Leader and Presidential Candidate, His Excellency, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and our entire members nationwide that I am still and will remain a bonafide member of our party and I pledge to serve and offer support to our Party at all levels to ensure the continued progress and advancement of our party. ” I wish to also extend my special appreciation to our National Leader Sen Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso who in the last three years, offered me unique and rare opportunities to serve in various capacities from the formative stages of The National Movement (TNM) and after the merger between the TNM and the old NNPP was ultimately consummated. This rare privilege, I can not take for granted. ” I wish to therefore extend my special and sincere appreciation to our National Leader, His Excellency Sen Engr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso Ph. D. FNSE, our amiable Vice Presidential Candidate Bishop Isaac Idahosa, our elder and Chairman Board of Trustees (BOT) Chief Boniface Aniebonam, my Brother the Secretary of BOT, Elder Buba Galadima, members of the National Working Committee, our Gubernatorial and National and States Houses of Assembly Members and all our members nationwide for your goodwill, support and encouragement during my sojourn as National Chairman of our great party, the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). All honour and glory belong to God and God alone who makes everything possible”.