IBADAN – Oyo state Commissioner for Lands, Housing and Urban Development, Mr. Olusegun Olayiwola has revealed that the ongoing construction of new Government Reserved Areas ( GRA) are meant to enhance rapid development in adjoining areas of the state and reduce housing deficit. Olayiwola, during an interview, held recently in his office, explained that the foresight of the governor Makinde led administration on the GRA’ s projects was to open up new towns and link different axis together in Ibadan, to further expand the economy of the state. He expressed optimism that the GRAs will become mini cities after the completion of works at the sites by private developers supporting the projects financially. Reacting on allegation against the government concerning the land acquired for construction of GRA at Agbirigidi in Akinyele local government area of the state, the Commissioner revealed that the said land was acquired 21 years ago by one of the past administrations. He added that the land was acquired then for a purpose, which according to him, did not come to pass . “There is a video claiming that this administration acquired land in Akinyele local government, this is untrue”, “Over time, government acquired land and keep for a purpose . The past government acquired the said land in 2002 but did not use it, we felt constructing Government Reserved Area on the land will add valve to the area considering its nearness to train station at Moniya”. “We are doing this with people who have financial capacity to support the project . On Monday, we held meeting with some private developers in this regard”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The GRAs will become new towns, mini cities, residents will have access to good road network,electricity , security, water reticulation amongst others. POLL “We are almost done with Lere Adigun GRA at Basorun,Ibadan, massive works ongoing at Alao Akala GRA, Wofun,Ibadan, Senator Rasheed Adewolu Ladoja GRA is also there at Lagos Ibadan Express way, these are to reduce housing deficit in the state and improve on income generation”. “Another giant stride of this administration led by Governor Seyi Makinde is over 60 hectares of land given for construction of comprehensive and a befitting Airforce Base in Ajia,Ibadan”. ” The government also supported the project with 500 Million naira to take off .The place is going to become a village, there will be a mini airport, accommodation,school, training ground and lots more”. “The project will also open up the area for businesses,create job opportunities for residents of the state when become operational”. He allayed the fear of those having farm produce on the said land in Akinyele local government on their properties, assuring that the government will allow them harvest their produce before working on the land .