Experts have stressed the need for governments to implement policies which promotes equal representation in STEM education to boost girl child enrolment in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). Specifically, they want governments to support girl child enrolment in STEM through implementing policies that would eliminate socio-cultural barriers which hinders them from contributing to the nation’s development. They condemn the impact of gender stereotypes and lack of role models that have continued to militate against girls’ interest in STEM from an early age. The experts further called for constructive comprehensive review of the Education Policy to absorb recent trends and development across Science, Technology and Engineering. Other education policy areas the gender advocates called for review are Mathematics, finance and entrepreneurship, as well as humanities, even as they stressed the need to make them inclusive and attractive for women and girls. Reiterating the call at 2023 International Women’s Day, 2023, themed “DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality,” they commended ocal and international efforts and progress geared to advancing equality and socio-economic empowerment of women and girls in Nigeria. Studies have dentified gender stereotypes and lack of role models as factors militating against girls’ interest in STEM from an early age. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) reported that Nigerian women’s under-representation in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) careers is shaped by gender stereotypes, bias and norms. POLL According to UNICEF, gender stereotypes and a lack of role models have continued to militate against girls’ interest in STEM from an early age. This to a large extent is exacerbated by the existing socio-cultural resistance, deliberately-imposed barriers, and poor awareness at family and community levels which as well constitute major threats to girl child education, well-being and personal development. Research has shown that women are underrepresented in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) careers, and this poses new challenges at the dawn of the era of digital transformation. To stem the tide, gender analysts have advocated role-model intervention in which female volunteers working in STEM go into schools to talk to girls about their careers. The research was jointly conducted by researchers from the Department of Business Economics, School of Business & Economics, Universidad CEU San Pablo, Madrid, Spain and Internet Interdisciplinary Institute, Universitat Oberta de Catalunya (UOC), Barcelona, Spain in 2020. The results of multigroup structural equation modelling analysis show that on average, the role-model intervention has a positive and significant effect on mathematics enjoyment, the importance attached to math, expectations of success in math, and girls’ aspirations in STEM. Additionally, the female role-model sessions significantly increase the positive impact of expectations of success on STEM choices. While the STEM field has become one of the most high-paying and impactful fields in our society, a recent study by the University of California shows that women only make up 25 percent of STEM employees and 30 percent of STEM graduates. The underrepresentation of women in science and engineering in Nigeria has contributed to the worsening of the shortage of skilled personnel in critical STEM fields. A recent report by the National Bureau of Statistics estimates that women make up 22 percent of the total number of engineering and Technology University graduates on yearly basis, presenting Nigeria with a major development challenge as it is in dare need of more scientists and engineers to help solve problems and improve the lives of Nigerians. More importantly, effort at making productive use of the ongoing technology and internet globalisation has exposed women to recurring cyber-bullying. This has become a daily crime perpetrated through threat, harassment, humiliation, embarrassment or otherwise targeting by another person using the internet, interactive digital technologies or mobile phones. Chioma Kanu, Executive Director (ED) of the Mothers And Marginalised Advocacy Centre (MAMA Centre) on this note called for a constructive and comprehensive review of the Education Policy. Accordingly, Kanu said, the education policy must absorb recent trends and development across Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, finance and entrepreneurship, as well as humanities, while making them inclusive and attractive for women and girls. The MAMA Centre boss further called on the incoming administration to encourage girl child enrolment in STEM through targeted policies that prevent socio-cultural and other barriers limiting their participation or future contribution to the nation’s development. The group urged for the adoption of inclusive teaching approaches and methodologies, an assertive educational curriculum that eliminates gender discrimination and stereotyping from early years, primary to secondary levels. They also called for immediate domestication and full implementation of the Child Rights Act at the sub-national level to secure the dignity, educational attainment, and development of girl children for a productive and participatory socio-economic and political future. MAMA Centre insisted on the need to boost the girl child enrolment in STEM through targeted policies that prevent socio-cultural and other barriers limiting their participation or future contribution to the nation’s development. The importance of equal representation in STEM education and bullying-free cyberspace to boost girl child enrolment in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) cannot be over-emphasised. Unarguably, there is a need for strict compliance with enrolment policy at all levels to prevent reported cases of gender inequality in deliberately imposed cut-off marks that discourage Nigerian female admission into schools.