Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, is the National Coordinator, Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDP Coalition) and Director General, Global Initiatives for Good Governance (GIGG). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on crucial issues in the polity after the 2023 general elections. Excerpt: The DSS and the FG through the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed, alleged plots to stop the May 29 inauguration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate who the Independent National Election Commission (INEC) announced as the President-elect. How do you see this development? It is not obtainable in any constitutional democracy to replace a President-elect with an Interim Government. INEC, the electoral umpire with the statutory power to conduct and elect political office holders had complied with the requirements of the law to have declared and returned the winner of the presidential poll. The Electoral Act on the other hand made provisions for judicial redress seeking in the event of dissatisfaction on the process or circumstances perceived to have contravened the proper conduct of the elections so referred to. Interim Government can only come in where INEC could not conduct the elections to declare and return a party candidate winner or in the event where the elections are annulled as a result of political crisis resulting in destruction of lives and properties or civil war. In the case of Nigeria, what happened was registration of grievances by unsatisfied supporters and candidates of some political parties who think the processes of results collation were incorrect. DSS just made its observation known to Nigerians not that anybody outrightly asked the Federal Government to constitute an Interim Government. Such confrontations were based on their perceived sense of irregularities in the election. The FG and the APC pointed accusing fingers at the Labour Party’s presidential candidate and his running mate of the alleged plot to set up an Interim Government. How would you react to this? Pointing at Peter Obi and his party to have committed what? They were all insinuations and sentimental clannishness on the part of those whose conscience is telling them of their wrong act of negligence during the elections. Mr. Peter Obi is not a child to ask for an Interim Government. He only continues to register his protests that the elections were not free and fair, which is normal to be heard from a candidate who believes his mandate was wrongfully stolen and given to another. He has made his case before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal and it is left for the court to critically evaluate and feed Nigerians back on whether APC candidate genuinely won the election or not. That is how it is supposed to be done in a civil society. To resist a constitutionally elected president from being sworn in is tantamount to insurrection and treason. Like earlier affirmed, the window open for aggrieved parties is going to court to seek redress. Evidence is the weight of the Law. I advise that since he has a team of good lawyers, let them take their time to prepare a good case, buttress and defend it with sound ingredients of the law and then expect the judiciary to in turn respond properly. So, it is the ability to make a good case before the court that matters. Nothing is less than this. Considering the period between now and the May 29 inauguration date, would you say the Judiciary can correct any perceived wrongs in the presidential election? Righting which wrong before the swearing in day? It is childish for any sensible Nigerian to think in this direction. The inauguration day is less than 46 days and the law allows a maximum of 180 days for the tribunal to treat and conclude matters arising from the election’s conduct. So, how does one think the magic can be done by the tribunal and other divisions of the court to conclude trials within the time frame? The truth is that the president-elect will be sworn in on the day the law permits and petition consideration and proceedings continue. That a president is on seat does not stop the court from doing its job and I will like to make it abundantly clear that Nigerians must learn to uphold the principles of the Rule of Law as obtained in civilised states such as the USA, Canada, Britain, etc. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The 10th National Assembly (NASS) will have members from other parties, although APC may be in the majority. Would you say the incoming Assembly will perform better than the out-going one? POLL Nigeria is running a multi-party system. With other political parties in the parliament apart APC and PDP is good in the sight of liberal democracy. This will make legislative business more consolidated, seriously focused and performing. For example, lawmakers under Labour Party will not accept their APC’s colleagues to horse trade, connive and resolve on a bill if the former are not confided in. They believe people gave them the mandate to represent them in government and they are bound to oppose bills seen to be against the wish of their people. In the event of a lacking majority in the House, colleagues from the opposition party could be lobbied to get their support to prevent such bills from seeing the light of the day. With this, healthy legislation and parliamentary administration will thrive in the 10th Assembly, unlike in the past. Would you say the South East can head both Chambers of the National Assembly, going by the ongoing horse trading over leadership positions? To balance fairness in the leadership of the National Assembly, the Senate Presidential slot has to be reserved for the South East geo-political zone. Tribe consciousness plays a vital role in national administration, especially in diverse and multilingual societies like Nigeria. Despite sentiments, it is worth giving to a South Eastern Senator with a volume of experience in lawmaking and administration. The region has strong, intelligent, focused and detribalised incoming Senators from which the 10th Assembly can pick the highest ranking lawmaker of the Senate. My advice to them is a coordinated house to avoid unnecessary show of rancour and mudslinging within them. With the ongoing jostling for positions in the new APC government, what type of cabinet should Nigerians expect from Bola Ahmed Tinubu? We evaluate a leader’s nature of governance from his past antecedents and performances. Good enough that Tinubu had in two terms governed Lagos State and till date, it was the impacts of his leadership in the state that transformed and developed Lagos economy. In his days in the government of Lagos State, he was able to galvanise internally generated revenues to sustain the administration of the state when Lagos was refused monthly allocations from the Federal Government. Our expectations as a country for him are high and as the incoming president, he must work to govern for the interest of Nigeria, not his party. The government under the watch of Ahmed Bola Tinubu and with his vast experience in leadership, Nigeria under him is sure to advance astronomically. What is your take on the protracted crisis in Rivers State between the APC and PDP over the governorship election? It is needless to have a crisis in Rivers State when INEC has done the needful to have declared and returned winners elected. The simple truth is that elections could be rigged or not, but in the face of suspected allegations of malpractices in the conduct of elections, the option made available by the law is taking your grievances to the courtroom where the strength and weight of the law will be invoked against such ills. Fighting a constituted government is a heinous crime against the state and there is no way bickering and instigation of a crisis will resolve suspected cheating in elections. Court remains the best option and several elections have been nullified through court rulings and those who lost in elections should not feel discouraged to approach or seek court attention. The PDP National Secretary, Anyanwu, will fly the PDP’s ticket in the November 11 governorship election instead of Emeka Ihedioha who is believed to be more popular. How do you think the election will go? Emeka Ihedioha is popular in Imo State and left good legacies for his people during his few months in office as the then governor of Imo State. When he served in the Green Chamber of the National Assembly, his people felt his fresh air of good representation and that is how to build trust in leadership. Well, Chief Anyanwu is not known to be of bad record, but it could have given PDP chances if Chief Emeka Ihedioha was given the ticket to run for the election. This could have helped PDP retain power in Imo, knowing full well that the government of Senator Hope Uzodimma has been passing through lines of confrontations due to communal crisis that had severally occurred in the state. How would you explain the current leadership crises in both PDP and LP? It is normal in party politics to encounter internal crisis, but the most important thing is after all the fracas, comes the need for putting things through. In the recently conducted LP guber primaries in Imo, more than one candidate emerged winners and the system requires only one. So, it is evident here that litigations on who is the rightful bearer of the flag to run will consume good portions of their campaign time, thereby constraining the party against chances of winning election. As for PDP, it has already built structures, but needs to address the issues of disunity, conflict of interests and all that. What gives PDP some setbacks is failure to resolve and reconcile differences before going into elections and this created a vacuum in the entire party family. What is your advice to the Obidient Movement and millions of Nigerians clamouring for change in the nation? Change is a process and nothing stops a change whose time has come, but it must be worked upon. Change is all about improving the state of things in society. The Obedient Movement is a welcome development in Nigeria that when actualised, will go a long way in transforming the failed system. I advise that they continue their struggle for change, but not lawlessly. The integrity and unity of Nigeria should be their focus. Having headed for the court for redress to contest the validity of the processes of the conducted presidential election, they must wait for the court to decide their fate. Those in court must ensure their legal teams prepare good cases enriched in provable evidence within the confines of the Electoral Act. Once this is done, they should all wait for the court’s decision to be made which stands beyond whatever anybody can do. What is your take on the crisis in the Adamawa governorship election? What happened in Adamawa, though the anomalies, have already been corrected since INEC certified Returning Officer for the guber election has announced, declared and returned elected PDP candidate as the rightful winner. The embattled Resident Electoral Commissioner, who falsely declared Binani, just acted mischievously to rape and insult Nigeria democracy by usurping the powers of another person to unlawfully declare a winner even when final collation of result had not been concluded. The law is very straight in this issue having conferred only the Returning Officer with the statutory power to collate results, declare and return a winner. Section 65 (1) of the Electoral Act clears the atmosphere and I still wonder what must have prompted a learned personality of the REC’s standing without respect for our national Coat of Arm went ahead to illegally declare APC candidate while results collation were still ongoing. Anyway, it is the type of society we find ourselves in. To get Nigeria working again, the government must uphold the integrity of our democracy. I personally thank INEC who in its discretion avoided such a guerilla declaration, suspended the REC and handed him over to the police for investigations. Binani, the APC candidate, is free to seek redress in court which she had earlier done before His Lordship, Justice Iyang Ekwo of the Abuja Federal High Court Division. Let her take it from there, if material facts and water tight evidence are on her side, she will reclaim her mandate. That is my advice and I wish her well.