*Atiku, Sambo, Jonathan Were Laid The Precedence *The Election Is Over, People Should Move On Into Nation Building ABUJA – The ongoing controversy surrounding the candidacy of the Vice President-elect, Senator Kashim Shettima, has been described as “unnecessary”. ADC governorship candidate in Akwa Ibom State, Ezekiel Nya-Etoke, had stated recently that the statement in section 135 of the electoral act regarding the alleged double candidacy of the former Borno State governor is weighty. Nya-Etoke had said that if Shettima is found guilty of violating the said section, all the votes gathered by his party in the presidential election would be invalidated. Opposition political parties that contested the presidential election have also gone to court to challenge the victory of APC’s Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima. In their petitions, they asked the court to disqualify Shettima over breach of the Electoral Act, stating that Shettima is guilty of double nomination which contravenes section 35 of the Nigerian Electoral Act because at the time he accepted to be Tinubu’s running mate, he was already a Senatorial Candidate.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ But Dr Garus Gololo, APC Chieftain and social critic said “those pursuing this line of argument are on their own. POLL In any case, there are petitions already in the tribunals on this, and persons like Nya-Etoke should be patient and wait to see the outcome of litigations “. Gololo also cautioned the ADC governorship candidate in Akwa Ibom State “to mind his speech and to approach the court for a redress if he has grievances against the incoming Vice President. He should desist from media campaigns against the former Borno State governor “. The APC Chieftain reminded Nya-Etoke that Atiku Abubakar, Namadi Sambo and former president Goodluck Jonathan were serving governor, governor-elect and serving deputy governor when they were co-opted to be running mates to presidential candidates of their parties. “Why didn’t Nya-Etoke talk about them; is it because they are not APC members?” Gololo queried. He further explained that the Vice President elect did not take part in the APC Senatorial primaries, and therefore cannot be accused of what he did not do. “You can’t build something on nothing. Here they are accusing a man who like Atiku, Sambo and Jonathan was going about his business when he was, having been found worthy, asked to come be running mate to a presidential candidate. “How then can you isolate something that is interdependent on other factors, focus on it and deliberately ignore the precedence before it. People are just mischievous. The election has come and gone, with a winner already. It’s time to go straight into the business of nation building and stop these unnecessary shadow chasing” the APC Chieftain maintained.