ABUJA – Engr. Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources, has said that Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) sector offers about $21billion investment opportunities, job creation and poverty reduction in the country. Adamu, who was a special guest of honour and keynote speaker at the WASH Open Innovation Fair 2023 in Lagos, said stakeholders have identified investment opportunities estimated at 21 billion US dollars in the WASH Sector. He said: “Undeniably, the Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Sector offers immense opportunities for investment, job creation, and poverty reduction, thereby indicating that it was the recognition of this potential that spurred the Nigerian government to commit significant resources to the sector not only because of its intrinsic benefits, but also because of its concomitant benefits to many other sectors. “Despite the substantial investments in the sector, it is generally acknowledged that much more needs to be done to improve access to clean water, sanitation and hygiene for our citizens. “You may recall that during the World Toilet Summit hosted by Nigeria last year, stakeholders identified investment opportunities estimated at 21 billion US dollars in the WASH Sector. “This represents a significant opportunity that should drive innovation and investment in the sector. “We must therefore leverage this and other opportunities to integrate creative solutions that will contribute to the resolution of identified challenges and stimulate more investment, encourage innovation and build capacity in the Sector.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Commenting on the WASH Open Innovation Fair 2023, the minister said it had provided an excellent platform for entrepreneurs and innovators to showcase their ideas, products, and services designed to address the challenges of open defecation and enhance access to safe water and hygiene facilities through innovative solutions. POLL He added the solutions that would be identified at the event would help to strengthen the national initiatives such as the “Partnership For expanded Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (PEWASH) which was launched as a national collaborative instrument to mobilise resources and harness the effort of the federal and state governments towards improving access to water, sanitation, and hygiene in rural areas. OLUSEGUN KOIKI LAGOS Mr. Nkereweum Onung, the President of Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN), has been elected to chair the Technical Committee for Tourism TC 76 of African Organisation for Standardisation (ARSO) election. Also, other Nigerians elected to ARSO positions are Mrs. Chidinma Ewuzie of Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) as the secretary of the committee, while Dr. Adeoye Adedipe of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, was elected as the vice chairman of the technical committee. The Nigerian team would jointly steer ARSO TC 76 with UGANDA, a statement from FTAN said. ARSO was formed in 1977, with a focal mandate to harmonise African Standards, prioritise conformity assessment and procedures in order to reduce technical barriers to trade, critical to the promotion of intra -African and international trade , as well as powering the industrialisation of Africa. There are 87 technical committees in ARSO, with 43 African countries as members, making it one of the leading intergovernmental organisations on the continent. It has harmonised 1651 ARS African standards by February, this year, 2023. Onung, a logistics expert, is expected to stimulate, drive and bring innovations to key market developmental issues, desirable to promoting international and Intra African trade, particularly at a time Africa is looking forward to unlock the trade and tourism value chain in the African Continental free trade regime.