JOS – The Nigerian Army ( NA) in Jos has reiterated its resolve to employ the use of technology to enhance its operational capabilities. This was made known at the weekend by the General Officer (GOC) Commanding 3 Division and Commander Operation SAFE HAVEN (OPSH), Major General Abdulsalami Bagudu Ibrahim during the combined graduation ceremony of young officers and soldiers of Exercise Shinning Star III and those trained on the use of technology to conduct military operations at Small Arms Range Mango, Plateau state. General Abdulsalami noted that the use of technology will enable the security agencies to be proactive in nipping in the bud any security breach. He observed that accurate information on perpetrators of dastardly acts will reduce the spate of insecurity in the general area. Represented by the Chief of Staff Headquarters 3 Division, Brigadier General David Kurmi, the GOC further charged the troops to keep alive the knowledge acquired while utilizing it in the field. ” the training is aimed at making you better-trained soldiers to respond rapidly to security threats ” he averred. The GOC further thanked the Chief of Army Staff for providing the necessary platforms to develop the capacity of troops. In his welcome address, the Division Training Officer, Brigadier General Suleiman Adamu said , the training was designed to train personnel on the utilization of technology to counter emerging threats. He noted that a significant number of the soldiers trained were young soldiers and officers drawn from all the units and formations under 3 Division. POLL Presenting the troops for graduation, the Senior Instructor Division Training School, Jos, Major FA Akinboju commended the high level of discipline and regimentation exhibited by the troops throughout the training period. He urged them to be good ambassadors of the school in their various units. Highlights of the event were a demonstration on rescue operations, stripping and assembling of weapons, presentation of certificates and group photographs.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒