….begs customers to go for pre-paid metres, step-up payments of bill for improved supply MINNA – The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has absolved itself from blame over epileptic supply to Niger state, attributing the trend to a number of factors including short-fall from power generating companies and customers who are not forthcoming in paying bills. The clarification is coming against the backdrop of near total blackout being experienced in parts of Niger state, Minna the state capital in particular and the rumour that some youths are planning to embark on protests against poor electricity supply and acute water shortage. Groaning under the sudden drastic drop in electricity supply and the fears of a possible outbreak of meningitis and other hot weather-related diseases, residents of Minna metropolis in particular are pointing accusing fingers on the AEDC for not living up to expectations. Speaking on the developments, Alhaji Adamu Mohammed, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) AEDC Regional Office, Minna said any group that is planning to protest is not being fair to the Company because it is not their fault. Pleading for the understanding of customers under the circumstance, Adamu said everything about electricity generation, allocation and distribution is under the exclusive control of the federal government and the region is doing its best to manage available allocation to it. Besides the fact that the power sector is segmented, the PRO regretted that customers’ attitude to payment of bills is affecting the region, and this according to him is basically why the epileptic supply being experienced lately. The power sector was unbundled to three major segments hence, “People should not always blame the AEDC over electricity supply because we do not generate, allocate but distribute whatever is allocated to us. Mind you, we are in business to also make a profit, we buy to sell”. Adamu Mohammed also pointed out that the attitude of customers to paying bills is affecting the entire chain of generating, allocating and distributing electricity, adding that the region is under obligation to generate a certain sum in order to remain in business. “If we do not generate a certain percentage of funds it will be difficult to be considered for required allocation. Customers, for instance, is owing like N5,000 and when he/she chose to pay come with only N2,000, how do you expect us to continue to serve them better? While encouraging customers without metres to come forward to avoid disconnections, Adamu said, “We are not even talking about people who steal light through illegal connections by by-passing the proper connection channel. Some bury cables used to connect to their homes and these are part of the challenges”. The PRO who however did not clarify if the Niger state government is among defaulting customers argued that ‘if customers are living up to expectations in paying for electricity consumed, there will be light enough for every customer’.