The Main Organizing Committee (MOC) for the maiden edition of the Pan African Scrabble Association PANASA President’s Cup and the African Youth Scrabble Championship (AYSC), has announced that a historic Trophy Tour for the AYSC trophy, the Dr Winifred Awosika Cup will come May 3 The President of the Pan African Scrabble Association (PANASA), Adekoyejo Adegbesan mentioned that the tour will start from Ghana. The Trophy Tour is one of the significant activities planned by the continental body of the game of words and minds at making the AYSC a household name on the continent and beyond. In Accra, Ghana, Adegbesan and the President of Scrabble Association of Ghana, Mr. Haruna Adamu, will pay a courtesy visit to the Ghana Youth and Sports Minister, 44-year-old Honourable Mustapha Ussif and the President of Ghana Olympic Committee (GOC), Ben Nunoo Mensah. “This is a fresh strategy for creating a real feel and inspiration to many African children and young adults. The AYSC Trophy Tour is also meant to activate the interest and spread awareness at the grassroots on the prospects and possibilities they can achieve as scrabble players,” he said. From Accra, the Africa Trophy Tour will move to Kenya, then to Nigeria, Liberia and Uganda. The cities of Eldoret and Nairobi in Kenya will be the next port of call for the AYSC Trophy Tour from the 6th to the 9th of May. Just like in Ghana, the trophy which is nickel plated and made by Swatkins will tour landmark schools in the East African country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Dr Winifred Awosika AYSC trophy will be received in the Centre of Excellence by the recently re-elected governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu alongside top Lagos State Government officials and some key Sports stakeholders. POLL The Lagos AYSC Trophy Tour which will run for three days starts on the 15th and ends on the 17th of May. Also, on the 19th to 22nd of May, the Dr Winifred Awosika Trophy will be touring the homeland of former World Footballer year, George Opong Weah’s Liberia. Kids in Gulu and Kampala are the cities in Uganda that will have the rear privilege of feeling the nickel-plated trophy from the 25th to the 27th of May before it returns to the PANASA secretariat in Lagos, Nigeria. The biggest and richest Youth Scrabble Championship on the continent of Africa, The AYSC Cup, has been scheduled to hold between the 24th and 28th of August at the Chrisland School Idimu-Lagos, Nigeria.