LAGOS – An octogenarian business mogul in Ogun State, Alhaja Kadijat Adebisi Edionseri has taken a swipe at the acting leader of the Pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo for being against the presidential ambition of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Recall that the Yoruba leader supported the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi in the February 25 presidential election. The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress defeated Peter Obi who hails from Anambra State in the South-East geopolitical zone. Popularly known as ‘Cash Madam’, Alhaja Edionseri spoke at Abeokuta Central Mosque, Kobiti after a prayer session organised to mark her 88th birthday. She expressed her disenchantment with Pa Adebanjo’s opposition to Tinubu’s election, saying he has disappointed many Yoruba people who expected him to act like an elder statesman. Cash Madam berates Pa Adebanjo for not only working against the interest of the Yoruba people but also against the prosperity of the country. “He (Adebanjo) thought he was only fighting the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, but what he didn’t know is that he is fighting the entire Yoruba race and working against the future of our children,” 88-year-old socialite, Edionseri said. Edionseri urges the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to tackle unemployment, and insecurity and not to renege on his campaign promises to Nigerians, adding “He (Tinubu) should not disappoint us. Nigerians have waited for this time for too long and he cannot afford to fail us.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She urged Asiwaju Tinubu to be careful when taking advice from people, saying he should beware of sycophants, who were not passionate about the peace, unity and development of Nigeria, adding “Tinubu must solve the problem of unemployment in the country. Youth empowerment and employment will solve the insecurity confronting this country. When there is employment for our children, there will be no kidnapping, armed robbery, banditry and terrorism.” POLL Her untiring philanthropic gestures earned her the sobriquet “Cash Madam” has provided support for over 1000 young deprived of her scholarship scheme for primary, secondary and university education while over185 young men and women have benefitted from her scholarship scheme for post-graduate studies within and outside Nigeria. Also, Cash Madam, irrespective of religious inclination has continued to give to mankind in various good humanitarian causes like hospital projects, educational development projects within schools and universities, religious projects, etc. The event, held at Kobiti Central Mosque in Abeokuta, was attended by the former Military Administrator of Bauchi State, Navy Captain Rasheed Raji (rtd), the Chief Imam of Egbaland, Sheik Sa’dallah Bamgbola and the Wakeelul Muslimeen of Yorubaland, Edo and Delta, Iskeel Lawal, Otunba Abdulfalil Abayomi Odunowo one of the Seven children of the Octogenarian was also seated with the Kabiyesi Abepa of Joga Orile, Otunba Tade Azeez, among others.