JOY ANIGBOGU The 2023 general elections may have come and gone but the dust hasn’t settled as there are litigations of all kinds from candidates challenging the outcome of the election which has come to be known as the worst election in the history of Nigeria. There are all kinds of allegations trailing the process of the Prof. Mahmood Yakubu led Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with some people calling for the arrest of the INEC boss. In Lagos State some political parties especially those of the opposition have scored the electoral umpire and the security agencies low for failing to conduct the election in line with INECs guideline and for setting aside the 2022 electoral act, and also faulted the security agencies for failing to check the excesses of political thugs alleged to be loyal to the ruling party in the state. Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Olajide Adediran, popularly known as Jandor, a former member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and leader of the Lagos4Lagos Movement who officially joined the PDP with thousands of supporters in 2022, brought so much energy to the PDP, even though the main opposition party has always been known to face crisis during every election season. Jandor came into the party with so much pomp and the momentum was very high, which was why when he formally declared his intention to contest for the seat of Lagos State governor on the platform of the PDP, promising that if elected into office his administration would focus on education, health, security and initiate measures to ease traffic congestion in the state, Lagosians were very hopeful During his speech after he clinched the party’s ticket in The Haven Event Centre in Ikeja GRA, an event attended by supporters and party members across the state, Jandor said his decision to contest the governorship of Lagos State was as a result of years of planning and studying of the situation in the state, saying that Lagos was living in past glory despite its huge resources and needed to be rescued. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said that if elected into of fice his administration would declare free compulsory primary and secondary education in the state and also provide education materials including uniforms to pupils. POLL He further promised that his administration would build and provide infrastructure in hospitals across the state, check the increasing cases of limited bed-space and upgrade equipment in the state owned hospitals. “We have been on this for the past seven years through Lagos4Lagos Movement and now we are in PDP. What we intend to do freely is to see that in all the sectors of the economic in the state we should have iconic projects. “We should not see children hawking again, that is why we say that education should be given a basic priority. “We don’t have a government in Lagos that cares for us. This government has been paying lip-service to free education. We know that with the resources in Lagos State we can make primary education free and compulsory. “We would ensure that we don’t only have free education but uniforms given to pupils and the uniform would be sown by the people in the locality. It is only then we can say it is a criminal for not seeing your children go to school”. Speaking further, Jandor stressed that his administration would open up Lagos economy and create an enabling environment for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to strive, initiate policies and programmes that would assist entrepreneurship and creativity in the state. He added that if elected into office his administration would improve the security situation in Lagos, initiate measures to check traffic congestion and robbery in most parts of the state. Jandor was actually on the move to carry out all that he said, which is the reason he campaigned effectively, traversing the whole 245 wards across Lagos State to see firsthand the Lagos that he repeatedly said, he would give a facelift and provide a breath of fresh air to millions of Lagosians. Some may be quick to attribute some of the numerous challenges he faced in the course of his journey to include, among others, the manipulations and irregularities that attended the election and the fact that some members, especially some leaders of his party did not give him the necessary support to ensure that the 24 years of the hold of one party on the city of excellence, is brought to an end. Jandor in the spirit of the love he has for Lagosians , addressed them after the election. “I cannot start any kind of address to my fellow Lagosians about the just concluded Lagos governorship elections without first collecting data on everything that characterised the March 18th election in Lagos State. “I must, at this point, express how overwhelmed I am with gratitude for every single person who supported the PDP in Lagos and my candidacy for governor. “From 245 wards, thousands of people joined our rallies, shared our campaign manifesto, defended our mandate, and came out in their numbers to vote. “My special appreciation goes to my wife and kids, whose understanding and sacrifice saw me this far on this project. “My party, the PDP, alongside all party members, I thank you for entrusting me with the flag of the party. “May I also use this opportunity to appreciate my running mate, Olufunke Akindele who left certainty for this uncertainty, thereby putting the love of our dear state and her people, over and above her comfort zone to join me in this race. “We ran a campaign no one has ever undertaken in the history of Lagos State politics, by visiting places that politicians, including those in power, have never been. “I am happy to report that days leading to our election, we resisted all offers from the powers that be, to back down for crumbs, and when that failed, they swooped on to covet PDP Leaders and followers, who can’t persevere for a better tomorrow, just to destabilize our ranks days to the election, part of which you would have heard the Lagos State Deputy Governor owning up to on a national Television. “They needed that to happen to be able to justify the election day shenanigans, and truly… it’s the excuse they gave today for PDP performance on the election day. “I am very comforted by the show of solidarity we saw at the polls and the seriousness with which ordinary citizens approached the 2023 elections. Even when the ruling government, frightened by our collective resolve and the possibility of them being exposed to not holding the will of the people, resorted to violence and intimidation, you all stood strong and protected your vote. “Unfortunately, the ruling party refused to honour the will of the people, but our fight is proof that things have changed for the better and I am humbled to have contributed to that change. “I have refrained from putting out a personal statement after my press conference on Monday the 20th of March 2023. This is because I felt it was the best course of action in light of everything that happened during and after the elections, to be able to give a proper account of what transpired against the narrative of the defection of some people from the PDP to APC, which to us, was official unveiling ceremony of moles of yesteryears in Lagos PDP. “This same mole went as far as discouraging the unsuspecting national body of our party not to send down any support for the Lagos gubernatorial election, unfortunately, our party fell for it, and not a single kobo was available to us to undertake that election. “Even the obligation of the party on Agent fees hasn’t been settled up till now. “We ran it all by ourselves and I am proud of everyone who played one role or the other to ensure a hitch-free exercise on March 18th, despite all the principalities that worked against us. “We sincerely hope the party harkens to our calls on this and help resolve this as soon as possible. “Despite all this, my team and I have spent time putting together all the necessary information that characterised the elections, and raw data collected indicated we have over 40% of the total votes cast during the March 18th election in Lagos State. Very soon, this will come open in public space. “As I mentioned during my press conference, the election is a process and not an event. At the end of my consultations, I will make public our position on the next process. “I thank you all once again for your support and will keep you all updated as we continue to work toward a Lagos that works for all.“