The Muslim Ummah of South West Nigeria has expressed dismay over the recent alleged attack on Muslims in Ile-Ife, Osun state, describing it as an aberration of human rights, which should be condemned entirely. This condemnation was contained in a statement on Wednesday and signed by the Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the organisation, Prof. Muslih ‘Tayo Yahya. According to the statement, “With deep sadness and outrage, we, the Muslim Ummah of South West Nigeria, condemn the recent attack perpetrated by members of the Oro cult on a congregation of Muslims in Idi Omo Mosque, Ile Ife. “The violence that occurred on that fateful day is totally unacceptable and a violation of the human rights of those peaceful worshippers. “Our hearts go out to the victims of this cruel attack, who sustained various forms of life-threatening injuries. We pray for their speedy recovery. This attack is a horrible reminder of the dangers of religious intolerance, and the urgent need to protect the right of individuals to freedom of religion. “We are appalled by the fact that such an act could take place in a peaceful place of worship. We call on the government, His Royal Majesty the Oni of Ife, and all relevant authorities to investigate this matter and bring the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice. We further urge the government to take concrete measures to ensure that such events are not repeated and that the safety and security of religious groups, no matter how few, are effectively safeguarded. “We have seen an increase in religious intolerance and violence in recent years, and this incident is yet another reminder of how important it is to promote religious tolerance and understanding. We must all work together to protect the rights of individuals to practice their faith in peace and safety, without fear of persecution.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Finally, while urging everyone to speak up against such acts of violence and hatred and to defend religious freedom and tolerance, we call on the affected community and the entire Muslim ummah to remain calm and shun any temptation to retaliation. We must all work together to create a society in which people of all faiths and beliefs are respected, and in which everyone is free to practice their faith without molestation”.