A Lagos-based nongovern­mental organization (NGO), Human Rights Monitoring Agenda (HURMA), has ap­pealed to Lagos State Gover­nor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to consider plight of students and parents of Chrisland School, Ikeja, due to the con­tinuous closure of the school. The school has been under lock and key since February 10, 2023, due to an incident that occurred during the an­nual inter-house sport event of the school at Agege Stadi­um, where one of the students of the school, Whitney Ade­niran, passed on. Speaking at a press confer­ence, the executive director of HURMA, Buna Olaitan Isiak, said calls for reopening of the school became necessary af­ter the group received a pub­lic interest petition, regarding the plight of students and par­ents of the school. “Based on the petition, we saw reason, logic and justi­fication in making this call, especially as regards the clo­sure of the school without minding the future of the innocent students. Subse­quently, we undertook some daunting tasks to know the re­mote and immediate cause of such an unfortunate incident and what we found out as facts are more than revealing that the government has not been too fair to the students. “The continued closure of the school and the stu­dents being kept at home is against Section 14 (1) & (2) of the Child Right Law of La­gos State, which states thus: (1) Every child has the right to free, compulsory and uni­versal basic education and it is the duty of the Lagos State Government to provide such comprehensive education. (2) Every parent or guardian must ensure that his or her child or wards attends and completes basic school educa­tion. Therefore, it is the duty of Lagos State Government to direct her policy in a way that will encourage and pro­mote the right of every child in the state to education. To this end, the continued clo­sure of the school by Lagos State Government amounts to an infraction or breach of its own law”, he said. Isiak, however, commend­ed the state government for its promptresponsetotheincident. “We appreciate the govern­ment’s effort so far in dousing the onslaught and calming the strained nerves which enabled various concerned parties to shield their swords and allow Whitney to be laid to rest peacefully,” the group stated.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒