RAJI ADEBAYO; JOY ANIGBOGU IBADAN / LAGOS – Afenifere, the pan-Yoruba socio-polit­ical organisation, on Tuesday, listed what President Muhammadu Buhari could do in the remaining 34 days he has left in the office to be forgiven by Nigerians after he begged of their forgiveness. The organisation said he could use the remaining days in office to effect dramatic changes in policies that are making life difficult for Nigerians. President Buhari on Friday, last week, at an occasion to mark his final outing as president during the Eid-el-Fitr celebration, before handing over power asked Nigerians to pardon him, especially those he may have hurt while discharging his duties. Reacting, in a statement by the or­ganisation’s National Publicity Secretary, Comrade Jare Ajayi, Afenifere added that this is possible to do if the president really wants the negative per­ception of his administration to improve. ­ Among the steps Ajayi sug­gested to be taken were the im­mediate payment of the eight months salaries of university dons, decisive action that will permanently halt banditry, kid­napping and sundry terrorism activities in the country, allow­ing those who desire to import fuel to do so for the price of the commodity to come down to less than N100 per litre just as prices of other energies like electricity, gas, kerosene and diesel should come down to about the same N100 per mea­sure instead of about N750 that a litre of diesel now costs. To ensure that this is per­manent, Ajayi advised that gov­ernment can license Nigerians who are into modular refiner­ies to start producing even with tax moratorium while serious efforts are made to bring the four refineries in the country back into production line.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Afenifere said efforts should also be made to ensure that internally displaced persons (IDPs) are resettled in their an­cestral homes with adequate steps taken to ensure that they are no longer worried by ban­dits again forever. POLL It also listed the strangle­hold on the economy, especially through unfriendly fiscal policies, be relaxed so that economic activi­ties can quickly bounce back. To Ajayi, these things are possible to be done success­fully before May 29, 2023 “if President Buhari and his team really desire to do them”. Afenifere also expressed se­rious concern on the upsurge in terrorism acts following the completion of the 2023 general elections. It stated that the series of attacks on defenceless people and the subversion of econom­ic activities in various parts of the country “give us a lot of concern especially as we move towards the handing over of power on May 29, 2023 by the grace of God.” Observing that kidnapping and banditry that ebbed during the general elections in Febru­ary and March, this year, re­sumed shortly after the conclu­sion of the elections in March, Ajayi called on the authorities to ensure that the situation is quickly brought under control. Instances of kidnapping, killings and other forms of banditry were cited in Osun, Ekiti, Ondo, Ogun, Niger, Edo, Ebonyi, Nasarwa, Kaduna, Zamfara states and a host of others. He regretted that apart from kidnapping people on high­ways, “bandits now even have the effrontery to go and abduct people from their homes as happened to one Adebukola in Ondo State, to a former deputy governor of Nasarawa State, Prof. Onje Gye-Wado, to the driver of the incumbent Nasar­awa State deputy governor, to one Muhammadu Jibril in Ago Igbira, Osun State and to over 100 students of Federal Gov­ernment College, Yauri, Kebbi State, who were abducted from their hostels – to mention a few.” Ajayi recalled that the Min­ister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, while speaking in Katsina, this April, stated that the Federal Government will soon “be deploying electronic digital technology to ensure 24/7 inch by inch surveillance of the 4,500 kilometres border­line from the eastern part to the western part including the coastlines” of the country. Afenifere spokesman then wondered why the government of President Muhammadu Bu­hari is just thinking of taking such a step when it’s about one month for it to go, adding that the fate of those in the inter­nally displaced persons (IDPs) camps is still hanging in the balance. While noting that the plea by President Buhari for those he might have hurt to pardon him, Ajayi said that it would have been much better if the pres­ident had listened to various advice and pleas being made to him over the years regarding the unfriendly, if not retrogres­sive, steps his administration had taken. “The maxim has it that ‘to err is human, to forgive is divine.’ Without deceiving ourselves, the Nigerian gov­ernment under the outgoing President Muhammadu Bu­hari certainly ‘hurt’ a lot of people (to use his own word). Some of them are even no lon­ger alive. Some who are alive have wounds that can hardly ever heal. “Both physical and psy­cho-social wounds. Because the Almighty created many humans to have large hearts, many of whom the president had hurt may forgive him. That is for those who are alive. But then, what about thousands who have died as a result of avoidable acts that can easily be traced to the government such as non-provision of se­curity and welfare as clearly enshrined in the constitution?”