DAMATURU – The Publicity Commit­tee for the 2023 National Census has begun com­munity mobilization and enlightenment to ensure proper coverage of Yobe State. In a press statement signed by Hajiya Husna Ibrahim, Di­rector Information and Secre­tary of the committee, said that the committee is chaired by the Commissioner Yobe State Ministry of Home Affairs, Information and Culture, Mo­hammed Lamin, and “has since after inauguration by the state Governor, Hon. Mai Mala Buni, commenced public enlighten­ment in various media houses in the state.” She said, “plans are also in top gear for the committee to tour various local government areas of the state to enlighten and engage stakeholders and the people on the exercise.” The Information Commis­sioner said that the importance of the exercise cannot be over emphasized as population and housing statistics are essential for planning the provision of health care, education, em­ployment, etc, thus the need to ensure the people take part in the head count. “The census will give a com­prehensive picture of the social and living conditions of Yobe State people. The successful outcomes are essential tools for effective policy, planning and decision-making purposes. “The strength of the census is not only the provision of detailed population figures at local level, other benefits of the census is that it will enable the government and people, track developments over a long peri­od with considerable accuracy”. “These help to identify likely demand for basic infrastruc­ture and other national as well as community needs, Yobe state government is not leaving any stone unturned in ensuring the smooth operation and success of the exercise. It will therefore ensure more development and progress for the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Meanwhile, the public is advised to take responsibility and take active part in the ex­ercise coming up from the 3rd to 7th of May 2023. The media should also continue to play its part in sensitizing the public on the exercise. POLL “The 2023 census is a fun­damental part of our national heritage and collective knowl­edge”.