The process consists of recruiting and launching entrepreneurial teams of trained engineers and technicians who start off by organizing industrial cooperatives throughout the countryside. SIAKA MOMOH Cooperatives play a distinct role in motivating and enabling entrepreneurship at the grassroots. Therefore, in spite of the set backs that cooperatives entrepreneurship has suffered in the past, they should be made to function in the economy. It is pertinent therefore, to showcase experiences of cooperative entrepreneurship from outside our shores, which Nigerians, who by nature are very entrepreneurial, can leverage on. What more is there to prove this when our workplaces are strewn with cooperatives engagements. Go to the schools, ministries, parastatals, and the private sector of course, you will get the message. First, let us look at excerpt from Gary B. Hansen, ‘Using “Cooperative Entrepreneurship” to Generate Employment and Income in Developing Countries and Eastern Europe’. Hansen’s work is the Chinese Gung Ho, which, according to him, is the prototype of organizations needed to institutionalize entrepreneurship to create jobs and stimulate economic development. Gung Ho means “working together” in Chinese – a cooperative movement conceived by Helen Foster Snow, the first wife of American journalist Edgar Snow, and developed and implemented by the two Snows, New Zealander Rewi Alley and their Chinese associates in war-torn China in 1938. According to Hansen, responding to the plight of the thousands of Chinese refugees streaming into Shanghai, Helen Foster Snow came up with the idea of cooperative entrepreneurship by raising the question: ‘Why not organize the Chinese workers into cooperatives owned and managed by themselves, financed by labour hours instead of cash capital? Here was a way to bring about the industrial revolution, to put the unemployed refugees to work in the interior to help win the war and to build up permanent prosperity in the villages. Here was a democratic base for whatever kind of society the Chinese might decide to have in the future’. For Hansen, the process they devised consisted of recruiting and launching entrepreneurial teams of trained engineers and technicians who began organizing industrial cooperatives throughout the countryside. He cited Edgar Snow as describing how they went about it as follows: ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ‘Technicians and organizers went straight to the country and tackled the tremendous task of educating the people to a new idea. Everywhere they went they called meetings, preached their principles, and hung up their announcements and signs, promising technical help and loans to those who would organize for production. Suspicions had to be dispelled by performance. Slowly the first units won public confidence. These men meant exactly what they said. Applications soon far outnumbered the capacity of the small staff and available capital, and thousands were put on waiting lists. POLL Labourers were registered, selected according to health, experience and character, and grouped according to crafts. Co-operators taught them how to organize, how to conduct meetings and how to study local markets. Technicians helped them find machines often dragged hundreds of miles overland from the coast–how to locate safe factory sites, and how to use, and later how to make, simple machines. Above all they taught them how to improvise with the materials available.’ This was in 1941. Hansen continued: “Using this approach to cooperative entrepreneurship, the Gung Ho cooperatives spread rapidly throughout the countryside, and the Chinese were able to create several thousand new manufacturing enterprises and nearly 300,000 jobs in the period from 1938 to 1945….” He said the Gung Ho system in China operated successfully for a number of years, but was eventually caught up in the political infighting within the Koumingtang and between Chaing Kai-shek and Mao Tse-tung and eventually lost its leadership and momentum. “The entrepreneurial heart of the system was dismantled before the end of World War II, and the remaining industrial cooperatives became casualties of the resurgent Chinese Civil War. The ava cooperative entrepreneurship, the collapse of socialist regimes in the 1980s led to the decline of the cooperative movement in many Central and East European countries. They argued that as they were used to being subjected to State control, many cooperatives were not prepared to face the challenges of the competitive market and manage their social and economic development in an autonomous manner. Ten lessons from Gung Ho • People, who can live along with ordinary folk in the villages and lead them forward in improved production on an industrial cooperative basis, must be trained. They will hardly come from any kind of universities or colleges existing now. Their training must be on lines that will actually adapt them for the job in hand. [Alley established a residential training center for young people at Shandan to provide the type of training needed for future cooperative entrepreneurs.] • Operated under the conditions of the old society, the “owner” type must be held in check, and the democratic procedure rigidly adhered to. There can be no bureaucracy in an advancing industrial cooperative. It must be a joint action organization operating on natural rather than regulated, taped off lines, using fully the creative potential of its membership. • There is no end to the number of [industries and] crafts that can be carried out in the village industrial cooperative. Whichever country discovers this simple thing, should the country be organized on a [cooperative] basis, it will leap ahead of all others in a very short space of time. • It is not essential for [industrial] cooperatives to be grouped around a great city to produce industrially. The small power plant by a mountain stream in a hinterland valley could well make it possible to produce more watches, better clocks than even a modern Switzerland. Not all industries need a complete big plant. Good rail, road or river transportation is important. But the most important thing is to have the human material properly organized to carry the projects through. • The movement side needs to be promoted. “Gung Ho Worker” or “Gung Ho Member” are not condescending terms and were taken proudly. The movement side telling of successes on various fronts, bringing a spirit of friendly competition, can be made valuable. • All kinds of small heavy industrial units can be started and made to fulfill local needs, taking advantage of the small scattered but frequent deposits of ores available throughout many areas. • In the Gung Ho movement, members could be of any creed or race, yet all could join in a movement for better living for all, in so doing learning to understand each other and appreciate each other better. • In the early days of Gung Ho, it was found to be the best practice to first discover a need, then the people who are trying to meet it. Then when these have been brought together show them what cooperation can do for them all. Any first industrial cooperative in a locality will have a difficult time, because too much isolation does not suit cooperation, and there are many contradictions to be solved. Yet the start must be made somewhere, and if the right kind of practical promoters are trained, they will locate the starting places alright. Eventually, the natural way forward is through federating similar industries and crafts. Until then the cooperative federations will simply be those of all district industrial cooperatives. • Such a movement as Gung Ho can only come to full fruition in a scientifically organized society [an open, democratic society?]. Yet that does not mean to say that in countries of Asia and Africa where the old society still operates, nothing can be done with it. Experience has shown that even in traditional and reactionary societies people can benefit from the Gung Ho ideas. Even when the old society gives place to the new, an understanding of what the movement can do is not easily come by. It is so revolutionary that engineers and technicians educated to carry out the needs of large scale industry cannot easily appreciate its possibilities, and actually are not trained so that they can give any effectual leadership to it. In the early stages, a movement such as Gung Ho must get support for its training, marketing and supply work, and other basic problems. It must also interface with existing productive organizations. • Such a movement as Gung Ho will only spread and prosper, if it is on a natural, democratic basis. It cannot be made a dumping ground for those who are failures at all else, who do not know how to carry through a practical job of work and who seek to penetrate an organization simply for easy livelihood, maintaining their position by playing small politics. It cannot succeed if its membership sits back and expect the state to do their thinking and carry their responsibility. Research source: Utah Center for Productivity and Quality, Utah State University Logan, Utah NEXT WEEK: How a Gung Ho movement is organized. ilable evidence and published reports indicate that the Gung Ho system was successful both as a generator of jobs and income…,” he said.