BENIN – The Provost, Edo State College of Nursing Sciences, Prof. Patricia Ukaigwe on Tuesday explained why the school could not give admission to one Precious Umoru, saying that admitting her to study Nursing and Midwifery would place her in a difficult situation due to her physical health condition. Prof. Ukaigwe who disclosed this while diffending the school authority on why Precious Umoru was denied admission into the institution said the school has nothing against the applicant but felt that she (Umoru) cannot cope with the rigours of the profession as a result of her condition. The Provost gave the explanation at a press briefing organised by the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation Chris Osa Nehikhare in Benin city According to her, I have to comment that nursing and midwifery profession, is a very tasking and challenging profession. “It has a lot of demands on the physical ability of the individual practitioners because you have to stand, bend, walk to do your job. ” Standing for most five, six, even up to seven hours in a day and this requires somebody who is physically fit, has some problems in standing those rigorous things that the person has to go through. “Now, that you have to take care of your patients, you have to be able to maintain your balance, you have to be able to give your medication, you have to be able to respond quickly to emergency situation, you have to be able to resuscitate your patients if there is anything.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “All these things are really very severe and require somebody who is very stable on their feet to do that”, Ukaigwe said. POLL Ukaigwe however added that upon the management’s thorough investigations of the applicant physical health condition, the situation can still be corrected through surgical means. “So, we spoke with the individual and we also look at the possibility of us getting her into treatment because the condition she has simply requires treatment if noticed on time, even so at this time that it is so complicated, the condition can still be treated by surgical intervention though it will take some time and additional efforts because of the complications that can happen. ” So having that in mind, we proceeded to explore the possibility of finding a physician that we can refer her to for possible screening and possible intervention if everything is in agreement. “So, with that said, and with the discussion, we ended it that we are going to consider her from being withdrawn from the Programme pending the time we can complete the treatment and find alternative course in the school for her to undertake. ” Right now, the only programme we have in the school is Nursing and Midwifery Programmes and these are severe tasking on anybody”, Ukaigwe further explained. She also said Nursing and Midwifery profession is a highly sought after job all over the world adding that the Edo State College of Nursing Sciences aligns itself with the best practices. “And again, Edo State College of Nursing Sciences, we align ourselves with global practices, that the thing that we want you to be successful as you trained and also for you to be successful after you finished training for you to be successful getting a job anywhere in the world. “So, having that in mind, and that is why we ask her she consider withdrawing while we find out what we can do to accommodate her”, Ukaigwe maintained. The Provost who said all the decisions taken thus were done with the consent of her family members, said the money paid by her to the school would be refunded. However, the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has ordered the re-assessment of Miss Precious Umoru to begin her training at the Edo State College of Nursing Sciences, Benin City . Recall that Miss Umoru was admitted at the College and was initially advised to withdraw after preliminary assessment of her physical condition, which was not disclosed at the point of admission. The governor, upon learning of the case, intervened and requested that another assessment be conducted and that Miss. Umoru be provided with all necessary support for her condition for the re-assessment exercise. The rescheduled assessment will take place on Thursday 13th April 2023 and the public will be provided with the necessary updates on the exercise.