This was not the first time Ella was going on a blind date. She had met and gone out with several guys on a dating site but her last encounter gave her chills in her body. She shared her experience of how a guy she met online took her and her friend to a hotel and abandoned them there with unpaid bills after running off with their phones. According to her, she chose to share her experience to warn other gullible girls about the evil most guys on dating apps do. “I was introduced to a dating site, ‘Tinder’, by my girlfriend. Later I discovered that most of my friends were on the platform, too. “It’s a site where you meet guys who are ready to mingle. So, what we do is find a guy to date and most of the relationships you find there are usually those with ‘benefits’: the guy wants to sleep with you in return for money. Most times before we go out with these guys (the ones that are bold enough to go straight to what they want, sex) we discuss how much he is willing to pay, when that’s settled, we then meet him. “We (my friends) didn’t have the mind of meeting a man to marry on this platform because most guys there were either married or looking for a fling or a girl to have fun with. It’s purely for such reasons. “This was not my first time going out with a guy I met on that platform but, this time, it was a bad experience. I met this guy and we got talking. He was friendly and checked up on me regularly. Then two weeks after we got talking, he said he wanted to take me out but he would like me to come with a friend because his own friend would need company. So, we had already discussed that he would pay for our transport fare and extra cash for our keep. “This guy took my friend and me to a hotel around Ikeja, Lagos. It was in the afternoon. He went down and ordered different kinds of food for me and my friend. He told us his friend was on his way. We sat down and enjoyed our food. The guy left the hotel on the pretense that he was going to pick his friend downstairs and book a room for him. He left and never came back. Later we discovered he went with our phones. When we came down to look for him, the receptionist told us he had left the premises and that he said he was coming back. “We waited but there was no sign of him. We called our numbers but they were switched off. It was then it dawned on us that we had been robbed. The worst was he didn’t pay for the food he ordered. The bill was running into N29,000. And we had no money on us. We stayed in the hotel until my mother came to our rescue. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Now this guy has left the dating site. He blocked my line and that of my friend. And he made away with our phones. I have penned this down to warn girls to be careful with guys on dating sites.” POLL Dear Ella, thanks for sharing your blind date experience. It’s almost impossible to trust people these days. I Hope anyone reading this would learn something from your experience. Normally, it’s not advisable to meet a guy/lady in a closed room on a first and even second date. You have to know him/her well before loosening up. It is wise to always be on guard. Nevertheless, I am sure there are still nice people on dating sites, but you must get your priorities right and not be too desperate or gullible in order not to fall into wrong hands. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions, or share your own experiences.