IBADAN  – Oyo State Commissioner for Lands, Housing and Urban Development, Mr. Olusegun Olayiwola has revealed that the ongoing construction of new Government Reserved Areas ( GRA) are meant to enhance rapid development in adjoining areas of the state and reduce housing deficit. Olayiwola, during an inter­view, held recently in his office, explained that the foresight of the Governor Makinde-led ad­ministration on the GRA’s proj­ects was to open up new towns and link different axis together in Ibadan, to further expand the economy of the state. He expressed optimism that the GRAs will become mini cities after the completion of works at the sites by private developers supporting the projects finan­cially. Reacting on allegation against the government concern­ing the land acquired for con­struction of GRA at Agbirigidi in Akinyele local government area of the state, the Commissioner revealed that the said land was acquired 21 years ago by one of the past administrations. He added that the land was acquired then for a purpose, which according to him, did not come to pass. “There is a video claiming that this administration ac­quired land in Akinyele local government, this is untrue. Over time, government acquired land and keep for a purpose. The past government acquired the said land in 2002 but did not use it, we felt constructing Government Reserved Area on the land will add value to the area consider­ing its nearness to train station at Moniya. “We are doing this with peo­ple who have financial capacity to support the project. On Mon­day, we held meeting with some private developers in this regard.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The GRAs will become new towns, mini cities, residents will have access to good road net­work, electricity, security, water reticulation amongst others. POLL “We are almost done with Lere Adigun GRA at Baso­run,Ibadan, massive works ongo­ing at Alao Akala GRA, Wofun, Ibadan. Senator Rasheed Ade­wolu Ladoja GRA is also there at Lagos Ibadan Express way. These are to reduce housing deficit in the state and improve on income generation.”