ABAKALIKI – The State Working Committee (SWC) Of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Ebonyi State has denied the purported suspension of its gubernatorial candidate, Dr. Adol Awam Chris, allegedly by some members of the party in the State. The rebuttal followed media reports, on Tuesday credited to the leadership of the party in Echiaba Ward, Ebonyi Local Government Area of the State which announced the purported suspension of Dr Adol-Awam over alleged anti-Party activities at the 2023 Presidential elections. The report alleged that Dr. Adol Awam played anti-party politics by supporting the presidential candidate of the Labor Party LP, Mr. Peter Obi, rather than Dr. Rabiu Kwankwaso who is the party’s presidential candidate. But briefing Journalists on Wednesday, the Director of Media and publicity of the party’s campaign council in the State, Mr Victor Urakwu, flanked by members of the NWC of the party, described the suspension as a falsehood by a “self-acclaimed” chairman of the party in Echiaba, Mr. Chinedu Ofoke, who he said was not a legitimate member of the NNPP. “We want to state clearly that the leader of our party in the State was never suspended as claimed by the ‘self-acclaimed’ chairman of Echiaba Ward (Chinedu Ofoke) who is not a member of the NNPP let alone an executive member of the Party. “For clarity, the substantive Chairman of Echiaba Ward as recognized by the National leadership of the NNPP and INEC is Hon. Ndubuisi Nweke and Mr. Alex Ominyi as Secretary,” he stated. Urakwu said Mr. Solomon Chukwu, the embattled chairman of the party is the mastermind of the suspension to derail party stalwarts from investigating his alleged misappropriation of funds, including a 78Million naira meant for the party agents at the elections.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We challenge Mr. Solomon Chukwu to provide evidence where he claimed Dr. Adol Awam Chris campaigned for Mr. Peter Obi either in the print media, mainstream media, or on any other platform. POLL “We maintain that as a Party, we are proud that we projected a candidate to Ebonyians who stood his ground and failed to compromise till the end, unlike Mr. Chukwu who was on a covert mission for the APC. “To this end, after all, internal processes have been concluded, we will be involving anti-graft agencies for justice to be served on the funds misappropriated,” he said. Consequently, the NWC further announced during the press briefing that it had upheld the suspension of the State Chairman, Mr. Solomon Chukwu from the party. “Mr.Solomon Chukwu had long seized to be a member of the NNPP and would warn any other Party he wishes to join again in future to be wary of his questionable traits and recognize that he is a walking liability and a cheap mole. “We hereby call on the National leadership of our great Party to investigate all the allegations of misappropriation and gross misconduct against Mr. Solomon Chukwu and ensure that the appropriate legal and disciplinary action is taken.” Corroborating the position of the NNPP NWC members on behalf of contestants, the Deputy Governorship candidate, Engr Benedicta Okwoche said that all the contestants supported the suspension of Mr. Solomon Chukwu from the party allegedly for his lack of sincerity and transparency especially regarding funds. “We, the Candidates of the NNPP in Ebonyi State hereby announced that we unanimously support the suspension of Mr. Solomon Chukwu as the state chairman of the NNPP and member of the party. “This decision was made following Mr. Chukwu’s anti-party activities and alleged embezzlement of 78 million naira meant for the party agents, local government, and ward chairmen, the candidates have lost confidence in him for trying to tarnish the image of our leader, Dr. Adol Awam,” she said. Mrs Okwoche commended the support of all the House of Assembly Candidates on the party’s platform to Dr. Adol Awam and applauded the good relationship they were enjoying with the members of the State working committee.