Chief Martins Onovo, an engineer and activist, is the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and currently the Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on some contending issues surrounding the 2023 general elections. Excerpt: How do you see the recent claim of plots to stop the May 29 Inauguration and installation of an Interim Government as made by the DSS and amplified by the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed? Alhaji Lai Mohammed has a reputation for false information. According to Mr. Femi Fani-Kayode, “Lai Mohammed is the biggest LIAR in the history of Nigerian Politics”. The DSS has become a mercenary organisation without any credibility. The DSS has failed woefully in its responsibilities and must be reformed. The DSS failed to identify the sources of funding for Boko Haram to cut them off. The DSS failed to identify the top government officials indicted for terrorist financing in the Dubai court judgment on Boko Haram financing. The DSS failed to identify the sponsors of Boko Haram. The DSS recklessly went to court to indict the CBN Governor for terrorist financing without any evidence. The DSS is completely unprofessional and political. It has failed in its responsibilities. Would you say it was right for fingers to be pointing towards the Labour Party’s presidential candidate and his running mate by the government and the ruling party? It is clear that the government and the ruling party underestimated the Labour Party’s bid for the presidency. So, when they saw the LP electoral performance, they panicked and got INEC to criminally doctor the results and became desperate to cover their criminal electoral fraud. They had to invent false allegations to implicate Mr. Peter Obi and Alhaji Datti Baba-Ahmed of the Labour Party, but they failed. It was unscrupulous to do such. Do you think the Presidential Election Tribunal and the Supreme Court can right any wrongs of the presidential election bearing in mind the shortness of time between now and the May 29 inauguration? The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal and the Supreme Court can definitely right the wrongs in the presidential election. In 2017, the Kenyan Supreme Court annulled the results of the presidential elections, citing irregularities and ordered a new election within 60 days. According to the Kenyan judgment, the Election Commission “failed to conduct the presidential election in a manner consistent with the dictates of the constitution”. We know that INEC also failed to conduct our presidential election in a manner consistent with the dictates of our laws. Considering the time constraint, former NBA President, Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), has published very insightful recommendations on how we can manage the time constraint. These can be reviewed and approved or be modified. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ How do you see the 10th National Assembly as it will be made up of members from other political parties, though APC is in majority? Do you think it will perform better than the 9th NASS? POLL The 8th National Assembly performed much better than the 9th Assembly. It looks like the performance of the National Assembly hit rock bottom during the 9th Assembly. So, we expect that the 10th Assembly will perform better than the 9th. The 2023 political tide will also contribute to improved performance in the 10th Assembly. What is your take on the horse trading going on for leadership positions in the National Assembly? Do you think South East can make it to the top in both Chambers? This question may be premature as the winner of the presidential election will have to be determined first. The South East cannot be both Executive President and also be Senate President or Speaker of the House. It seems clear to us that Alhaji Tinubu was fraudulently declared and that the court will correct it. There are too many disqualifying criteria that will nullify the candidacy of Alhaji Tinubu who was fraudulently declared. Alhaji Bola Tinubu filed an invalid nomination. He did not provide some of the information required on the nomination form like the primary and secondary schools he attended. International journalist, Mr. David Hundeyin, publicly alleged that the Chicago State University certificate he provided is forged. Forgery is a criminal offence. Currently, Alhaji Bola Tinubu is a criminal suspect on perjury and forgery charges in Charge No. CR/121/2022, in an Abuja FCT Court. Also, Mr. David Hundeyin has published ‘Certified True Copies’ of a court judgment in Chicago, USA, in which Alhaji Tinubu forfeited about $460,000 proceeds of narcotics trafficking. Tinubu has admitted the forfeiture. Also, Tinubu is a dual citizen of Guinea and Nigeria. I presume we all agree that these invalidate the nomination of Alhaji Tinubu. To us, the conduct of the election was clearly lawless and fraudulent. The BVAS and IReV technology systems were introduced by INEC to ensure transparency and integrity in the elections. These were approved and published in the electoral guidelines. Suspiciously, in November 2022, the ruling party objected publicly to the use of these technology systems for the elections. INEC repeatedly confirmed that these systems will be used. Unfortunately, INEC was very deceitful. Thereafter, an investigative journalist published that INEC secretly planned to bypass the systems. INEC repeatedly denied the allegation. Then, on the election day, INEC bypassed the systems as alleged. INEC frustrated transparency and integrity and published fraudulent results that have been shown to be criminally forged. INEC disregarded the facts and the complaints of several political parties with impunity and rashly declared Alhaji Tinubu. At a meeting with RECs, the INEC Chairman deceitfully directed that disciplinary actions be initiated against all staff found to be negligent. This was deceitful because, following complaints by political parties, he publicly promised a review of the results, but failed to conduct the review. It is clear to us that he was desperate to return Alhaji Tinubu, at all costs. The results declared by INEC are clearly fraudulent because, they are inconsistent with the authentic results in the possession of polling officers, party agents, stakeholders and even with the results published on the INEC’s IReV portal. INEC in violation of the court order also frustrated the inspection of election materials by the Labour Party. That is an indication of guilt. It is definitely unreasonable to try to uphold such obviously fraudulent results. All major stakeholders have rightly rejected the forged results including all major political parties, local and international observers, Nigerian workers, Nigerian socio-cultural organisations, CSOs, etc. The results cannot be upheld because they are criminally forged and have been democratically rejected. Politicians are said to be jostling for positions in the new APC government. What type of cabinet should Nigerians expect from Bola Ahmed Tinubu? None. Alhaji Tinubu lost the elections woefully and any attempt to foist an illegitimate APC government on Nigeria will be tantamount to a suspension of the Constitution as rightly stated by Labour Party’s Datti Baba-Ahmed. How do you see the ongoing crisis in Rivers State between the APC and PDP over the governorship election issues? Governor Wike of Rivers State seems to think that he can violate all Nigerian laws because he has temporary constitutional immunity. He must be reminded that he can be held responsible for any criminal actions after May 29th. As the State PDP Leader, he must accept responsibility for the actions of his party. The tribunal granted APC the right to inspect election materials. He is frustrating the inspection. That is lawless. He is not a judge and he cannot over-rule a court. The Imo State governorship election will hold on November 11. What are your expectations from that election? We expect brazen electoral fraud and State violence. The state government has been credibly accused in many different cases of sponsoring violence in the state. The failed Nigerian DSS must abandon its partisanship and get the Federal Government to address the issues of brazen electoral fraud and state sponsored terrorism in Imo State. How do you see the current leadership crisis in both PDP and LP? The PDP crisis is the consequence of the violation of the rotational presidency principle of the PDP. The Labour Party crisis is sponsored by the failed ruling party in their desperation to cover their electoral fraud. With the way things are presently, what is your advice to the Obidient Movement and millions of Nigerians who want positive change in the country? They must remain prayerful, vigilant and persevere in the struggle to recover the stolen mandate. Could you please comment briefly on the crisis over the Adamawa Governorship election? The crisis is over. The ruling party used the REC to declare false results in Adamawa State as it used the INEC Chairman to declare fraudulent results in the presidential elections. The similarities are 99 per cent. The INEC Chairman is the highest INEC officer in Nigeria. The REC is the highest INEC officer in Adamawa State. The INEC Chairman announced criminally fraudulent results in favour of the ruling party by 3.am while Nigerians were sleeping. The Adamawa REC announced criminally fraudulent results in favour of the ruling party by 9.am before collation could resume by 11.am. So, we say, like INEC Chairman, like Adamawa REC. We insist that the INEC Chairman must be investigated and prosecuted first before the Adamawa REC.