ABUJA – On Thursday, Dr. Abdulateef Bello, Director of the Federal Capital Territory’s Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), reaffirmed the administration’s commitment to ensuring that the number of commercial motor cycles in Federal Capital City (FCC) is zero. Bello made this statement in Abuja as he led his team in an operation to destroy over 250 motorcycles that had been confiscated for a variety of traffic violations at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) of Abuja. He emphasized that the practice would continue until the administration reached the goal of having no commercial motorcycles in the FCC and he pleaded with people who were considering investing in motorcycles to reconsider. According to him: “This is the continuation of our enforcement, it is aimed at stamping out the activities of commercial motor cycles in FCC, “The administration is seriously committed in ensuring that commercial motor cycles are stopped in FCC . “We will advise those that are still investing in this type of business to have a rethink because this is an exercise that would not stop untill we achieve zero level of commercial motor cycles in FCC. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The exercise today covers Lugbe, part of Apo and Galadimawa,as of last week we were in Lugbe and Durumi and we will continue untill we achieve our aim of not having any commercial motor cycles in FCC”. He continued, “We are crushing over 250 motor cycles but more are still coming in for crushing activities. “We are not completely against commercial motor cycles because they cover the last mile but they are suppose to operate within the suburb not within the FCC. “But now the infraction is quite high, facilitating criminalities and riding against traffic among many others. Those that are buying and investing should have a rethink”, he said. Similarly, Comrade Ikharo Attah, the Senior Special Assistant to the FCT Minister on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement, reiterated the commitment of the Minister of FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, in working till the last day in the office and leaving a legacy of a clean and beautiful city behind. “For now people can see clearly that those in Galadimawa, what those in area 1 have seen, those in Durumi have seen and some parts of AYA have seen and those in Kubwa will soon be getting their own, that is why we are crushing them in their presence. “The DRTS has shown commitment here today, that the work will continue even when the Minister is gone. The other Departments Security Services, AEPB are all keen in carrying out the enforcement so those who thought the elections are over and that the country is in transition and that everyone will sleep and not keep the city clean for the incoming government they have lost the script” . He also urged those investing in motorcycles to stop or continue to waste funds. “If you are doing the business there are other areas you can do the business in the suburbs, but lneighbouring districts, Airport road,Kubwa axis, those areas are not allowed so take your business somewhere else, if you are in those areas the DRTS will come and seize your motorcycle and crush it, he warned. Meanwhile, Mr Peter Olumuji, Secretary Command and Control unit, lamented the security criminal activities of motorcyclists in FCC, “Most of time some of the motor cycles are used as getaway when a crime is committed. There have been complaints in Kubwa, Galadimawa, Durumi about the unwholesome activities of these motorcyclists in their areas, that is why we are clamping down on them”, he said.