AUSTIN OBOH The near-convoluted struggle for leadership positions in the National Assembly by elected senators and House of Reps’ members which had become a source of concern for leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last few weeks appears now to have entered into a resolvable phase with the return of president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and his intervention. To the relief of party stakeholders, the basis for the emergence of new legislative leaders is now clearer, especially as the major contenders have expressed readiness to defer to the party’s position with the proviso that fairness and equity are observed. In turn, the party has agreed to allow a democratic process which leaves the final choice to the lawmakers themselves. But this was after the party had jettisoned the two options of open contest or consensus, preferring instead a zoning formula that dispenses with micro-zoning. No Decision Yet Before Tinubu’s intervention, there were reports that the position of senate president had been micro-zoned to the South-South while the position of Speaker to the North-West, thus unjustifiably leaving out the South-East and North-Central. But the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Friday refuted the reports. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Barrister Felix Morka, said the ruling party was yet to zone the leadership positions of the 10th National Assembly. Morka noted that the reports being circulated on social media did not emanate from the party. He said: “The attention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been drawn to versions of zoning arrangements for the 10th National Assembly leadership positions in circulation in sections of social media. The information did not emanate from the Party and should be disregarded.” “To be clear, the Party has yet to zone positions of leadership of the 10th National Assembly. Any decisions made in that regard will be duly communicated via the Party’s official information channels.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Tinubu Steps In POLL President-elect, Tinubu, had, on Thursday, urged governors of the APC to work closely with the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC) and lawmakers on the election of principal officers of the National Assembly. Tinubu gave the charge in Abuja when he met with the governors who paid him a courtesy visit. He had said: “We thank God Almighty for our electoral victory. It was tough and turbulent. The challenge before us is working in unison with the party leadership and the National Assembly over the election of their principal officers. And I charge you to unite in spirit and faith and work in line with the party.” A statement from the Office of the president-elect, signed by Tunde Rahman, indicated that Tinubu told the governors and former governorship candidates of the party that “whether you return or not, this is our government”. He had also said: “Once we know what we are doing and communicating as elected leaders and loyal party men, we will conquer the challenge.” Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) and governor of Kebbi State, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, led his colleagues to Tinubu’s residence. Among those in attendance were Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima and Governors Simon Lalong (Plateau), Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna), Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina), Hope Uzodinnma (Imo), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Babajide Sanwo-olu (Lagos), Ben Ayade (Cross Rivers), Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq (Kwara), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) and Biodun Oyebanji (Ekiti). Tinubu had rejected a push by some forces in the party to micro-zone the senate presidency of the incoming 10th National Assembly to South-South. Tinubu had insisted that the office be zoned to the entire South with no particular preference to any zone. Reports said Tinubu and the governors, at the meeting, were also unanimous in their decision that the party should not settle for consensus candidates for NASS leadership positions. It was learnt that the participants resolved to allow the lawmakers to choose their leaders. According to the reports, the party had agreed that just as the president-elect emerged through a democratic process, the leadership of the National Assembly should also emerge through a democratic process. Contenders Contenders for the office of senate president include Senator Barau Jibrin (Kano State, North-West); former governor of Zamfara State, Abdul Aziz Yari (Zamfara State, North-West); Senator Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia State, South-East); Senator Osita Izunaso (Imo State, South-East); Senator Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom State, South-South); and Senator Sani Musa (Niger State, North-Central). On the other hand, contestants for the office of Speaker, House of Representatives, include Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase (Plateau State, North-Central); Hon. Mukhtar Betara (Borno State, North-East); Hon. Abbas Tajudeen (Kaduna State, North-West); Hon. Sada Soli (Katsina State, North-West), and Hon. Aminu Jaji (Zamfara State, North-West). Among the pack of contenders for the position of senate president, former governors, Godswill Akpabio and Orji Uzor Kalu, are believed to be the foremost. Nonetheless, quite a number of the contenders have expressed willingness to let go if the decisions of the party are not in their favour, so long the decisions are guided by the principles of fairness and equity. Senator representing Borno South, Senator Ali Ndume, has reportedly agreed to zoning since it would help manage the present complication. He was said to have, however, warned that the party must be fair in the choice of the candidate. He was quoted as saying, “I am in the race if the ticket is left open, but if it is zoned outside of my zone, I will abide by the party’s decision if it is fair. Like I have always said, if the party comes out with its zoning, it is fair because everybody should belong.” But Ndume added that for the emergence of the leadership of the National Assembly, equity should not be the priority, arguing that the usual priority in democratic practice is seniority. He added: “We will wait for the decision of the party if they decide that fairness should be a priority in terms of the representation of zones, which is a fair thing to consider. Outside of that, the best thing is to leave the race open.” On the issue of a consensus candidate, Ndume noted that it was best for the party if it would be agreed upon based on fairness. “Settling for a consensus candidate should have been the best but the primary consideration should be fairness. You reach a consensus when there is fairness,” he said. Also, the campaign office of the senator representing Niger-East, Sani Musa, noted that it was fair that the party had zoned rather than pick a consensus candidate. “The party should let the leadership be zoned to a particular place and let the lawmakers decide who they like to be their leaders among the aspirants,” it said. The APC deputy national organising secretary, Nze Chidi Duru, commended Tinubu’s critical intervention, saying he had demonstrated that he was indeed a party man. His words: “The president-elect’s response reconfirmed the fact that he is a party man. It is the responsibility of the party to take such steps and deliberate on the criteria based on which the leaders of the National Assembly will emerge. It is the responsibility of the party.” He also confirmed that the National Working Committee of the party had not met to take a position on the zoning of the principal offices in both chambers, including talks on consensus candidates being reported in a section of the media. “No decision has been taken on the zoning or who will be the preferred candidates of the party. At least, not to my knowledge. I can confidently tell you that there has been no meeting of the NWC in the last weeks.’’ Office Of Speaker Following the example of senators-elect, members-elect of the House of Representatives, who are aspiring to be Speaker, have similarly expressed their willingness to allow the party allocate leadership positions to geopolitical zones. The speakership aspirants stressed the supremacy of the party in political decisions that concern their members. The lawmakers, who called for fairness and equity in the distribution of offices and positions, noted their willingness to abide by the decisions of the party on the matter. A speakership aspirant from Plateau State, Yusuf Gagdi, dismissed the call to jettison zoning, recalling how the Peoples Democratic Party zoned offices when it was in power and was the majority in the Senate and the House. Gagdi, who is chairman of the House Committee on Navy, stressed that it was the party that should determine which zones should get what offices, and not its members. He said: “I am a party man. I want the party to zone (the positions). If the party zones, I will respect the zoning. But it is not within the powers of the aspirants to say whether they like zoning or they don’t want zoning. The party produced the aspirants, it produced the members. So, the party is supreme. Confirm from the party whether they want to zone (positions) or not, not from the aspirants.” He added: “How can aspirants prefer zoning or not? It has always been zoned. During the PDP era, the speakership position was zoned. During APC’s time, it has always been zoned. Why then do you need aspirants to now tell you whether it should be zoned or not?” The lawmaker, however, noted that an aspirant from another zone could contest against candidates from the zone in which an officer was allocated. “At every point in time, there are aspirants that have refused zoning. Even if a party zones (a position), those that don’t want to respect zoning should go ahead and disrespect it,” he said. Another speakership aspirant from Abia State, Benjamin Kalu, also backed zoning “as long as it is done without diversity insensitivity but with all national inclusion elements well factored in, to inspire and stimulate national loyalty, cohesion and non-coerced patriotism.” Kalu, who is chairman of the House Committee on Media and Publicity, said, “The party gave us a platform to become who we are today or will become after the inauguration of the House. They stood by us during the primaries because they wanted to work with us as a team for nation-building. “I believe in the tripartite arrangement established by the current leadership of the House, the Executive and the party leadership, to always have a triple view to issues of national importance before taking a national policy step towards national objectives. It has worked for the nation because we have achieved more than we would have if each worked on the frolic of hers.’’ According to the House’s spokesman, power should be shared in the spirit of federal character. When asked whether the APC should pick a candidate among the aspirants from the zone a particular position is allocated or the lawmakers should be allowed to contest among themselves, Kalu urged the party to consider the South-East, “especially when we have not been Speaker for more than four decades.” Expectations Giving the dimension the contest for NASS leadership has taken, concerned sections of the society have also be making inputs in the debate on the available options for consideration. A group, the Coalition of Northern Front, South-West Professionals and Arewa Youth Groups, has called on the APC leadership to choose a speaker ‘’with reputation and experience.’’ Tijjani Abdulmumuni, President of Arewa Youth Group, who spoke on behalf of the coalition, said they were in support of a lawmaker from the South-East for the sake of equity. He, however, said whoever the party would support from the region, should be someone with high moral standards and experience. South-East Agitation Evidently, the agitation of the South-East to be represented in the top hierarchy of power in the country has remained strong. Probably informed by this, Senators from the South-West geopolitical zone, during the week, argued that the president-elect needed the South-East to succeed in his agenda for Nigeria. They, therefore, affirmed their resolve to guide and support the president-elect in running a government that would give all Nigerians a sense of belonging, starting from NASS presiding officers. The federal lawmakers said they had chosen to support fairness and justice, noting that the country was built on a tripod — Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba— adding that excluding Igbo in the three positions in the country might be counter-productive. The resolution of the senators also followed speculations that the zone had already elected to queue behind a senator from the South-South in the race for senate president. A senator-elect was said to have declared that three senators from the South-West went behind them to present the aspirant, who was not from the South-East geopolitical zone before the president-elect on Tuesday night. The senators-elect said they had already made their choice in the chief whip of the outgoing Senate, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, from Abia North (South East) for senate president and the senator representing Niger-East Senatorial District (North Central), Senator Sani Musa, for deputy senate president. He said: “They told the president-elect, Tuesday night, that all of us from the South-West are supporting a particular senator for Senate president but the president-elect discovered it was untrue this morning. “As south-westerners, we have good relationship with all Nigerians and these three senators cannot speak for us. They are not our leaders and cannot take South-West senators for granted. Our leader is a former governor, who is also a senator. “For us, we have resolved to do the right thing for the country since it’s the only way Asiwaju (president-elect) can succeed as president. We have chosen to support fairness and justice as this country is built on a tripod— Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba. ‘’If you exclude Igbo in the three positions in the country, you may be pushing your luck too far. We are happy that the president-elect did not listen to them because he is not petty. He likes fairness and he wants to do the right thing. “The 12 senators from the South-West already have a preferred candidate. We have 11 senators and one ranking senator who have endorsed Senator Orji Uzor Kalu for president and Senator Sani Musa for deputy senate president. ‘’The northern senators and southern senators believe in the leadership of these two senators and there is no going back. The good news is that Asiwaju has strong character and will stand firm on his personal convictions.” Also speaking, another senator-elect dismissed the three South-West senators, saying they were only acting out a script. Kalu Presses On Meanwhile, Senator Orji Kalu is leaving no stone unturned in his quest to lead the National Assembly. He recently had a closed-door meeting with the president-elect at the Defence House, Abuja. Speaking after the meeting, which lasted for about 30 minutes, Kalu said the purpose of his visit was to officially welcome and felicitate the president-elect on his return from vacation in Europe. On his ambition, the senator said he was the best among the candidates jostling for the position to work with Tinubu in the 10th National Assembly. He said: “I told Nigerians that Tinubu is not sick and that he would return soon and a few days after I made that comment, today you can see for yourself that he is here. So, this shows that our president-elect is fit and fully ready for the job of leading Nigerians. I just came to congratulate and officially welcome him back to the country and we are ready to support him in the task ahead. “I am the best among the candidates. I have the capacity to unite Nigeria and I am the best to work with our president-elect in the best interest of Nigeria. Nigerians need to feel the impact of our party. I have the integrity, honesty, and experience to lead the Senate.” With the recent resolutions made by the party on zoning, the anxieties earlier felt by the party may have petered out and it can only now be inferred that the process of electing the new leaders of the federal legislature has been made much easier and safer.