BENIN – The Executive of Uhunmwode Local Government chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, have suspended no fewer than 11 chieftains of the party, including Hon. Samson Osagie, a former two-term member of the Federal House of Representatives where he served as minority whip over alleged anti-party activities. Those suspended are Hon. Rolland Alari, Bar. Felix Alari, Mr. Simon Uduogie, Mrs. Esohe Idemudia and Hon. Samson R. Osagie. Others are Mr. Monday Guobadia, Mr. Nelson Gomez Ise, Mr. Festus Iyekeoretin, Hon. Jolly lyekeoretin, Mr. Evans Ozabor and Mr. William Amadi. Their suspension was contained in a letter to the state chairman of the party, Col. David Imuse, (Rtd.), and titled, “Notice Of Suspension Of Hon. Samson R. Osagie, Hon. Roland Alari and Others”. According to the letter, signed by the local government executive of the party, “Following compelling petitions of anti-party activities, factionalisation, absenteeism from party meetings and internal sabotage in the just concluded general elections “from some party stakeholders at our disposal, we wish to covey the suspension of the under-listed persons from the All Progressives Congress, Uhunmwode LGA Chapter. “We urge you to apply your good office in ratifying this suspension to avoid their interference with the process of investigation, “We have named a 3-man disciplinary committee to be Chaired by Prof. David Osifo, with Dr. Washington Osifo and Barr. Dan Ogbegie as Secretary and Member respectively”. In a swift reaction, Hon. Samson Osagie described his suspension as “Laughable and a gross violation of Article 21 of APC Constitution.” POLL According to him, “the news of my suspension from APC was broken to me by a responsible journalist who sought to hear from me. “First, the said suspension purportedly carried out by a group of people, some of who have denied knowledge as their signatures were taken from an attendance list of a previous meeting is not only laughable but a gross violation of Article 21 of the Party Constitution and my fundamental rights guaranteed under Section 36 of the Nigerian Constitution 1999(as amended) “Not only are their omnibus allegations unfounded, they are spurious and totally untrue. “Am a party man who rose to become the Minority Whip of the party in the House of Representatives between 2011 and 2015. “I was a member of the National Executive Committee of the APC up until President BUHARI became President. I am not given to any acts or actions that undermine my party. “Again, my fundamental rights to a fair hearing has been breached by these followers who did not bother to hear from me and/or confront me with the allegations at their disposal. “For about a year now I have been cautiously engaging in political activities owing to my bereavement while still giving my utmost support to the President-Elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and other candidates. “I do not know, therefore, how they came about the spurious allegations they have now alleged.I there denounce in the strongest of terms the attempt to blackmail me by this suspension and undermine my commitment and dedication to the APC since its formation. “The allegations are nothing but Manufactured lies which cannot stand the test of time.Some of those who are the masterminds of these shameful acts have resigned from the party a night before and flee overseas even though elections are yet to be completed. “This is the height of gross irresponsibility by those who think politics is like operating a computer. They should know that no matter what, Dry Bones Will Rise Again” the former minority whip declared.