LAGOS  – The Management of one of the leading Pan African organization, Paradigm Initiative (PIN), has stated that brilliant students from less privileged backgrounds will benefit from its new scholarship programme The organization, it said, has established the Ajegunle Legacy Scholarship, aptly named after the area to support resident youth/students in securing university education in technology courses such as Information Technology (IT), Software Development and Computer Engineering, among others as a way of giving back to the Ajegunle community and recognising notable individuals who have played vital roles in PIN’s early beginning in the area. The Project has two arms, the prize arm and the scholarship arm. The prize arm will support two young persons (one male and one female) from low-income families resident in Ajegunle to acquire university education in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) or Law annually. This prize is named after the late Taiwo Bankole Ogunyemi, one of the foremost volunteers at PIN’s Life Program (now known as LIFE Legacy Program). This award is aimed at immortalising the late Ogunyemi’s name for the role he played in improving the lives of young people across Nigeria, especially in Ajegunle. The scholarship arm on the other hand will also support two young persons (one male and one female) from low-income families residing in Ajegunle to get advanced software development training annually. Paradigm Initiative, which has for more than 15 years been connecting young under-served Africans with digital opportunities and ensuring protection of their rights online started operations in the area in 2007 in a tiny cybercafé known as Stadnet before expanding its footprints across Africa. The organization, which advocates for digital rights and inclusion on the continent has offices in Nigeria, Senegal, Cameroon, Zambia, Zimbabwe, The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Kenya from where it coordinates its operations across Central, East, Southern and West Africa and beyond. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Through the organization’s flagship LIFE Program alone, PIN has impacted the lives of more than 6,700 under-served African youth with improved livelihoods through digital opportunities and protection of their online rights. POLL Mr. ‘Gbenga Sesan, the organization’s Executive Director, while speaking during the launch of the programme in Ajegunle, said: “We named the prize arm of the project after the late Taiwo Bankole Ogunyemi, who was one of the foremost volunteers to our work in Ajegunle in recognition of the sacrifices he made towards ensuring that young people living in underserved communities like Ajegunle had access to skills and opportunities that would enable them to improve their lot.”