LAGOS – One of the fastest growing ministries in Asia, The Evangelical Ark Mission (TEAM) International, led by a Nigerian, Bishop Tony Marioghae, has celebrated its 17th anniversary. The church headquarters is located in the Philippines. Bishop Marioghae left the shores of the country about two decades ago for missions in obedience to God’s call. The anniversary was celebrated at the prestigious multi-million dollar state-of-the-art TEAM Convention Center, Las Piñas City, Philippines. It attracted thousands of church members and dignitaries from all walks of life in the Philippines and across the world. It was characterised by quality praise and worship sessions with inspirational messages from local and international speakers. The event, which lasted for about two hours, featured Jasmine Henry, a famous Philippine singer, gospel rap sensation KDJ, Congressman Ron Salo, Mrs Lara Villafuerte, Bishop Ted Malangen, Bishop Ricardo Sio, and the guest speaker, Dr Effa Emmanuel who gave an impactful message. Also present was the National Director of Christian Bishops and Ministers Association of the Philippines (CBMAP), Bishop Rey Santillana. In his message, Bishop Marioghae challenged Christians to transform the world through the Spirit of wisdom, revelation, and knowledge.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to the cleric, “Success is not a product of chance but the fruit of deliberate choices, empowered by intentional actions inspired by a purpose-driven lifestyle.” POLL TEAM is one of the fastest-growing and most influential churches in the Philippines, with thousands of members. It has branches in Asia, Australia, Africa, Europe, America, and other parts of the world. The goal of the ministry is to disciple nations, equip leaders in every spectrum of life, and transform countless lives. Tony Marioghae is the International President of the Confederation of African Ministers, Pastors, And Churches (CAMPAC) and CBMAP Global Director, respectively. He is the first African to hold this position. He has received numerous local and national awards in the Philippines. He is undoubtedly the most influential African preacher in Asia. He is a best-selling author, international conference speaker, philanthropist, consultant, entrepreneur, and adviser to multiple world leaders. He was honoured with the keys to two cities in the Philippines for his numerous contributions to the nation. Bishop Marioghae is married to Dr Ernaida Cuevas-Marioghae, a professor and former consultant to the Philippines House of Representatives, and they have two children.