ENUGU  – The Enugu State Executive Committee (SEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Thursday announced the expulsion as well as suspen­sion of prominent members of the party, who allegedly worked against the party during the just concluded general elections. Those expelled include for­mer Governor Sullivan Chime; former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Eugene Odoh; Director-General of Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu; former Commissioner for Tourism, Ozor Joe Mmamel; Special Assistant to Foreign Affairs Minister, Flavour Eze; and former House of Rep can­didate in 2019, Maduka Arum (aka Mama). Those suspended are the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, and former Senate President Ken Nnamani. The State Secretary of APC, Robert Ngwu, who addressed a press conference at the end of the party’s SEC meeting, pre­sented the party’s Disciplinary and Fact Finding Committee recommendations which were ratified by the SEC during her meeting. Ngwu said, “The party is fully aware of the nefarious ac­tivities of the previous admin­istration of the party in the 2015 and 2019 general elections. “With that in mind, the party reviewed various petitions and reports from the Fact-Finding Committee, and the Disci­plinary Committee against some individuals. “They are Sen. Ken Nnama­ni, Barr. Sullivan Chime, Hon. Geoffrey Onyeama, Hon. Eu­gene Odoh, Mr. Osita Okechuk­wu, and others (Ozor Joe Mma­mel, Mr. Maduka Arum, and Mr. Flavor Eze) from their different local government areas. The petition bordered on anti-par­ty activities and other offences against the APC”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ While the party alleged that Sen. Ken Nnamani and Sullivan Chime openly endorsed and campaigned for the governor­ship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Peter Mbah, Geoffrey Onyea­ma and his SA, Flavour Eze, campaigned for the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi, and worked for the governorship candidate of PDP, Mbah, using Federal Gov­ernment palliatives like cooking stove, wrappers, rice and garri. POLL The report alleged that the Voice of Nigeria (VON) DG, Okechukwu; former Speaker, Odoh; former Commissioner, Mmamel and Maduka Arum similarly engaged in different forms of anti-party activities which negatively affected the party’s performance in the state. The state secretary stated that after conducting a thor­ough investigation into the alle­gations of anti-party activities levelled against the respective party leaders, it was regretta­bly confirmed that the reports and evidences gathered by the fact-finding committee point to their guilt. The SEC, therefore, ratified the expulsion and suspension of the party leaders and forwarded the resolution to the Zonal Work­ing Committee of the party for further action. In a remark, the state chair­man of the party, Barr Ugo­chukwu Agballah, said that the party was in the process of instilling discipline in the par­ty and will not shy away from taking on any member of the party no matter how highly placed whose activities impact­ed negatively against the party during the elections. He said, “The purging of the party is a continuous exercise and we believe that by expelling some erring members, the cri­sis we have witnessed over the years would be stemmed”.