ABUJA  – The President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has asked the Pres­idential Election Petition Court to dismiss the petition by the can­didate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 25, 2023 presidential election, Atiku Abubakar, for lacking in merit. Tinubu submitted that the pe­tition by Atiku and PDP against him is a gross abuse of court process, adding that the petition­ers have no right to present this petition, having peremptorily filed an originating summons at the Supreme Court on February 28, 2023, praying the apex court to assume original jurisdiction on the same subject of their petition, and asking the court to nullify the entire presidential election. He, therefore, asked that the petition be dismissed for lacking in merit, substance, bona fide, sincerity and for also being friv­olous, vexatious, highly miscon­ceived, disclosing no reasonable cause of action and for constitut­ing a crass abuse of the judicial process. In the defence filed by his counsel, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), Tinubu asserted that it was not a surprise or by accident that the electorate rejected the 1st petitioner (Atiku) at the polls of the presidential election held on February 25, 2023. At the presidential election conducted by INEC (1st respon­dent) on February 25, 2023, Tinu­bu claimed that having polled 8,794,726 votes across Nigeria (which was the highest amongst the 18 candidates at the elec­tion), and also satisfied all other requirements, he was validly re­turned as President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The former Lagos State gover­nor argued that Atiku had since 1993 consistently contested and lost elections both at the primary and general elections. Tinubu described the former vice president as a “serial loser and an unstable politician”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Tinubu traced the history of Atiku’s loses in the presidential election to 1993 when he report­edly lost the Social Democratic Party’s (SDP) primary election to the late Chief M.K.O Abiola; and in 2007, when he lost the presiden­tial election to the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. POLL Other elections Tinubu cited Atiku lost are in 2011, when he lost the Peoples Democratic Par­ty presidential primary election to President Goodluck Jonathan; in 2015, when he lost the APC pri­mary election to President Mu­hammadu Buhari; in 2019, when he lost the presidential election to President Muhammadu Buhari; and in 2023, when he has again lost the presidential election to him. Justifying his own victory, Tinubu claimed to have always been a most consistent politi­cian, who has not shifted polit­ical tendency and alignment while the 1st petitioner (Atiku) has consistently crisscrossed different political parties of Ni­geria, including being a member of the PDP before joining the Ac­tion Congress in 2007, when he was the presidential candidate of the party; returned to the PDP thereafter, before joining the APC in 2015, where he con­tested the primary election with President Muhammadu Buhari, before returning to the PDP in 2019 to emerge as its presidential candidate. Tinubu claimed that while he had always carried his sup­porters along and increased his political followership, Atiku has lost most of his followers in the process of moving from one po­litical party to the other. In the 2023 general elections, Tinubu alleged that the emer­gence of Atiku as the presidential candidate of the 2nd petitioner (PDP) led to irreconcilable hos­tilities within the ranks of the party, causing the emergence of a group of governors known all over the country as the G-5 Gov­ernors- Rivers, Oyo, Enugu, Abia and Benue, who opposed the 1st petitioner and vowed to mobilise their people against him. “Atiku as the 1st petitioner could not even campaign or canvass for votes in some of the states controlled by the 2nd peti­tioner, including Rivers and Oyo states where the 2nd respondent (Tinubu) defeated the 1st petition­er (Atiku) by a wide margin. “The 2nd petitioner (PDP) does not have any right whatso­ever or howsoever to be returned as duly elected at the election held on 25th February, 2023, having lost to and/or been beaten/de­feated by the respondent. The 1st petitioner, having lost at the elec­tion of 25th February, 2023, has no right to and cannot be declared as the winner of the election under the Nigerian laws.” More so, Tinubu explained that while Atiku contested the presidential election of 2019 with President Muhammadu Buhari under a fairly cohesive PDP with Peter Obi as his running mate and Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso as one of his supporters, the same Peter Obi broke away from the PDP to join the Labour Party (LP) to contest the presidential election of 25th February, 2023, while Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso also broke away from PDP to contest the presidential election on the ticket of the New Nigeria People’s Party. He said that while Peter Obi polled a total number of 6,101,533, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso polled 1,496,687. “Before the balkanisation of the 2nd petitioner (PDP), the South-Eastern states of Enugu, Abia, Imo, Ebonyi and Anambra used to be controlled by PDP but at the presidential election of 25th February, 2023, they all went the way of Labour Party “At a press conference ad­dressed by the 1st petitioner (Ati­ku) on or about 2nd March, 2023, he admitted the negative impact of the balkanisation of the 2nd petitioner on the fortune of his election, particularly, the exit of Peter Gregory Obi from the party. “As between the 2nd petition­er (PDP) and the 3rd respondent (APC) while the 3rd respondent is a national party, popular amongst Nigerians, cutting across all di­vides, the 2nd petitioner has, in the past years, been engrossed in intra-party irreconcilable feuds and infighting, both in relation to its national offices and officers, as well as the convention which pro­duced the 1st petitioner (Atiku) as its presidential candidate. “Presently and from 2015 till date, the 3rd respondent APC, has been the political party in power in Nigeria; it presently has the president of the country, 20 state governors, 64 senators, 217 mem­bers of the House of Representa­tives and about 600 members of the states’ Houses of Assembly, nationwide; while the 2nd peti­tioner has just 14 state governors, 39 senators and 111 members of the House of Representatives. “In the election that held on 25th February, 2023 and 18th March, 2023, while the 3rd re­spondent produced 15 governors as against 9 of the 2nd petitioner, it also produced 64 senators, as against 33 produced by the 2nd petitioner, and 217 Representa­tives, as against 104 produced by the 2nd petitioner. Tinubu promised to lead evi­dence to prove and demonstrate that from 1999 till date, it has been the consistent pattern that the political party who controlled/ controls most of the states as well as the National and state Assem­blies produced/produce the pres­ident, and that the election of 25th February, 2023 was no exception. “This is asides the misfortune and calamities that have befallen the 2nd petitioner in recent years, even till after the election, where they had to sack their national chairman. The respondent shall found and rely on documents and newspaper reports of the various squabbles in the 2nd petitioner.”