Preye Aganaba, Coordinator of the Tinubu/Shettima Independent Campaign Council (ICC) in Bayelsa State, has stated that the attackers of the President-Elect, Bola Tinubu, would eventually sing his praises after his inauguration on May 29th. He said most of Tinubu’s critics were attacking him from the position of ignorance while others, who knew him but chose to hate him, were acting out of jealousy. Aganaba, while congratulating the All Progressives Congress (APC) family on the safe return of Tinubu after his rest in France, said that ignorant haters of the president-elect would be his immediate converts. He equally predicated that Tinubu’s core enemies would bury their heads in shame after his inauguration as president. The Odi Kingdom-born politician expressed confidence that the former governor of Lagos State would disappoint his enemies with his performance as he was known for hitting the ground running. Aganaba said, “The President-elect has always been a celebrated performer whether in his public or private practice. He has the capacity and will display that capacity from May 29th after his inauguration. “We are confident that Tinubu will disappoint his enemies. He will surely reposition the country and usher in an era of economic turnaround and rapid development of Nigeria. We know him and we know he has the capacity to assemble a team that will make us proud”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The founding member of APC advised persons making evil speculations about the health of Tinubu to desist as the power of life and death belongs to God Almighty. POLL He also lauded the emergence of the immediate-past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva as the governorship candidate of the APC for the November 11 election in the state. Aganaba stated that with Sylva, the Bayelsa APC would surely defeat the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and connect the state to the centre for rapid development. He noted that Sylva remained the best candidate for the APC in Bayelsa having garnered enough experience and exposure as a one-time governor and minister. He said Sylva’s time as minister attracted over $3.6billion of investments into Bayelsa State, according to statistics from the Nigerian Investment Promotion Council (NIPC), coming behind Lagos State in 2021 alone. Aganaba said, “In 2019, our people in Bayelsa demonstrated a burning desire to connect the state back to the centre. Propelled by that desire, they voted massively for the APC. “Nothing has changed this time. Our people are still desirous to connect with the centre. We are no longer ready to keep being an opposition state, and with Sylva as our candidate that desire will be actualized this year”. He appealed to all members of the APC, including persons who contested against Sylva, to embrace unity to ensure total victory for the party in November. The ICC leader also urged the governorship candidate to continue his reconciliation process by reaching out to everyone, knocking at every door to bring everyone on board.