ABAKALIKI  – Ohaneze Ndigbo socio-cul­tural organisation has called on Igbo people resident in La­gos State or doing any busi­ness in the area to remain there, be strong and vigilant. The group enjoined Igbos to be resolute in line with their traditional belief that no one can usurp the posses­sion of legitimate, alert own­ers of a thing. The reaction was over an alleged threat to seize/confis­cate houses owned by Igbos in Lagos State. Secretary General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo World­wide, Mazi Okechuwu Isigu­zoro, in a press statement issued in Abakaliki on Mon­day stated: “We urge Ndigbo to “fear not” since He that is with us is greater than he that is against us. “In this season of Igbopho­bic attacks in Lagos, long af­ter the elections, Ndigbo shall not leave Lagos for anybody or any reason, regardless of the amount of threats of at­tacks and further arson, in­cluding the threat to seize/ confiscate their houses from the Lagos traditional stool, especially by those who ought to protect them. We must remain strong, vigilant and resolute in line with the Igbo adage, “Oke anaghi eri ihe onye mu anya”. “In line with Igbo ethos, especially “Onye aghala nwanne ya”, we urge Ndigbo in Lagos to be their brother’s keeper by not abandoning the Eze Igbo of Ajao Estate, La­gos, whose only offence was to speak “hoo!haa!” by voicing out the frustrations his Igbo kiths and kin were passing through in Lagos with their lives and businesses under continued and well orches­trated attacks by terrorists. “How can our Igbo SANs, lawyers and activists, espe­cially the Olisa Agbakobas, be calm while the man who carried their cross illegally stays in detention without being released or charged to court?‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Ndigbo should remain wherever they are and par­ticipate effectively in the forthcoming national census. POLL “The National Population Commission (NPC) must include religion and ethnic­ity as part of the data to be captured during the enumer­ation since it is in line with the wishes of the majority of Nigerians today who appre­ciate the importance of such data in our national life. “Ndigbo should resolute­ly support the Labour Party (LP) Presidential candidate, Peter Obi, in recovering his mandate through legal in­struments. We commend Nigerians of all ages from across the country, who have continued to support him as he strives to reclaim his pan-Nigerian mandate in order to move our beloved Nigeria “from consumption to production.” “Finally, Ohanaeze Ndigbo calls on President Muham­madu Buhari for the uncon­ditional release of the incar­cerated IPOB Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu as a parting gift to Nigerians. Surely, if Boko Haram terrorists, who took up arms against the Ni­gerian state can be pardoned and rehabilitated, releasing the IPOB leader is not too much to ask for”.