AKURE – South West Security Net­work (SWSN), otherwise known as Amotekun Corps, Ondo State Com­mand on Wednesday disclosed that the state has experienced sudden influx of illegal herds­men into the state. Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, the Corps Commander, dis­closed this while parading 31 suspects arrested for different cases at the Command head­quarters, Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital. He disclosed that the herd­ers came into the state through border communities in Edo and Kogi states with a large number of cattle. The corps Commander re­vealed that they came in trucks with loads which they refused the joint security patrol team to search. He, however, noted that only herdsmen who registered with the state government would be allowed in the state, warning the illegal ones to stay away. Meanwhile, the Amotekun Corps Commander has called on Corps members serving in the state and prospective grad­uates posted to the state to go about their duties peacefully. He assured that the recent crisis that broke out in Ikare- Akoko, the host community of the NYSC orientation camp, has been quelled and security has been beefed up in the town.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Akogun Adeleye, therefore, called on all corps members who may want to go to the camp to do so without nursing any fear. POLL In joint patrols during Easter and Salah holidays, no fewer than 45 suspects were apprehended by the patrol teams for criminal cases including rape, illegal pos­session of firearms, ritual, arson, stealing among others. Akogun Adetunji Adeleye disclosed that investigations had been concluded on 31 among the suspects and would be ar­raigned soon. Among the suspects paraded was a syndicate that specialises in stealing native goats in large numbers and selling the same to unsuspected buyers. Speaking on the three per­sons kidnapped along Igoba/Iju road, the Amotekun Corps chief disclosed that two among them had been resolved while the re­maining one was near rescue. He revealed that following the incident, the Amotekun Corps and other security agencies in the state, including the Army, in a joint patrol combed the forests in Iju and Ita Ogbolu chasing out criminals from the forests. Akogun Adeleye said the criminals that were chased out of the forests were those that manoeuvred through Ekiti State entering Ondo State in the night. He, therefore, assured the people of the state of security of life and property, urging the people to report any suspected movement in their neighbour­hood to the security agencies in the state.