The second edition of Rayda Connect, a series of conversations and learning sessions around issues that affect businesses has been held. The event, which took place at Workstation, Victoria Island, Lagos, featured panel sessions which address issues like navigating remote and distributed teams, insuring business fixed assets, and streamlining fixed assets disposal. Addressing attendees of the Rayda Connect event, Francis Osifo, CEO of Rayda said that the gathering serves as an opportunity for executives and business owners to discuss their experiences in managing their businesses with more focus on the opportunities for people to collaborate and network. According to him, even more specifically, it is important to talk about the fixed assets of businesses. “One of the things we’ve seen is that a lot of companies spend money acquiring fixed assets around their business, but there is usually no visibility and oversight on how those assets are moving and whether those assets are providing value for the business. Whether it is from the point where you acquire them to the point where you manage them or even to disposing of them,” he said. The first panel dwelt on the topic; ‘Navigating Remote and Distributed Teams, moderated by Ada Armstrong, co-founder, Miniemoney. The session had Bodunrin Akinola (Head of People, Okra), Atinuke Idowu (COO, Termii) and Jerry Okon (Head of Operations, Flex finance) as discussants. The second panel, ‘Insuring Assets of a Global Workforce’, moderated by Nwanne Nwonwu had Samuel Akpaniko (Partnership and Growth Manager, Curacel), and Boluwatife Omotayo (Founder of Gamp) as panelists. The session addressed issues like device insurance, especially as it concerns remote workers and businesses. The third session, moderated by Mr Francis Osifo was on the topic, ‘Streamlining Business Assets Disposal. The session had Boluwatife Sarumi (Head of Resources, Nairabet), Segun Adebayo (CEO, Pillars and Frames Limited), and Daniel Okonjo (Facility Manager, The Bulb Africa) as speakers. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The event also served as an opportunity for Rayda to introduce PrivateSale, a platform for business owners. PrivateSale is one of Rayda’s offerings where businesses dispose of their fixed assets through a private virtual auction and get paid for the value of their assets in less than 48 hours.