A stalwart of All Progressives Congress, senator Mas’ud el Jibrin Doguwa on Wednesday expressed the confidence that the House Leader, Alhassan Ado Doguwa would have the upper hand in next Saturday’s supplementary elections in Tudun Wada/ Doguwa Federal Constituency. Addressing newsmen in Kano on Wednesday, the former senator of Kano South Senatorial District,explained that the Majority Leader was already leading his closest opponent, Air Commodore Salisu Yishau (Retired) with over 4000 votes in the first leg of their contest on February 25th. In the last election, Alhassan was leading his NNPP opponent with 4,900 votes and on Saturday, the re- run election is scheduled to take place in 13 polling units which have only about 7000 persons who had collected their voter’s cards. He said that the New Nigeria Peoples Party candidate lacked the “capacity, followership and public support to upstage the incumbent at the poll as of today.” Senator Doguwa stressed that “Don’t forget that Alhassan has been contesting and this is not the first time he is winning this election nor is this the first time that he is contesting in a supplementary election in the constituency”. He maintained that “And this particular re-run election if you should look, you at it well enough will see that Alhassan has a clear advantage over his opponent.” In any election matters in Nigeria, only about 50 percent or less of those who collected their cards actually come out to vote. When you do this mathematics, we expect that the actual voters on that day would be far less than the over 7000 people who collected their PVCs.That again means that even if all the voters should vote for his opponent, which is not the case, he would still win the elections.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ But a very interesting point is that on one on one, Alhassan is stronger than his opponent in the area of the 13 polling units that were cancelled. These are his strongholds. Majority of the places where he is weak has been concluded and announced. They belong to him and he belongs to them and I am sure that even in the re- run election, they would root for Alhassan. POLL He explained that most of the allegations against the Majority leader in the recent days were triggered by the desperation of his opponents to dislodge him from his seat at all costs. He added that he was not surprised at the pressure that was unleashed at the Majority Leader saying that historically politics in the constituency has been fiercely contested by the incumbent and the forces against him.