The Lagos State Government on Thursday said that the proposed jetty project in Amuwo-Odofin Local Government (AOLG) area would create several opportunities when actualised. The Permanent Secretary, Office of Environmental Services, Dr Gaji Omobolaji, said this at a meeting with stakeholders on the proposed construction of a Barge Jetty and Stacking Bay at Beachland Estate in Amuwo-Odofin. He said the Barge/ Container Terminal would improve connectivity, create jobs, enhance commerce, decongest existing ports, increase government revenue and boost infrastructure development in the area. The permanent secretary, represented by Mr Lasisi Adedoyin, a Deputy Director, said the project being handled by Beachland Consilium Ltd was to develop a Barge/Bonded Container Terminal at Beachland Estate, Ibafon. He said an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) had been conducted and the meeting was to seek the input and support of the community toward the project. Omobolaji said the meeting was organised by the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources to create awareness on the EIA report and encourage the participation of the host community and the public on the location of the project. He said that the meeting was also to document concerns and observations of the communities and relevant stakeholders.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This is to assess the potential impacts of the project and to put in place measures to mitigate them as a way of ensuring that the project is implemented in a sustainable manner,” he said. POLL The permanent secretary said the site is bordered to the west by Kirikiri Creek while to the south are Rhamaniya storage facility and Lagos Lagoon, and the project will occupy 342 hectares of land. He said the project would ensure faster evacuation, storage, transfer of imports, exports and also act as an empty return holding bay for containers to/fro the Lagos Lagoon while also listing anticipated negative consequences. “The proposed Beachland barge terminal/integrated logistics park when operational will help minimise use of road transportation and decongest the existing Apapa roads by making use of inland waterways which offers faster delivery time to the various industrial and commercial hubs in Alaba, Tradefair complex and Agbara,” he said. The Chairman of Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area, Mr Valentine Buraimoh, said the terminal would boost development and help decongest the roads within the community. Buraimoh, who was represented by the Chief of Staff of the Council, Mr Segun Idris, said the project would also help reduce security risks in the community. “It will reduce the congestion on our roads and the lifespan will be increased. “We are not happy with the issue of tank farm; so if there is another way to convey petrol to various fuelling stations, we are happy with it,” he said. Mr Ajasa Oluwa, a representative of the Oluwa family – landowners of the area where the terminal will be situated – said the project was a welcome development to the community. He, however urged the ministry of environment to ensure that members of the community got a good representation when staff were being recruited during and after the project. Oluwa also urged the ministry to put the traders along the route of the project into consideration, so they don’t lose their source of livelihood. Another member of the family, Mr Oyebowale Oluwa, said the family would welcome the terminal, as long as the ministry followed through all proper and legal steps necessary for the project. (SOURCE: NAN)