LAGOS – UFUK Dialogue, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), at the weekend organised a dinner for bishops and pastors to breakfast with their Muslim counterparts, known as iftar in Islam in a bid to foster peace, love, dialogue and friendship among the adherents of the two religions. The Director of UFUK Dialogue in Lagos and the convener of the dinner, Mr Aman Riaz, in his message, emphasized the need for people to live in a peaceful society, adding that peace is critical for the progress of society. The Special Adviser to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) chairman in Lagos, Bishop) Ajose, reiterated his relationship with Ufuk Dialogue over the years and how there has been peaceful coexistence of the organisation with the Christian community in Lagos and Nigeria. Pastor Dallington of the Diplomat Church, Ikeja, also spoke about his relationship with the UFUK and how the organisation has been encouraging peaceful coexistence amongst tribes in Nigeria. Bishop Charles Odus of Good News Church shared his experience of visiting Turkey on pilgrimage and intercultural trip and, a trip organised by Ufuk Dialogue to promote dialogue and culture of coexistence amongst religions around the globe and how he has been keeping a copy of the Holy Quran gifted to him in Turkey since then. Also speaking at the event, Pastor Abbey of Jubilee Temple emphasized the need to engage the media more in order to reach out to more people on the goodwill message of Ufuk Dialogue to the world. In his contribution, Bishop Mathew Daniels of Elohim Faith Assembly stated that the work for peace needs a dimension that goes beyond any ideology, political system, religious movements or religious authority.He also encouraged UFUK Dialogue to engage in more sensitization, especially in the northern parts of the country where religious extremism is the order of the day and where the message of peace is most needed,.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Also speaking Bishop Omoruyi of the United Pentecostal College of Bishops (Nigeria/USA), told the attendees to observe a minute silence for the victims of the recent earthquake in Turkey and Syria and prayed for their souls to rest in peace and also prayed for the families to be granted fortitude to bear the losses.He also prayed for Nigeria and for the peaceful coexistence of all in the country. POLL Other clerics present at the event were Apostle Idong James of Alive Tabernacle International, Pastor Kanayo of See Joy Foundation and Evangelist Helen of City of Praise, Lagos . UFUK Dialogue is a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) with the mantra” Reserve in your heart, a seat for everyone” and was founded to promote dialogue, culture of co-existence and mutual understanding.. The NGO also has the mandate to establish a common platform aimed at information and opinion exchange. It also focuses on dialogue and peace activities at the academic and intellectual levels among different members of society.