Former Deputy Na­tional Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Con­gress (APC), Timi Frank, has called on the National Assembly, Nigeria Police Force and Department of State Services (DSS) to commence investigation of the immediate past Minis­ter of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, over alleged certificate forgery and identity theft. Sylva, who is a former governor of Bayelsa State, recently emerged the guber­natorial candidate of the APC in Bayelsa State. Frank made these requests in a petition he addressed through his solicitors to the Sen­ate President, Speaker, House of Representatives, Inspector Gen­eral of Police and the Director General of the DSS, among others, on the matter. In the petition, dated March 31, 2023, and signed by the Principal Partner of Gray­law Practice LP, Edward Oma­ga Esq., Frank urged the Na­tional Assembly to summon Sylva and officials from his alma maters in Nigeria and Switzerland to explain the in­consistencies in the identity of the politician. According to the petition­er, Sylva’s primary school certificate carried his name as Anagha Timipere as evi­dent in documents the former minister filed before a court in the United States as part of an ongoing defamation suit brought by his lawyers. He said Anagha Timipere was different from Marlin Anagha Timipre, which is the name on Sylva’s WAEC certificate. He claimed that the for­mer petroleum minister had also obtained his Bachelor’s degree in English from the University of Port-Harcourt, with the certificate bearing Anagha Timipre Marlin.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He insisted that this clear­ly contradicted Sylva’s 2011 doctoral degree certificate in International Relations from Ubis University, Switzerland, with the name Chief Timipre Sylva. POLL He further claimed that Sylva neither participated in the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme nor did he obtain an exemption certificate as required by law. The petition reads in part: “Obviously, the certificates mentioned above have visible anomalies and do not depict the true identity of Chief Timipre Sylva. It is confus­ing as to who Chief Timipre Sylva is; who Anagha Timi­pre Marlin is; who Marlin Anagha Timipre is and who Anagha Timipre is. “There is no evidence any­where showing that Chief Timpre Sylva ever changed his name from Anagha Timi­pre Marlin to Timipre Sylva in 1986 after he purportedly graduated from University of Port Harcourt,” stated the petition. “Investigation by our client reveals that there is also no re­cord that the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources has National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Discharge or Exemp­tion Certificate, as the case may be, either in the name of Anagha Timipre Marlin or Timipre Sylva.”