Nestlé Nigeria has trained over 750 children, beneficiaries of the Nestlé for Healthier Kids (N4HK) program in six primary schools in Ogun State and the Federal Capital Territory. Now in its third season, Nestlé Sustainability Training for Kids is implemented in collaboration with the International Climate Change Development Initiative (ICCDI). The key objective is to enable children to imbibe a sustainability mindset from an early age, thereby equipping them to become better stewards of the planet.  The participating children are furnished with information on waste management, introduced to the conversion of waste to useful items, and encouraged to adopt positive behavioral changes to enhance environmental sustainability. In a statement announcing the start of the training at Sokoya Memorial Primary School, Sagamu, Ogun State, Victoria Uwadoka, the Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager of Nestlé Nigeria PLC said, “Equipping children with the right information to help them develop a sustainability mindset is a significant first step in ensuring more responsible management of waste in line with our shared vision of a waste-free future. “At Nestlé Nigeria, we are committed to protecting the environment for future generations. We are aware that children play a key role in achieving this objective. We are therefore delighted to collaborate with ICCDI, the Ogun State Ministry of Environment, Ogun State Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency, the FCT, and Ogun State Universal Basic Education Boards on the Sustainability Training for Kids”, she added. On his part, the founder of the International Climate Change Development Initiative (ICCDI) said, “We are happy that more children are benefitting from this training. ICCDI will continue to do its part in ensuring that future generations are equipped with the requisite knowledge to enable them to appreciate our planet and understand their responsibility and role towards protecting it”. David Solarin, Director, Water Regulatory Enforcement and Advocacy, Ogun State Ministry of Environment who represented the Honorable Commissioner for the Ogun State Ministry of Environment said, “On behalf of the Honorable Commissioner and staff of the Ogun State Ministry of Environment, I applaud Nestlé Nigeria for this laudable initiative promoting sustainable environment-friendly practices within public primary schools in the state. The Ministry instituted the Environmental Management and Climate Change Club both in private and public secondary schools across the state in 2021, with the aim of raising environmentally conscious individuals who will become environment ambassadors for the state. We are glad that Nestlé is taking up this responsibility for the primary school space.  The Ministry will continue to work with stakeholders especially the private sector, for a clean, safe, and hygienic environment”. To gain hands-on experience, 50 children from Gadonasko Science Primary School and Dobi Primary School, both in Gwagwalada Abuja, visited Ecobarter, sustainable waste management, and solutions company on an excursion for further exposure to recycling, upcycling, and more practical sessions. Speaking on behalf of her classmates, Keziah Dabo, a primary 5 learner from Gadonasko Science Primary School, Gwagwalada said “We had an exciting time at Ecobarter, meeting the founder, Ms. Rita, and her team. It was an interesting experience to see the various stages of recycling, from the dropping point to separation and crushing, and then to the transformation!  The part I really liked was the weaving loom where different materials like lunch boxes, shoes, bags, and mats were made. We want to thank Nestlé and ICCDI for the opportunity to learn about recycling, reusing, and reducing waste through the Sustainability Training and today’s Excursion to Ecobarter”. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Nestlé Sustainability Training for Kids, implemented in Nestlé for Healthier Kids (N4HK) beneficiary schools, is one of the initiatives from Nestlé Nigeria to support the company’s ambition of ensuring that none of its packaging, including plastics, ends up in landfills as littler, or in waterways, rivers or oceans.  The annual training has reached over 2,000 children from fourteen of the N4HK beneficiary schools in Ogun State and the Federal Capital Territory since its inception in 2021. POLL Nestlé for Healthier Kids is a flagship initiative that aims to help 50 million children globally, lead healthier lives by 2030. In Nigeria, N4HK incorporates a school-based nutrition education program, which helps children imbibe healthy habits including good nutrition, active lifestyles through adequate physical activity, good hygiene practices, and healthy hydration.