IBADAN  – The Oyo State Police Command have been accused of brutalising a journalist, John Alabi, of the Silver Bird Television Ibadan while trying to cover the face-off between the Police and hoodlums at the Moniya area of Akinyele Lo­cal Government Area of Ibadan, Oyo State.. Alabi was covering a clash between policemen and some hoodlums at Moniya, when it was alleged that some police officers at­tached to Akinyele Police Station descended, molested, beaten and detained for over six hours despite the fact that he identified himself as a journalist. Leaders of the union on their Whatsapp platform were shocked at the unprofessional conduct of some officers at the Akinyele Po­lice Station and called for immedi­ate investigation, and punishment on those involved in the assault. One of the Police officers was reportedly dead while engaging the hoodlums in a fight while seven persons were arrested and detained in connection with the clash. Narrating his ordeal, the Silver Bird TV corre­spondent, John Alabi, said about five Police officers approached and harassed him, hitting him with a gun booth despite calling their attention to the fact that he is a journalist. He said, ”I was at Akinye­le Local Government in the morning on the said date, where I had a scheduled assignment to cover for my organisation. As a journal­ist, I got to the venue ahead of the commencement of the assignment as expected, unfortunately while waiting for the organisers, I got the wind that there was a public disorder around the Akinye­le Local Government. ”As expected of a professional journalist, I tried to know what the matter was and I was taking a few shots. Immediately I saw about five police officers who ap­proached and harassed me, hitting me with their guns, despite calling their attention to the fact that I am a journalist.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ”I showed them my identity card as a journalist and other ev­idence that I’m a newsman, but they turned deaf ear, arrested me and detained me at Akinyele Po­lice station from around 10:45 in the morning till 4:30 in the evening. POLL ”It took the intervention of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Council before I was released”. In a statement by the Oyo State Police Command, the Commis­sioner of Police, Mr. Williams Ade­bowale, in the release entitled, ”At­tack/Death of Policeman on lawful duty along Moniya, Akinyele Local Government Area by suspected hoodlums” ordered the investiga­tion into the unprovoked attack on the journalist in the heat of the crisis. In a statement made avail­able to journalists by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Oyo State Command, Mr Ade­wale Oyefeso , the Deputy Com­missioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal Investigation Department (DC SCID) has been assigned to take over the case for detailed investigations. According to the statement, ”Today, being Tuesday 25/04/2023 at about 1015hrs, Operatives at­tached to Moniya Area Command under the Oyo State Police Com­mand while on lawful intelligence led Stop and Search around a Ma­jor Black-spot were attacked in the line of duty. ”Preliminary Investigation reveals that, the Patrol team while acting on credible intelligence through visible policing duties extended their presence around major black spots, highways and major roads under Akinyele local government area axis in a bid to deter criminal elements from set­tling and establishing dominance within the location.”