PORT HARCOURT – Leader of the Rivers State All Progressives Congress, APC, Chief Tony Okocha, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to maintain neutrality in dealing with all the parties involved in the ongoing protest to collect the certified true copies, CTC, of the electoral documents for the tribunal. Okocha frowned that in the last 48hrs, the atmosphere in the State has been charged following disagreements arising from the last Gubernatorial elections conducted on the 18th of March, 2023 by INEC “We are witnesses to the bitter politics of the recent past which cost the lives of some of our fellow Rivers citizens and led to general insecurity in the State. We are also witnesses to how much effort were put into salvaging the situation. “We believe that no reasonable person wants a relapse into that ugly past”. On the ongoing protests by both the supporters of both the People’s Democratic Party, PDP and the APC at the INEC secretariat in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Mocha said “we want to dissociate the APC from the shenanigans going on in the State. There must be a State first before individual ambitions. For if the State is burnt down, who would those with ambitions rather lead? “Having worked so hard for the peace we all enjoy today, we would not fold our arms and allow desperate politicians to throw our State back into the era when life was short, nasty & brutish “The law has made adequate provisions for all aggrieved parties to approach the Courts to ventilate, we call on all parties to take advantage of that.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Nothing, we repeat, nothing and nobody should be allowed to disturb the peace of our State and security of our people under any guise POLL “We have given directives to all genuine members of the APC to maintain law & order and avoid any act capable of disturbing public peace & tranquility “We call on the Security Agencies to take proactive steps to stem the tide of rising tensions. “Having read and listened to the grouses of the feuding parties in the imbroglio, we deplore the self-help approaches especially when our Laws are unambiguous. We further submit that INEC maintains neutrality and fairness to all. In a statement he personally signed and issued on Thursday, Okocha called on Rivers people in particular to protect the peace of the State and on Nigerians, in general, to give the needed support in that regard “Finally, we call on those protesting to spare the properties of the APC as the party is not a party to the issues leading to emerging insecurity. “The APC being a law-abiding party has on its own, advised aggrieved parties to take advantage of the provisions of the law in addressing grievances arising from the National elections and would not, therefore, turn around to encourage self-help in the State.In the spirit of that advice, we have directed aggrieved candidates of the party to also take advantage of the provisions of the Law “Any candidate or person who ignores the advice of the party should be held personally responsible for the consequences thereof,” he said.