ABUJA – The leadership of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) has raised an alarm, that some Polytechnic Rectors are plotting to misappropriate the first tranche of N15bn released by the federal government for infrastructure revitalisation in polytechnics. President of ASUP, Anderson Ezeibe, raised the suspicion, saying “we have received early warning signals of attempts by unscrupulous persons to undermine the deployment of these funds through spurious demands from the Rectors. In due course, we shall be revealing the identities of these persons and their collaborators as we are determined to ensure that the funds are judiciously spent to improve infrastructure in the system.” Ezeibe gave the warning in a communique issued to reporters at the end of its 106th meeting of the National Executive Council held in Abuja. He commended the President, Muhammadu Buhari for approving the release of the funds to the polytechnics which he said would go a long way in equipping polytechnics for effective academic delivery. The communique reads further: “Our Union can confirm that the first tranche of the funds as approved by the President is currently being received by the beneficiary institutions. While our Union applauds the Visitor and President of the country for this development, we are determined to ensure appropriate value for the funds being released. “Our Union shall hold the Rector of any polytechnic responsible for any form of infraction noticed in the deployment of the funds for the approved projects”. The ASUP NEC also deliberated on salary arrears owed lecturers in some state-owned polytechnics, lamenting that the situation is getting worrisome.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It said: “Some state governments have continued to play with the livelihoods of staff of polytechnics in their respective states. Abia State Polytechnic Aba where workers are owed for over 40 months; Polytechnics and Monotechnics owned by the Plateau State Government; polytechnics and mono-technics owned by the Osun state government, polytechnics and mono technics owned by the Benue state government, polytechnic owned by the Ondo State government and polytechnic owned by Edo state government are owed backlogs of their salaries.” POLL ASUP equally frowned at the failure to move some rectors following a ruling of the National Industrial Court. “Our Union’s NEC is disappointed that over one month after the ruling of the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) in the suit NICN/ABJ/117/2021 delivered by her Lordship Hon. Justice O.A. Obaseki Osaghae where the purported appointments of Prof Edward Ntue Okey, Dr. Zakari Mikailu Yau, Prof. Garba Mohammed Ngala, Prof. Edwin Onyeneje, Dr. Terlumun Utser as Rectors of Federal Polytechnic Ugep, Federal Polytechnic Shendam, Federal Polytechnic Mungonu, Federal Polytechnic Ohodo, and Federal Polytechnic Wannune respectively was nullified, the government and the respective Governing Councils of the institutions are yet to commence the process for the appointment of new Rectors. “We are surprised that despite the lucid nature of the judgement which highlighted the fact that the persons purportedly appointed do not possess the requisite requirements for the positions as contained in the federal polytechnic act 2019 amendment,” the communique noted.