LAGOS – The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), has commended the Federal Government for giving swift attention to the draft Labour Bills, adding that the Ministry of Justice should without delay, transmit the Labour Bills approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to the National Assembly. Mr Adewale-Smatt Oyerinde, it’s Director-General, in chats with Daily Independent, called on the National Assembly to facilitate the passage of the bills into law. He said: We commend the Federal Government for giving swift attention to the draft Labour Bills. “We, indeed, congratulate the Social Partners, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and other Stakeholders, who worked tirelessly to produce the draft Labour Bills, even though we had hoped these Bills would have long become laws by now. “Nonetheless, it is exciting to know that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the draft Bills, which we expect would now be transmitted to the National Assembly for legislative action. “It cannot be gainsaid that our current Labour laws are no longer realistic and practical as they lack the force to address emerging contemporary Labour and Industrial Relations issues. “In other climes, labour laws continue to perpetually reflect international best practices whilst responding to the ever-changing world of work”. According to Smatt Oyerinde, the first attempt to review our labour laws was in 2001. POLL “This simply means that for about 23 years, nothing worthwhile was achieved, while the work-place continues to evolve. “While new ILO Conventions were created and ratified by Nations of the world, our Labour laws remained obsolete. “This led to many unnecessary industrial conflicts due to poor application of domestic and international labour standards”. The NECA’s Director General noted that Nigeria had had to receive summons from the ILO Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations for various reported unfair labour practices. These are some of the inherent consequences of our obsolete Labour laws. “Now that the draft Labour Bills are on the verge of being transmitted to the National Assembly for its action, we expect that the Legislators would expedite the process. “The 9th Assembly can, as a matter of fact, pass the Labour Bills into law as its parting legacy to the working population and to all Nigerians. In retrospect, we have witnessed legislative processes concluded within a couple of weeks. “Consequently, we appeal to the Ministry of Justice to, without delay, transmit the approved Bills to the National Assembly. “The National Assembly should, in turn, facilitate the passage of the Bills into law and since they are Executive Bills, the President’s assent should not pose any hurdle”.