A group under the auspices of  Citizens Network For Peace and Development in Nigeria (CNPDN)  has appealed to the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), to zone the Senate Presidency of the 10th Senate to the South South. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday in Abuja the National Secretary, Francis Okereke Wainwei said South South has not been given the opportunity to produce the Presidency of the Senate since the return of democratic rule in 1999. He said zoning the Senate Presidency to the region would reduce the usual acrimony that always characterizes such struggle for power among the geo-political zones, thereby, reducing unnecessary distractions for the peaceful and smooth take-off of the new dispensation under the President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. According to him ” The call to zone the Senate Presidency of the 10th Senate to the South South is also strengthened by the fact that the All Progressives Congress (APC) got more than 25 % (percent) votes in each of the Six (6) South-South states, irrespective of the fact that before now, it had been known as the stronghold of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “The electoral contribution of the South  South greatly helped the ruling party to clinch the presidency in the 2023 presidential election. It is therefore, necessary for the party to consolidate on its electoral success in the zone by zoning the Senate Presidency to it. “In the same vein, we are calling on the ruling party to also zone all the available political positions equitably among the Six ( 6) geopolitical zones, in order to strengthen national unity and cohesion. “As patriotic citizens, our primary interest is the unity and prosperity of the nation, hence, this clarion call to the ruling party to do the needful by promoting government of national inclusion, equity and fairness to all the geopolitical zones.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ” Narrowing the choice to Akpabio, Wainwei said: “We have also gone further to examine the leadership credentials of senators -elect from the South South zone that have the competence and experience to progressively pilot the affairs of the Senate of the 10th National Assembly . POLL “Our wide-ranging and robust consultations revealed that His Godswill Akpabio is the right senator-elect with the competence, national acceptability and political experience to effectively pilot the Senate to greater heights. Akpabio being a former Minority Leader of the Senate under the Peoples Democratic Party and now to be President of the Senate under the All Progressives Congress, can be a true unifier; he can be the rallying point of all the senators and a formidable bridge between the Executive and the Legislature, having also been a former governor and minister “. He therefore, called on all senators-elect to support and vote massively for Akpabio to emerge as the Senate President of the 10th Senate for the betterment of the country.