A section of members of the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has attacked Sen. Godswill Akpabio’s nomination of his former chief of staff and Secretary to state government, Mr. ETEKAMBA UMOREN as minister-designate. Patrick Edem, former State officer of the partywho spoke with our correspondent in Uyo on Wednesday said the development will finally bury the already fractured party, if not immediately reversed. Edem said the APC’S electoral misfortune started “when Akpabio defected to the party and attempted to hijack the party for his personal, selfish interest”. According to him, ETEKAMBA is eminently qualified for a ministerial appointment but in the interest of justice, equity, fair play and political balance, Akpabio should nominate someone else, particularly from another senatorial district to ensure justice and equity. In his words “Akpabio has no moral ground to make the nomination without input from other stakeholders of the party in the state. “if Akpabio had the interest of the party and of the state at heart, he would have nominated, either the governorship candidate of the party, Obong Akanimo Udofia, the current Minister, Obong Umana Umana, Eket Senatorial candidate, Mr. Martyns Udoinyang or any other person from another senatorial district for the ministerial appointment. “”Why should Akpabio place his interest above that of the party by nominating the same ETEKAMBA, who is from Essien Udim, his local Government, for the appointment?”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The APC in Akwa Ibom will experience massive defection if Akpabio succeeds in his selfish political adventure”. POLL The party stalwart therefore called on the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed TINUBU, the 10th Senate, the national EXCO of the party and other relevant authorities, to save the party from imminent extinction in Akwa Ibom state. ” As we speak, so many members of the APC, will return to the PDP because of Akpabio’s domineering and self-centered Political behaviour. He lamented