Oyo state Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde has on Tuesday sworn-in the new Chief Judge of Oyo state, Justice Iyabo Subulade Yerima into office. This is in accordance to section 271(1) of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria as amended. The development followed the legislative scrutiny and approval of the new CJ by the Oyo state House of Assembly last week. At the brief swearing-in ceremony held at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office, Agodi Secretariat, Ibadan, Governor Makinde expressed confidence in Justice Yerima’s ability to improve on the lot of the Judiciary. The governor charged the new CJ to bring her experience and expertise to bear in transforming the fortunes of the judiciary. “Few months ago we were gathered here to swear in Honourable Justice Iyabo Yerima as the Acting Chief Judge of Oyo state and I remember expressing confidence that we would work together, well, the I guess the people of Oyo state heard and said yes, we will be working together. “So, it is essential to emphasize the importance of democratic institutions and set processes. Once the institutions are strong and we follow the processes that govern those instructions, then we can build a better society.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I believe this is what we need in Nigeria right now, strong institutions but we also need good people to build the strong institutions. We need people with experience, people with the requisite capacity and also people with that strong conviction that we want to do what is right. POLL “That is why the appointment of someone like Honourable Justice Yerima is important because she has the experience in leadership and she can hold her own. I’ve interacted with her she came headlong, well, I’m also a straight shooter. “The judiciary is of course the last hope of the common man in a democracy and so, it is an institution that should not have interferrence from the executive and so, this is our promise to you and Nigerians. We worked with you while you served as acting chief Judge, and I want to say that we will support you, even more as a substantive chief Judge. “Like she also mentioned, so far, we have taken steps to ensure that the judiciary in Oyo state is strengthened to work effectively.” Makinde stated. In her brief remarks shortly after being sworn in as the new Oyo CJ, Justice Yerima expressed her appreciation to the Governor for the trust and faith reposed in her while also appreciating members of the judiciary in the state. She explained that the judiciary has enjoyed maximum cooperation and support under Makinde’s administration particularly for his commitment and passion for the arm of government. She disclosed that the state judiciary is currently undergoing some major infrastructural development at different courts across the state while appealing for more support that will enable accelerated completion of the projects. She also disclosed that the state High court in Ogbomosho will be completed and ready for commissioning before May 29, the day this present dispensation officially terminates. Present at the ceremony were members of the judiciary who were part of the entourage of the new CJ, members of the state executive council and other special guests.