YENAGOA – An indigenous oil-servicing company in Nigeria, Kenyon International West Africa Limited, has announced the award of 50 post-graduate scholarships to indigent but brilliant beneficiaries across the continent of Africa, for e-learning courses. The firm’s Public Affairs Manager, Mr Ifechukwu Muonyili, announced this in a statement he issued on Tuesday. The e-learning courses are facilitated by a United States-based Tekedia Institute, which offers e-learning programmes. Muonyili quoted the Chief Executive Officer of Kenyon, Victor Ekpenyong, as saying that the gesture was aimed at encouraging entrepreneurship amongst the youths rather than being job seekers. The company had in 2022 awarded 30 scholarships for a special Master of Business Administration (MBA) programme to beneficiaries in Nigeria and subsequently increased the slots to 50 and extended the scope to other African countries. The statement read in part: “As an organisation with a keen interest in education and all its related benefits to society, we are happy to announce that we have approved scholarship for over 50 students across Africa to be able to partake in the mini-MBA crash programme organised by Tekedia Institute. “In the past year, we made the scholarship available to 30 Nigerian students who could not afford to be part of the program. We were pleased to see that they acquired the enlightenment they need to function optimally in today’s ever-evolving business landscape.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Our aim is to cause a paradigm shift in the mindset of many Africans and help them discover their entrepreneurial strength, which is needed for us to experience a sustainable economic boom as a continent.” POLL Kenyon International, which offers oil well control services that checks vandalism and oil theft pledged that it is fully committed to providing resources that can enable less privileged but qualified persons to acquire the needed knowledge and skills to effectively manage their businesses all over Africa. It commended the efforts of Prof. Ndubuisi Ekekwe, Lead Faculty at Tekedia Institute, for working to ensure that Kenyon’s idea comes to fruition. The firm said that feedback from the institution indicate that applications are currently being received from the targeted beneficiaries.