Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, (HURIWA), on Saturday, said Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State does not deserve a second term as the governor of the state because he has failed woefully to opt for constructive dialogues with all the restive youths in the state. HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, condemned the gruesome killing of five policemen at the Okpala Junction in the Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo State on Friday. The group said Governor Uzodimma must set up a reconciliation commission by offering apologies to the families of all those killed including security operatives and civilians. HURIWA also said the governor must pay compensation to the victims of the numerous dastard attacks on security agents and civilians in the state. On Friday, gunmen attacked policemen from Abo Mbaise police division when they went to eat at an eatery. Reports said that while three police were shot dead at the scene, two others escaped to a nearby shop but the criminal elements raced to the shop and killed them and equally killed a couple who owned the shop they ran into. The assailants further carted away five rifles of the policemen. HURIWA’s Onwubiko said, “HURIWA condemn in strong terms the killings of the five policemen on Friday in Imo states and the serial murders of Imo youths. “We condemn the intransigence of Gov Hope Uzodinma to opt for constructive dialogues with all the restive youths of Imo State. We call on the governor to step down from being on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress for a second term in order to save Imo from continuous killings. “Gov Uzodimma, if he means well for the state, should announce that he won’t be running in the November governorship poll, then set up reconciliation commission by offering apologies to families of all those killed including security operatives and civilians.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “He should also pay compensations where possible, offer amnesty and open avenue for peace building through withdrawal and submission of arms by sundry armed groups. But the reconciliation must be sincere and pragmatic.”