The All Progressives Congress (APC) has washed its hands off the crisis rocking the opposition Labour Party, stressing that it is much more interested in forming a New Hope government to consolidate the achievement of the outgoing administration of President Mohammadu Buhari. National Chairman of the Labour Party, Julius Abure had recently alleged that the APC was behind his travails and ploy to hijack the LP including the invasion of the party’s National Secretariat by thugs and security operatives. However, Barrister Felix Morka while refuting the accusation urged Abure to focus his energy on dealing with the mess he has made of the “dysfunctional party”. He explained that Abure’s successor and Acting National Chairman Lamidi Apapa has himself exonerated the APC of any involvement in the imbroglio. Morka declared “With legs deep in quicksand, the embattled National Chairman of the Labour Party (LP), Julius Abure, clawing desperately in search of firmer ground, baselessly blames the All Progressives Congress (APC) for his sinking and dysfunctional Party. ” In his irrational outburst, Mr. Abure accused the APC of colluding with police and other security agencies to invade and seize LP’s national secretariat and staging a crisis in that party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Total vindication of APC of any involvement in LP’s imbroglio was swiftly and categorically delivered by Mr. Abure’s successor and Acting National Chairman of LP, Mr. Lamidi Apapa, who exonerated our great Party of any interference in the party’s raging internal crisis. POLL “He clarified that the reported situation at the LP headquarters was a result of a legal process arising from the orders of a Federal Capital Territory High Court that barred Mr. Abure and other national officers of the party from parading themselves as such. “The LP’s morbid obsession with APC is unfathomable and infantile, blaming APC for all its internal woes. Mr Abure’s bogus claim follows Mr Peter Obi’s unsubstantiated and vexatious claim that he was being hounded into exile by our party. “To be clear, APC is not responsible for Mr Abure’s travails. He will do well to focus his thin attention and energy on dealing with the many allegations of criminal conduct of forgery and financial impropriety leveled against him by his own party “While the LP continues to grapple with its myriad woes and crying wolf where none exists, the APC will stay focused and committed to forming a new government to be led by the visionary President-Elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as he drives the Renewed Hope agenda, and consolidate on the many gains of the out-going President Buhari- administration”.