President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, returned to Nigeria this week to a tumultuous wel­come by his supporters. He had been in France for about a month to cool off and restore lost energy after an en­ervating election season that required touring the country and appearing at se­lect sections with different segments of the society. It is one hell of an arduous task even for a young adult. So, it was a well-deserved rest. But he did seem to pant a little when he spoke to journal­ists, which – of course – may have re­sulted from the long flight. For someone who is used to marathon meetings with acolytes and associates, a long haul in the air would be most likely challenging. But he needs some more rest, at least before the May 29 Inauguration. This is to get him back to the tempo of our po­litical climate which involves attending to guests and cheerleaders – with little time for serious affairs of state. I wish he could change this needless addition to the tapestry of governance, but it doesn’t seem he can, having benefitted from and nurtured it. Dare one say how­ever that any leader that must lead Nige­ria out of its present rock bottom must first divest themselves from its talking drum culture of homage-paying and pa­tronage? Though this is not my main interest at present, it is related to it. My major concern – fear, rather – is that our next president does not seem he is about to do anything different from the public service culture that has acquired a tragic Nigerianess. Briefly stated, it is that very irritating style of carrying on government business as though nothing is at stake whereas so much is at stake – the country is at war with insecurity and poverty, and its citizens are on a perennial flight into voluntary exile as socio-economic fugitives. This is no longer news. What is news is that the urgency of the Nigerian dilemma does not connect with the political lead­ers. this is, perhaps, the only country in the world where its leaders believe that ceremony is the soul of governance. Be­ing surrounded by a legion of fawning fools and opportunists is the hallmark of leadership in this part of the world. And in this delusional political tradi­tion, time is a dispensable object. It can be toyed with at will. But history has shown that those who are not conscious of the passage of time are soon sunk into its drain. One of the journalists who had the opportunity to ask Tinubu a question on the day of his return wanted the president-elect to give an insight into how his government would look like. His question was: “People are talking about your administration – how it will look like. Can you give us a glimpse of your administration?” Fast as lightening, Tinubu respond­ed: “I can’t. I have not consulted with people yet. Administration, you said – it’s not run alone. You don’t govern alone; you govern with people. You consult, assemble, and hit the ground running.” Nothing could be more confounding. How do you hit the ground running when a month to your inauguration as president of a nation, you have no idea how your government would look like? Immediately, I caught the hint: we are, yet again, in for another dreary season of lobbying and test-running, probably for a remarkable period of six months, before the new government begins to take shape or have a direction. That smacks of unseriousness for a leader­ship that did not come about by chance. What I thought the journalist wanted to know was what type of team he had in mind, or already in place, and the pol­icy direction – a matter that ought to have been sorted out by now. The team and its direction should be products of the leader’s vision. What he wants to achieve should determine who he brings on board. If the new helmsman is still consulting, up to this time, on who will make his government, what and how they will engage governance, his much-hyped visionary endowment is being exposed to very valid contesta­tion. I thought we already understood that Nigeria is right now in the inten­sive care unit and can least afford any form of tardiness and tentativeness. I also thought we already understood that Buhari bungled the entire show all the way for eight years, and that any further bungling could be tragic? If the president-elect promises to hit the ground running but is still consult­ing on how to achieve this at this point, he would just as likely hit the ground running to nowhere. And that’s a scary prospect. Despite the disappointment I felt on hearing those words from the man of the moment, the man the world is ready to receive as the face of the world’s largest black country, I still think he can realise the onerous task ahead just in time. I had the temptation to believe that that Senator Bamidele Opeyemi, who was behind him, whispering and trying very poorly to veil it, put words into his mouth but the boss himself had started it all when he said he had no idea what type of government he was bak­ing for Nigerians. I believe things would move faster if degenerative situations in which people think for the leader all the time is avoided. This was what we endured for eight debilitating years. I am not saying that ideas should not come from subordinates but when they become processors of thoughts, ideas and information for their principal, they have taken up the job of artistic surgeons embedding portraits on the mental canvass of their patron, and we should then be prepared for costly disruptions. We’ve been through this before; it wasn’t exactly a tea party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ I am trying very hard to be opti­mistic about the capacity of Tinubu’s presidency to confront the prodigious burdens of profligacy and chaos from Buhari’s near decade misrule. To be sure, nothing stops the incoming presi­dent from surprising people, actually, as his supporters have told us repeatedly. Indeed, that is the hope of many Nige­rians – the hope of a pleasant surprise. We have been in for a raw deal much too long and will bless Almighty God for a pleasant surprise, for once. The plaintive rhythm of deferred dreams has been the music of life for my gen­eration. So, you need not imagine what a true, read real, transformation would be for us all except for the infinitesimal section that has benefitted from decades of misgovernance in our country. POLL The following, then, are my expecta­tions from the next president. Cut out the crap. Yes, slice off the cer­emonies and face governance squarely. Believe me if I say I understand that it is extremely difficult for a Nigerian leader to shun tape-cutting ceremonies of routine projects (including boreholes and earth roads), attendance at birthday bashes of associates, holding meetings over proposed changes in party leader­ship, and all such public frivolities. Such has been the nature of governance in Nigeria, which is why the leaders we have had end up praising themselves when confronted by public umbrage and scorn. Better to avoid the consola­tion of psychological self-gratification such as ‘you will praise me when I have left’ – that lucid acceptance of failure which Muhammadu Buhari inherit­ed from Goodluck Jonathan – when a leader has smothered the goodwill of an entire nation while he had the chance all the while to recalibrate a faulty state machinery for extensive positive results. Time winds up very fast you just realise that you have spent a whole term in office giving new appointments, awarding contracts, and signing endless loan requests. Like Buhari did. Move away from routine governance and emplace the vacuities in public ser­vice with creative programmes that can address the anarchy and drift in Nigeria within a remarkably short time. This is precisely the point. When Tinubu claimed that he could not say how his government would look like, he be­trayed a lack of vision, and mission. In simple terms, if he had conceptualized the machinery for addressing insecuri­ty, unemployment and other elements of socio-economic dysfunction in the country, then he ought to have had in mind a set of programmes and a gener­al profile of the suitable drivers of those programmes well before he signified interest in leading the nation, and this should have been the motivation for his presidential ambition and not the now famous emilokan war cry. Throughout his campaign, there were no indications of new thinking and creative solutions. Like the other presidential candidates, he was inhibited by the fear of having his ideas stolen by others. And now that the prize has been won, he needs time to conceive in clear terms the vehicles to carry forth the promises he made. Whether these would be major diver­gences is difficult to say, especially since he had hinted that he would continue from the regression of his predeces­sor. I guess that must have been a poor trick to steer away from being seen as excoriating a man that at some point could have endangered his ambition if he wished. Last point. Abjure the lure of itin­erancy. Spend more time in Nigeria because here is where the problems are. Allow some mystery in your dip­lomatic engagements – don’t go seek­ing the world. When you have shown effectiveness in the handling of internal matters and real changes are happening before the eyes of everyone, the world will seek you out. There’s no better way to convince the world that they need to collaborate on mutually beneficial matters. Take my advice, if you are not able to make any impressions in the first six months, no world leader will take you seriously – don’t be deceived by so-called Nigeria’s strategic position. The problems here are mounting every­day – you’re either going to resolve or complicate them. If you resolve them, friends will come knocking at the door; if you complicate them, there won’t be any use globe-trotting because others won’t find your presence relieving ex­cept they want to give you Greek gifts, like the Chinese do in Africa. Now, let’s see what we have heard.