LAGOS – The Lagos State Police Command and the Operatives of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) have agreed to strengthen  partnership on traffic  management in Lagos State. The General Manager LASTMA, Mr Bolaji Oreagba disclosed this at the weekend during a courtesy visit by the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Idowu Owohunwa to LASTMA Headquarters in Oshodi, Lagos. Oreagba disclosed that road users particularly motoring public would be most beneficial of this partnership in the area of efficient and effective management of traffic, checking excesses of recalcitrant drivers, particularly among commercial bus drivers. The General Manager said the operational guidelines of LASTMA comprises seven Comptrollers who covers three Senatorial Districts of the State, 21 Commanders and 45 Zebras including Brt (1&2) with the free trade zone. He highlighted areas where partnership with Lagos State Police Command were most required to include Iyana Oworonsoki, Iyana-Ipaja, Ojuelegba bridge, Ikorodu Round-About, Ikorodu Road, Lekki-Ajah, Obalende, Marine/Eko bridge, Costain, Igando, Apapa-Oshodi expressway, Egbeda, Ketu  amongst others. Earlier in his welcome address, Assistant Comptroller of LASTMA, Jubril Oshodi said that the establishment of Lagos State School Safety Advocacy Programme (LASTSAP), by LASTMA was aimed at developing a better understanding of road traffic safety and reducing the impact of trauma on the roads. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Oshodi further stated that the programme was also aimed at protecting the future and ensuring sustainable development by catching them young (students).Meanwhile, CP Owohunwa has commended the Lagos State Government for the establishment of LASTMA. “Yes, the presence of  LASTMA Officers at different check points managing and controlling traffic on  roads has made security job easier for  Police men at various divisions in Lagos. While urging LASTMA officials not to be discouraged inspite of provocations, the police boss assured that a structure that would be a bridge for both agencies of government would be put in place. Present at the meeting include DCP Hassan Shaffa, the Deputy Commissioner in-charge of operations (DC OPs), Lagos Command, ACP Oludotun Odubana, the Assistant Commissioner of Police (AC OPs), CSP Aka Shittu (AO- OPs), CSP Kehinde Oni (OC Special Squad), SP Justine Ajeke (2ic SIB), SP Benjamin Hundeyin (PPRO Lagos), Hon. Toyin Aremu (SSA on Transportation to Governor), LASTMA Comptrollers,  Commanders and Zebras.