Chelsea are eyeing Marco Silva as a surprise candidate to replace Graham Potter after his success at Fulham. The Fulham boss has emerged as one of the contenders to take over at Stamford Bridge after owner Todd Boehly sacked Potter on Sunday. Potter leaves Chelsea after just seven months in charge following Saturday’s 2-0 loss to Aston Villa, which left the club 11th in the Premier League, one place below Silva’s Fulham. According to the Mirror, Silva is being considered by Chelsea to become the club’s new head coach, along with current frontrunners Julian Nagelsmann and Mauricio Pochettino. The former Everton manager is enjoying an impressive first season back in the top flight at Craven Cottage, having guided Fulham to the Championship title last term. His side now find themselves one place and one point above Chelsea, who have placed Bruno Saltor in interim charge following the decision to dismiss Potter. In a club statement on Sunday, Chelsea announced: “Chelsea FC has announced that Graham Potter has departed the club. Graham has agreed to collaborate with the Club to facilitate a smooth transition. “In his time with the club, Graham has taken us to the quarter final of the Champions League, where we will face Real Madrid. Chelsea would like to thank Graham for all his efforts and contribution and wish him well for the future.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Potter had been Chelsea boss since September, having replaced former manager Thomas Tuchel earlier in the season, and took charge of 31 matches. Of those games, Potter tasted victory in 12 and lost 11. POLL His exit comes after the Blues were beaten by Villa on Saturday, with Potter taking responsibility for the club’s poor form after the match. Speaking to the BBC at full-time, he explained: “The most important number is the one that goes against us (the scoreline). We have to do better. “In terms of the game, you can see the players gave everything, they took on the responsibility, they tried, they had lots of entries into the box and shots and attacks. “After a defeat there is always a disappointment. There is always a feeling we have not moved forward, that’s fair to say. We have to analyse the performance and look at the things we’ve done well and what we can do better. “I don’t like to blame anybody, I have to take responsibility. We are a team, we have to stay together, we are together. We win or lose together.” Bruno is set to take charge of Chelsea for Tuesday night’s league clash with Liverpool as the search for a new permanent manager gets underway. The Blues also face Real Madrid in the quarter-finals of the Champions League later this month.