The Lagos State govern­ment said it has launched a probe into the collapse of a seven-storey building under construction on Banana Is­land, Ikoyi, Lagos, following a directive by Governor Ba­bajide Sanwo-Olu. Gbenga Omotoso, Com­missioner for Information & Strategy, in a statement on Thursday, said nobody died in the incident, which occurred on Wednesday. He noted that twen­ty-five people were rescued from the site, which Lagos State Emergency Manage­ment Agency (LASEMA) scanned with a high-pre­cision 3-D Laser Imagery System for life, and found no evidence of anyone trapped in the rubble. A roll call has also been done by the site supervisors, with everyone accounted for, he said. The commissioner said Lagos State Emergen­cy Management Agency (LASEMA) has continued with the excavation of the site, using the architectur­al designs, noting that the site has been divided into quadrants for a painstak­ing search and rescue op­eration. “Presently, quadrants 2 and 3 have been levelled to ground zero, with the search operation complet­ed. Quadrants 1 and 4 are ongoing. “Physical Planning and Urban Development Com­missioner Bamgbose-Mar­tins, an engineer and Spe­cial Duties Special Adviser Mobolaji Ogunlende are co­ordinating the operations. LASEMA Permanent Secre­tary, Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osany­intolu, is leading the search-and-rescue efforts. “Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has visited the site and hos­pitals where victims of the incident were admitted.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Of the 25 persons res­cued by LASEMA, 16 with moderate injuries were admitted at General Hospi­tal, Odan, Lagos Island and Police Hospital Falomo for treatment and care. Nine others with minor injuries, such as bruises, were treat­ed and discharged at the site by Lagos State Ambulance Services (LASAMBUS). POLL “Of the 16 persons on admission, 11 were taken to Police Hospital Falomo. Eight of the 11 persons have been treated and dis­charged. Some are required to come for daily follow-up and management. Three with various injuries, in­cluding blunt traumatic chest injury, knee injuries, deep lacerations and others, are on admission. “At the General Hospital Odan, Lagos Island, there are five patients with more serious injuries”, the state­ment noted. Omotoso said the state government, as a matter of policy, will be responsible for the emergency treat­ment and care, including the medical bills of the pa­tients on admission. “It will also provide a post-trauma counselling support and care for all victims through the Lagos MiND programme (Mental Health in Development) – a free mental health coun­selling and support service provided by the Ministry of Health. Preliminary investiga­tions have shown that the incident occurred during concrete casting. Eyewit­nesses said one of the con­crete mixer trucks rammed into some load-bearing col­umns of the building, caus­ing a loud bang and leading to the collapse”, he noted. The building was hither­to sealed by the Lagos State government for not having the approval to commence construction, but the devel­opers continued to build, hiding under the security of their estate/gated com­munity, the commissioner said. “Mr. Governor has direct­ed that all developments on Banana Island be placed on hold, subject to a com­prehensive audit by the officials of the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA). This is to deter­mine: how many buildings are being constructed with­out approval from the Lagos State government, and if all approved buildings are be­ing built in line with the ap­proval limits provided. This exercise will be extended to other estates and gated com­munities”, he said.