ASABA  – The High Court of Justice Delta State, sitting at Kwale Criminal Division, has convicted and sentenced a forty-four-year old man, Olawale Ayeni, to 10 years imprisonment with hard labour for raping a married woman. The Court presided over by Hon­ourable Justice O. F. Enenmo, de­livered its judgment on Tuesday 22 March, 2023. The Defendant was arraigned be­fore the court on a one count charge of rape, punishable under Section 358 of the Criminal Law Code Cap C21 Vol. 1 Laws of Delta State of Nigeria 2006. The Defendant was alleged to have had carnal knowledge of a married woman without her consent, on the 11th day of July, 2020 at Irri, in Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta State, an offence to which the defendant pleaded not guilty. The prosecution led by Mrs. Ejov­wokwe Arhuere Oghorodje, a Depu­ty Director in the Ministry of Justice, called three witnesses, and tendered the confessional statement of the de­fendant and the medical report of the married woman. The prosecution counsel told the court that the victim was in her house feeding her baby when the defendant came and asked to see her, she told the defendant to wait, but he persisted and asked her to come out. The victim stated further that as soon as she stepped out from her apartment to meet the Defendant, he blew a whitish substance on her face.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She stated that the only thing she could remember thereafter was see­ing herself seated in the Defendant’s house. POLL The Defendant then cut her face and back with a razor blade and pro­ceeded to have carnal knowledge of her, without her consent. He warned and threatened her not to tell her husband or anybody about the incident. The woman then re­ported to her husbands’ relatives and the local vigilante. The Defendant was later arrested and handed over to the police where he made a confessional statement. In his defence in court, the Defen­dant retracted his confessional state­ment, and told the court that he knows the victim, as someone who brings customers to him for preparation of traditional medicine. He stated that on the 8th of July, 2020, she came to his house and re­quested him to prepare medicine that she will use to defraud men. He stated that he charged her N28,000 which she was unable to pay. She came back on 9th of July, 2020 and requested him to use his own money to prepare the charm, but he refused. He denied making any incision on any part of her body or put any med­icine into her mouth or had sexual intercourse with her. Delivering judgement, Hon Justice O. F. Enemo held that, he believed the evidence of the prosecution witness­es, and that the prosecution proved its case beyond reasonable doubt while dismissing the defence put up by the Defendant. The Court thereafter convicted and sentenced the Defendant to ten years imprisonment with hard labour. Speaking to newsmen after the judgement, Mrs. P. U. Akamagwu­na, Director, Sexual offences Unit of the Ministry of Justice, commend­ed the Court for a well delivered judgement. She stated that the Ministry of Jus­tice will continue to prosecute all sex offenders as the State will never toler­ate such crimes within its environs. She said the zero tolerance posture of Mr. Isaiah Bozimo, Honourable At­torney-General and Commissioner for Justice, to offences of this nature, has continued to motivate prosecutors in the Ministry to put in their best. The convict, Olawale Ayeni, has since been registered in the Delta State Sex Offenders Register and his details uploaded to the national data­base. This is in line with the provisions of the Violence Against Persons Pro­hibition Law 2020.