IBADAN  – The Democratic Socialist Movement (DSM) sees the current crisis rocking the Labour Party (LP) as a clar­ion call for the rebuilding of the party as a true working people’s party. This was contained in a state­ment on Sunday signed by the National Organising Secretary of the DSM, Peluola Adewale and made available to journal­ists in Ibadan, Oyo State capital. According to the statement, DSM called on the Leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Con­gress (TUC) to commence the process of rebuilding the party as a true party of the working people. The crisis, which has been rocking the party prior to the 2023 general elections, took new dimension on Thursday, 5th April, 2023, when the Nigeria Police provided a cover for a faction led by the National Dep­uty Chairman, Alhaji Bashiru Apampa, to take over the nation­al secretariat of the party . This followed an interim or­der of an Abuja High Court that suspended the national chair­man and secretary pending the determination of the case filed by the faction. The faction had levelled some corruption related allegations against the party leadership, in­cluding using forged documents to support the criminal substitu­tion of candidates. According to the statement, “While we don’t have specific facts on this matter, it is well known that the party is run like a shop, which merchandises electoral tickets to whoever can pay for them. The news is also awash with cries from party members who accused the par­ty leaders of illegal and criminal substitution of their names with higher bidders.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “However, we do not rule out the correctness of the allegation by the party National chairman, Barrister Abure, that the faction is sponsored by the APC in or­der to decimate the LP given the threat the party has posed to the continued domination of APC and PDP from the results of the 2023 election. POLL “The Apampa-led faction who alleged the chairman and secretary of corruption also immediately reinstated nation­al officers, National youth lead­er and publicity secretary, who were removed over corruption allegations. “The faction also recalled state leaderships who were sus­pended following alleged com­promise with APC or PDP in the last governorship election in their states. All this shows that the faction is out to take over the party for their own self-serving interest. “Therefore, we hold that the allegation and counter allega­tion of corruption among the party leadership and the way and manner they conduct the affair of the party, clearly show that the labour party, as it is pres­ently constituted, is not run in the interests of the working peo­ple in the country. “It is in the light of this we call on the Leadership of the Nige­ria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) to commence the process of re­building the party as a true party of the working people.” The statement added: “As a first step towards this, we pro­pose that the NLC and TUC con­vene a special conference that includes trade unions, socialist and left organisations, left coa­lition like TPAMP and JAF, and LP leaders, members and elected public officers.