WARRI  – House of Representatives member-elect, Jonathan Ukodhiko, has expressed sadness over the death of the nation’s doyen of histo­ry, emeritus Professor Obaro Ikime. The late Fellow and Presi­dent of the Historical Society of Nigeria (HSN), who re­portedly died at the age of 87 on Tuesday at Ibadan, hailed from Erowha in Isoko-South Local Government Area of Delta State. In a condolence message on Wednesday, Ukodhiko said: “The late HSN Presi­dent, Professor Obaro Ikime, was one of the pioneers of post-colonial Nigerian his­toriography.” He added: “Prof. Obaro Ikime will be best remem­bered as the daring scholar who pioneered studies of in­ter-groups relations in Nige­ria when he did his doctoral degree on Itsekiri-Urhobo relations in 1965. “For us in Isoko, we will remember and celebrate him for being a great patri­ot-scholar whose pioneering effort with his 1972 book, The Isoko People: A Historical Survey,” not only put the his­tory of our ethnic group and its people on record but stim­ulated an abiding interest in the study of Isoko history. The former Delta Energy Commissioner, Ukodhiko, stated that Professor Ikime was one of the most accom­plished academics who put Nigeria in the front rank of international scholarship. “He took academic strides by devoting his time and energy to the teaching and researching of Nigerian history at Nigeria’s oldest university, the University of Ibadan (UI), and he made African history a respectable discipline.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Prof. Ikime was among the eminent historians who created Nigeria’s only glob­ally recognized academic brand famously called the Ibadan School of History, which gave the great UI its fame. POLL “Ikime’s intellectual repu­tation was built mostly on his eight published books, which included Groundwork of Ni­gerian History, Niger-Delta Rivalry, The Historian and the Nation, and his innumer­able scholarly essays. “The late intellectual gi­ant from Erowha in Isoko was an icon, and his glorious academic achievements will serve as both an inspiration and a catalyst for those who desire knowledge and aca­demic greatness. “We celebrate Prof. Ikime’s selfless service to our country, Nigeria. For, he served as a member of the body that drafted the 1979 Constitution for Nigeria, and he was the founding President of the Nigerian Academy of Arts.”