Following the backlash he received from the supporters of the Labour Party’s presidential candidate in the just concluded elections, Peter Obi, celebrated Nigerian playwright, Wole Soyinka has called on the Nigerian media to play by the rules of mutual obligation, or else abandon public discourse altogether. The Nobel Laureate had granted an interview to Channels TV but claims the station did not air the complete interview thereby casting some of his statements out of context. In a statement titled ‘Media Responsibility in a Time of Civic Uncertainty’, Soyinka said that he hopes Channels TV plans to provide the entire interview. “After months of having to endure total fabrications of partisan utterances that are strange to me, even in their very choice of words, it is most aggravating to have this, the first I have conceded in my authenticated person, casually subjected to selective editing and dissemination. “What I have read – at least, thus far – this morning, extracted from a one-and-a-half long interview, conducted a week ago with Channels Television, brings once more to the fore, the critical responsibility of the media in transmitting the spoken, even recorded – word to the public. This is especially crucial in a time of civic uncertainty. When remarks are taken out of context, spliced into a new one, provided a sensational headline, distortions become stamped on public receptivity, and the central intent of one’s remarks becomes completely unrecognisable,” he said. Explaining, he said that he denounced the menacing utterances of a vice-presidential aspirant as unbecoming, describing it as a gladiatorial challenge directed at the judiciary and, by implication, the rest of the democratic polity. “But what on earth has happened to my even more urgent condemnation of the physical violence inflicted on those designated ‘strangers’ in Lagos in the lead-up to, and during governorship elections? This prejudicial selectivity is a betrayal of trust, and I find it contemptuous of public deserving. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “My critique of incipient fascism in the movement remains grounded in indisputable evidence. Throughout the interview, I continued to stress that the final word had yet to be pronounced on the elections – that omission renders the full message tendentious! POLL “My rejection of fascism is nothing new. On three occasions, I was able to send a message to Peter Obi that if he lost the election, it would be his followers who lost it for him. It was depressing to watch his lieutenant, a crucially positioned voice of a movement that has “broken the mould,” threaten the totality of social existence… “Let us play by the rules of mutual obligation, or else abandon public discourse altogether,” he said.