ABUJA – Following the implementation of the National Fertilizer Quality Act(NFQA) 2019, over 50 offenders have been arrested by the taskforce saddled with the responsibility of enforcing compliance with the Act. Mr. Ishaku Buba, Deputy Director, Farm Inputs Support Services(FISS) in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, stated this on Tuesday Abuja in an interview with newsmen at the Stakeholders Workshop on the Evolving Trend in Analytical Equipment, Methods and Standards for Fertilizers and Agro-Chemical. Buba said the taskforce team being coordinated by the Office of the National Security Adviser in collaboration with relevant security agencies had embarked on monitoring and surveillance to check the activities of quacks in the fertilizer sub-sector. It would be recalled that the Federal Government had launched the National Fertilizer Quality Control Act 2019 as a vital component of the Agricultural Policy of the present administration and in a bid to reposition and diversify Nigeria’s economy from oil and gas to agribusiness. The Act is intended to safeguard and protect the interest of the entire fertilizer value chain players such as manufacturers, producers, blenders, importers, distributors and the end user farmers in Nigeria. Buba pointed out that it is no longer business as usual, as security agencies have been mobilised to apprehend unscrupulous individuals who engage in sharp practices in fertilizer blending and manufacturing in the country. He noted that the ministry has achieved a lot since the implementation of the Act, which was officially flagged-off in 2020.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ On the essence of the Stakeholders Workshop, Buba explained that it was convened to harmonise the system and methodologies adopted by laboratory analysts and research institutes in analysing the quality and standard of fertilizers produced in Nigeria. POLL He explained that there are over 200 Fertilizer manufacturers and blenders with over 2000 distributors across the country, adding that there was the need for all of them to operate within specified standards. Also speaking, a Professor of Soil Science at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Prof. Amapu Ishaku, said there are evolving trends in analytical equipment, methods and standards for fertilizers which Nigeria needs to key in. Ishaku affirmed that there are enough provisions in the National Fertilizer Quality Control Act 2019 to ensure that fertilizers produced in Nigeria are of good quality. He noted that chemical content and physical quality are used to determine the quality of the farm input. On the high cost of the farm inputs, he urged the policy makers in Nigeria to look into it, while calling for attitudinal change among all Nigerians in order to get it right in the agricultural sector.