ABUJA – The World Health Organization (WHO) Country Representative to Nigeria (WR), Dr Walter Kazadi Mulombo has advocated for more funding of the health sector to meet the target of the 2001 15 percent Abuja Declaration, saying health is suffering in the budget compared to areas such as defense, army and others. Additionally, as health is a human right and not a luxury or consumable, the more politically wise decisions we make now will benefit this nation. Mulombo gave this hint at a press conference to mark the World Health Day 2023 and the commemoration & launch of WHO@75 anniversary with the theme: Health for AllSub theme: 75 years of improving public health in Abuja. According to him: “Abuja Declaration on Health, in April 2001, heads of state of African Union countries met and pledged to set a target of allocating at least 15% of their annual budget to improve the health sector till date we are still far from the target.” “Even though, in places that we reach it, 80 percent of the money goes into tertiary hospitals and yet the primary health care is where 70 percent of the population in the communities get first exposure to health care services. The spending itself is distorted. That is the biggest challenge that has generated everything that we have seen. Lack of enough budget to prepare responses to pandemic for instance , we have to struggle in many places.” “The main challenge is the way health is featured , is a political choice and unfortunately many government did not live by that. Many countries continue to consider health as luxury or something that is costing the government money where as it should have been taking like an enabling factor for economic and socio economic development.” “Similarly, addressing social determinants of health is important for improving health and reducing longstanding disparities in health and health care. The way countries are dealing with social determinants of health, factors like socioeconomic status, education, neighborhood and physical environment, employment, and social support networks, as well as access to health care is something that is worrisome.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Mulombo while speaking on another challenge faced by the WHO, said we need more facilities with dialysis machines and more expensive equipment to combat the Noncommunicable diseases . POLL “The challenges of demographic transition is not an easy one because the facilities that were used during the colonial period are still the same, I am not talking about Nigeria, I am talking about the general pictures, It may be possible that in Nigeria is the same situation we are not expending in the space of demographic transition and the way the population is increasing and you know that Nigeria is projected to have over 400 million population by 2040, 2050. If we keep the same facilities like today, how are they going to cope, where would they go for health care. These are the critical challenges many countries are facing not just Nigeria.” “Another one is the way we prepare for response of big outbreaks of pandemics, you know that COVID 19 pandemic was not expected and we are still expecting flu pandemic and we have been preparing for that, we know when it will hit, when COVID 19 pandemic hit the world , no country was ready not even the US, UK and yet we have International Health Regulations and Global Health Security Agenda, so the way we prepare was a challenge and the other one was that demographic transition and the prominence of disease civilization, Non communicable diseases, our health facilities are not prepared to face these challenges. The International Health Regulations (IHR) 2005 are a legally binding agreement of 196 countries to build the capability to detect and report potential public health emergencies worldwide. IHR require that all countries have the ability to detect, assess, report, and respond to public health events. The Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) is a global effort to strengthen the world’s ability to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease threats. “Health is not a luxury but human rights we need to start talking about human rights violations it is not acceptable for any child to miss a vaccine.We are trying to advocate for it to be taken into universal schedule of human rights that countries are implementing . ‘If We are better prepared for future Emergencies , pandemic and also make sure that the community play their roles in identifying their needs and in providing the service to address the challenges . “The government has a role to play to ensure that the public financing is paid to Health Insurance otherwise we will continue to see”, he stated.