P/HARCOURT. -The Executive Chairman of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Dr. Joseph Ogbele, has called on the Rivers State Governor- Elect, Sir Siminialayi Fubara, and other Governors-elect to pay more attention on the development of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). He said SMEs are the drivers of the economy, and that when government gives adequate attention to its development, it will provide multiple jobs for the unemployed youths, and also yields more revenue to government. Ogbele, who made this known during an interaction with the media in Port Harcourt, expressed regrets that governments at various levels have not given adequate attention to the growth and development of Small and Medium Enterprises so far. According to him, the high rate of unemployment that is currently ravaging the society was as a result of the neglect of the small and medium Enterprises. “Various administrations have come onboard at the state and federal levels, but I can tell you that proper attention had not been given to SMEs, which is supposed to engage these unemployed youths. “My advice is that they should give adequate attention to development of these Small and medium Enterprises, and you will see what will happen in terms of employment and growth in the economy at both state and federal levels”, he said. On the call for the removal of subsidy and turn around maintenance of the refineries, the IPMAN boss lamented that the Federal Government is not sincere on its promise to Nigerians to fix the refineries.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Ogbele, a lecturer at the Ignatius Ajuru University of Education in Port Harcourt, alleged that the cabals in the oil industry are making much money through importation of petroleum products, at the detriment of Nigerians, and so do not want the refineries to be fixed. POLL He said the stand of IPMAN on the removal of subsidy is that the refineries be fixed first, before the removal of subsidy, which Federal Government has fixed for June this year, so that the masses will not suffer much when the subsidy is removed.