LAGOS  – Tussle between the Ikumoworo family and Olofin family over Isheri-Oke disput­ed land has been taken to the Supreme Court of Nigeria. The disputed land is situated at Old Olowora Road, Isheri-oke, Lagos State. The Attorney for the IKumoworo family, Princess Josephine Momoh has filed an appeal at the apex court over the judgment delivered by the Court of Ap­peal, Lagos Division which on March 16, 2022 upturned the judgement delivered by Justice Yetunde Idowu in favour of Princess Josephine Momoh. The Ikumoworo Family comprises the Onikosi, Onikoro and Oshorun Fami­ly. Josephine Momoh who is the claimant, is an agent of the ikumoworo family and she’s suing as an attorney of the family. Appellant being dissatisfied with the judgment of the Court of Appeal, has duly filed their NOTICE OF APPEAL to the Supreme Court. Momoh’s grounds of appeal stated that, “the court erred in law when they held that the testimony of the appellant on the traditional history of the Iku­moworo family was very porous and in­conclusive because neither PW2 nor PW4 testified on the details of intervening owners through whom they claimed the land. And thereby came to a perverse de­cision occasioning serious miscarriage of justice to the appellant. “The pleadings and evidence of PW2 and PW4 agree on the fact that their pro­genitor was Ikumoworo and that he de­forested a large portion of land including the land in dispute. The evidence of sub­sequent or intervening owners of part of the land in dispute cannot override or be superior to the evidence given of the first settler and founder of the large parcel of land including the land in dispute. The Appellant in the trial court gave evidence of the children of Ikumoworo which the land in dispute devolved on jointly by way of inheritance under Yoruba Native Law and custom.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Therefore the Justices of the Court below did not properly evaluate the evi­dence of traditional history of the family as the owner of the land in dispute. The Court of Appeal erred in law when on page 30 of their judgment relied on the judgments tendered as Exhibit N, 0, 01 & Y to found in favor of the respondents as the owner of the land in dispute and thereby came to a perverse decision occa­sioning serious miscarriage of justice to the appellant.” POLL Justice Idowu of Lagos High Court, had on July 16, 2009 delivered a judg­ment in the suit no: ID/1664/1999 filed by Princess Josephine Momoh against Oba Nurudeen Adekanbi, the Olofin of Isheri for himself and on behalf of Olofin family restrained them from trespassing on the disputed land. Besides the traditional ruler, others in the suit are Mr. Lasisis Kudoro, Mr. Bashi­ru Kudoro for themselves and on behalf of the other members of Kudoro’s family. As well as Akin Kudoro Adisa Adejon­wo, Mr. Yinka Ajenifuja and Unknown trespassers/as first to fifth respondents respectively. Momoh, the claimant at the lower court had prayed the court for a declara­tion that the claimant as Attorney for the Kumoworo family is entitled to the stat­utory Right of Occupancy over all that piece or parcel of land situate, lying and being at Isheri, Lagos State of Nigeria which land was released to the original owners by the Lagos State Government and which land is more particularly de­scribed and edged ‘RED’ on the attached survey plan No. TJ/LA/114/76 dated 26th December, 1976 and made by Surveyor J. Theophilus John, licensed Surveyor and composite plan No. OYE/452/052/056/03 made by Surveyor B. Olusanya licensed Surveyor. The high court judge had held that the evidence of the claimant to be more prob­able, “I find the evidence of the claimant and witnesses to be cogent and highly probable as opposed to the confused and contradictory evidence of defendants and witnesses. “I am inclined to exercise my discre­tion in favour of the claimant. The dec­laration sought is accordingly granted. I am unable to grant the prayer of the defendants/counter-claimants in the sought declaration. “The equitable interest and possession of the claimant within the purview of the provisions of Section 34(5) and (6) of Land Act 1976 and she would be entitled to the statutory right of occupancy re­spect of the disputed land. “I hold that the claimant was in pos­session of the land before the defendants trespassed thereon. Trespass is actionable per so without proof of damages. On the issue of gener­al and special damages, the claimant has claimed N990,000.00.” Meanwhile, the respondents had prayed the court for a declaration that the 1st-5th defendants for themselves and on behalf of the Olofin Chieftaincy Family are the persons entitled to the statutory Right of Occupancy in respect of the land in dispute at Isheri-Oke and Olowora, vide Survey Plan No, ADAKS 01/LA/2006 dated 8th February, 2006, drawn by Adetunji Adeleke, Registered Surveyor. They therefore challenged the judge­ment at the Court of Appeal in a suit marked CA/L/362/2010, argued that the lower court ought to have considered and evaluated all the evidence tendered, including the documentary evidence of previous judgments tendered, and placed them on an imaginary scale of justice to determine where the scale tilts.