The police in Anambra State at the weekend, recorded a break­through by arresting six mem­bers of a notorious criminal gang that has been terrorising the Eziowelle community and its environs for a long time. Recovered from the daredevil members of the gang were weap­ons which include: three English pump action rifles and other dan­gerous weapons which they use for their operations. It was gathered that the crim­inals were rounded up after the state Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng, received reports about their criminal activities in the area. Police sources said members of the notorious gang have, for a long time, been using an illegal vigilante group to kidnap, rob, intimidate, and harass people in the community. They were also alleged to have broken into the homes of prom­inent individuals in the com­munity, steal their properties, rape female members of their families and kidnap others who would later be forced to part with huge sums of money as ransom. Sources said that one promi­nent man in the area that claims to be a Pastor also controls his own gang that has been indulg­ing in criminal acts in Eziowelle for a long with the tacit support of some leaders of the commu­nity who always claimed to have contacts with security agencies in both Anambra State and Abu­ja that will protect them. According to sources, they made the town so hot that many indigenes both in Nigerian and the Diaspora, ran away from their homes for fear of being kidnapped and forced to pay ran­som under the guise of being a vigilante group.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It was learned that some of their victims were not only ab­ducted at midnight but taken to offices of some security agen­cies where they were tortured, harassed and intimidated into parting with huge sums of mon­ey to buy their freedom POLL One of their victims was said to have been abducted from his house one midnight, last year, taken to the office of a security agency in another town where he was subjected to torture along with many others in an under­ground cell and later brought before the police on trumped up charges. The police, however, freed them after carrying out a thor­ough investigation into the case. Sources said that when the re­port of their criminal activities was received by the Commission­er of Police, Echeng Echeng, he swiftly directed the Commander of Anti-cult Unit in the state, CSP Uche Noah, to swing into action and round up all the criminals involved in the nefarious acts. Their operations reportedly paid off after CSP Uche stormed the town in an operation de­scribed as ‘unprecedented in exe­cution’ and rounded up the suspe cts. This, according to sources, was after they gave the police team stiff resistance and confronted them with a hot exchange of firepower that lasted for hours. It was gathered that the police team succeeded in routing them and arrested six of their king­pins while others escaped with serious bullet wounds. Police sources said the oper­ations would be continued un­til the criminals are flushed out and their financiers rounded up to make Eziowelle a peace­ful town.