One of the cardinal principles of constitutional democracy is that the political party with the most members in Parliament is recognised as the ‘governing party’ while the other lesser parties become the ‘oppo­sition’ which is traditionally saddled with the unique responsibility of holding the governing party continually accountable by using all legitimate parliamentary processes. Both the ruling party and the opposition have clearly defined legisla­tive offices assigned to them according to established parliamentary practices and decorum. Members of the ruling party would nat­urally seek to implement the mandate they received from the electorate while those in the opposition would always ensure that their voices and, by implications, those of their constituencies, are also heard on the floor of Parliament. It is possible within this plurality that some working alliances are fashioned out amongst the different political parties, de­pending on the circumstances and necessity prevailing at any given time but it is never within the contemplation of parliamentary practices that the minority opposition par­ties would be forming an alliance or a “gang up” with a view to seizing leadership posi­tions in Parliament, something which they could not individually achieve at the polls. That would be a backdoor entrance into government thus abandoning their critical role of holding the ruling party accountable because they would have somehow aban­doned their own side of the aisle just to partake in the ‘spoils of office’ but at great cost to good governance and accountability. It also raises the question of whether such parliamentarians really understand that they were elected into office to serve the in­terest of their electors and not themselves. Every ruling party has its agenda and it ought to be allowed to succeed or fail on it without the opposition angling for a “piece of the action” unless they also want to share in the blames. When Senator Saraki executed a legis­lative coup in 2015, some people thought he was being “smart” but the reality was that he was just being a shameless, undis­ciplined and unprincipled usurper who did not respect basic parliamentary ethics, in which the opposition exists to check the gov­ernment and not to force its way into unde­served offices, which was itself a betrayal of those who voted him into parliament to go there and participate in the checking and balancing of power instead of the unethi­cal “kill and divide” mission he eventually embarked upon. From the noises currently in the nation’s public space, it would seem as if a Sara­ki-like debacle is once again in the mak­ing. The difference this time around is that “legislative coup plotters” will no longer be dealing with Muhammadu Buhari who was largely an absentee President but with Bola Tinubu who is well-known for his abil­ity to give his adversaries decisive “close marking”. Saraki endured and indeed lux­uriated because the head of the Executive department was not able or unwilling to meaningfully engage him over his treach­ery. A determined Executive can also do so much against an unruly lawmaker as the no-nonsense Obasanjo presidency amply demonstrated. The Saraki episode did no credit to con­stitutional democratic values supposedly anchored on accountability as we thought­fully concluded in 2019 when the Ninth Assembly was about to be constituted in a piece entitled “Restoring Legislative In­tegrity” (17/3/2019): “As a constitutional State, Nigeria is expected to be governed not through the personal whims and capric­es of any individual or group of persons pretending to have ascribed to themselves the notion of untouchability but strictly in accordance with the Constitution in which no one is above the law which clearly pre­scribes for the doctrine of Separation of Powers and the complementary principles of ‘checks and balances’ for lawful gover­nance.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “By that arrangement, the government of Nigeria is constitutionally differentiat­ed from other forms of governments such as autocracy, monarchy, dictatorship, etc. and for very good reasons. The framers of the inaugural US constitutional structure from where we borrowed ours unanimous­ly wanted to ensure the establishment of governments characterised by institutional integrity with the liberty and happiness of the people as their primary goal. In other words, governmental services shall not be evaluated as acts of benevolence or the dispensation of personal grace by the lead­ership but that of accountability executed within the obligatory framework of politi­cal stewardship POLL “This philosophical disposition has made it necessary for the people to always audit and continually assess the character and performances of those they have elected into offices. The reality, however, is that, in most democracies, including that of Nige­ria, there has been the common mistake of focusing mainly on the Executive arm of government when appraising the success or failure of administrations. The govern­ment is made up of three separate arms and any of them or a combination of them can operate to frustrate and derail the entire governing system. “The Saraki-led 8th National Assembly, without doubt, was both in its composition and disposition operationally subversive of the goals of the Buhari government, so much so that there was no way the govern­ment could have meaningfully executed its programmes without recourse to admin­istrative short-cuts as was the case under the Olusegun Obasanjo’s semi-autocratic presidency in the face of negative legisla­tive obstinacy. “Even though Parliament exists to ben­eficially serve the electorate, it can effec­tively turned itself into an obstructionist institution and could be defiantly poised to undermine the administration and its poli­cy initiatives as it was the case with Buhari administration which endured legislative obstruction endlessly. “The Legislators significantly misin­terpreted the original purposes of the doctrine of separation of powers and its allied ‘checks and balances’ to mean antag­onistic separation of functions with a view to ‘checking and frustrating’ governance. Their excesses became a domestic manifes­tation of the phenomenon of ‘Legislative Capture’ as they were not only self-serving in their ways and methodologies, they were also destructive of internal party discipline without which the policies and programmes of a ruling party could be frustrated by mischievous denial of requisite legislative backings. “The damaging effects of this ‘legislative capture’ played out quite clearly in under­mining the Buhari anti-corruption prom­ises as the government could not come up with appropriate legislative mechanisms that would have put the war against cor­ruption on a strong juristic footing, thereby crippling the administration’s inchoate an­ti-corruption policy which then saw corrup­tion blossomed astronomically in Nigeria. “While the Legislators were doing their ‘hide and seek’ with presidency, they did not forget to balloon their already outrageous salaries and allowances, which have no fis­cal parallel anywhere in the world. Their jumbo hauls from the national treasury were brazen and insensitive to the plight of other Nigerians and there was neither decency nor personal and collective integ­rity in the primitive legislative power-grab. It was a kind of ‘moral vandalism’, using the words of US Senator Corry Booker, an unhealthy development that truncated the spirit and letters of legislative process.” The Saraki-led National Assembly was motivated solely by inordinate lust for un­deserved power. Little wonder that after all that Saraki did in his capacity of “Senate President”, he too wanted to become Presi­dent strangely on the platform of the PDP, which was then the main opposition to his own party, APC, thus confirming that he actually turned the Senate into a do-noth­ing positive institution all to the detriment of effective governance. Saraki’s political apostasy was both immoral and unconstitu­tional – a parliamentary abomination! Let me be clear. No one desires a rub­ber-stamp legislature like Senator Lawan’s type because that would be another unfor­tunate situation wherein there will be no meaningful checks on an errant Executive. Nigerians opted for a governing process with separation of powers because “pow­er corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely”. That lofty constitutional ex­pectation is undermined whenever the Legislature or the Executive or possibly, the Judiciary, goes rogue.