Nigeria’s indigenous energy trading company, Hyde Energy Limited has restated its commitment to quality products within its growing portfolio across Sub-Saharan Africa. The company has continued to develop along the value chain with strategic upstream, midstream, and downstream assets central to its objective of building a long-term future in the global energy and commodities marketplace. At a press conference in Lagos recently, the Chief Executive of Hyde Energy, Oladimeji Edwards, said, “We are pleased and proud of our growth and achievement at Hyde Energy. Last year, we marked a decade of operating a business in Nigeria. Despite all the challenges, this is a great feat for us, and we are true to our commitment to excellence in decades to come.” “Over the years, we have developed a strong footprint in Nigeria’s midstream and downstream oil industry. We have grown our client base and transaction volumes, explored opportunities in the oil and gas value chain, developed additional distribution channels for moving our products to the end user, diversified product offerings, expanded our market share in the supply and distribution of petroleum products, strengthened our footprint in the international commodities market, and created partnerships to strengthen indigenous participation in the Nigerian Oil & Gas sector”. Edwards spoke on how Hyde Energy has also expanded to deliver value to customers outside Nigeria. He added, “We see our business’s future growth in our Lubricants business and Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG). We have expanded our Lubricants and other quality products that meet the needs of consumers across Sub-Saharan Africa. Our retail stations, though still expanding, have grown in Lagos, Calabar and Abuja. “There has also been an expansion of our LPG from our first outlets in Lagos and a subsequent one in Abuja; we are now commissioning in Makurdi and eight other outlets across the country in the North and Southwest. Currently, our primary focus is to ensure that we get the gas resources to run through our distribution network and keep that network running to meet the growing demands in every neighborhood.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒