ABUJA – Evelyn Mensah Agu, a Certified Autism Specialist and Program Director, Patsilver Educational Support and Therapy Centre has extolled the virtues and sport potentials of the children with special needs. She stated this on Saturday in Abuja while addressing journalists during the inaugural inter-house sports competition of Patsilver Educational Support and Therapy Centre. Agu said the competition was organized to showcase the capability and potential of  children with special needs to enable them to catch up with their peers in any area of sports and have a sense of belonging. According to her, the programme won’t be one-off as it would be done yearly to enable the children to catch up with their peers. “Typically inter-house sports are done by typical students who attend mainstream schools, so for me I wanted to change the narrative. I was actually going to collaborate with mainstream school, but I don’t want anyone to take the shine off these children with special needs. “So I just thought ‘do it let it be purely special needs inter house sports’ so that people out there can see that children with special needs have abilities too just like typical children. I’m sure most of them have siblings who go to mainstream schools and they see them dress up and go for their inter-house sports. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ So by doing this, the students will feel included. It definitely is not going to be a one-off. It’s going to be continuous and a yearly event.” She urged other special needs centres to prioritize and organise  inter house sports to encourage the children in that category with the view of discovering their talents and potentials. She said: “I don’t want to take the glory but I feel like we’re the first special needs centre to do exclusive inter-house sports. Most other centres partner with mainstream schools. I don’t know if it’s to make it easier. People should do more of this.” On her own part the centre’s supervisor, Ukanwa Olivia said: “The programme was organized to make the children with special needs feel what other children feel and also for parents to see the strength in their children. Parents need to see their children’s strength, the things they do and believe in their abilities.” Sapphire Blue emerged as the winner out of the three houses that participated in the competition and was presented with a trophy while Ruby Red and Peridot Yellow who came second and third respectively were also presented with trophies.