IBADAN  – The Coca-Cola Founda­tion (TCCF) in its effort to tackle challenges associ­ated with improper waste management has provided a grant to support a local NGO, Statewide Waste and Environmental Education Foundation (SWEEP Foundation) on their ‘Green Campus Proj­ect’ designed to facilitate the implementation of a comprehensive waste man­agement programme across selected university campus­es in Nigeria. Speaking during the of­ficial flag-off of the Green Campus Project at the Uni­versity of Ibadan, Ibadan the Capital City of Oyo state on Wednesday, the Di­rector of Public Affairs of TCCF, Mrs. Nwamaka On­yemelukwe said the project is scheduled to flag off in the University of Ibadan, then to the University of Benin, University of Nigeria, Enu­gu Campus, University of Port-Harcourt and Obafemi Awolowo University with the focus on galvanizing support for more sustainable means of dealing with packaging waste through cost-effective aggregation models. “The project will provide waste and environmental education, establish uni­versity campus community drop-off points and recycling hubs, while simultaneously providing an additional in­come stream for the campus community youth who par­ticipate in the program.” “The Coca-Cola Founda­tion’s mission is to make a difference in communities around the world where The Coca-Cola Company operates and where our em­ployees live and work.” Nwamaka said, “The im­plementation of this waste reduction scheme will facil­itate the deployment of key infrastructures and mobile collection receptacles across participating institutions in the country. Overall, this program will help accelerate and improve the collection of discarded plastic bottles (PET) leveraging targeted awareness programs on campus community recy­cling. She maintained, “The project aspires to eliminate waste incineration, a com­mon practice in many insti­tutions in Nigeria. The proj­ect will support 250 students with training, logistics, PPE and other incentives in each campus-based recycling and waste collection hub as they volunteer at the various drop-off centers.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In his words, “Amb. Phillips Obuesi, President of SWEEP Foundation, re­iterated the impact of the program on the selected universities and surround­ing communities saying, “University campuses suf­fer from indiscriminate waste disposal habits of its staff and students, mostly occasioned by low – level awareness and inadequate infrastructures to support proper waste management across these campuses. POLL He stressed, “Tertiary in­stitutions as change agents in society play a central role in supporting students to forge more sustainable habits that are necessary to tackle plastic pollution. The Green Campus Project is therefore strategically posi­tioned to lead the charge in these universities”. Also speaking on the proj­ect, the President of The Co­ca-Cola Foundation, Saadia Madsbjerg, said, “We recog­nize that student communi­ties are critical stakeholders in our broad strategy to pre­serve and protect our ecosys­tem. We are proud to support this initiative which will not only improve the waste val­ue chain of Campuses in Nigeria but will also help in­spire an entire generation of environmental advocates”. “We support transfor­mative ideas and institu­tions that address complex global challenges and that leave a measurable and lasting impact. Our giving is focused on sustainable access to safe water, climate resilience and disaster risk preparedness and response, circular economy, economic empowerment, and causes impacting our hometown community.”