A group, Partners for Legislative Agenda for Nigeria has reiterated its support for Senator Barau to emerge as the next president of Senate. In a press statement issued by the group on Saturday, at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja after a press conference, the group gave reasons why its advocating for the emergence of Senator Barau. In the statement, the convener of the group, Charles IBIANG, stated, “The APC has won the 2023 General Elections, the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is from the South West Nigeria while the Vice President-elect, Sen. Kashim Shettima is from the North East. “We have six geo political zones in the country, two already settled while four are left to be settled. “We as a group is here to demand that the position of the Senate President should be zoned to the North West, and in zoning this to the region we demand that the party should consider zoning it to the North West of Kano State. “We all know the Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu is from the North Central. So the West should be considered for the slot and the lot should fall on Kano State which delivered the greater part of the vote for the party in the just concluded election. In kano, through Senator Barau Jibrin, the party won and retained the only Senatorial seat of Kano North Senatorial District. Many House of Representatives members representing different Constituencies in the Senatorial District and House of Assembly members and subsiquently had the Highest Votes in North west for the Presidential elections. “Now, pursuant to Section 2(a) of the Standing Orders of the Senate, only a ranking Senator-Elect with legislative experience can be dully elected as the President of the Senate.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “With the outcome of the Presidential and National Assembly Elections, Senator Barau, , Chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriation from Kano State is eminently qualified to contest and occupy the position of the Senate President. Apart from being the most ranking Senator- elect from North West and kano State, he is a 6th termer, who has sponsored bills and motion with unequal legislative experience. He has the requisite knowledge, Education, Team player and will be willing to carry everybody along irrespective of political parties, religion, ethnic and language differences. A man of the people himself, will ensure harmonious relationship between the various arms of government, the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary.” POLL “Available records indicated that Kano State top the Presidential voting results with 517, 341 in the North west Geo-political Zone of the Country. Jigawa State scored 421,390 Sokoto 285,444 , Kebbi 248,088 , Kaduna 399,293 , Katsina 482,283, Zamfara 298,396 and Kebbi had the lowest mark. If Politics is nothing but about interest, who gets what; when; and how, it should be based on performance. And APC, being an organized party that rewards performance, Senator Barau from Kano State deserves nothing less than the Senate Presidency of the 10th National Assembly. “We therefore urged the APC to consider the North West zone specifically for the job and Senator Barau from Kano State, representing the good people of Kano North Senatorial seat fits the bill.”