LAGOS  – The Chairman of the Po­lice Service Commission (PSC), Solomon Arase, a retired Inspector Gener­al of Police, has warned officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force against acts capable of bringing the image of the Force into disrepute. Arase sounded this warning when he received the national leadership of the Police Com­munity Relations Committee (PCRC). He pledged to work in partner­ship with the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to reinvigorate the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) for better performance. Arase noted that for the Police to excel in its day-to-day opera­tions, there must be consequenc­es for misconduct and benefits for exemplary behaviour. He said benefits and burden must go together, stressing that he would strive to complement what the Police had been doing to ensure that the operations of the Force must conform to its rules of engagement. The PSC Chairman said the Police have no reason to go into land matters or debt collection, issues that should be handled through alternative dispute res­olution, adding that he would remain a strong advocate of com­munity partnership in policing. He, however, noted that he was worried over the increasing cases of human rights abuses in the Police.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Arase pledged to support the visiting delegation in areas they needed his support. POLL The PCRC National Chair­man, Alhaji Mogaji Ibrahim Ola­niya, earlier in his brief remarks, commended Mr. President for his appointment, stressing, “You are the best for the job.” Alhaji Olaniya said the com­mittee was in the commission to congratulate him on his appoint­ment and to let him know that they were vigorously building on the legacies he established as the 18th Inspector General of Police (IGP). He said the committee now has offices outside the country, such as in Canada, United King­dom etc, adding, “We are here to say that the fruit God used you and others to plant, has germi­nated. We are here to rejoice with you and show you love.” The National President said the committee will be 39 years old on May 8, 2023 and that on May 9, “We want to celebrate it and we are inviting you to the celebration.” He made a case for special promotion for deserving police officers to encourage them to put in more efforts in the service of the nation. Ikechukwu Ani, Head, Press and Public Relations, Police Service Commission (PSC), disclosed in a statement at the weekend.