The Leader Of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele has declared that the next senate president of Nigeria should come from the Igbo division. In a statement signed by his media aide, Primate Ayodele revealed that if the next senate president doesn’t come from the Igbo division, the position will likely fall into the hands of a Muslim. He mentioned that if a Muslim emerges as the next senate president of Nigeria, the incoming government will be in jeopardy because there will be political tension in the country. The man of God who has been against the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the ruling party reiterated his stand against the combination, making it known that God isn’t in support of it and that the country will still be thrown into crises as a result of the ‘ungodly’ combination. He further advised Igbo lawmakers to come together to support one of their own to attain the position of a senate president because the zone will be sidelined for many years if they are unable to produce the next person that will occupy the position. ‘’In all fairness, the Igbos should produce the next senate president; if not, a Muslim will emerge and this will jeopardize the activities of the incoming government. it will also cause political tension and imbalance in the government.’’ ‘’Igbo lawmakers need to be united than ever before in order to push one of their own to become the next senate president because if they are unable to make it happen, the region will be sidelined in this incoming government’’‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ‘’God doesn’t approve this Muslim-Muslim government, it will still create a lot in the country and will be the worse government so far.’’ POLL Also in the House of Representatives, Primate Ayodele advised the opposition to form a coalition in order to defeat the ruling party in the speakership race. He explained that their unity will put the incoming government on its toes. ‘’ The opposition should form a coalition regarding the House of Representatives speakership position. They need to put the incoming government on its toes and that can only happen if the opposition produces the next House of Representatives speaker. If the ruling party emerges, Nigeria will be in a very difficult situation’’