As part of efforts to improve electricity supply service delivery, Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) on Tuesday launched Service Charter. Engr. Abubakar Aliyu, the Minister of Power, described the move a bold step, stressing thatthe Charter establishes the high standards of service that the electricity customers can expect from the Power sector. Represented at the event by the director, Reform Coordination and Service Improvement Department at the ministry, Mrs Titilayo A. Agbeyo, the Minister said, the charter will also provide information on how the Commission can comment on its service including how to lodge complaints, give compliments and make suggestions. He said that the Service charter is crucial to the management, staff, and stakeholders of the Commission to continuously improve service delivery. According to him, “As you all know, the Charter establishes the high standards of service that the electricity customers can expect from the Power sector, it provides information on how the Commission can comment on its service including how to lodge complaints, give compliments and make suggestions.” “The essence of the service charter cannot be overemphacised, in view of the achievement of the mandate, goals and objectives of the Commission. the Charter provides information to the general public on the functions and service rendered by the Commission to the agencies and private companies whose activities it monitors and supperintends.” “I encourage the Commission to be customer focused, citizen centered and to continue the good work the Commission is doing as we join hands to upgrade services in the power sector.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Minister cautioned that the effective implementation of the charter will definitely improve services, educate on the rights and obligations of electricity consumers, address complaints through the redress mechanism put in place, improve staff competence and skill, productivity and human resources administration as well as produce result based performances. POLL Mr Sanusi Garba, the NERC Chairman while speaking at the occasion which was inaugurated by the National Coordinator of SERVICOM Mrs Nnenna Akajemeli, explained that the NERC Service Charter is a holistic and tactical compendium that defines the service experience stakeholders will have in engaging with the Commission. “The NERC service Charter has summarized the mutual expectations of the Commission and Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) stakeholders by defining service levels, rights, obligations and redress mechanism. It can also serve as a quick reference for vital information on NERC forum OFFICE, existing limitations of NERC and also address subtle issues regarding persons with special needs as well as monitoring and review of the Charter.” He stated. Also, the SERVICOM National Coordinator, said that the objective of the charter was to create, promote and preserve efficient industry and market structures and to ensure the optimal utilisation of resources for the provision of electricity service.