Uromi Like Minds Initia­tive (ULMI), a group of Uromi descendants took to their charity initiative to fete the old and vulner­able, teachers and other class of indigents in the society as part of its cel­ebration of Easter. The Non-Governmen­tal Organisation (NGO) is known to be involved in life changing social works like scholarship sponsor­ship, charity games and other works meant to pro­mote growth and develop­ment. ULMI for this year takes social work a notch higher since its establishment in 2020. Made up principally of Uromi Sons and friends of Uromi living at home and in the diaspora, were, ULMI took their initia­tives to Home for the Elderly, the Bone Reset Clinic both in Uromi, the administrative headquar­ters of Esan north east LGA of Edo state, south-south Nigeria, as well as a number of school teach­ers in the community who got rewards for the outstanding and longtime services to the LGA in the primary and post prima­ry schools. Each teacher, at an elab­orate ceremony got N25, 000 cash gift. The group donated gifts of foodstuffs, like bags of rice, beans, yams as well as some beverages. There were other items like diapers and a genera­tor set were also given to these homes.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Speaking on the initia­tive, Engr. Sebastine Osita, Vice Chairman, ULMI, who also doubles as the welfare committee chair­man, noted that this yearly charitable scheme for the less privileged and the el­derly has come to stay. POLL In his remark, Mr. Syl­vester Abumere Ekpen, the Executive Chairman of the NGO, harped on the importance of reaching out to the poor and down­trodden, which according to him was the major ob­jective of the group. He added that the annu­al token brings enormous joy to the beneficiaries, stating also that ULMI is pleased to be the vessel, through which God pro­vides some of the needs of the needy. Deacon Darlington Ok­pebholo Ray, Secretary General of the associa­tion, appreciated mem­bers of the organisation for their steadfastness and commitment to the cause, which he said had brought smiles to many faces in Uromi. Ray, who is also a jour­nalist and a publisher of a news platform based in the United Kingdom, sin­gled out the organisation’s director of project, Prince Ken Edenojie for praise. He also commended other members of the NGO who were physical­ly present during the out­reach.