Jurgen Klopp scuppered Manchester United’s sensational move for Polish hitman Robert Lewandowski despite a personal phone call from legendary Red Devils’ boss Sir Alex Ferguson. The former Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich striker has developed the reputation as one of the most lethal goalscorers in Europe over the last decade. A ten-time Bundesliga champion, he could well have been finding the back of the net at Old Trafford. As revealed by the now 34-year-old in an interview with SportBild, iconic Man Utd manager Sir Alex Ferguson made a mid-match phone call in an effort to tempt Lewandowski to the club. He said: “I remember the moment exactly. “We had a friendly with Dortmund in preparation, I think against Bochum. I was subbed at half-time. I looked at my mobile phone in the dressing room. “There was a text message with the sender +44. Ferguson had tried to call me and then sent me a message. He wanted to talk to me.” Whilst Lewandowski was interested in seeing what Ferguson had to say, then Dortmund boss Klopp and club CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke blocked the move and convinced him to stay at the Signal Iduna Park. The Pole added: “I was still in the dressing room, I took a shower and called him back, in a quiet corner. My English wasn’t as good as it is today. He has a strong Scottish accent.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I was so focused on understanding what he meant! Alex Ferguson tried to be considerate, spoke slowly. I was 22 years old, it was a special moment. POLL “I spoke to Aki Watzke [Dortmund CEO] and Jürgen Klopp in the camp. I wanted to go to Man United! But they said: ‘No chance, Robert. We need you. You have to stay’.” Looking back, the decision was the right one for Dortmund and Lewandowski. He went on to score 94 goals over the following three seasons, adding another Bundesliga crown to his haul, before sealing a free transfer to German rivals Bayern Munich. His prolific goalscoring continued at the Allianz Arena and only came to an end last summer as he quit the club for Spanish giants Barcelona. Since then, he has scored another 27 goals in 34 games in all competitions and looks highly likely to add a LaLiga crown to his collection. Whilst Lewandowski did not get on his way to Old Trafford, the Red Devils re-entered the market for a prolific forward the following summer with a move for Arsenal ’s Robin van Persie. The Dutchman helped Ferguson to the final Premier League title of a glittering career having scored 26 Premier League goals during his debut campaign with the club.