The Democratic Socialist Movement (DSM) sees the current crisis rocking the Labour Party (LP) as a clarion call for the rebuilding of the party as a true working people party. This was contained in a statement on Sunday signed by the National Organising Secretary of the DSM, Peluola Adewale and made available to journalists in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital. The crisis which has been rocking the party prior to the 2023 general election took new dimension on Thursday, 5th April, 2023 when the Nigeria police provided a cover for a faction led by the National Deputy Chairman, Alhaji Bashiru Apampa to take over the national secretariat of the party . This followed an interim order of an Abuja high court that suspended the National chairman and Secretary pending the determination of the case filed by the faction. The faction had levelled some corruption related allegations against the party leadership including using forged documents to support the criminal substitution of candidates. According to the statement, “While we don’t have specific fact on this matter, it is well known that the party is run like a shop which merchandise electoral tickets to whoever can pay for them. The news are also awash with cries from party members who accused the party leaders of illegal and criminal substitution of their names with higher bidders. “However, we do not rule out the correctness of the allegation by the party National chairman, Barrister Abure that the faction is sponsored by the APC in order to decimate the LP given the threat the party has posed to the continued domination of APC and PDP from the results of 2023 election.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The Apampa-led faction who alleged the Chairman and Secretary of corruption also immediately reinstated national officers, National youth leader and publicity secretary, who were removed over corruption allegation. POLL “The faction also recalled state leaderships who were suspended following alleged compromise with APC or PDP in the last governorship election in their states. All this shows that the faction is out to take over the party for their own self-serving interest. “Therefore, we hold that the allegation and counter allegation of corruption among the party leadership and the way and manner they conduct the affair of the party, clearly show that the labour party as it is presently constituted is not run in the interests of the working people in the country. “It is in the light of this we call on the Leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) to commence the process of rebuilding the party as a true party of the working people. “As a first step towards this, we propose that the NLC and TUC convene a special conference that include trade unions, socialist and left organisations, left coalition like TPAMP and JAF, and LP leaders, members and elected public officers. “We hold that such a conference should agree that for the party to become a genuine working people party it must be based on a fighting working people program and its affairs run democratically. This means that its officers, party candidates and public representatives must not subscribe to neo-liberal capitalist program which attacks condition of working people, youth and the poor. Indeed, we will argue at the conference for a socialist program that includes nationalisation of commanding heights of the economy under democratic management and control by working people. “The conference should also agree that the party must not preserve its ticket for money bags but make it possible for an average worker or any ordinary person who is willing to also vie for it. This means that the ticket must be free and the party conducts credible primary election to choose its candidates. “The practice of changing nomination fee, let alone a very outrageous fee, as a condition to stand as candidate in election is alien to the tradition of a workers party. The affairs of the party including participation in election should be financed from members subscription, grants from trade unions, donations from public officials, donation from the public and sympathisers, etc. “In other words, the culture of consistent financial commitment to the party by party members and supporters must be encouraged. However, this means that the party has to, in and out of office, intervene in the daily struggles of working people and youth in order to win both political and financial support. “The elected and public officers must receive average salary of skilled workers in addition to incidental allowances and donate the rest of their official pays to the party and working people and youth struggles. It is also imperative that there must be democratic accountability and transparency in the management of finances of the party. “We of the DSM are committed to join any effort and initiative for building a mass working people party including the transformation of the current Labour Party into the true party of the workers, youth and poor for the socialist transformation of the Nigeria state and its economy”.