LAGOS – AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, a member of the AXA Group and a global insurance and asset management firm has said its gross revenue rose by 15 per cent to ₦69 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022.It said in a statement that Property and Casualty were down three per cent to ₦27 billion, Life and Savings (L&S) rose by 49 per cent to ₦13.8 billion while Health rose by 22 per cent to ₦27.7 billion in December 2022.Commenting on the results, Mrs. Ngozi Ola-Israel,  the Chief Financial Officer, AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, said “Despite the macroeconomic challenges the business faced in the 2022 financial year, the insurer was able to deliver strong double-digit revenue growth of 15 per cent YoY from ₦60.2 billion to ₦69.0 billion and net premium income growth of 24 per cent YoY from ₦37.1billion to ₦46.1billion.”  According to her, the firm has remained focused on its growth plan across business lines by delivering 49 per cent and 22 per cent growth on its Life and Health businesses respectively while the P&C 3 per cent decline was driven by a deliberate selection of risks to drive profitability. The decline of 42 per cent and 35 per cent respectively in the PBT and PAT, she said, was driven by the higher claims experience in the health portfolio as well as fair value losses on our investment property. “We made significant recoveries in the second quarter of 2022 with the health business moving from break-even to closing with profits of 0.3billion at the end of the year.We have taken all necessary steps to strengthen our balance sheet and have set the right platform for continued profitability in 2023.Gross revenues grew 15per cent year-on-year (YoY) to N69billion from N60.2billion. The company noted that growth was driven by L&S (+49%) and Health (+22%) although property and casualty line (P&C) declines 3per cent owing to one-off impacts regarding a non-renewable transaction and a change in the timing of booking of another transaction in the CL P&C portfolio. Life volume acceleration is spurred by fast onboarding of the new life savings product.Health volumes improve due to increased premiums and renewals for key commercial line clients while P&C declines 3per cent YoY owing to the non-recurrence of premiums from commercial lines which declined 6per cent YoY to N24.7billion from  N26.3billion. The decline, the firm adds, is driven by shortfalls in the Engineering and marine portfolios while oil & energy remained flat. The engineering dip is driven by one-off unrenewable transactions in the prior year.The group remains committed to ensuring improved performance through an improved distribution network, process automation, and client retention.L&S business grows 49per cent YoY driven by improved performance in the group life (+20%) and individual life businesses (+107%). The life and savings business has experienced strong customer retention and sales drive from the launch of the new life savings product. Overall, improved agent productivity and digital footprint also contributed to the growth in revenues.Total revenues improved 18per cent YoY, with higher management fees benefiting from improved 3rd party assets under management (AuM). AuMs for corporate clients grew 51per cent as client count grew by 21per cent leading to a 16per cent growth in 3rd party AuMs and a 6per cent growth in total AuMs.Overall, profit before tax (PBT) declined by 42per cent YoY driven by the high claims experience in the health business. The Health business commenced recovery in H2 2022 and was able to deliver profits above N300million at the end of the year.We have remained market leaders in the health segment with a strong focus on providing excellent customer experience while partnering with health providers. Growth in P&C (+23%) vs. LY is attributable to improved net premium income, investment income, and reduced claims. L&S grew 448per cent YoY due to improved revenue performance, investment income, and a strong drive for operational efficiency,” said Ola-Israel