 ABUJA – As the race for the soul of the 10th Senate continues, Senator-elect, Aliyu Wadada (APC Nasarawa West), has urged the support of other lawmakers from the North Central Zone, for the aspiration of Senator Sani Musa (APC Niger East) who is gunning for the Deputy Senate President (DSP). Leading a Caucus of the Upper Chamber from the Zone, Wadada told journalists at the Maitama, Abuja residence of Senator Musa, that “that they would not settle for any position other than the Deputy Senate President”. He also used the occasion to urge the national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to consider its plea, noting that the Zone’s Caucuses in the Red and Green Chamber were in agreement on this. “We convene this meeting to welcome Mr. President-Elect from his foreign trip. We also appreciate his disposition to ensure that fairness and equity take place in the distribution of leadership positions to all geopolitical zones. “We are aware that there are agitations from various geopolitical zones on the positions of Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker and Deputy Speaker. “We are aware of these agitations. The South West and the North East having produced the president and the vice president, respectively, the North Central as a result is of the stand and position that the least position we will go for is that of the Deputy Senate President.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “This is not just coming today. The North Central Caucus has been consistent from the commencement of the politics that will lead to the emergency of the leadership of the National Assembly. POLL “We are for the deputy Senate President position. We shall work in harmony and mutually with other geopolitical zones in Nigeria. When asked if the North Central Caucus of the House of Representatives members-elect was on the same page on the matter, Wadada said “there has been synergy from home. “There is already synergy from home because we all belong to the North Central. However, it does not stop the House of Representatives Caucus to demand for what they wanted. At the end of the day, we will get to an equilibrium. For now we are for the deputy Senate President and we are endorsing Senator Sani Musa, who is the Chairman of our Caucus.” The delegation was drawn across party lines.