LAGOS – To commemorate World Hemophilia Day, Pfizer has reinforced it’s commitment to patients living with hemophilia. As part of activities to commemorate the day, Pfizer held a virtual media round table to make sure patients living with hemophilia are seen, heard, and never forgotten as it continues to work tirelessly to find breakthrough solutions and therapeutic options to change their lives. Kodjo Soroh, Medical Director, Sub-Saharan Africa, Pfizer while speaking virtually said, “Pfizer’s efforts at advancing treatment for hemophilia and bridge gaps in access to care resonates with this year’s theme of World Hemophilia Day’s (WHD) Access For All: Prevention of Bleeds. Pfizer’s commitment to equity and continued investment in hemophilia is evident in its more than 30 years of experience in developing therapies for hematological disorders as it has a deep understanding of the significant challenges that people living with hemophilia continually face. Soroh said Pfizer will continue to amplify and celebrate the work of the global hemophilia community as it create awareness on the need for innovation in access to hemophilia treatments. Professor Akanmu Sulaimon, Professor of Hematology and Blood Transfusion, University of Lagos (UNILAG) said, “Hemophilia, a rare genetic bleeding disorder that causes the blood to take a long time to clot because of a deficiency in one of several blood clotting factors, is almost exclusively found in males. “People with hemophilia are at risk for excessive and recurrent bleeding from modest injuries, which have the potential to be life threatening. People with severe hemophilia often bleed spontaneously into their muscles or joints, or rarely into other critical closed spaces such as the intracranial space, where bleeding can be fatal. According to the World Federation of Hemophilia(WFH), an international not-for-profit organization, more than 38,000 people worldwide were living with hemophilia B in 2021. “WFH works closely in partnership with hemophilia treatment centers (HTCs) in 29 African countries to share knowledge and build global awareness through information exchange, education, and training. “WFH also provides ∼24 million units of CFCs per year to patients in sub-Saharan Africa through a humanitarian aid program. Pfizer is a visionary partner of the World Federation of Hemophilia for WHD”, he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Dr. Vivian Painstil, Senior Lecturer at the Department of Child Health, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST), Kumasi, Ghana and a Senior Specialist Pediatrician working at the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH) in Kumasi stated that “The burden people living with hemophilia B face is significant, with many receiving routine infusions or injections which can interfere with their ability to take part in day-to-day activities that many take for granted.