Plateau State Governor-Elect, Caleb Mutfwang has visited restive communities in Jos South LGA that were recently attacked by suspected Fulani herdsmen, leaving six Person’s dead The Plateau State Governor-elect, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang who was accompanied by his Deputy Governor-Elect NGO Piyo and Plateau Senator-elect Dr Simon Mwadkwon and political aides decried the renewed attacks in rural communities of Barkin-Ladi, Jos South, Mangu and Bokkos Local Government Areas of the state during which several lives were lost and properties worth millions of Naira destroyed. A statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Gov-Elect, Gyang Bere which was made available to Sunday Independent stated that Mutfwang was heartbroken over the loss of innocent lives and called on security agencies to fish out the perpetrators of the dastardly acts by bringing the attackers to justice. Mutfwang was represented on the visit by his Deputy Governor-Elect Josephine Piyo led the delegation on a sympathy visit to Turu, Jos South Local Government, Heipang, Barkin Ladi Local Government area.Accompanied by the Member representing Barkin-Ladi/Riyom Federal Constituency and Senator-elect for Plateau North, Dr. Simon Mwadkwon, the Speaker of Plateau State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Abok Nuhu Ayuba, Member representing Jos South Constituency, Hon. Gwattson Fom Dalyop and Senior Special Assistant on Special Duties, Mr. Moses Nwan, mni among other party stalwarts. The Deputy Governor-elect, Piyo and her team who was at the Palace of Gwom Turu, Da Ezekiel James Dalyop said the Governor-elect was deeply pained by the news of the attack on the community. “We are here on behalf of His Excellency, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang to commiserate with the good people of Turu over the ugly incident that led to the loss of lives at a mining site. The death is not only a loss to the people of Turu but the entire Jos South Local Government Area and Nigeria at large. Our hearts are with you and may God Almighty comfort you all.” she stressed. Piyo was also at the residence of Mrs. Laitu David to commiserate with her over the demise of her husband, late Engr. Dalyop David Sabo in Turu and prayed for God’s comfort over the entire family.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Responding, the Gwom Turu, Da Ezekiel James Dalyop said his people of Turu were comforted by the visit, which he said would go along away in healing the wounds created by the unfortunate incident. POLL The monarch expressed delight that the administration of Barr. Caleb Mutfwang would take proactive steps when sworn-in into office to address the resurgence of bloody attacks and provide a peaceful atmosphere for farmers as well as other law abiding citizens in the state to carry out their business activities without hindrance. Similarly, the the Deputy Governor-elect, was at Tatu and Chil villages of Haipang District of Barkin-Ladi LGA , where bandits laid ambush on the communities leading to the loss of lives. She sympathised with the people, particularly the surviving widows, orphans and relatives and asked God to comfort them and avert a repeat of such sad and ugly occurrence. The Acting Gwom of Tatu Da. Danjuma Chollom and Gwom Chil, Da. Gyang Dalyop in their separate remarks, expressed gratitude for the visit and said the entire communities were encouraged and comforted by the kind gesture. At the Palace of Gwom Rwei of Haipang, the Deputy Governor-elect commiserated with the traditional ruler and the entire people of Barkin-Ladi over the unfortunate loss of lives and prayed for God’s intervention to end the attacks. Receiving the delegation, the Gwom Rwei of Haipang, Da. Paul Tadi Tok assured the incoming administration of the support of his people in addressing issues of insecurity in order to pave the way for progress and development. He encouraged communities in the state to take early warning signs very serious and report to security agencies, any strange movements around their localities for swift intervention. The Deputy Governor-elect was similarly at the scene of tanker explosion at Bauchi Road in Jos North Local Government Area where innocent persons perished in the tragic inferno. She commiserated with residents of the area and assured them of the support of the incoming administration in reorganising the city centre to curb such incidents and ensure free flow of traffic for healthy business transactions. On his part, member representing Barkin-Ladi/ Riyom Federal Constituency and Senator-elect for Plateau North, Hon. Simon Mwadkwon assured the residents of “people oriented” legislations that will impact positively on citizens. Hon. Mwadkwon noted that he would lobby to get legislative backing for the dualization of the Bauchi road to improve the living condition of the people. Residents of the area including PDP Chairman, Jos North Local Government Area and a community leader, Alh. Sadis Mohammad among several stakeholders who were on ground to receive the delegation expressed gratitude for the visit and described it as timely in healing the broken-hearted as a result of the incident.