LAGOS  – The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Wabote, has performed the groundbreaking ceremony of a pipe manufacturing plant at Polaku Bayelsa State, The plant, which is being promoted by AS Energies Limited, would manufacture Glass Reinforced Epoxy (GRE) and Glass Reinforced Plastic (GRP) pipes and has an estimated investment outlay of about N7.04 billion ($8.8million). At the event, Wabote lauded the management of AS Energies Limited and its subsidiary, African Star Manufacturing Services Ltd, on the successful take-off of the construction work on the pipe manufacturing plant. He noted that the project is in line with the mission statement of NCDMB: “to promote the development and utilization of in-country capacities for the industrialization of Nigeria through the effective implementation of the Nigerian Content Act.” He further described the ongoing construction activities as a dream come true for the Polaku community as plans for a pipe manufacturing mill in the area had been on the drawing board for a decade. He stated that the Polaku community and the Gbarain Clan, generally are blessed, given the concentration of strategic industries in the area and indications that others would be there. Some of the firms that are in the locality include the Shell Gas Gathering Plant, Azikel Refinery (a modular hydro-skimming processing plant), the US$45 million Types 3 LPG Composite Cylinder Manufacturing Plant, owned by Rungas Prime Industries Limited, and Eraskon Nigeria Limited. He said the Pipe Manufacturing Plant is a testament to the giant strides in local content drive in the country, while assuring AS Energies Ltd that the NCDMB would give due consideration to its request for support. He equally enjoined the company’s Management to explore available financing options so as to ensure project delivery on schedule. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The NCDMB boss expressed delight that AS Energies’ pipes will be produced to meet the regulatory standards such as: ISO 9001- Quality Management System Requirements; ISO 14001 – Environmental Management System Standard; & BS 18001 – Occupational Health & Safety Management System Standard. POLL Speaking, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of AS Energies Limited, Engr. Gbenga Olaniyan, said the choice of Polaku as site for the US$8.8 million project is deliberate, as the company seeks to be a development partner in the area. He expressed profound appreciation to the State Government, the NCDMB Management, and the host community for the encouragement as his company initiated moves toward actualising its plans. Engr. Olaniyan assured that AS Manufacturing Services Ltd would integrate the community in its operational plans and activities, adding that one of its cardinal principles is to source essential materials locally in advancement of Federal Government’s drive for in-country value addition. He expressed confidence that the construction phase of the plant would be completed within 12 months, giving way to actual production.