LAGOS  – The failure of indigenous airlines to source foreign exchange for operations has been identified as the major challenge confronting the continued existence of the carriers in the country. Air Commodore Simon Okwuokei (retd), the Deputy Managing Director, 7Star Global Group, in an interview with our correspondent in Lagos said that the sector in the country was facing a huge challenge due to the scarcity of foreign exchange. He also explained that the challenge had stopped some of the foreign airlines like Emirates and Etihad Airlines from operating in Nigeria, noting that the current situation was not limited to domestic airlines alone. According to him, every activity in the aviation industry is dollar-dependent and hoped that the issue would be resolved in the coming months by the Federal Government in order to create an avenue for airlines to operate smoothly and profitably. He maintained that with more indigenous airlines given the enabling environment to expand their operations to some international routes like Europe, the Middle East, United Arab Emirates (UAE) and others, the issue of forex would be partially addressed in Nigeria, while unemployment and brain drain challenges would be tackled. He said, “Whether you are buying from China, Europe, or America, you will need forex to pay for spares, consumables and to acquire equipment. You will need dollars to pay for maintenance and nearly everything you are doing. It is mostly dollarized and if you buy in Europe, you will pay in euros. So, to that extent and to the extent that we are having a forex issue as a country, we have a challenge. “I am sure you are aware of the challenges being faced by some big international carriers like Emirates in having to get their money back. It is because of the scarcity of forex in our economy. It is not just about us. It affects the entire aviation industry. You see airlines that operate for a few weeks or months, then, when they have a challenge, they are on the ground for quite some time. The reason is not that they don’t want to work, but they need spares. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “They may have the money in naira, but to get it in dollars, which is the acceptable means of transaction, is not there and there is nothing you can do about it. You cannot put an unserviceable airplane in the air. As the saying goes, ‘there is no parking space in the air.’ So, you have to work with what you have in the country, we pray that soon, the economic situation in the country will improve to make us operate as we desire to do.” POLL Okwuokei further appealed to the incoming government to emulate other governments around the world by giving more support to the indigenous airline operators for the expansion of the economy.