JOS – Professor Bernard Mallau Matur, the Vice Chancellor, Plateau State University, Bokkos has declared that his administration would focus on two key areas of development, namely; Information Communication Technology (ICT)and the Library expansion. This, according to him, is to ensure that the state-owned University gains its rightful place among the comity of varsities in the country. This he said would be executed by equipping the University Library and the ICT Centre with modern facilities obtainable globally. Professor Matur disclosed this while playing host to the Resource Assessment Panels from the National Universities Commission currently in the University to appraise existing facilities in the Faculties of Environmental science, Social Science, Law, Health Sciences, Management Science, Natural and Applied Science, Agriculture and the Post Graduate School. While taking the team around the University library and other facilities, Professor Matur Bernard maintained that he will consolidate on the foundation laid by his predecessors encapsulated in the vision and hallmarks of Learning, research and Community Service. He promised to accord the team the necessary support needed for a successful coming on stream of twenty-five new programmes at the first degree, postgraduate diplomas, master’s and doctorate degree levels. Speaking on behalf of the Resource Person, Professor Sada Na’iya Ibrahim noted that their visit was to assess the scope and quality of facilities available for introducing the new programmes and for the Postgraduate, master’s and doctorate degree programmes.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Speaking earlier on behalf of the Executive Secretary National Universities Commission (NUC) Professor Abubakar Adamu Rasheed,  Mr. Kevin Parlong said their assessment visit was in answer to the request made by the University to the Commission for permission to begin such programmes. POLL He assured me that they will be fair and just in their assessment and report back to the Commission for appropriate action. The first batch of seven panels of the assessment team which is made up of 19 resource persons were earlier received on behalf of the Vice Chancellor, Professor Malau Matur Benard by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academic Professor Galadima Moses Pyefa who applauded the National Universities Commission for the support it accorded the University since inception and promised to cooperate further for the expansion and growth of the University. In all, the University will be receiving 18 panels made up of 47 resource persons from the Commission and various universities who will be assessing the existing facilities for the programmes which include first degrees and Post Graduate diplomas, Bachelor of Science in Architecture, Building, Law, Nursing, Community Health, Medical Laboratory Science and Agricultural Sciences. Others are Post Graduate Studies in English, History and International Studies, Theatre Arts, Accounting, Management, Economics, Chemistry, Microbiology, Physics Psychology, Sociology Mass Communication, Political Science, Public Administration, International Relations and Strategic Studies Computer Science, Mathematics and Geography. The exercise which is being conducted in three batches began on11th of April and hopes to end on18th of April,2023.