ABUJA – The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps, Brigadier General YD Ahmed has inaugurated an ultra-modern Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Centre inside the NYSC Yobe State Orientation Camp, located at KM 6, Potiskum-Kano road, in Dazigau Local Government Area of the State. Speaking during the inauguration on Friday, the DG advised Corps Members deployed to the State and youths in the host community to utilize the opportunity of the centre to acquire vocational training that would make them self-employed. The DG, according to a statement signed by Eddy Megwa, Director of Press and Public Relations said “the era of salaried jobs is fading away, while entrepreneurship is the only option to address unemployment.” He urged the Corps Members to embrace skill acquisition training during the Orientation period in camp, while they will continue with post-camp training after the three weeks Orientation Course. “I will urge the community to take the centre as their own”. To the Corps Members, General Ahmed said, “I want all of you to be interested in Skill Acquisition. I encourage you to maximize your time and the opportunities of the service year to do useful things for yourself. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Prepare your business proposals because there are lots of stakeholders that would offer you business grants to actualize your dreams of becoming employers of labour”. The Director General further advised the Corps Members to respect the culture of their host communities and also execute laudable projects that would improve the living standards of the people. He had earlier in the day joined other dignitaries to witness the swearing-in ceremony of the 945 prospective Corps Members, comprising 655 males and 290 females deployed to the State. Yobe State Governor, Honourable Mai Mala Buni in his address at the ceremony said the Scheme for almost fifty years has been providing a major platform for youths in the country to break the barriers of ethnicity, religious bigotry and primordial sentiments. The Governor, whose address was presented at the ceremony by Yobe State Commissioner for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Moh’d Munkaila promised the continuous support of the State Government by upgrading camp facilities and provision of necessary incentives to enable the Scheme build on its laudable achievements. The NYSC Yobe State Coordinator, Mrs Hafsat Yerima in her address urged the Corps Members to obey all camp rules and participate actively in all activities. The Yobe State Chief Judge, Hon. Justice MK Kaigama, who was represented by Hon. Justice Aminu Shehu administered the Oath of Allegiance on the Prospective Corps Members.