ABUJA – Ahead of the inauguration of the leadership of the House of Representatives, a coalition of Civil Society Groups ( CSOs ) under the aegis of Nigerian Unity Project has expressed support for the candidacy of Hon Yusuf Gagdi, member representing Pankshin/Kanam/Kanke of Plateau State as Speaker.in the 10th National Assembly. The Coalition said Gagdi is a legislator and a reliable and competent leader whose grasp of issues surpasses his age. The Civil Society group disclosed this on Wednesday at a press conference in Abuja. The coalition explained that the legislature played a critical role in promoting good governance which depends largely on the relationship with the executive. According to the Convener, Okwa Dan ” The elections have come and gone, and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has emerged as the winner. However, that is the first leg of our quest towards making Nigeria great again. The second leg is the election of principal officers of the Legislative arm of government, which is an essential factor in the governance of the country. ” As a coalition of pro-democracy civil society organizations, we believe that the legislature and executive are two important political institutions in presidential democratic regimes. They have a very critical task to play in promoting good governance. However, the achievement of this task depends on whether the relationship between these institutions is constructive or conflictive. ” Consequently, the quest for good governance in Nigeria has been threatened more by the unending conflicts between the legislature and executive, who are often entangled in a constant battle for supremacy and control of the policy-making and implementation process, thereby jettisoning the tenets of the principles of separation of powers which clearly states that the three arms of government namely, legislature, executive and judiciary shall be independent of the control of each other” The coalition added that Gagdi is a lesson in leadership that reinforces the fact that leadership is not about age, ethnicity or religion but about capacity. ” As concerned stakeholders in the Nigerian project, we are constrained to lend our voice to the debate on the suitability of candidates for the speakership of the 10th Assembly because it is of utmost importance that we get it right with the leadership of the National Assembly. POLL ” The name Hon Yusuf Gagdi has continually rang a bell in the race for the speakership of the Federal House of Representatives. It didn’t come as a surprise to lovers of democracy because he has exhibited a passion and commitment to the Nigerian Project’s success during his political career, culminating in his election as a member of the Federal House of Representatives. ” Hon. Yusuf Gagdi is a legislator and a leader whose grasp of issues surpasses his age. He is a reliable and competent lawmaker with all it takes to lead the Federal House of Representatives, given his cosmopolitan nature and the tremendous respect he commands from colleagues, party leaders and other concerned stakeholders” He said.