ENUGU – Senator Shehu Sani who represented Kaduna Central Senatorial District has commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for the unique leadership role he plays in promoting good governance, peace, justice and national unity, disclosing that the governor has touched the lives of many people not only in the state but also beyond. Senator Sani, author, playwright and human rights activist, said that Governor Ugwuanyi is “a friend for which Enugu State has become a home not only for the people of South East zone but also for the people of Nigeria.” Delivering his goodwill message during the second edition of “Handshake Across Nigeria” in Enugu, organised by Nzuko Umunna, Senator Sani told Governor Ugwuanyi that he has done marvelously in office, despite numerous challenges in the country, in providing quality leadership and peaceful atmosphere in Enugu State, and making the state a safe place for indigenes and non-indigenes. “Your Excellency, you have something which to many of us is marvelous each time we are coming to this Eastern part of Nigeria. Like when I was coming to this event, my family members were asking me where specifically are you going? I said I am going to Enugu and they said there is no problem. “We thank you for your service and I believe that your successor will not have a burden of taking over from what you have done to ensure that he too keeps the legacy of supporting this organisation (Nzuko Umunna). That is an organisation that has been reaching out to people far and beyond. “Thank you Nzuko Umunna for this opportunity. Continue to build bridges until the whole of Nigeria believe that each and every part of Nigeria and any person in Nigeria has the right to lead this country”, he said. The Nzuko Umunna’s Handshake Across Nigeria 2 in Enugu, themed: “Building Bridges for a New Nigeria” was also graced by Governor Ugwuanyi; Imo State Deputy Governor, Prof. Placid Njoku who represented Governor Hope Uzodimma; the Labour Party Presidential Candidate, Mr. Peter Obi; the Enugu State Governor-elect, Dr. Peter Ndubuisi Mbah; former Minister of Power, Prof. Chinedu Nebo; Tor Tiv, Prof. James Ayatse; vocal lawyer and human rights activist, Mike Ozekhome, SAN, the Secretary to Ebonyi State Government, Chief Kenneth Igwe Ugbala who represented Governor David Umahi, among other  dignitaries.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The event, which was the brain child of disruptive Igbo global Think Tank and Professionals, committed to expanding friendships and cementing bonds between Ndigbo and other nationalities of Nigeria to raise the bar of profiling the country’s diversities as a source of strength rather than weakness, witnessed the formal presentation of a book, “Nzuko Umunna Chronicles” as well as the inauguration of New Executives of the non-partisan body of committed optimists, under the leadership of Prof. Chinedu Nebo. POLL The host governor, Ugwuanyi was equally eulogised by the Tor Tiv, Prof. Ayatse, Ozekhome and Prof. Nebo for his bridge-building initiative, hospitality, commitment to peace, justice and national unity as well as his administration’s unprecedented rural development trajectory in the state. Ozekhome stated that Governor Ugwuanyi has “done much for the state, turning it around from a rural settlement to a mega place”. Tor Tiv, Prof. Ayatse, while appreciating Governor Ugwuanyi in a special way for being “a good neighbour of the Tiv nation”, thanked the governor for the warm hospitality he accorded him and other visitors to the historic event in Enugu “from yesterday till today.” Expressing the unreserved appreciation of the organisation, the newly inaugurated President, Prof. Nebo applauded Governor Ugwuanyi “for the unmatched level of hospitality and benevolence extended to Nzuko Umunna”, saying: “We are grateful to you Sir. This has been wonderful; we could not have done this without you. We are also very grateful to South East governors who were gladdened to support us and are part of this event.”