As the Catholic Archdio­cese of Lagos celebrated the Holy Thursday Chrism Mass, His Grace, Most Rev Alfred Adewale Martins, has called for a halt in the ethnic crises currently ravaging the state and the nation at large. The Archbishop of the Met­ropolitan See advised that peo­ple must not allow politics and politicians to disrupt their lives and means of livelihood and that everyone must be reminded that they are all children of God, equal in dignity before God irre­spective of the divides. The only distinctions, he said, are those that are man-made, the distinction between the rich and the poor, the privileged and the underprivileged. He noted that divisive com­ments and behaviours, whether online or offline, are not condu­cive for good neighbourliness or peaceful co-existence. “This must not be allowed to do anything to the way we were doing things before now. Inter­marriages have always been there for all time, living together and interactions of all kinds. We must allow these negativities to come to an end. “On the contrary, let us em­phasise all that is good for our unity, friendship and the good and growth of our land and na­tion. “One thing that is very im­portant for us as a nation is to recognise that in spite of our di­versities, we are simply a nation and indeed our diversities should be a strength rather than a prob­lem that some people are making of it. That is why people must not allow politics and politicians to whip us sentiments and make us fight one another.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He then called out opinion moulders to be mindful of the languages they use as they are capable of creating the kind of problems that they themselves might not be able to manage. POLL According to Rev Fr. Paul Ariole, who anchored the pro­gramme, the Chrism Mass should be, as it were, a manifes­tation of the priests’ communion with their Bishop or Archbishop. It is the renewal of priestly commitments and the blessing and consecration of sacred oils, he said. The Homily, which was tak­en from Isaiah 61:1-3, 6, 8-9, was delivered by Rev Fr. Melchizedek Okpara and titled: All Eyes Was Fixed on Him. Other scripture readings were taken from the Apocalypse 1:5-8; Luke 4:18 and Luke 4: 16-21. Okpara reminded the priests that like David, that God has sought them out and that by their lives and actions they were to di­rect the people’s gaze on Christ. And that though Isaiah was speaking to the Jewish Babylo­nian returnees, that today, each of the priests so anointed, were to bring good news to the poor, bind up the broken hearted, comfort those that mourned and pro­claim liberty to the captives. He also called on adherents to always pray for their priests and be charitable in their criticisms of them. They were never to sell out or be the ones to cause pains on their priests. The Archbishop of Lagos also admonished the priests that the anointing of the oil of Chrism, the oil of Christ, was a reminder of their duty to their calling.