ABUJA  – Amid divergent views re­garding the conduct of the recent general elections, President Muhammadu Bu­hari has described the pro­cess as the most transparent and hitch-free. Buhari, who penned down a message of felici­tation to Muslim faithful’s on the occasion of the Eid-el-fitr celebration, said even members of his party, the All Progressive Congress (APC) were routed and unseated. Buhari also said he didn’t interfere with the process in order not to give unfair ad­vantage to anyone. “The elections were so transparent that even mem­bers of my own party were routed and unseated. At no point did I interfere with the process in order to give unfair advantage to anyone,” the president stated. Also on the outcome of the recent polls, Buhari said that the peaceful outcome of the 2023 general elections “will go down on record as one of the proudest achieve­ments of his administration in addition to the neutrality in the conduct of the elec­tions.” He made the comments on Thursday in his goodwill message to Muslims on the occasion of the Eid-el-fitr celebration to mark the end of the 30-day Ramadan fast­ing season. According to the presi­dent, “The outcomes of the elections were in line with my pledge to leave a legacy of free and fair elections.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I’m proud that I have cre­ated a level playing field for all contestants regardless of party affiliation in order to produce a fair outcome for all.” POLL According to the pres­ident, “Free and fair elec­tions are the only principles that give credibility to our democracy, because the sub­version of the will of the people undermines democ­racy itself.” On the Ramadan fast, Bu­hari congratulated Muslims on successfully completing this demanding spiritual obligation. While praying to Allah to reward the Muslims for their sacrifices during the fasting season, President Buhari ad­vised that “we shouldn’t for­get the important lessons of the Ramadan which include improving our bond with the underprivileged and poor members of society.” According to him, “Ab­stention from food and drinks during the fasting period had made it possible for us to appreciate the situa­tion of those who go without eating every day.”