Chelsea have met with Gavi’s agent over a move for the Barcelona starlet, it has been reported. Since bursting onto the scene as a 16-year-old in August 2021, Gavi has been hailed as one of the best young midfielders in the world. He and fellow central midfielder Pedri have been seen as essential to Barcelona’s future rebuild under Xavi after several high-profile departures. Indeed, some quarters have even viewed the pair as the natural successors to Xavi and Andres Iniesta for both club and country. Liverpool, Manchester United and Manchester City have reportedly admired Gavi for a while, although chances of tempting him away from the Catalan giants appeared remote. However, interested clubs have been given encouraged by Barcelona’s disagreement with La Liga over Gavi’s contract, which echoes the situation that led to Lionel Messi’s stunning departure back in 2021. Chelsea meet with Gavi’s representativesAccording to Diario AS, Chelsea’s sporting director Christopher Vivell met with Gavi’s agent Ivan de la Pena several weeks ago in Madrid to communicate that the Blues wanted to sign the Spain international this summer.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Gavi signed a new Barcelona deal last September, that would keep him at the club until 2026. The contract made Gavi a senior player and set his release clause at €1billion (£880million), a figure Barcelona notionally use to indicate a player is indispensable. POLL However the clause will become null and void should Gavi’s contract not be ratified by La Liga, which insists Barca cannot register the teenager because of the league’s financial rules, which limit spending relative to income. If Gavi’s senior contract is cancelled, he will revert to his youth-team contract and become available for free in the summer. Barca would have to make several major sales before Gavi becomes a free agent at the end of the season. And according to AS Chelsea are prepared to make the player a large offer that would likely outstrip Barcelona’s deal and include a significant signing-on fee. Moreover, should former Spain manager Luis Enrique take charge in west London as has been suggested, Gavi would be signing for one of his greatest admirers.