LAGOS – Some of the foreign companies operat­ing in Nigeria may have started quitting the country over the failure of the Feder­al Government to refund foreign airlines their $744 million blocked funds. This is as some of the auxiliary companies to the affected airlines have started declaring their Nigerian staff redundant, thereby further escalating the unemployment rate in the country. Also, Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, the Di­rector, Zenith Travels, advised the Fed­eral Government to allow the foreign airlines to sell their tickets in dollars to the air travellers, adding that this would reduce the challenge of foreign exchange for the airlines. It was gathered that one of such companies to some of the foreign airlines, Storm Aviation, the organisation that is respon­sible for the maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facilities for Emirates Airlines aircraft in Ni­geria may have declared some of its staff redundant. Daily Independent gathered that no fewer than 20 of the com­pany’s staff, including technical personnel, were affected by this decision. Storm Aviation has its head office in the United Kingdom, but its Nigerian staff are being laid off by the company in Nigeria. Engr. Abednego Galadima, the President of National Asso­ciation of Aircraft Pilots and En­gineers (NAAPE), in an exclusive interview with Daily Indepen­dent, confirmed the development.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to Galadima, NAAPE was already taking up the matter with the company, say­ing that some of its members, es­pecially engineers were affected by the decision to quit Nigeria. POLL He regretted that all efforts to resolve the blocked funds issue by the airlines had proved abortive over the months and called on the Federal Government to resolve the crisis before it degenerates further. In a bid to ensure good negoti­ations for its members in Storm Aviation, Galadima said the union was already in discussion with the company. Besides, he explained that the NAAPE leadership would next week meet with the management of Storm Aviation to continue the redundancy negotiation. He said: “The current chal­lenges being faced by Emirates Airlines are having an effect on our members who are either working with the airline or its contractors in Nigeria. For in­stance, Storm Aviation, the con­tractor to Emirates Airlines on MRO, has lost its contract. So, the company decided to quit Nigeria and that decision affected a num­ber of our members working in the company. “The decision to quit actually affected our engineers working in the MRO of Storm Aviation. They were declared redundant by the company. So, the union is taking it up with the company. We have commenced redundancy negotiation with Storm Aviation. “Our next meeting with the company is next week and I be­lieve the company will not drag the discussion. So that our mem­bers can get what is due to them. I cannot determine the amount of money involved at the moment. It is a collective bargaining be­tween us and the company. It is not something that I can sit down here to give a figure to.” Also, commenting on the is­sue, Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, the Director, Research, Zenith Trav­els Limited, lamenting that the suspension of operations into Nigeria by Emirates Airlines would have a spiral effect on the allied services in the country to the airline. Ohunayo declared that apart from the MRO firm, other allied organisations to Emirates like hotels, catering services, car hire, security, expatriates, fuelers and other backup companies would be affected by the decision of the airline to quit the Nigerian scene. He advised the Federal Gov­ernment to take a cue from the Zimbabwean government, which allowed the foreign airlines oper­ating into its country to sell tick­ets in dollars. He explained that rather than insisting on naira sales for the air­lines, dollar sales would reduce the challenge of blocked funds currently being experienced by the foreign airlines. He also urged the Federal Government to merge the black market rate with the official rate, noting that this would reduce the challenge. He said: “By and large, we should find a way out of this cri­sis. Zimbabwe was also affected and it has told the airlines to sell tickets in dollars. We either tell the airlines to sell in dollars or we try to merge the official rate with the parallel rate so that we can have a single market rate for all. The foreign airlines don’t need to stress themselves with any offi­cial rate, which is not available for them in the country. “Also, once an airline reduces frequencies, it affects its consul­tants and expatriates who are either relieved of their jobs or placed on compulsory leave. It is usually a loss of revenue for ev­eryone and once these staff are not working, it will also affect their own expenses, which dove­tail into the economy. “Even, the fuel suppliers are feeling the pains. Now, the fuel suppliers that refused to collect naira from Emirates are now collecting zero naira and zero dollars. So, we are all feeling the pains. I think the Nigerian oil companies should have collect­ed naira, rather than insisting in dollars from Emirates and today, everybody on that value chain that gained from the services of Emirates are all down without jobs.” Emirates Airlines had on Oc­tober 29, 2022, suspended flight op­erations to Nigeria over its inabil­ity to repatriate funds trapped in the country. The airline claimed that its $85 million was trapped in Ni­geria, while efforts to repatriate the ticket sales funds had proved abortive. Before the October suspen­sion of flight services to Nigeria, the airline had in August 2022, suspended services to the coun­try over the same challenge of trapped funds. The airline bemoaned the fail­ure of the government to return its funds to it despite the promises of allocation by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Just last month, the Interna­tional Air Transport Association (IATA) told the Minister of Avi­ation, Sen, Hadi Sirika, that the trapped funds of its members in Nigeria had grown to $744 mil­lion as at February 2023. The figure made Nigeria the country with the highest trapped funds on the African continent. Also, in order to weather the storm, some of the foreign airlines have reduced their fre­quencies into Nigeria, while oth­ers shut their lower inventories to travel agencies.