LAGOS  – The Shell Petroleum Development Company Nigeria Limited, TechnoOil Group, Schlumberger and other international and indigenous oil and gas companies won awards at 6th edition Nigeria International Energy Summit (NIES 2023) Industry Awards which held in Abuja last week The annual awards is bestowed on individuals and organizations that cemented its reputation through technical contributions, service to colleagues, professional excellence, industry leadership, career achievement, public service and more so, see far beyond the impossibilities to create innovative solutions that change lives, enhance communities including fostering Nigerian content. Shell got seven awards, while the Group Managing Director of TechnoOil, Mrs. Nkechi Obi won the all-important N.I.E.S Lifetime Oil & Gas Achievement award. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Limited, NLNG Limited, Schlumberger, Chevron, TotalEnergies, First Exploration & Production Co. Limited, Global Process & Pipeline Services (GPPS) Limited, amongst others were also award winners at the night of excellence,a statement said. “I am extremely honored and humbled to receive the Lifetime Achievement Award in energy sector. Nothing compares to the pride and joy of working so hard for many years and being recognized by the industry with a lifetime achievement award”, said Nkechi Obi Group Managing Director, TechnoOil Group, on the sidelines of the award event. “I am grateful to the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources and the organizers of the event, Brevity Anderson, for the recognition for my work in the industry”, Obi added. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The NIES Lifetime Achievement award is an award of excellence that celebrates industry executives who change the face of the energy industry and have demonstrated outstanding leadership and performance of the years. POLL From the humble beginning of sales and marketing of ESSO brand of lubricants as exclusive franchise holder in 1988, Nkechi Obi grew TechnoOil into an integrated, wholly indigenous company with diverse portfolio of prime investment in oil and gas, energy, infrastructure and manufacturing with a reputation for quality, reliability while operating the highest safety, environmental, operational and social standards.