Boma Alabi is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and also a former president of the CommonWealth Lawyers Association. Speaking in an interview with CHIOMA UMEHA, the founding partner of Primeral African Legal, talks about the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC’s) poor preparedness, widespread voters’ suppression, violence during the 2023 general elections, and disenfranchisement of Nigerians in the diaspora in election process, among others. Excerpts. What are your views about the 2023 presidential election and the diaspora Nigerians who are pushing for voting participation? I was once a Nigerian in the dias­pora and of course, one wanted to participate in the election process and should be permitted to partici­pate in the election process. I think there is no reason we cannot do what other countries do. For instance as a dual national British and Nigerian, I can participate from Nigeria, in the elections going on in the United Kingdom, and as a matter of fact, it is not just about nationality, it is also about being a voter on the electoral register. So, we need to address this and not disenfranchise Nigerians because they don’t live in the coun­try. What lesson can the Nigerian govern­ment and the citizens learn from the exercise? The 2023 presidential election has its pros and cons. Let me start with the pros. The pros, one of which is that we had three leading candidates emerge and almost equally divided the votes across the board. They have a lot of interest from the young­er generation who picked up their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) in order to participate in the elections. There was no voter apathy. The vot­ers were very keen and willing to vote. Those are the pros. On the con side, certainly, there was widespread voter suppression by violence and by INEC also not showing up on time, to a lot of the polling booths across some parts of the country, and in­deed in many of the booths, not showing up at all. I was an observer in the Eti-Osa Local Government Area, and so I had the opportunity to move around, saw what was hap­pening. I can assure you that there were several polling booths where voters patiently waited and no INEC official showed up. I passed Dowen College in Lekki Phase 1, up to seven times. The last time I passed there was about 7 pm in the evening and those voters had already queued pa­tiently before 8 am, but unfortunate­ly, nobody showed up. So, it is very disheartening. Also, violence, vot­er suppression, and what was quite intriguing, was how the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) worked perfectly for the other two positions that were being elected on the day, the senatorial and the House of Representatives, and then some­how chose not to work perfectly for the presidential. Very odd indeed. How would you rate the involvement of women in the just-completed general elections? Political participation by wom­en in the 2023 elections has not im­proved at all. If you look across the board at the positions and results that have so far been announced, which is practically all of it, you will see that it is predominant­ly, exclusively male. We have one brave woman, Senator Aishatu Dahiru who is clearly beloved by her people, I have been following her political journey and that is Binani, as they call her, and she is charting a pathway in uncharted territory and particularly for me it gladdened me that she is from the northern part of the country where customary and religious restrictions are even more. I wish her well, I wish there were more women in the space. I want to ad­vocate for the political parties to effectively have a quota system to get more women on board because there will be more of a balance, less violence, and you will find that our politics will be far more civil when more women are involved.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ International Women’s Day is an annual event. What significance do you think the celebration has for Nigerian women? POLL International Women’s Day is indeed an annual event, relevant to women all across the world includ­ing women in Nigeria. And certain­ly, not just to women but to everyone because women’s rights are human rights and the theme of this year’s celebration is bridging the gender digital gap. Bridging the gender digital gap is very important. I don’t subscribe to women being profiled and made to work in certain fields and not others. It is also part of this gender discrimination that we are advocating against that has become so entrenched. In embracing equity, women should be given every oppor­tunity to work in any area and any field they are interested in, and not socialise to believe that certain ar­eas are meant for men and certain areas are meant for women, as in the past where it is said, that women are not meant to be lawyers for instance or engineers or motor mechanics. Particularly in the digital age, we don’t need to talk about physical strength anymore as it is all about mental ability. When it comes to mental ability, men and women are equal. I think it is a good topic that we really need to expand on and see how best to embrace equity in the way we work as men and women. Would you say that women at the grassroots level are carried along in the celebrations? If not, what should be done, in your opinion? Women in the grassroots are not carried along as much as women who have access to communication tools like phones, social media spac­es as well as electronic media like televisions among others. The more access we have to communication tools, the more information we have, and the more women are carried along. To that extent sadly, I would say, the women at the grassroots are not always carried along as much as they could be and should be. In Nigeria, political and constitutional bias against women have persisted and are actually endemic to the nation. What is the most effective way to address the issue and other forms of discrimination and injustice against Nigerian women? I believe that the Nigerian consti­tution is largely fair to both men and women because our human rights are guaranteed in that constitution and as a matter of fact, our judiciary has used the Nigerian constitution to overturn harmful traditional practices that are discriminatory against women. Take, for instance, the Supreme Court Judgment that was given saying that “the woman should have equal rights of inheritance” unlike what was obtainable in the past. What is causing the bias is re­ally customs and our beliefs which need to change. We really have to educate ourselves to understand that gender discrimination is bad and should not have a place in our culture. Political norms and the way they practice politics here is not friendly for women’s participation because of the fact that in our society and most cultures, women are the prima­ry caregivers for elderly relatives, children and so many other depen­dents. So, meeting at night to hold late-night political meetings will naturally be difficult for a person in that position. Also, the cultural bias where a woman who is out at that time of the night, is seen as somebody who is immoral, it also inhibits women’s participation in politics. We need to educate our­selves, we need to understand these cultural biases and confront them, and call them out wherever we see them in order to get the mindsets to change and get more inclusive in society. In addition to that, I actual­ly advocate that we allocate quotas to enhance equality as they have done in Rwanda and we have seen it working. It is almost 50/50 women’s participation in the political space in Rwanda. I think we can advocate that and actually try it out in order to bring that level of participation into our politics. You served as the Commonwealth Lawyers Association’s president before becoming a founding partner of Primeral African Legal. Describe how you were successful despite Nigeria’s society’s ingrained bias towards women, what advice do you have for emerging female lawyers? My advice to young female law­yers is that they shouldn’t allow any­body to put them in a gender box in their workspace. What a man can do, a woman can do. You are a lawyer, you are not a female lawyer per se, and you are a lawyer first and fore­most. You are a human being first and foremost. Your gender should have no place in your workspace. Therefore, work as hard, and be dil­igent in your work. If you see sexual discrimination, call it out and don’t tolerate it. Demand equal opportu­nities for yourself and when you get the opportunity, be professional and you will get to the top of your profession. Are there challenges facing women in the legal profession? Of course, there are challenges facing women in the legal profes­sion just as women in any other profession or businesses. Mostly, women are the ones who have to balance looking after the home, in addition to maintaining their work and try to progress in their work­place. That is a common challenge across the board, even the legal pro­fession has that challenge as well, and women in other professions have that challenge too. Our pro­fession also requires a lot of travel if you are an advocate. You may have a case in a court in Abeokuta today and another case in Zamfara tomorrow.