LAGOS – Hon. Dayo Israel, the National Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has reiterated the resolve of the President-elect Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to give the youths opportunities to excel in his administration once sworn in by May 29th 2023. Israel made this known during the Progressives National Youth Wing Easter Party and 2023 Election Thank You Dinner held at Lagos Continental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, yesterday. Extolling the leadership quality of the former Lagos State Governor, Israel noted that Tinubu is a trailblazer of good tidings and this evidently would continue with him as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He said, “By the grace of the Almighty God we have no doubt that Asiwaju is going to carry the young people along in his administration. He will give young people an opportunity to serve their father land. “He is going to create youth participation and youth inclusion in his government and we have a lot of young bright Nigerians who are ready, committed and willing to serve their father land to make Nigeria great again. Israel added, “So all of us let’s get ready, for this is going to be an administration where we will have the opportunity to put our best into the growth of Nigeria. “We want a Nigeria that works, we want a Nigeria with a quality education system, we want a Nigeria with economic prosperity.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We want a Nigeria where mothers will not have to worry about how their children are going to have dinner and we are going to work with Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to make sure that we can create that Nigeria,” Isael said. POLL The youth leader charged Nigerians not to despair, stressing that within the space of six month after Tinubu’s inauguration as President, life will be bearable for Nigerians. “When he begins to roll out his policies that will make life bearable for Nigerians, they will also come back on social media and commend him for good administration”. Speaking about the general elections, Israel said, “The 2023 election was an unimaginable election, it was a tough one and a day to the election nobody could determine who would win. “Even though we believed Asiwaju was going to win, it was a three or four horse race that was very intense but our people went out to knock on doors, mobilise and canvas the grassroots to enable APC to become victorious,” he said. On the reason for the dinner, he said: “I see it as a responsibility being a youth leader to bring them together and say thank you. We had this in Abuja last week at the Transcorp Hilton hall to appreciate our people from the north. “We are having this again here now for those in the South and particularly the Southwest. We are also visiting one or two other states to host an Easter dinner and iftar event to say thank you to our people for the support given to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Hon. Gboyega Isiaka, the newly elected Reps member in Egbado North Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency election who was one a guest at the dinner, Tinubu’s towering qualities is a point to restoration of hope to every Nigerian. “The youths have demonstrated with their votes that it is time for their place to be recognised in the polity. They constitute the major part of our voting population that is why I commend Dayo Israel and his team for going round the country in spite of the travel challenges in the country, he travelled around 36 states without issues. “If you know what the election means around us here, for any candidate to emerge victorious despite that, I think it is a good testimony. Again when you look at what we went through at the presidential primary and how we even came about the general elections, I think the party is necessary. “I have been contesting elections in times past; this would be the first election that even to get a naira note for logistics was a major issue. However, in the words of Chief Adewale Adeogun the National Coordinator of the Coalition of APC support group and also National coordinator Tinubu Network Thinker. Youths will attain more gains in Tinubu’s led administration being a leader with vision and who is great at keeping his bond with the people. Bukola Hamzat an APC stalwart in Oyo state was however, quick to add that Tinubu remains the one and only detribalized Nigeria who wants the good of all. He spoke about the need to restore Nigeria’s lost glory as in the days of old. He alluded to the fact that good governance and timely decisive steps are some of Tinubu’s distinguishing features that birthed lots of leaders in the society today.