ABUJA – The Special Assistant on Pub­lic Communication to the Peo­ples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate in the 2023 election, Atiku Abubakar, Mr. Phrank Shaibu, has taken the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, to the gutter for trying to present the $460,000 forfeiture case as one relating to tax evasion and not drug charges. Shaibu, in a statement in Abuja, said that the truth has finally been unraveled through the processes filed by the APC at the Presidential Election Pe­tition Tribunal. He said: “Festus Keyamo had gone on national television to say that Tinubu’s forfeiture of $460,000 was based on tax obligations. At least they have now finally admitted that the forfeiture was in relation to a drug trafficking case even though Tinubu did not admit guilt. “But what has been estab­lished is that Justice John Nordberg ordered on October 4, 1993 that the funds in the amount of $460,000 held in First Heritage Bank in the name of Bola Tinubu represent the pro­ceeds of narcotics trafficking or were involved in financial transactions in violation of 18 U.S. 1956 and 1957. “Tinubu should know that he cannot outrun his past. He was investigated in relation to heroin trafficking. He had millions of dollars in his ac­count while on a salary of $2, 500 monthly, and he forfeited part of it in order to escape jail. These are the facts. Elections are over, and he should stop lying to Nigerians.” Shaibu said Keyamo’s lack of understanding of the legal proceedings was one of the reasons he failed as a prose­cutor with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Calling on the authority to investigate Keyamo’s law de­gree, Shaibu said, “Now, Tinu­bu is telling the Election Peti­tion Tribunal that the money in question was forfeited as part of a court decree in relation to his drug case. No wonder Key­amo lost so many high profile cases with the EFCC while he was a prosecutor.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Atiku’s aide, however, knocked Tinubu for claiming that he was not under investi­gation, but only the funds in his bank accounts were under probe. POLL He asked Tinubu to explain to Nigerians how he was able to deposit millions of dollars one year after opening bank accounts while earning a sal­ary of $2,500 at Mobil. “Elections are over, but Tinubu is still trying to de­ceive Nigerians. Is he saying the millions of dollars found in his account just magically appeared there just as how his aide said on live television that the bullion vans found on his premises ahead of the 2019 poll erroneously found their way there? “Tinubu should stop taking Nigerians for a ride. Let him explain the business he did in order to have such a humon­gous sum of money in his account.” Shaibu implored the United States (US) authorities to set aside diplomatic protocols and furnish the Nigerian judiciary with all information relating to the trial and verdict of the US investigation of Tinubu over drug dealings and his forfeiture of the sum of $460,000 during his conviction.