LAGOS – Dr. John Okoro Kome, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), House of Assembly candidate for Ikeja Constituency 01 in the just-concluded 2023 election in Lagos State has prayed that those who sold their votes and their conscience during the elections should receive God’s forgiveness and mercy. Speaking for the first time since after the election, John Kome also prayed that those who betrayed their political parties should also bear in mind that everyone will reap whatever they sow, if not today, but in the future. According to Kome, “I have always told the electorates/voters that the money and rice given to them will only last one week at most, but the injustice that follows will last for years. “What they needed is nothing, but good representation in government and also a candidate who could muzzle resources from the public and private sector to better their lives and as well initiate and pass proper bills to ease their lives’ sufferings. But, alas, most of them have fallen again to Esau’s mistake. “For those who were intimidated through threats to their lives, may you live long to witness a better country soon? “I might not have chosen the part of buying your precious votes, but I shall always work out the bit I can, to support the downtrodden among us. “And I am at the same time using this medium to appeal to whoever that the odds favoured in the entire Lagos State to remember that our primary objective in seeking electoral victory at the polls, is to ease the suffering of the common man.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “And also, let us remember that we shall be remembered for the goods we have done for fellow humans and not what we acquired for ourselves and families. POLL “I sought God Almighty in prayers as to why my mandate was messed up by several factors. Heaven’s response was indeed revealing. “To everyone else out there with a similar nightmare, hear this: ‘God’s purpose and plan are not time-bound. God’s purpose could be to serve people in a certain way at a certain place. “But His plan and timing is best the prerogative of God and not yours. Like in the scriptures, David was actually ‘anointed’ by Prophet Samuel as the commandment of God, but he became king years later. “For every Nigerian who could not make it in the 2023 elections, inasmuch you are on a divine mission, wait upon God’s timing. “God Almighty may actually have given you an assignment, but will He vividly tell you when, where and how? “Therefore be patient and carefully observe the game and the momentum. Do not allow some religious bigots out there to distract your focus, drive and determination in fulfilling your God-given assignment. “You shall be accountable to God Almighty and not to men, except you were sent by men or by your ambition. “Every assignment of God is usually met with stiff opposition from different quarters. It takes an individual with a vision or mandates to keep going.”