ABUJA – Customers of Abuja Electricity Distribution Plc in Gwarinpa, Life Camp, Kubwa, and environs, may witness improved electricity supply as Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has completed the construction of 3 no. 33KV feeders and the installation of auto reclosers at the Dawaki 2x60MVA, 132/33KV Transmission Station, Abuja. Donald Etim, the Chief Marketing Officer, in a statement said the new project which was commissioned on November 27, 2022, at Dawaki, a suburb of Abuja FCT would facilitate the evacuation of the initial load from the facility starting 17:00hrs 17th April 2023, on two feeders. The constructed 33KV feeders will de-load Gwarinpa and Life Camp 33KV feeders from AT2 Katampe, as well as Dawaki and Bwari 33KV feeders from AT4 Kubwa TS.The project will improve power supply availability within Gwarinpa, Dawaki, Katampe, Life Camp, Kubwa, Bwari, and the environs. ‘‘We are thrilled to announce the successful commissioning of our new 33KV feeders, which is a proof of our commitment to meeting the growing electricity needs of our customers. These feeders will not only help de-load the existing infrastructure but also improve the overall performance of our distribution network, ensuring reliable and uninterrupted power supply to our valued customers in Gwarinpa, Life Camp and other locations’ said AEDC’s Managing Director/CEO, Engr. Adeoye Fadeyibi (FNSE).The two AEDC 33KV feeders commissioned this afternoon will evacuate power from the 132/33KV GIS Transmission Station Dawaki as follows: 33kv Feeder H02 will feed Gwarinpa 1st-5th Avenue, Setraco, and Citec Estate, while 33KV Feeder H03 will feed 6th & 7th Avenue, Adkan Estate, and Grand Products in Dawaki. Also covered are Urban Shelter, Charly Boy, News Engineering, and environs. The Chief Marketing Officer, Donald Etim, added that, “As a customer-centric company, we are constantly investing in our infrastructure to enhance service quality and customer experience. The commissioning of these new feeders is a strategic move to address the increased demand for electricity in these areas and ensure an efficient and reliable power supply to our customers”. Donald Etim continued: “As the load evacuation phase unfolds in the next few weeks, load may be adjusted gradually as we observe the feeder performances”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ AEDC is a leading provider of electricity distribution services with a strong commitment to service excellence, technological innovation, and customer satisfaction. Led by visionary leadership and supported by a skilled team of professionals, AEDC continues to enhance its contribution to the socio-economic development of its franchise area through reliable and efficient electricity distribution.