UCHE NNADOZIE Unlike the other guy who was apparently deported from the United Kingdom around Easter due to yet-to-be-revealed malfeasance, the President-elect Bola Tinubu arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja to a grandiose and cheery welcome. The incoming president had taken at least 34 days of rest and networking in Paris, France after a very hectic campaign season. He should know, he started the election project officially before everyone and put in all available human strength to pick his party’s ticket and ultimately win the general election. Thousands of party members and supporters had gathered since Monday morning – first at the campaign office before finding their way to the airport. The crowd was large to the extent that they almost mobbed him even on the tarmac – making me suggest to his protocol and security people to from now take precautionary measures in crowd control and order around our president-in-waiting. Now that he’s back, there is an elephant in the room that requires his input. The job of dealing with this issue rests with him and party leaders including President Muhammadu Buhari as the outgoing party leader. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ As he prepares for the inauguration, one of the main issues that need his full attention and resolution one way or the other is the zoning of leadership positions at the National Assembly. POLL Known for his quick thinking, productive engagements, and positive pacifist inclination, the president-elect must take gingerly steps prior to May 29 to settle the matter of which zone should produce principal officers of the National Assembly. Having become president from the South – and south-west precisely, with Senator Kashim Shettima as the incoming vice president, it appears settled that the position of President of the Senate should be zoned to southern Nigeria while that of Speaker of the House of Representatives should go to the North. This should be done as quickly as possible in order to avoid the Saraki perfidy of 2015. Already, some hawks within the opposition parties are plotting and holding nocturnal meetings to impeach whatever arrangement the All Progressives Congress (APC) comes up with. The Saraki situation where the ruling party was reduced to a mere spectator in their own event must not repeat itself under Tinubu. Casting my lot with Southeast is a playback of the scenario in 1999. It also accords with the mood of the nation. The Senate presidency being the number three position according to official protocol should equally be a Christian. South-eastern Christian! This will assuage some of the feelings of alienation pervading the southeastern socio-political atmosphere. The best way to show faith in the people despite not making 25% votes in the presidential election is to give them the third position slot and see how they respond. It’s a powerful way of political healing after eight years of a cat-and-mouse game between the people and the APC administration. This is more so because the first two positions have been taken by Muslims via election. And in the outgoing administration of the party, the president, Senate president, speaker, and deputy speaker are all Muslims. Thus, zoning the position to the southeast signifies that Tinubu offers a fresh hand of progress and dynamism for Nigeria going forward. Furthermore, there are ranking senators who have also been members of the House of Representatives from the Southeast. In order not to upset the rules (ranking) of the Senate and every other thing considered, I think that a senator from Imo or any other south-eastern state should nick the position. For the speakership, it is my suggestion based on the prevailing political reality for Asiwaju Tinubu to rally his party leaders to also ensure that the north-central gets the gavel. My suggestions are geared toward ensuring party cohesion, unity, progress, and diversity. It is also to ensure national healing and brotherhood. It is important therefore that the rest of the positions in the National Assembly are shared with the rest of the zones. While the north-west gets a Deputy Senate president, the south-south should get a deputy speakership. Any of the zones that lose out in the top four positions of the National Assembly can afterward be compensated through the executive arm of government headed by Tinubu. An office like the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and first-rate ministries can be used to placate the others. Nigeria needs all hands on deck at this time. All hands must also be stretched out in order to foster unity, justice, peace, and eventually development. Every part of Nigeria counts. Asiwaju Tinubu should thus use his influence to settle the composition of the leadership in the legislature now that he is back; and by so doing, making the journey to a renewed hope and rebuilding our land a lot easier in a way that various parts of the country can take ownership. Nnadozie writes from Lagos