LAGOS – Chapel of Christ the Light, Alausa, on Friday, played host to prominent Nigerians and Christians across the country who gathered to eulogise Apostle Prof. Alexander Oyewole Bamgbola, who died on March 1, 2023. Apostle Bamgbola who was the General Oversee of Zion Ministries, a former Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), and Chairman of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), who was born on February 2, 1946 and died on March 1, 2023. He was described as a committed Christian, a man who loved God, a humble man and a philanthropist of note. The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, described Bamgbola as a man who lived a successful and humble life, while his wife, Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, were there to witness the event. They joined to pay condolence to the bereaved family, especially the widow of Bamgbola, Adenike Bamgbola. Adebukola Adeleke, Special Adviser on Religious Matters, who represented the governor, read the address on behalf of his principal. In his address the governor said, “We are gathered here as a family of witnesses to celebrate Apostle Alexander Bamgbola, a great man of God and a fearless man, who spent his entire life for church.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He was a man of peace, a bridge builder, who lived a good life worthy of emulation. POLL His life was also a source of encouragement for us to continue with humility in service for the gospel, always prepared for the Lord’s call. As humans, we can do absolutely nothing to change the plans of God. All that God does is for our own good. In the book of Jeremiah Chapter 29 verse 11, the Lord said, “I know the plan that I have for you, they are plans of good and not evil to give you a future and hope. “It also reminded us that he would not let us to be tempted beyond our ability, but with the temptation he will also provide a way of escape that we will be able to endure it, 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 13.” He added, “This is not the time for us to feel despondent. God has warned us that the time for us to stop sleeping has come, that we should wake up because heaven is near now, the night is nearly over, and daylight is on the way. “Let us throw off everything that belongs to darkness and equip ourselves with for the light, Romans chapter 13 verses 11 to 12. “In this regard, I urge all Christians to adopt the spirit of sacrifice and love which is the cornerstone of all religions and do your best in your own little manner to sacrifice our own interest for the sake of the other person and to save your community and neighbourhood from malice and hatred and imbibe tolerance. “Let us try to renew our hope in Christ, renew our love for our fellow human beings. Renew our faith in our nation and the determination to make it a better place because the dark days are over. “In respect to the tribute to our brother, Apostle Bamgbola, tears sometimes are not appropriate when a life has been lived honestly and successfully, the correct response to death is a smile, Apostle Bamgbola lived an honest and successful life. “He has left the world a better place. We will remember him with a smile. Farewell servant of God, rest in peace,” Sanwo-Olu said. Felix Ohiwerei, former Chairman of Nigerian Breweries in his tribute said, “Apostle Bamgbola was lovely, loving, he loved his friends, family, body of Christ and he loved Christ. When he calls you he will pray for you and when you call him he will pray for you. “We have prayed together for over 30 years. The best way to remember him is that he loved the body of Christ. We pray that his legacy continues.”