LAGOS – Emir of Borgu, Barrister Muhammad Sani Haliru Dantoro has canvassed traditional rulers and concerned elders in the country to propagate peace and security in their various domains. Dantoro in a statement to journalists said that the welfare and security of the people are the primarily responsibility of traditional institutions and thrones. Disturbed by the heightened political irritations in the country, Emir of Borgu warned that political differences should not stoke any type of ethnoreligious and cultural differences in the country. He added that Nigeria’s diversity reigned supreme and must be protected and guided to sustain national peaceful coexistence. He said: “As traditional rulers, we must be seen as a father to all Nigerians and therefore, should help douse tensions either political or religious, which may put our people in harm’s way. It is indeed sacrosanct, a Catholic creed that we encourage our leaders and children to find ways to resolve their political or social differences without setting the country ablaze.” The emir emphasised that all post-electoral differences in the country, had always been tabled before the courts of land, stressing that this deepens legal and democratic processes, desirable to promote Nigerian democracy and aid national socioeconomic development. The royal father warned further that failure of traditional rulers to intervene, caution temperance and circumspection to the political community in Nigeria would spill unnecessary tension and confusion.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He stated further that as Nigerian traditional rulers, the royal fathers must get their bearings right and encouraged politicians to play by the rules. POLL “You win, bring everyone close to support developmental programmes and if you lose, and felt not satisfied or aggrieved, the courts of the lands are there. And no doubt that will encourage peace and national cohesion, instead of letting political disagreements get out of hands,” the Emir emphasised. He revealed his intentions to reach out and mobilise his fellow crown heads across the country, a step, which he had already began with the Borgu Kingdom where he called a meeting of all district heads and chiefs to reach out to the political elites, irrespective of party affiliations to toe the lines of democratic process and engagements. He insisted that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the president-elect and a prominent traditional tittle holder of Borgu Kingdom, the Jagaban Borgu, needed everyone’s prayers and support, particularly to turn around the fortunes of the country, secure it and make Nigeria a democratic reference point on the continent of Africa. He declared that Tinubu was capable of leading and fixing the country in all area of development index.