JEROME-MARIO CHI JIOKE UTOMI It is no longer news that some of the first-term governors-elect will face many months of unpaid workers’ salaries and mounting pension liabilities as well as agitation for the implementation of the nationally agreed minimum wage. They will also have to confront rising inflation, escalating prices of goods and services and dwindling purchasing power. These incoming governors, about seventeen of them, according to reports, will have a difficult time boosting the economies of their individual states because they will take over at least N2.1 trillion in domestic debt and $1.9 billion in foreign debt from their predecessors. It is equally a common knowledge that in January, 2023, Patience Oniha, Director General, Debt Management Office (DMO), while fielding questions from journalists at the public presentation and breakdown of the highlights of the 2023 Appropriation Act in Abuja, noted that the incoming Federal Government would inherit about N77 trillion as debt by the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure in May. Aside from being an indication that Nigerians should expect tough time ahead or better still, may not anticipate a superlative performance from the incoming administrations as they will from inception be over burdened by debt, what is, however, ‘newsy’ is that each time the present Federal Government went for Ythese loans, Nigerians were usually told that the loans would “stimulate the national economy, making it more competitive by focusing on infrastructural development, delivery of inclusive growth and prioritizing the welfare of Nigerians to safeguard lives and property; equipping farmers with high tools, technology and techniques; empowering and enabling mines to operate in a safe and secured environment and training of our youths through revival of our vocational institutions to ensure they are competitive enough to seize the opportunities that will arise for this economic revival.” From the above, it is evident that the nation did not arrive at its present state of indebtedness by accident but through a well programmed plan of actions and inactions that engineered national poverty and bred indebtedness. The state of affairs dates back to several years in the life of the present Federal Government. In 2019, the rising debt profile of the country dominated discussion when the Senate opened debate on the general principles of the 2019 Appropriation Bill. Most of the contributors to the referenced debate asked the executive to exercise some level of caution on its borrowing plan in order not to return the country to a state heavily indebted nation it exited in 2005 through Paris Club debt relief. While noting that the budget deficit would be funded through borrowing, Senator Lawan, among other things, said that “about 89% of the deficit (N1.65 trillion) will be financed through new borrowings while about N210 billion is expected from the proceeds of privatization of some public enterprises. Debt Service/Revenue Ratio which was high as 69% in 2017 has led to concerns being raised about the sustainability of the nation’s Debt.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Reacting to Lawan’s words, many Nigerians raised the alarm on the country’s rising debt profile. They noted that though the budget estimates should be given expeditious consideration and passage in view of the time already lost, the borrowing plan contained in the Bill should be properly scrutinized. They insisted that scrutinizing the borrowing plan became necessary to prevent the country from exceeding its borrowing limit when juxtaposed with the ratio of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). POLL Even some Senators in their submissions frowned at the nation’s increased borrowing proposals on our yearly budget which they described as becoming unbearable. “Yes, money must be sought for by any government to fund infrastructure but it must not be solely anchored on borrowing which in the long run, will take the country back to a problem it had earlier solved. Besides, there are other creative ways of funding such highly needed infrastructure.” Similarly, in February 2022, economic experts, going by media reports, urged the Federal Government to seek a debt moratorium and reduce the cost of governance to reduce funds expended on debt servicing, as the best available option. This, according to them, will enable the government to suspend payment for now and re-strategize – particularly, the government cannot continue to service its rising debt profile at the expense of meeting the competing needs of the people. The first thing that comes to mind is the urgent need for diversification of the nation’s revenue sources. Revenue diversification from what development experts are saying will provide options for the nation to reduce financial risks and increase national economic stability; as a decline in particular revenue source might be offset by increase in other revenue sources. Finally, within this period of economic vulnerability, new awareness that must not be allowed to go with political winds is the expert warning that accumulated debt can hinder a country’s development, especially when most of the revenue generated is used to service debt. Jerome-Mario, programme coordinator (Media and Public Policy), Social and Economic Justice Advocacy (SEJA), writes via Jeromeutomi@yahoo.com/ 08032725374