…Tells Omisore To Resign Senator Abdullahi Adamu, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress has been issued a 7-day ultimatum to convene a meeting of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) to consider burning issues that must not delay ahead of the May 29 swearing -in and handover date. Salihu Mohd Lukman , a member of the NWC gave the ultimatum in an open letter to the party’s chairman warning that he would not hesitate to consider legal action to compel Adamu to obey the constitution of APC. He noted that he considered yhe choice of open letter since previous communications directed to the APC national chairman this month and beyond were not acknowledged. Citing various provisions of the APC constitution, Lukman noted among other things,.that the party NWC is expected to articulate and present report of its activities in the last one year, present its financial report dor ratification by NEC, as well as prepare a national budget for the country for the May-29- Dec 31 period, amongst other crucial decisions. He said that the party is equally expected to set up a committe to review performance of the party in the general elections and take decisive step to Sanction those who worked against the part in the party in the concluded election. Lulman maintained that these critical activities cannot go ahead unless the meeting of the NEC is held in keeping with constitution of the party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The open letter entitled “Restoring Constitutional Order in APC” stated that the party in line with its constitution is expected to submit a proposal for the zoning of NASS leadership offices in the shortest possible time. POLL Lukman also urged the National Secretary of the APC, Sen Iyiola Omisore to resign his position because of“the shameful outcome of the Osun 2022 Governorship election and the embarrassing outcome of the 2023 general elections in Osun State whereby we lost all the three Senatorial seats, all the House of Representatives seats and all the House of Assembly seats in the state”. According to him, “The National Secretary, Sen. Iyiola Omisore who is the most senior party leader in the state should immediately resign. In addition, the NWC should recommend to NEC that a high-powered reconciliation committee should be setup to facilitate reconciliation of all party leaders in Osun state”. “In order to demonstrate commitment that we are going to restore constitutional order in the party, actions should commence on all these and NWC should meet within the next two weeks from today, Wednesday, April 5, 2023 to review progress. “Today, being April 19, 2023 makes it two weeks since the demands were presented. There was neither acknowledgement nor indication that any of the demands are being considered. Although the NWC met on Monday, April 17, 2023, deliberation of the NWC was limited to ratifying our Governorship candidates for Kogi, Bayelsa and Imo States for onward transmission to INEC. “The only conclusion I can reach is that the demands I presented to you are not important. Perhaps, by extension, I can also conclude that given your disposition to run affairs of the party only based on your discretionary decisions without reference to provisions of the APC constitution, your commitment to the party and its electoral viability is weak. “Being the National Chairman who is respected by party leaders at all levels, it is worrisome that under your leadership, we will be back to the old problems of being unable to respect provisions of our constitution with respect to convening meetings of organs and ensuring that all our organs are allowed to perform their statutory functions as provided in our constitutions. ” It is more worrisome given that you are a lawyer by training, a very experienced politician who had the rare privilege of being a two term Governor as well as someone who has been operating at the highest level of national politics since the Second Republic. By any standard, no one will expect a person of your stature and experience in politics to be taciturn when it comes to managing affairs of the party based on respect for the party’s constitution. “To say the least, as a member of the NWC, I am scandalised and embarrassed that after one year in office we are yet to have a regular NEC, National Caucus or National Advisory Council (NAC) meetings. All the functions of these organs and the decisions expected from them by the constitution are being taken by you, perhaps in consultation with the National Secretary. When it suits you, the NWC is invited to ratify or approve some of your actions and decisions. ” As a member of NWC, we have never had any session where we were invited to consider any report of activity in the last one year. Yet, Article 13.4(ii) of our constitution require that the NWC submit quarterly reports to NEC. “We have never deliberated on any financial report even when Article 13.4(iv) require that we present quarterly financial reports to NEC. We have never deliberated on a national budget although Article 13.3A(xiv) require that we present one to NEC and get approval”. Lukman warned that with the leadership style of the APC National Chairman,, and possible vacuum it leaves in the transition period, the party leadership may end up stressing the relationship between the outgoing and incoming administration. “As things are, if allowed to continue, under your leaders as the National Chairman of the party, we are unfortunately setting the stage for destroying the relationship that exists between outgoing President Buhari and incoming President Asiwaju Tinubu. Anyone who is working to destroy a political relationship that inspired the successful achievement of the first political merger negotiation in the political history of Nigeria, which led to the first defeat of a ruling party for Nigeria, don’t mean well for Nigerian democracy. “I make this an open letter because it is about campaigning to return the APC to its foundation, which requires that we mobilise all like-minded party leaders and members in this crusade to restore constitutional order in the APC. “As a person, I have concluded that everything must be done to compel you to respect the constitution of our party and manage its affairs based on the requirements of our constitution and not your personal discretion. Therefore, by this open letter, I am serving you notice of one week from today, being Wednesday, April 19, 2023 to take all the appropriate steps required to convene a NEC meeting before May 29, 2023 wherein all the issues bordering on the management of smooth transition between the outgoing government of President Buhari and the incoming government of President Asiwaju Tinubu can be considered. “If by the end of this one-week notice, no action is taken to convene a NEC meeting as the first step to restore constitutional order in APC, I will not hesitate to take further actions, including approaching our courts to enforce compliance with the provisions of our party’s constitution under your leadership. “Like I have argued in my letter to you of December 26, 2022 on the subject “Democracy and Accountability: Concerns about State of Affairs of APC”, “being a party that is committed to enthroning progressive politics as the pillars of developing our democracy and moving our nation forward, these issues should be urgently addressed. Inability to address these issues would continue to undermine our electoral viability.” “The current NWC under your leadership should stop acting as a Trojan Horse programmed to destroy our party. Only compliance with and respect for our constitution by allowing all our superior organs, notably NEC, National Caucus and NAC, to function and take decisions accordingly, which should be binding on all party leaders and members can secure our party. This is not negotiable!”