 IBADAN  – Governor Seyi Makinde’s ad­ministration in the past four years has paid different tranch­es of over N7 billion as backlog of gratuity to state government retirees. This was revealed on Friday by the Commissioner for Es­tablishment and Training, Siju Lawal, who revealed that the Makinde’s first term in office has trained 9, 000 staff members in various disciplines. Mr. Lawal, who featured on a special programme on Aloore radio, the Conversations main­tained that the era of civil ser­vants working and dying with­out enjoying their gratuities and pensions are over. The Commissioner said that as at Friday, Governor Ma­kinde’s administration has paid over N22billion out of the N55.9 billion backlogs inherited from previous administration. He added that pensioners from 2019, when Makinde as­sumed office till date have re­ceived their gratuity. Commissioner added that Governor Seyi Makinde and his team were firm believers of integrity in governance.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He called for the cooperation of the citizens for the Governor’s second term administration to be able to serve them better, even as he admonished civil servants and politicians to live a life of sacrifice and sincerity. POLL In his remarks, the Com­missioner for Public Works, Infrastructure and Transport, Prof. Daud Kehinde Sangodo­yin affirmed that connecting all zones in the State, through road networks has fostered in­frastructural development. He said the State Govern­ment has completed 76% of roads connecting different zones in the state to one another, add­ing that no zone is left out in the State. Prof. Sangodoyin said the ongoing 76.67km Ogbomo­so-Fapote-Iseyin road connect­ing Ogbomoso and Oke-Ogun Zones is in the middle of com­pletion. He said the Oyo State Govern­ment embarked on major road projects to increase access to all geographical zones in the state. He said the reconstruction of the 65km Moniya-Ijaiye-Iseyin Road which connects Ibadan with the foodbasket of the state, Oke-Ogun is a big relief to com­muters.