ISEGHE AJAYI There is no doubt that we are in really dire situation and surviving in this unfavourable state of the economy can be very challenging due to persistent rise in the prices of commodities which the common folks are finding difficult to afford. The situation has also affected the value of Naira and the earnings of individuals adversely. With this, it may be impossible to live within one’s earnings particularly if the individual relies on a single source of income that is meager and unreliable. There are also people who earn good money but because they are reckless in their spending, would always remain insolvent before the month runs out. It is quite true that to experience financial freedom in this harsh economy can be very tough but it is not impossible as it depends on the lifestyle of the individual. Do you that know that being financially unstable is not only common with low-income earners but also some big shots with good monthly earnings? The fact remains that regardless of what one earns, proper financial planning can never ruin you or make you penniless. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Agreed, once in a while, one can be financially handicapped but when it becomes a recurring experience, then one needs to seek the help of a financial advisor. POLL Failure to save, spend less or invest your money wisely particularly when you have a good source of livelihood will not enhance your financial status unless you change your financial mindset. Amassing debts owing to your unending needs and inability to prioritise them will worsen your financial situation. That is why it is necessary for you to look into your financial habits and work on the ones that are influencing your life negatively. Do not wait for your financial situation to progress mysteriously. The under-listed tips may be the reason why some people will remain financially unstable: Debt Trap Because of lack of financial planning, people get caught up by small loans, using credit cards for emergencies or even bank loans. 0 They ask for loans they are ineligible for but are unable to pay back, thereby incurring more interest rates which leave them very broke. Also, when you are really broke, it is quite easy to get stuck in a debt trap because you are desperate and in the process, make rash decisions. Heaps Of Unpaid Bills In a cash strapped economy, people often lack the ability to foot their bills and so end up amassing more debts with the attendant penalties and interest rates. When you are broke, heaps of bills and overdue notices are sure sources of anxiety and fear. But, avoiding those problems and failing to manage your debts only make them worse. Lack Of Knowledge Without getting correct, fair knowledge and advice, people lack confidence in their personal finance decisions. Also, they lack knowledge about personal finance and how to use their money to gain financial freedom. 50666 This is a situation where people do not bother to find cheaper or more affordable ways of doing things. They spend recklessly and fail to invest in what could give them a better future. Refusal To Pay Yourself Financial experts believe that the main reason why people are poor or broke is that they do not pay themselves first. This implies not setting aside a certain portion of their monthly income into a savings account before earmarking on expenditure. It is expedient to try as much as possible to invest part of your money if you really want to opt out of financial hassles. No Preparation For Rainy Day If you do not have an emergency fund, there is no way you will not run from pillar to post when emergencies which are inevitable occur. Having an emergency fund prepares you for the rainy day or future financial challenges But, a situation where there is none will make you continue to look like a beggar that has no choice, because if you have to depend on the mercy of people. No Plan For Your Money One of the reasons people remain poor or broke is lack of a proper plan for their money due to bad spending habits. Some people think they do not have enough money to invest as they have this mentality that they need to have enough money before they can start investing which is simply not true. Of course, you can commence investing with little money and increase it as your income improves. In fact, the earlier you start investing, the better off you would be in building wealth for yourself. It is all about time. The more time you have, the more your money would work harder for you and grow progressively. No Spending Plan If you do not know how your money is spent or what goes out and comes in, there is no way you can monitor your finances and control your spending habit. More so, if you do not know where your money is currently going, you cannot turn it in the direction you would prefer it to do what would favour you. Still, it is only through creating a budget which helps to curb your excesses in terms of expenses that you can keep track of your money and failure to createone and stick to it would make you to be perpetually broke. Get-Rich-Quick Syndrome Too many people are looking for the quickest and easiest way out of poverty and as such are trying to get rich through whatever means. They do not know that it does not work that way as hard work is required to become financially buoyant and stable. Relying On Single Source Of Income Some usually complain of not making enough money due to poor remuneration, which can hardly meet their needs especially in a country where survival is a major challenge. The excuse is tenable to a large extent but with determination, you can lay your hands on or get engaged in other means of making extra income to better your lot. Laziness And No Ambition 90/206 Saving money involves earning money and if you do not have a purpose, you will never go anywhere in life. People with ambition are not lazy because they have drive, motivation and inspiration. But, those who lack one, lack all, and people who lack are truly broke Getting up every day to work toward something you love and are passionate about makes you more productive, which, in turn leads to more money. For the lazy ones, they find it difficult to do something on their own either because their parents are well off or they have inheritance to fall back on. They always have the habit of complaining and never see any good in the efforts of productive ones.