***Warns Officers Against Land Matters, Debt Collection LAGOS – The Chairman of the Police Service Commission,  Solomon Arase, a retired Inspector General of Police, has warned officers and men of the Nigeria Police force against acts capable of dragging the image of the force to disrepute. Arase sounded this warning when he  received the  national leadership of the Police Community Relations Committee. He  pledged to work in partnership with the Inspector General of Police to reinvigorate the Nigeria Police Force for better performance. Arase noted that for the Police to excel in its day-to-day operations, there must be consquences for misconduct and benefits for examplary behaviour. He said benefits and burden must go together, stressing that he will strive to complement what the Police is currently doing to ensure that the operations of the Police must conform with its rules of engagement. The PSC Chairman said the Police has no reason to go into land matters or debt collection, issues that should be handled through alternative dispute resolution, adding that he will remain a strong advocate of community partnership in policing.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He however noted that he was worried over the increasing cases of human rights abuses in the Police. POLL Arase pledged to support the visiting delegation in areas they needed his support. The national Chairman of the Committee, Alhaji Mogaji Ibrahim Olaniya, earlier in his brief remarks, commended Mr. President for his appointment, stressing, “You are the best for the job.” Alhaji  Olaniya said the Committee was in the Commission to congratulate him on his appointment and to let him know that they were vigorously building on the legacies he established as the 18th Inspector General of Police. He said the Committee now has offices outside the country, such as in Canada, United Kingdom etc, adding that: “We are here to say that the fruit God used you and others to plant has germinated. “We are here to rejoice with you and show you love.” The National President said the Committee will be 39 years old on May 8, 2023 and that on May 9, “We want to celebrate it and we are inviting you to the celebration.” He made a case for special promotion for deserving Police Officers to encourage them to put in more efforts in the service of the nation. Ikechukwu Ani, Head, Press and Public Relations Police Service Commission  has disclosed in a statement at the weekend.