***Joins Muslim In Ramadan Prayers For A Great, Peaceful Country ABUJA – Labour Party presidential hopeful, Peter Obi, has urged Christians not to despair, but to remain hopeful and peaceful in the face of tribulations and provocations. Obi said this in an Easter message on Saturday, to Christian faithful. In the message, he also joined Muslims to pray for a peaceful and prosperous country, especially as believers mark the middle of 30 days of special prayers and fasting ahead of the Eid El Fitr celebration. The 2023 presidential contender said, “To our Muslim brothers and sisters who are well into the Ramadan fasting period, which will culminate in the Eid El Fitr, my special greetings and prayers are with you as we look forward to a joyous celebration. “Given that we are all united as brothers and sisters, and in our trust in the mercies and infinite benevolence of God Almighty, I urge all Nigerians particularly the youths not to despair in the face of many challenges and tribulations we are facing as a country. We continue to thank God for all His blessings on Nigeria and pray for a better and New Nigeria where equity, fairness, peace, unity, accountable leadership, and prosperity shall reign”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ About Easter he said, “if Jesus our messiah died for us and rose from death to fight for us why should we be hopeless at anything? POLL “Every religion believes that God our creator is of justice, so why should we as his children not expect it from him? “The main significance of Easter that the Christendom celebrates this time is that it marks the Resurrection of Jesus Christ three days after his death by crucifixion.The three most significant events in it are the trial of Jesus, the death of Jesus, and finally the resurrection. “What is the strength here for us, it gives all who believe in Christ the courage and hope that the Lord they serve, worship, and adore is alive and not dead. And that Good Friday must come before Easter Sunday. Meaning that the road to Alleluia is not smooth but it must come. “Easter is therefore a celebration and festival of hope knowing that our messiah is alive and not dead. Easter gives us hope of eternal life which is what every believer is working for. “If therefore we know that Easter gives us hope that our savior is alive after dying for our sake, why should we despair.? So, fellow Nigerians, dear Obidients, of all faith and class, never despair as I pray that the blessings of the resurrection will remain with us in the face of any tribulations because our redeemer is living and active”.