***Call For Need To Replicate Learnt Lessons In Our Daily Dealings The newly sworn-in Director of Abuja Investment Company LTD, Chief Pius Ovbije has felicitated with Muslims in Nigeria as they celebrate Eid el-fitr which marks the successful completion of the Ramadan fast. In a goodwill message, Ovbije urged Muslims to sustain the lessons of the holy month and replicate them in their daily activities for the good of the society. He tasked Nigerians not to loose sight in face of the current socio-economic and security challenges bedeviling the country but to remain resolute and prayerful with faith that the nation’s trying moment will be over and Nigeria will emerge stronger and more united. He enjoined Muslims across the nation to sustain the devotion and other acts of worship performed during the holy month as well as to imbibe the lessons learnt during Tafsir sessions for the good of the religion, society and humanity. According to him, “Nigeria is in dire need of good people with excellent moral standings to overcome the evils being perpetrated by some few who do not mean well for the country. ”Eid el-fitr festival connotes sacrifice, selflessness, love and obedience to the tenets of Islam. I therefore enjoin us to draw enduring lessons from the Ramadan and show love to one another as well as promote harmony and peaceful coexistence among our diverse people “.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The same way we all remembered the less privileged and those afflicted by poverty during Ramadan, I implore us to carry over these attributes beyond Ramadan”. POLL Ovbije called on the people of Niger-Delta to always take advantage of the various Federal Government empowerment programmes to uplift their economic status for the good of their individual selves and families. While commending the Federal Government lead Administration, and appreciates the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege and the entire APC families and people of Delta state for their steadfastness in the midst of challenges, urging them not to despair but to remain hopeful as well as continue to support the Government in its efforts to guarantee security, wellbeing and prosperity of the state.