According to Football Insider, Chelsea want to sign Sadio Mane in the summer. The Blues are in search of a new forward, and it seems they could push for the services of the former Liverpool star. Things have not gone according to plan for the 31-year-old since his transfer from Liverpool to Bayern Munich and he might be on the move in the upcoming summer transfer window. Mane was a part of Liverpool from the summer of 2016 to 2022. During his time with the Merseyside club, the 31-year-old made 269 appearances. He found the back of the net on 120 occasions and created 48 goals for his teammates. He enjoyed quite a successful stint at Liverpool winning every possible major trophy. The Senegal international decided to move on ahead of the ongoing season. He joined German giants Bayern Munich for a fee of around £27 million which will rise to £35 million when we consider the add-ons. Things on the pitch have gone according to the plan for the 31-year-old. However, he gas struggle off the pitch. Mane was involved in an alleged punching incident with Leroy Sane after a UEFA Champions League game. The incident has not gone down well with people at the club and they might look to offload him in the summer. Meanwhile, Liverpool are not interested in re-signing Mane. The Merseyside club’s focus is to strengthen their midfield as well as their defence. However, there is a possibility that the Senegal international could return to Premier League. Chelsea are interested in having him in their ranks. The Blues have spent a fortune in acquiring new players over the past few transfer windows. However, the results on the pitch have not followed. As a result, they have faced plenty of criticism. While they are without a manager at this point in time, they have already started planning for the upcoming summer window. The Blues won’t be able to spend big bucks given the pressure of financial fair play regulations. And, they will have to look for budget buys.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ One of the major concerns of late has been the number nine position. While their priority is to sign a proper number nine, they are well aware of the fact that there are not many available in the market. As a result, Chelsea believe Mane could work as an immediate fix. The 31-year-old prefers to play on the left wing but he could also start as a number nine having done it in the past. POLL He will bring a lot of experience to their squad and might be the missing piece of the jigsaw. However, the Blues might face competition from clubs across Europe for his services. As a result, it will be interesting to see if they manage to come out on top in their pursuit of the 31-year-old.