Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company Ltd (IVM), Nnewi, last weekend gave a big boost to Nigeria’s quest for alternative automotive fuel, with the commissioning of a range of vehicles that run on Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and Liquified Natural Gas (LNG). The gas-powered vehicles included long intra-city buses; heavy duty truck heads; and a 1.5 litre passenger car produced by the first indigenous automaker. The vehicles were commissioned by Otunba Francis Meshioye, the President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), who led a delegation of the association’s leaders to the fast-expanding plant in Nnewi in Anambra State. Chief Innocent Chukwuma, the Chairman, Innoson Group, while giving an insight into the project at the commissioning ceremony, said his company realised the fact that the automotive fuel of the future was gas, mainly because of its economic advantages and environment-friendliness. Chukwuma said the commissioning was a testament to the fact that Innoson was making Nigeria a hub for automobile manufacturing in Africa. He added: “I observed that normal diesel and petrol are very expensive now in Nigeria. So, we have to find an alternative. This is to also ensure that the purchase of vehicles is made easier and their maintenance less costly This way, the average Nigerians can afford to buy vehicles and operate them with ease. “We have now l ventured into LNG, CNG-powered vehicles and are also trying to do electric vehicles. Electric vehicles, as well as LNG and CNG-powered vehicles are the future. The durability and running cost of these vehicles are comparatively better. They have been tested and found reliable, just that many people don’t know about it yet.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Chukwuma, therefore, recommended a comprehensive public enlightenment on the advantages of embracing vehicles powered by CNG and LNG. POLL He expressed confidence that Nigerians would realise the huge gains in using the alternative energy, adding that when people get used to motoring with gas vehicles, “they will not like to go back to vehicles using petrol and diesel.” Chukwuma lamented the rising costs of moving goods and equipment by trucks from one part of the country to another, owing to the exorbitant pump price of diesel. He, however, assured that with the new gas powered heavy duty truck heads and trailers that would soon hit the market, the cost of movement of goods would crash. The Innoson Chairman also told his guests that patronage of the vehicles has, so far, been very encouraging, disclosing that many more procurement orders had been received from Benin City where some units were already in use due to existing support facilities. “Most of the orders in my factory are from Benin. This means they already understand the advantages of these vehicles. We produce according to demand. We will be happy to see more people patronise local products,” he said. Francis Meshioye, President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, (MAN), while commenting after a tour of the plant,said Innoson had all it takes to do the job of car manufacturing. Meshioye reinforced Chukwuma’s statement, saying, “We have test-run one of the vehicles and it is very amazing. The gas-powered vehicles are the future for Nigeria. This is very innovative. It costs so much to transport goods from one place to another because of fuel. Gas is cheaper and better. It is the way to go.” Also speaking, Lady Ada Chukwudozie, the Chairman, MAN South- East (Anambra, Ebonyi and Enugu states), described the production of the clean energy vehicles by Innoson as “a legacy project.” Chukwudozie assured that gas was sufficiently available in Anambra State, even as she urged Innoson to leverage on this advantage to dominate the market. “Innoson is the pride of manufacturers. He has done so well. He is manufacturing vehicles. We have gone round and have seen things for ourselves and we are so proud of him,” she said. She also said Mr. Charles Soludeo, the Governor of Anambra State was doing so much to support industrialisation in the state, which culminated in the recent signing of Memorandum of Understanding nambra state. She said once power becomes stable in Anambra, there would be productivity, job creation and wealth creation.