The Aare-Onibon Balogun of Ibadanland, Olooye Adegboyega Taofeek Adegoke has called for peace, love and tolerance among Nigerians in the spirit of Easter celebration. In his Easter message which he personally signed in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital on Good Friday, Olooye Adegoke, who is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Solutions 93.9FM heartily felicitates with Nigerians, the people of Oyo state particularly the Christians, as they join their brethren globally in celebrating Easter. The Aare-Onibon Balogun of Ibadanland, a frontline politician in Nigeria and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Adegboyega Adegoke Resource Centre (AARC) urged all Nigerians to pray for peace and security amidst seemingly intractable insecurity around Nigeria and an end to all kind of criminal activities in the land. According to him, Easter which is the season of the remembrance of the crucifixion, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ marks the trial, sacrifice, victory and completion of the divine mandate of the author of the Christian faith. Olooye Adegoke, a turn around expert and real estate guru appealed to all to practise the Jesus Christ virtues of sacrifice, patience, love and abiding faith in order for Nigerians to have a better tomorrow which is symbolized in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The Ibadan Chief maintained that nations can be developed and grow bigger where Jesus Christ virtues of love, sacrifices for one another, patience and hope for a better future are in place. Olooye Adegoke admonishes Nigerians to remain committed, faithful and hopeful. He also stresses the need for all to continue to support the leadership of the country’s efforts in the challenge of building a better society that would be devoid of rampant insecurity, just as he prayed that the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ will open a window for a better Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to him, “As we celebrate this unique occasion, let us keep in mind the significance of the season, which is the perfect demonstration of sacrificial love to others. As the lent ended in triumph, the season should also rekindle our hope of victory over personal and communal challenges”. POLL ”I pray that the triumph of Christ will encourage all people of faith to be hopeful of victory against trials and challenges, whether as individuals or as a nation. “Our nation is faced with rampant insecurity from Insurgents, bandits’ attacks, kidnapping, herders/farmers clashes that are not only affecting the economy and the progress of the nation but threatening its existence. I call on all to pray for peace and security during the celebration of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.”