The All Progressives Congress (APC) has refuted reports of the expulsion of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, its candidate in the March 18 gubernatorial election in Delta State. Omo-Agege, who is the cur­rent Deputy Senate President, was expelled by a faction of the Delta State chapter of the APC, for allegedly engaging in cultism and financial fraud. But National Publicity Secretary of the party, Felix Morka, said the APC national does not recognise the faction­al executive of the party, who announced the purported ex­pulsion of Omo-Agege. It was gathered that a fac­tion of the party in Delta, acting on a purported letter from the state chapter and Delta Central Senatorial dis­trict, accused Omo-Agege of diverting funds meant for prosecution of elections from the national headquarters of the APC, fraternising with cult groups, creating a parallel party in the state and general anti-party activities. One of the letters from the state chapter of the party, signed by 25 members, has one Illebor Isaac, as state Chair­man; Benjamin Imonivosey as state Deputy Chairman; Inana Michael as state Secretary, and Ikenga Emeka Edger as state Deputy Secretary, and 21 other party members. Dated March 31 and enti­tled, ‘Resolution and Adop­tion of the Expulsion of Sen­ator Augustine Omo-Agege as a member of the All Progres­sive Congress, Delta State’, the letter read in part, “The State Executive Committee (SEC) of the All Progressives Con­gress, Delta State, in a meet­ing held on the 31st March, 2023, at the state secretariat, Asaba, after due deliberation of the notice of resolution of expulsion of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as a member of the party by the executive committee of the Orogun Ward and Ughelli North Lo­cal Government Area chapter dated 20th March, 2023 and according to the provision of Article 21.2 (I)(II)(VII) 21.3 and 21.5(g) of the constitution 2022 (as amended) we unani­mously resolved and adopted the expulsion of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as a member of the party. “Consequently, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege hereby stands expelled as a member of the party with immediate effect for various offences committed and acts of an­ti-party activities and gross misconduct that has brought shame and ridicule to the im­age of the party in the state which affected the party in the just concluded elections.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The state chapter said it acted on a letter by APC mem­bers in Omo-Agege’s Delta Central Senatorial District. POLL The letter signed by Sir Oruafe Michael, APC Vice Chairman, Delta Central, read in part, “We are in re­ceipt of Omo-Agege expulsion from his ward. “When Omo-Agege was expelled, he didn’t appeal it seven days after. The local government has to approve the expulsion and forwarded it to the state. “We are calling on the national leadership of the party to approve Omo-Agege expulsion immediately with­out delay. “This development shouldn’t in any way affect members of the party. They should go about their normal business, as the call is for the benefit of the state party. “Omo-Agege offences in­clude: He greedily hijacked the party from the ward to the state and personally appoints the publicity secretary with­out consultation from any­body in the state. “All the funds sent to the state during the presidential, Senate and governorship, he quarantined the money and never consulted with anybody. The money was not used for the purpose it was meant for. “Omo-Agege entered an unholy alliance with the Labour Party during the presidential election with the understanding that they will vote for him during the governorship. This action, which we found distasteful, affected the party’s chances in the state. “His alleged link with Igbe confraternity we noticed an­gered the church. Because Igbe confraternity was cam­paigning for him, the church stopped campaigning for him. This development affected APC’s chances in Delta State. “His attitude was another factor that angered the Del­ta APC. All projects coming from the federal were sited in his Senatorial district, Delta Central and other districts never benefitted. “Another issue that affect­ed APC chances was the Maze issue, which the people in the state were not comfortable with. This is also one of the reasons the state didn’t vote for him. “He led the party in Delta North and the entire state into disrepute, opprobrium, and hate, resulting in the abys­mal performance of the APC in the governorship of March 18, 2023 and boasted that Delta North will never get anything from the state if he becomes the governor. “He created animosity among the ethnic groups, a development that caused dis­affection and disunity among members of the APC family in the state.” But in a swift reaction, the Chief Press Secretary to Dep­uty Senate President, Sunday Areh, declared them impos­tors who “are not members of the party.” He said some of those who signed the expulsion letter have been expelled from the party, adding that the expul­sion “is the shenanigans of some unruly members of the party. “There’s only one chair­man of the party in Delta State. His name is Elder Omoni Sobotie. If there’s any change; any action the par­ty is taking it should be the chairman. “Has the chairman been suspended? The chairman is on seat. This is the shenani­gans of some former party members in Delta State”, he said.