AKURE – A social group, the National Association of Diaspora Alliance (NADA) in the United States of America (USA) has called on President Joe Biden to be wary of the “Obidient” group in Nigeria, comparing it with ex-President Donald Trump’s supporters. This was contained in a letter jointly signed by Chairman and President of NADA, Dr. Oluseyi Senu-Oke and Dr. Dotun Aliu, respectively, and addressed to the US President in defence of the February 25, 2023 presidential election in Nigeria. The group informed President Biden that “Nigeria as a sovereign nation has a strong internal problem-solving mechanism to come out stronger after its internal wrangling over the recent concluded presidential election in the country.” In the letter dated April 19, 2023, addressed and personally delivered to the US President, the group said: “It is critical to clear the air so that these individuals do not spread false narratives about Nigeria on a global scale noting that this is extremely dishonorable, but it is manageable. “Nigeria is currently in a situation similar to the election between you and Donald Trump. As you may recall, there was a national election in the United States, the results of which were announced, and you were declared the legitimate winner. However, Trump rejected the verdict, claiming that there were irregularities, rigging, and malpractice in the election with no evidence to back up his claims. “He openly declared that he had won the election and that it had been stolen from him. His ardent supporters began acting out his script, claiming that the election had been rigged. He urged his followers to reclaim the mandate that had been taken from them. His supporters flocked to Capitol Hill, confident that they would reclaim the stolen mandate without having to wait for the court’s decision. “Trump filed more than 30 frivolous and unfounded court cases in an attempt tooverturn the election, but he ultimately lost all of them.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The same situation is currently unfolding in Nigeria. On February 25, 2023, the electoral body held a presidential election, and a clear winner was declared after substantially meeting the requirements under Nigerian electoral law. Not long after the election, the second-place finisher—and disregarding the first-place finisher—claimed he had won and that the results were rigged. He informed his supporters that the people’s mandate had been stolen and pleaded with them to reclaim it. This should sound familiar, Mr. President. POLL “They established the “Obidents Movement,” which actively and precisely followed a script dubbed “Trump method” in line with the strategy employed by Donald Trump’s most ardent supporters. One of these is using all available means to undermine and cast doubt on the election and the president-elect on a national and international scale. “Their presidential candidate filed a court petition to challenge the election process rather than the outcome. If the mandate was truly stolen, why not challenge the outcome and present evidence of votes stolen from the party? However, prior to any court proceedings, they began a protest on the streets and on social media, proclaiming victory and demanding the return of their stolen mandate without a single shred of evidence to back up this heinous claim. “Those who disagree with them are frequently threatened and verbally abused. There is ongoing intimidation and threat directed at the nation’s Supreme Court justices in an attempt to sway them to see things their way. This should also sound familiar Mr. President. Mr. Datti Baba-Ahmed, the presidential running mate of the opposition party, publicly threatened the current sitting president and the chief judge, claiming that if the president-elect is sworn in, there will be no Nigeria. A clearly treasonous point of view that flagrantly violates the constitution of Nigeria. All of this should sound familiar to you, Mr. President.” The group also cited some publications and attempts to truncate democratic government in Nigeria through frivolous claims. It said: “As if that wasn’t enough, an international propaganda campaign to delegitimize the election was launched. Many open letters were written, many of which were shrouded in lies and maligned the country. A recent example is an open letter sent to you by one Chimamanda Adichie, which was full of deception, manipulation, and mischief. An action motivated by ethnic inclinations.”