ABUJA – The Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) sit­ting in Abuja has admitted the Chicago State Universi­ty educational credentials of President Bola Tinubu in evidence. The admitted documents are part of exhibits being re­lied upon by Tinubu to de­fend allegations of elector­al fraud, non-qualification and certificate forgery made against him by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Abubakar Atiku, ahead of the February 25 presidential election. Tinubu, who formally opened his defence in a pe­tition filed against his elec­tion by Atiku, presented the credentials and other documents to the PEPC on Tuesday, through his lead counsel, Chief Wole Olani­pekun (SAN). The educational creden­tials tendered in evidence by Tinubu to prove his at­tendance and graduation at the Chicago State Universi­ty included the admission letter. Also tendered before the PEPC, was Tinubu’s US visa documents which indicated that he severally visited the United States of America unhindered between 2011 and 2021. In addition, Tinubu, who is the 2nd respondent in the petition also tendered all documents of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) which cleared him for the US trips. The United States of America’s Embassy letter of April 4, 2003, which was a response to a letter of the Nigeria Police dated Febru­ary 3, 2003, which claimed that the embassy had no criminal records of Tinu­bu in the USA, was equally submitted to the PEPC. The court further admit­ted an originating summon of a suit filed at the Su­preme Court by the Attor­neys General of Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Delta, Edo and Sokoto states chal­lenging the educational background of Tinubu to stand for the 2023 presiden­tial election. POLL Though, the petitioners opposed admissibility of all the documents, howev­er, Chairman of the PEPC, Justice Haruna Tsammani, admitted them in evidence. The Independent Nation­al Electoral Commission (1st respondent) and the All Progressives Congress (3rd respondent) in the petition, did not object to admission of all the documents. Further hearing in the petition has been fixed for today. Meanwhile, Tinubu will today open his defence in the petition filed against his election victory by the Labour Party (LP) and its presidential candidate, Pe­ter Obi. The decision by Tinubu to begin defence followed INEC’s dramatic decision on Tuesday to terminate its own defence in Obi’s petition after calling one witness and tendering four documents. INEC had during the pre-hearing session in­formed the PEPC that it would need three days to call three witnesses. But on Tuesday, INEC’s lead counsel, Mr. Abubakar Mahmoud (SAN), suddenly announced the closure of INEC’s defence. On his part, Tinubu’s lead counsel, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), in­formed the PEPC that he is ready to begin Tinubu’s defence today with his wit­nesses and documents. At the Tuesday’s hearing, a witness called by INEC, Dr. Lawrence Bayode, admitted that the BVAS machines used by the electoral body suffered glitches during the presidential election but maintained that the glitch­es did not in any way affect conduct of the election, col­lation of results and decla­ration of final results. On the allegations of blurred result sheets on IN­EC’s portal, the deputy di­rector of information and communication said that clear result sheets can still be obtained on request by those in need of them. Hearing continues today.