According to reports, Tottenham Hotspur have ‘offered a massive new deal’ to Bayern Munich target Harry Kane, who is out of contract next year. Kane was sensational for Spurs during the 2022/23 campaign as he scored 30 goals in the Premier League. The striker’s future is in doubt as his contract is due to expire at the end of next season. He was targeted by Man City in 2021 but they later bought Erling Haaland from Borussia Dortmund. Man Utd are known to be huge admirers of Kane and they are in the market for at least one new striker. Erik ten Hag is reportedly keen to sign the England international but Spurs are reluctant to sell their star player to one of their direct rivals. With United unwilling to become embroiled in a drawn-out transfer saga for Kane, they are looking at other targets. Atalanta’s Rasmus Hojlund and Frankfurt’s Randal Kolo Muani are both under consideration by club chiefs. Kane could still end up leaving Spurs this summer, though. Bundesliga giants Bayern Munich want to sign a long-term replacement for Robert Lewandowski and Thomas Tuchel has held talks with the Englishman. Bayern Munich have already had one bid rejected for Kane, who has reportedly made it clear to the German outfit that the prospect of winning the Champions League ‘appeals to him’. But The Guardian are now reporting that ‘Tottenham have made a massive new contract offer to Harry Kane that would significantly improve his £200,000-a-week terms’. They add. POLL ‘The club’s talisman has no immediate intention to sign it and will certainly not do so while the transfer window remains open. ‘Kane, who celebrates his 30th birthday on 28 July, has entered the final 12 months of his six-year Spurs deal and is coveted by a host of leading clubs, including Bayern Munich, who last week bid an initial €70m. Thomas Tuchel, the Bayern manager, is pushing hard for Kane. ‘Spurs’s position is that Kane is not for sale. The chairman, Daniel Levy, on the back foot after a terrible season, is mindful that his popularity would plummet further if Kane were to depart.