LAGOS  – Nigerians have been lamenting the re­ported plans by the National Electricity Regulatory Commission to increase the cost of electricity, saying that such plan by the government is not only an­ti-people but is also not in the national interest. The commission recently announced the plans for the hike in the cost of electricity, saying that the move was an­ti-people, especially consider­ing the economic situation in the country. However, following protests and pressure by the people who are still suffering the ef­fects of the recent removal of petroleum subsidy, the Federal Government is yet to accede to the plans. Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, an Imo Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, stated: “It is no longer a proposal. The 40% increase has been unleashed on Owerri residents already. “It is most unfortunate that Tinubu’s entry into governance seems to be targeted at the poor for more impoverishment. “There is no way Nigerians will not face hardship all round, all sectors increase with the re­moval of fuel subsidy. “Worse off is that the gov­ernment is not considering cushioning measures to reduce the harsh realities of these in­creases. “At any rate, people are giv­en the kind of government they desire and cherish. Elsewhere, the desire would be a good and credible government fully and freely elected by the people. POLL “Nigeria is a country where the people are mere spectators while a cabal dictates for the majority.” Dr Felix Nwosu, a public affairs commentator, said the increase of electricity tariff proposed by the commission, a government agency, does not speak well of the government in power as it is trying to pres­ent it as anti-people. “They just increased the price of the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS – petrol), remov­ing the subsidy not up to two months. “It should wait before the electricity tariff should be in­creased. Nigerians are going through hell now. “Government should recon­sider its stand for now, please. That is my humble opinion. God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”