The faces of many people are yearning and asking for the mercy of God but not all the people that request for mercy receives it. This is based on what the scripture says in Exodus 33:19 “…I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion”. The above God’s expression is so powerful and implies that a person’s request for mercy does not guaranty his or her receipt of God’s mercy. Many blind people were born before Jesus Christ but the one that was shown mercy and the sight restored was recorded in the Bible (Mark 10:46 – 52) “And they came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highway side begging. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me And many charged him that he should hold his peace: but he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise; he calleth thee. And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus. And Jesus answered and said unto him, What will thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight.And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way. Similarly many barren women existed but the ones shown mercy and bore children were recorded in the scripture. A lot of people were with problems but few that received the mercy of God were saved. All these people could be saved but which soul was ready to receive mercy. The soul must be firstly prepared to receive mercy before he or she could be shown mercy. The Bible says in Mathew 7:7 “ask and it shall be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and the door will be opened to you”. In the same vein, the Bible says you ask but it was not given to you because if you receive, you would use it for the lust of the flesh (James 4:3). The two bible verses encourages and discourages people from requesting from God. These two statements are working then who could God have mercy for? Who deserve the mercy of God? What work do people do to warrant the mercy of God? Who are people that can receive God’s mercy. There are some people that have pure heart, they do not jealous, they bless and embrace good things. These kind of people prevent the destruction of good things to happen no matter the physical and financial involvement. They would go extra miles to mend things. Imagine Sarah, sister and wife of Abraham, left all the affluence to follow Abraham on his journey. She did not discontinue the journey with her husband despite the problems they encountered in their journey. In the course of the journey, she discovered the house of wealth could be destroyed if there is no child for them. She had been crying for child bearing but to no avail. So if her husband and herself die then their calling and existence would be in vain. These are the kind of people God shows mercy because they always think about tomorrow of future. I pray God will show us mercy in the name of Jesus. If God shows you mercy then you have gotten everything. Anyone that receive God’s mercy, also the mercy is extended to the children, wife and husband. He or she does not need to worry about anything because the mercy of God is following him or her and satisfied and contented. How many women can think the same way as Sarah who gave her maid servant to her husband if she could through her have her own child. It is not common to find such women because they not want their husband to have another wife who might bear them a child till the end of their life (Genesis 16, 17, 18). The maidservant Hagar was not a compassionate woman, she wanted to dominate the husband alone. She had forgotten the woman that invited her to be part of the family. Hagar was unpleasant and intolerant with Sarah. Then Sarah ill-treated her and fled from her mistress. It was the angel of the Lord that instructed her to return to her mistress and be submissive. On her return Sarah accepted her. Based on all the thought and deed of Sarah, God showed her mercy and had her own son called Isaac. Sarah had portrayed a woman with love and compassion. Brethren some people are suffering now and they are not supposed to suffer. Another person’s suffering is being suffered by another person. Some people are suffering because of their country or town. I pray you will not suffer another person’s suffering in Jesus name.