After the divorce from his ex-wife, people have wondered if Pastor Chris Oyakhilome has found a new wife. When the news of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome and his then-wife, Anita Ebhodaghe’s, divorce surfaced in 2014, it came as a shock to the Christian world. The pastor is the founder of the Christ Embassy church, and his ministry, in particular, could not believe that the couple would divorce. Even though the news left Christ Embassy members baffled, some had seen it coming. Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s wife at the time led the church’s activities in the United Kingdom, but in 2014, some members noticed that she had not been present at ministry events for several months. A Facebook group was even created in order to try to find answers as to where she was. While the couple remained silent as the rumors took off, they eventually announced that they had separated and were going to get divorced. They did not reveal why they parted ways, but Christ Embassy members discussed various reasons online. While Pastor Chris Oyakhilome spent most of his time in Nigeria, where Christ Embassy has its headquarter, his then-wife stayed in the United Kingdom the majority of the year, managing the church’s British branches. The geographical distance between the couple has been mentioned as one of the factors that led them to divorce. It has also been reported that Pastor Chris Oyakhilome divorced his wife at the time because she had a different vision of Christ Embassy’s future. POLL Pastor Chris Oyakhilome established Christ Embassy in Nigeria in 1987, and Anita Ebhodaghe became a minister of the church when she married the pastor in 1991. Pastor Chris and wife welcome two daughters While married, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome and his then-wife welcomed two daughters named Carissa Sharon and Charlene. Carissa Sharon Oyakhilome was born in 1993 and is the eldest of the two. Like many of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s family members, she is a member of Christ Embassy. In the ministry, she is a member of its musical arm, the LoveWorld Music and Arts Ministry, where she writes and sings gospel music. Carissa Sharon Oyakhilome has managed to step out of her father’s shadow and conquer the Nigerian music industry, winning multiple awards for her work over the years. While experiencing success in her career, Carissa Sharon Oyakhilome also reached a big personal milestone when she married the Ghanaian businessman Phillip Frimpong in October 2018. Three years later, they welcomed their first child and Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s first grandchild, Arielle Rachelle-Marise. While Carissa Sharon Oyakhilome lives a life in the limelight, her sister, Charlene Oyakhilome, has chosen a different way of life. She currently resides in London, the United Kingdom and upholds her privacy. Has Pastor Chris found a new wife? After the divorce from his former wife, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome has continued his work in Christ Embassy. While the church embraced technological opportunities from its establishment, it has only become increasingly digital in recent years. Over the years, Christ Embassy has opened several tv channels, including LoveWorldSAT. It was the first African Christian station to broadcast to the rest of the world at all hours of the day. Since then, the ministry has, for instance, launched two social media platforms, KingsChat and Yookos, where users can connect with new people and read news about the church, among other things. During the COVID-19 pandemic, which in earnest got its grip on the world at the beginning of 2020, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome began hosting multiple events online. In that way, people could participate from home and abstain from gathering in masses, which many governments had forbidden in order to curb the spread of the virus. Even though the COVID-19 pandemic is no longer in the headlines, the pastor still offers believers from all over the world to join most of his events online. When it comes to his private life, it has been reported on several occasions that Pastor Chris Oyakhilome had found a new wife. The pastor has, however, denied this statement and is currently not seeing anyone. The Christ Embassy founder’s rise to fame Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s journey to fame is a testament to his unwavering dedication, charisma and profound impact on millions of lives around the world. Born on December 7th, 1963, in Nigeria, he embarked on a spiritual path that would shape his destiny. Through Christ Embassy, he founded a global network of churches that spread the message of hope, faith and love. Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s rise to fame can be attributed to his dynamic preaching style, which resonates with diverse audiences across continents. His teachings emphasize the power of God’s word, miracles, healing and the manifestation of the Holy Spirit. With a unique ability to connect with people of all ages and backgrounds, he has inspired countless individuals to embrace their faith and experience transformational breakthroughs. Moreover, his philanthropic efforts have extended beyond spiritual guidance. Through the Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International, he has provided essential aid, education, healthcare and relief initiatives to disadvantaged communities, thereby embodying the principles of compassion and humanitarianism. Today, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s influence continues to expand, reaching millions through his television broadcasts, online platforms and global crusades. His unwavering commitment to spreading the gospel has earned him the respect and admiration of believers worldwide, solidifying his position as a prominent spiritual leader and a beacon of hope in the lives of many.