Comrade Banwo Olagokun, a seasoned activist, acted as the Campaign Director General of the African Action Congress (AAC) in Lagos during the 2023 general elections. Comrade Olagokun, a media consultant and former Organising Secretary of the party in the state is also the Chairman of the Coalition for Revolution (CORE) in Lagos. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the vexed issue of foreign loans, removal of petroleum subsidy and the proposed increase in tariff for electricity, among other issues Excerpt: How do you see the latest $500 million loan reportedly granted Nigeria by the World Bank? The $500 million loan from the World Bank is another fraudulent collaboration with the Nigerian ruling class that will not benefit the masses. This shark loan is purportedly for addressing gender inequality, guaranteeing better education, health, and nutrition outcomes for families, and building women’s and communities’ resilience to Climate Change. This is coming from the same World Bank that is advising the Nigerian government to remove subsidies on everything and works with the oil companies that are responsible for emission of fossils. The same authority advised our government to privatise public assets and triple the price of electricity to kill local production and boost the import market. Considering the colossal corruption that happened in the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development under Sadiya Umar Farouq and the statement of the leader of the so-called women empowerment project, Michael Ilesanmi, the project has been implemented in six states and provides support to over 427, 887 women through 20, 506 affiliated groups. This means that they have their unknown old beneficiaries and groups already. Nobody knows how they arrived with the list of these ghost groups and women and we are yet to see one single evidence of a poor woman who is not from within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) or relative to politicians benefiting from these shark loans meant for palliatives. Don’t you think that the latest foreign loan is a signal that Bola Tinubu as president will not be too different from his predecessor, Muhammadu Buhari? Bola Tinubu may be much worse than President Buhari. Tinubu did not promise to be better than Buhari. In fact, his campaign promises were clearly anti-people. He has implemented four anti-people policies in one month already. These are the student loan scheme, subsidy removal, tariff increase for electricity and not following due process in appointment of Service Chiefs. Having maintained that Petroleum Subsidy has been a fraud, do you see President Tinubu having the political will to prosecute the perpetrators of the fraud and sanitise the oil industry? Bola Tinubu, like his predecessor, will at worse only punish the pawns of subsidy scam and the Nigerian masses by arresting one small fry in the grand scheme of subsidy thievery just as Doyin Okupe and Dasuki took the fall for President Jonathan looting through the NSA office. He will then allow the Dangote Refinery to flourish against the abandoned Nigerian refineries that we should have invested our $2.8 billion. He’ll rather give it to their boy, Dangote, to run a monopoly. What is your take on the proposed rise in tariff for electricity especially as the people are still suffering the effects of oil subsidy removal? POLL The proposed electricity tariff increase which they seem to have covertly implemented is another wicked act against the Nigerian people. There is no justification for it whatsoever. But we all know the DISCOS, GENCOS and TRANSCOS were sold to the ruling class politicians. What they are doing is to just increase their personal income while we perish in poverty. Could you take a critical look at the recently signed Students Loan Scheme Act? Do you think that as it is, it can really be of much help to impoverished Nigerian students? The Students Loan Act is a big joke and disrespect to the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and a flagrant disregard of our rights to free education. How can a serious government say they do not have money to improve the school facilities and pay lecturers, but wants to give loan to millions of students when we all know that funding schools and paying lecturers directly are much cheaper and reasonable considering the millions of students who will be taking the loans, which attracts N500, 000 fine and two year jail term if they fail to start paying back in two years after graduation? Which students can pay the loan in two years? How will they pay N500,000 fine if they cannot pay the loan in the first place? Maybe, the goal is to give loans to students and make them end up in jail anyway. Even our Special Adviser, through the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) agent, America, is facing mass protests after millions of students could not afford to pay back their student loans. Mind you, the loan is not accessible to citizens whose parents make N500,000 per annum, which is not even enough to feed a man in a year. Again, the students must also provide at least two guarantors, each of whom must either be a civil servant of at least Level 12, a lawyer with at least 10 years post-call experience, or a judicial officer, or a Justice of Peace. They will also be disqualified if their parents have defaulted in payment of any loan or convicted of drug offences. So, they are saying your father’s past can also affect your eligibility. The best and cheapest thing is to fund the schools, pay the university staff and let us go to school for free. Nigeria can afford it. What is your take on the recent retirement of Service Chiefs and the appointment of new ones? Do you foresee an improved war against insecurity? The appointment of the Service Chiefs was just done in a gangster manner. No due process was followed. If we keep allowing the president to appoint officials into key positions this way, then we should not complain about electoral malpractices because that is the exact way the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) chairman and officials are appointed. I do not have many expectations really in the area of fighting insecurity. Let us see if they will do anything meaningful in the next 30 days of their appointment. Do you think that Nuhu Ribadu as a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) will have enough clout to earn the respect and cooperation of the Services Chiefs as the National Security Adviser (NSA) in the current dispensation? Earning respect as NSA from Service Chiefs depends on if Bola Tinubu himself allows the structure to work, unlike Buhari who had people usurping superior offices because they are close to Aso Rock. We hope the new cabal will not be as barbaric as the last one, whereby anyone who has the ears of the president can call shots and violate protocol. Analysts have suggested the merging of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Independent Corrupt Practices and other Crimes Commission (ICPC), and the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) for effective fight against corruption. What is your take on this? Merging government parastatals that practically do the same thing is good, only if it results in cutting down the cost of governance. We do not need costly duplicity at this point. Do you see some gains accruing to Nigeria from President Bola Tinubu’s recent attendance of the Economic Summit in France? Bola Tinubu left the town hall where climate matters were being discussed on a global pedestal and presidents were making profound submissions for a ‘bala blue’ of jest making and giveaway with embassy staff. What a shameful occurrence in France! Only a ‘batidiot’ would applaud such.