A divorcee, identified as Nnea­maka Nwosu, has reportedly thrown Nnokwa community in Idemili South Local Govern­ment Area (LGA) of Anambra State into mourning with the setting ablaze of a police woman and her two children. The deceased police woman, according to NAN, was said to have taken Nwosu in after she was divorced by her husband, became homeless and in dire need of accommodation. She is said to be a native of Amawbia in Awka South LGA of Anambra State. Narrating events that led to the triple murders, a resident of the community said, “As soon as the husband divorced her, she confided in the police woman who benevolently offered her ac­commodation in her apartment. “On that fateful day, she quar­reled with the police woman which led to a fight. She hit the police woman on the head with a pestle and she fell and became unconscious. “She quickly tied the police woman and her two kids togeth­er with a rope inside their room and set them ablaze together with the building,” he said. It was gathered that the sus­pect was apprehended by local vigilante and some villagers who were attracted by the fire, while she was trying to escape. When the vigilante interro­gated her, she initially denied the act, claiming it was a case of gas explosion while the de­ceased and her children were boiling water. POLL Nwosu later confessed to the crime, attributing it to handi­work of the devil. “I did not know what came over me that made me commit the crime. I deserve to be shot dead for this wicked act against the person who helped me in my time of need,” she said. Confirming the incident, the Anambra State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, said that the suspect had been arrested and the bodies of the police woman and her children deposited in the mortuary. Ikenga said that the case had been transferred to the State In­vestigation Department (CID) for further investigation and prosecution. He said, “Preliminary infor­mation reveals that the police woman accommodated the sus­pect while she was searching for a house. “The two women had a dis­agreement which resulted in a fight before the suspect hit the woman police on her head with a pestle. “While she became uncon­scious, she tied her with her two kids and set them ablaze. The bodies of the victims have been recovered and deposited in the morgue. Further develop­ment shall be communicated,” Ikenga promised.