Major General Taoreed Lagbaja, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), has enjoined troops of the Nige­rian Army to complement their military effort with prayers. Lagbaja said prayers are nec­essary for the success of the Ni­gerian Army in its operational engagements and the corporate existence of Nigeria as one in­divisible entity amid contempo­rary security challenges bedev­iling the nation. The army chief made the clarion call at the Interdenomi­national Church Service mark­ing the Nigerian Army Day Cel­ebration (NADCEL) 2023 held on Sunday at the Mogadishu Military Cantonment, Abuja. Mid last week, the Nigerian Army commenced the com­memoration of its 160th year of existence since 1867, when 18 men known as the Glover Hau­sas of the Royal Navy were or­ganised into a formidable force that it is now. General Lagbaja stated that the Nigerian Army remains the pride of the nation and a force to reckon with in Africa and globally. He noted that the Interde­nominational Church Service is among the series of activi­ties earmarked for all Nigerian Army formations and units to commemorate the birth of the Nigerian Army, as a symbol of national unity and integration. He said it also provides the opportunity for prayers and supplications to be made to God Almighty on behalf of the Ni­gerian Army, the Armed Forc­es of Nigeria and the nation in general. “As we mark our 160th year, I must confess that our journey has not been a bed of roses, as the Nigerian Army, in the course of holding our nation together, has fought a civil war, participat­ed in peacekeeping cum peace enforcement missions and is currently involved in combating terrorism, insurgency and other criminalities across the coun­try”, the Army Chief averred. POLL Gen Lagbaja reiterated that the various engagements of the Nigerian Army within and out­side the shores of Nigeria have resulted in the loss of loved ones and breadwinners. “We have bled, we have piled up the wounded in action, and the population of our widows and widowers as well as orphans has swelled. Our sacrifices are for the love of God, humanity and country,” he stated. He, therefore, urged all Nige­rian Army personnel to reflect on the security challenges and include them in their prayers, believing that God Almighty will crown the efforts of the Nigerian Army and the Armed Forces of Nigeria with success. The COAS charged all per­sonnel to continue to do their best to reciprocate govern­ment’s gesture by remaining loyal, disciplined, patriotic and undaunting, as they combat se­curity challenges in the various theatres of operations. He pledged more commit­ment to troops’ welfare and wellbeing under his command.