LAGOS  – Due to controversies surrounding the 2023 general elections, there were a lot of intolerance unleashed by a cross section of the society in parts of the country leading to hate speeches and utterances that heated the polity. Following the development, the leadership of the National Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) recently released a statement to the effect that there is no superiority of one religion to another. The statement was signed by His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammed Sa’ad Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto and President-General, Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), as well as His Eminence, Most Rev. Daniel Okoh, President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), both NIREC Co-Chairmen. NIREC, in the joint statement dated June 16, 2023, said: “The Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC), under the leadership of the Co-Chairmen, His Eminence, Archbishop Daniel Okoh, President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), and His Eminence, Alh. Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto and President-General of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) is disturbed by the ugly trend occasioned by the hate speeches before and after the 2023 elections. “Weaponising religion for selfish political gains is capable of causing religious conflict in Nigeria. NIREC therefore condemns in strongest terms the statements that give the impression that one religion is superior to the other. NIREC affirms that Nigeria is a multi-religious state under God. “NIREC condemns statements that give the impression of religious dominance and superiority in the country. We wish however that every Nigerian could be a true Christian or a true Muslim as that would promote the religious values that could transform the nation. “Given that most politicians in Nigeria practice one religion or the other, the Christian and Muslim politicians should proclaim the fear and love of God by caring for the common good and welfare of the citizens. “NIREC calls on religious leaders to resist political manipulation of religion that could lead to anarchy. We condemn the antics of politicians whose main goal is to achieve their political interest by whatever means possible including using religion as a cover. POLL “NIREC calls on our political leaders to use their platforms to sue for peace, unity and harmony while also refraining from making statements or comments that are capable of aggravating the already heated polity in the nation. NIREC calls upon all Politicians to play politics with the fear of God, dignity, honour and decorum by eschewing the politics of division and sectionalism. “NIREC appeals to the general public to note that the elections are over and various cases are in court challenging the outcome and must therefore give the judiciary the opportunity to do its work. “Nigerians must continue to be patriotic, law-abiding and peace-loving and must oppose all acts of machinations and manipulations by leaders who are using religion to tear the nation apart. “Let us pray for a nation that will continue to promote justice and peaceful co-existence. The task of building a prosperous Nigeria is the task of every citizen. God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria!” However, due to the seriousness of NIREC’s statement, Sunday Independent interviewed some eminent Christian leaders on the issue. Here are their responses: Apostle Prof. Godwin Jireh, a Theologian and Rector, All Nations Christian Institute (ANCI): “The statement allegedly made by the National Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) that there is no superiority of one religion to another was consciously and cautiously coined to serve as a two-edged sword for the purpose of reinforcing the plurality or secularity of the nation and checkmating religious extremism that has become the bane of our society in recent years. “However, while trying to use plausible, polished and placating words to propagate the ideals of religious harmony and peaceful cohabitation of people with divergent belief systems in Nigeria, we must not be unmindful of the fact that all religions are not all the same. “Clearly, Christianity is different from the rest of other religions. There are a whole lot of things that separates Christianity from other religions. I will mention only three, for want of time. “First, the foundation of Christianity and other religions are founded by mortal men, even as their followers are attempting to reach God or attain oneness with Him by sacrifices and good deeds. “But, Christianity is founded by the Living God who reached down to us through Jesus Christ. He came down from Heaven to sacrifice His life for us so that we can have a good relationship with Him. “The Bible makes this advisory very lucid in Colossians 2:8-9: “Be sure that no one leads you away with false and empty teaching that is only human, which comes from the ruling spirits of this world, and not from Christ. All of God lives fully in Christ (even when Christ was on earth),” See also 1 Timothy 3:16. “Second, the Christian message of Salvation: Because people in other religions are trying to earn their salvation by good deeds, no one among them can be sure of their own salvation. “But, in Christianity, Jesus Christ paid the supreme price for our sins and believers can truly have genuine assurance of their salvation. “The Bible declares without any equivocation: ‘But God shows his great love for us in this way: Christ died for us while we were still sinners. So through Christ we will surely be saved from God’s anger, because we have been made right with God by the blood of Christ’s death.’ (Romans 5:8-9). “Third, the Resurrection of Christ: All the founders of other religions died and remained in the grave where they were buried, but Jesus Christ the Founder of Christianity was crucified and rose from the dead. “Moreover, no founder of any religion can make the claims Jesus made which only God can make. Here are some of such claims which even religious leaders of His day considered blasphemous: *Jesus claimed to have the authority to forgive sin – Mark 2:5-7. * Jesus said that He would sit at the right hand of the God and come on the clouds of heaven – Mark 14:61-64 *Jesus called God His Father and equated His work with the Father’s – John 5:17, 18. *Jesus said that it is His Father’s will: that all who see the Son and believe in Him will have eternal life, and He (Jesus) will raise them up at the last day – John 6:40 *Jesus said whoever feeds on His flesh and drinks His blood has eternal life, and He will raise the person up on the last day – John 6:54 *Jesus said that He and the Father are One – John 10:30-33 *Jesus said whoever believes in Him, though the person dies, yet he/she shall live – John 11:25.” Apostle Dr. Kanayo Success Uchime, President, Kingdom Missions Outreach (KMO), an international Missionary, stated: “This statement coming from NIREC on the simple fact that there is no superiority of one religion over another in Nigeria is incontrovertible and irrefutable. It is the truth, and nothing but the truth. “How can you in a secular state like Nigeria place one religion over and above another? It cannot work. It is simply against the rule of law, and undermines people’s right to exist. “In fact, it is pure inconsistent with a secular environment like ours. Those perpetuating it know what they are doing, and they cannot go far with that idea. We must maintain a balance if we must exist in an environment devoid of rancour and crises. “If our Constitution says we are a secular state, let us stand on it. Any shift to favour one religion over another will only amount to a breach of that same constitution we all agreed to uphold. “Nigeria is a country where you have multiplicity of religion, and all need to be treated equally. Placing one above the other is infringing on people’s rights and privileges. “But if our leaders continue with this trend definitely Nigeria will be plunged into serious religious crises which will do no one good. “Therefore the good people of this country are appealing to the leadership to maintain the status quo. Let there be fairness and equal justice in all we do as a country. “Let us respect each others’ views. This is the only way we can have one harmonious and indivisible society. The leadership must see every reason to accommodate everyone despite his or her religious affinity. “It is said that when you touch a man, you have touched his religion. Your religion definitely defines you, so it got to be respected by the authorities. Anything short of that is an invitation to religious anarchy.” Pastor Dr Victor Mathew, Lead Pastor, Divine Channel Ministries, and CAN/PFN Chieftain in Lagos: “Constitutionally, Nigeria is a secular state, but in practice, it is not so. “That statement from NIREC was a response to former Kaduna State governor’s video that trended recently where he was beating his chest that Islam is getting the upper hand in governance where in his state, he brought in a Muslim/Muslim ticket and at the federal level where his party adopted same as well. “NIREC is the body saddled with the responsibility of promoting religious harmony. I am privileged to have been a member of NIREC at the local government level. “I believe that statement from NIREC was a timely response to allay the fears of Christians who were vehemently opposed to the Muslim/Muslim ticket. “At every level, be it local ,state or at the national level, there are Co-Chairman and an equal number of members. “Such statements at various levels of NIREC are a strategic response to religious unrest and tensions. Nigeria has become very polarised along religious lines which became very serious during the last elections. “Politicians use religion as a weapon to meet political ends and religious leaders from both faiths should not allow themselves to be used by politicians. “As a Christian leader who also functions in the political space, religious extremism and extremists should be condemned. “Such people should be blacklisted from holding public office. I advise this government not to give them any political appointment. “Well, to me, the idea of Islamisation cannot be possible because up-North, we have many Christians in core northern states like Bauchi, Adamawa, Gombe and many others and up till now, they have not been able to Islamise the North, not to talk about Islamising the country. “I strongly believe that religion should be a private matter. Each religion should continue to proselytise potential adherents without causing unnecessary tensions. “Christians and Muslims should co-exist peacefully and worship their God without killing each other. I do hope the new government will face governance without bringing in religious sentiments. “NIREC should continue to carry out its mandate of promoting religious harmony and shutting down extremism who desire to propagate religious superiority. “Poverty and other social ills do not discriminate against religious beliefs. Nigeria should desire to make a quantum leap to greatness and leave religion as a private matter.”