There is a cordial and harmonious working relationship between Abia State Governor Alex Otti and his Deputy, Engineer Ikechuwku Emetu. This is according to Mr Chukwudi Eke Mba, the Special Assistant to the Deputy Governor on Media. The deputy governor’s aide who spoke to our correspondent on the matter said the loyalty of Engineer Emetu to his principal, Governor Otti, is top-notch, thus writing off insinuations in some quarters that there is a crack in the relationship between the duo. DAILY INDEPENDENT scooped from a social media post that given the governor’s hard stance on dealing with the huge challenges both met on assumption of office, there is a bit crack in his relationship with his deputy who many, as the information said, viewed as being soft, particularly when dealing with the opposition but while in a chat with our correspondent, the deputy governor’s aide said no any amount of baseless rumour would put a crack in the cordial relationship between the governor and his deputy. “Engineer Emetu is a very careful person and his respect and loyalty to the governor is out of this world. “He is someone who has aligned himself well with the dreams and visions of the governor to make sure that Abia is resettled for the good of Abians. “He is ready to carry out any task from the governor because he believes in his dreams and together they are working harmoniously to make sure Abians are happy and laughing once again. “Do not believe what those who kept Abia how it is today are saying because they think everyone will be like them. POLL “Engineer Emery’s loyalty to the governor is not and will never be in doubt because he so much believe and trust His Excellency Governor Otti’s desire to see a better Abia,” Mr Chukwudi said. It will be recalled that the governor and his deputy have hit the ground running with developmental programmes in the state, once known for dirt and all forms of maladministration as Abians have continued to commend the governor and his deputy whom they see as saviours sent to deliver the God’s Own State from the claws of PDP’s bad rule which has seen Abia being one of the states with huge debts with nothing to show for it. Just this week, the state government awarded contracts for road projects in Aba, the state’s commercial nerve center, a development that saw residents trooped out in their numbers to thank the state government. The state government, through the State Boundary Committee headed by the deputy governor, has been very committed in ensuring peaceful living among the communities with several interventions. According to Abians, some of who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT, the governor and his deputy have touched virtually all areas in the short time they have been on the saddle.