Mr. Gbenga Adebayo, Chair­man of the Association of Li­censed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), has praised the leadership of the Executive Vice Chairman/ Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Communica­tions Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta. He also commended the NCC’s commitment to qual­ity regulation, attributing the success of the telecom industry in the country to the regulatory environment it enjoys. Speaking at a meeting with mobile network opera­tors on the implementation of the Expanded Revenue Assurance Solution (ERAS) in the telecommunications industry, held at the NCC’s office in Lagos yesterday, Adebayo expressed his pride in Danbatta’s remarkable ad­ministrative skills, challeng­ing the notion that engineers are not good administrators. He described Danbatta as an excellent administrator, highlighting his instrumen­tal role in the growth and development of the industry. Addressing the audience, Danbatta shared details about the implementation of the ERAS project. He em­phasized the collaboration between the NCC and the Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission (ICRC), saying the ERAS project is being carried out through a Public-Pri­vate Partnership (PPP) ar­rangement, following the DFDDOT model (Design, Finance, Develop, Deploy, Operate, and Transfer), as recommended by the ICRC. Danbatta acknowledged the efforts of the NCC in transforming the dream of the ERAS project, conceived in 2007, into a reality. He also underscored the project’s alignment with the Federal Government’s directive to enhance revenue collection and prevent leakages with­in ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs). By deploying the Revenue Assurance Solution, Danbat­ta said the NCC aims to op­timize the revenue payable by licensed telecommuni­cations service providers, thereby bolstering revenue generation for the govern­ment. Initially designed to fo­cus on telecom operators, who have not only become major industry players but have also expanded their ser­vices into the digital services ecosystem, the ERAS project underwent a significant ex­pansion. In June 2022, following a presidential approval, the NCC was directed to broad­en the scope of the project to encompass the activities of Digital Economy stake­holders. Consequently, the project was renamed the Ex­panded Revenue Assurance Solution (ERAS).