Praveen Paulsamy, Vice President of ofi’s dairy business in Nigeria, has reiterates Outspan Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of olam food ingredients (ofi)’s commitment to the Federal Government’s economic development agenda. Praveen, said that firm is looking to continue its investment in developing the local dairy value chain to remove the hurdles that have been impeding growth along the chain and the dairy farming communities. He stated this while speaking at a stakeholders meeting organised to commemorate this year’s World Milk Day (WMD). The meeting with the theme; ‘Sustainable Dairy: Good for Planet, Good for you’, had in attendance members of the Kano Dairy Cooperative, representatives from the Central Bank of Nigeria, local chiefs, and key officials from state and federal ministries of agriculture in Kwanar Dawakin Kudu LGA. The day was an opportunity to engage and celebrate the local dairy community as part of Outspan’s broader efforts to promote sustainable farming practices, wider milk consumption, and education for farmers’ children. Manish Khede, Regional Manager, ofi’s dairy business in Nigeria, while speaking said, “Sustainability is critical to ofi’s value proposition to offer ingredients that are good for consumers, farmers, and the world around us. He said maintaining proper care of cattle herds, natural resources, and land is critical to addressing climate change, that this is why a lecture on sustainable dairy farming practices for dairy farmers is been organized. He added that the business also prioritizes the education of the farmers’ children as this will help to provide them with a buffer for the future. POLL While commenting on milk consumption, Khede said: “According to Healthline, a global health information platform, milk is a good source of many vital nutrients such as calcium, vitamin D and protein. “We believe that promoting access to and consumption of fresh and safe milk in Kano State can contribute to healthier communities and productivity too. Lawan Ahmed , the representative of the Branch Controller, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Kano said that, “The milk industry provides valuable nutrients that support healthy physiological growth among the populace. He said that the players in the industry deserve to be celebrated. Also, Garzali Muhammed, the Director of Livestock & Poultry Service, Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Kano explained that “Outspan has been instrumental in enhancing the productivity of the members of Kano Dairy Cooperative. “The various backward integration investments embarked upon by the business have had a positive impact on the productivity rate and income levels of the dairy farming community in the state.” Alhaji Usman Abdullahi, the Chairman of Kano Dairy Cooperative while appreciating Outspan for their consistent support of smallholder dairy farmers, said that the Cooperative is delighted to be partnering with Outspan in raising the level of milk production in Nigeria.”