The Board of Trustees and Management of Community Development Committees(CDC) of Niger Delta Oil and Gas Producing Areas has passed a vote of confidence on Dr. Samuel Ogbuku, Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC)over his performance since he assumed duty. According to a communique issued at the end of its emergency meeting in Warri, Delta State, and signed by the Chairman, Board of Trustees, Joseph Ambakederimo, and Chairman of Communique Drafting Committee, Augustine Iyamu, the CDC said that it came to that conclusion after ex-raying the performance of the Commission on developmental issues pertaining to the Niger Delta region and its attendant rescue mission of the region under Dr. Ogbuku. The CDC added, “highlights of this meeting as must be stated unambiguously is the vote of confidence moved and adopted by all the members and observers present on the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Dr. Samuel Ogbuku.” They spoke further, “The vote of confidence is coming having identified Dr. Ogbuku’s commitment to the journey of evolution and a pathway to unleashing enormous capacity potential in the years to come”. While identifying the Commission as the catalyst for the development of the Niger Delta region, the group urged the Commission to henceforth take the lead to show the pathway for sustainable development of the area. It urged the Managing Director of the NDDC to put processes in place for the establishment of Special Economic Zones in the region to cater to Small and Medium size entrepreneurs adding, “This is a special model that can provide a plug-and-play model to create wealth for the youthful population to acquire relevant skills”. The CDC called on the Federal Government to quickly mobilize men and equipment to effect major repairs on the deplorable state of the East-West road that is crying for attention having been destroyed by last year’s flood. The CDC in the communique stated further, “We have resolved to undertake a consultative working visit to the NDDC on a due date for on-the-spot assessment and a firsthand vision of the programmes of the Managing Director.” POLL They noted, “The CDC also resolved to hold a grand consultative stakeholders conference with the Traditional institution of the region have recognized the Traditional institution as the bastion of peace and development. Our aspiration for genuine development of the region can only happen if there is sustained peace in the region.” They called on Dr. Ogbuku to see the CDC as a partner in progress just as they requested that it be invited to be on the entourage of teams undertaking project inspection as her members cut across all the oil and gas Producing Communities.