LAGOS  – Huawei will launch a complete set of commercial 5.5G network equipment in 2024 at the 5G Advanced Forum during MWC Shanghai 2023. Huawei’s Director and President of ICT Products & Solutions Yang Chaobin, who made the announcement, said the company intends for this launch to mark the beginning of the 5.5G era for the ICT industry. Huawei highlights that 5G deployment has progressed rapidly over the past four years and is already yielding significant financial gains. Today, there are more than 260 commercial 5G networks worldwide, serving over 1.2 billion users and 115 million gigabit F5G users. With service models and content continuously evolving, breakthroughs in technologies like glasses-free 3D are creating unprecedented immersive experiences for users. However, these new services require more robust 5G network capabilities. The industry has widely agreed that 5.5G will be a crucial milestone in 5G evolution and is fast approaching. Huawei proposed the concept of a “5.5G Era” based on an end-to-end solution that integrates comprehensive evolved technologies, including 5.5G, F5.5G, and Net5.5G. This solution would protect operators’ previous investment in 5G while improving network performance by ten times. This 5.5G Era would feature 10-gigabit peak downlink speeds and gigabit peak uplink speeds to meet increasingly diverse service requirements. It would also refresh the industry vision by using new technologies like passive IoT to unlock a market of 100 billion IoT connections. POLL Chaobin Yang, Board Member, President of ICT Products & Solutions, Huawei, explains: “With a clearly defined standardization schedule, the 5.5G Era is already poised for technological and commercial verification.” “In 2024, Huawei will launch a complete set of commercial 5.5G network equipment to be prepared for the commercial deployment of 5.5G.” “We look forward to working with all industry players to embark on the new journey towards the 5.5G era,” says Yang. As an advocate for end-to-end 5.5G solutions, Huawei has been working with multiple players across the industry on R&D and verification of crucial 5.5G technologies.