AKURE – Widows, youths and underprivileged persons stormed the venue of the birthday celebration of the Chief Executive Officer of Dorian Home, Dr. Tolulola Bayode, in what anyone would see as a gathering of the high class in society. Tolulola has been living her life for the poor and she does everything within her capacity to put smiles on their faces as if her life depends on it. On June 17, she decided to celebrate her birthday, though she was actually born on June 12, at the Dorian Home she built and where toddlers rescued from death are raised and given a real life. Established in 2021, Dorian Home has been a centre for helping the underprivileged in society, including widows, vulnerable children, youths among others. Lola Bayode built the cosy, five-star-like orphanage along Idanre Road, Akure, Ondo State capital, without support of government or politicians. At the orphanage, a real-time home, there are different facilities including clinic, a well-equipped library, a church and big hall. The event was outstanding as people from all walks of life graced the occasion. Senator Tayo Alasoadura extolled the virtues of the philanthropist par excellence, who distributed different working tools, including 100 brand new motorcycles, 50 sewing machines, 50 grinding machines, 50 wheelchairs, 50 hair dryer and food stuffs among others. POLL The senator said: “I am privileged to observe her on many fora, particularly since the birth of the Dorian Home. One of the first qualities I noticed about her is her caring prowess. She is simply unassuming, sound and presents issues with expressions that appeal to the sense of hearing. “When presenting issues, she knows when to smile, when to laugh, when to wink. She is indeed a holistic personality. “She’s indeed the definition and manifestation of uncommon courage, resilience, determination, dedication and commitment to congenital good with unusual altruistic and patriotic spirits. “I commend your innumerable and patently remarkable accomplishments and pray to God for more endowments and wisdom for you to even further in your divine calling as a bastion of hope and betterment of humanity.” Another guest, who simply identified himself as Catherine, said: “Without mincing words, the CEO of Dorian Home is a warrior, not because she is trained to handle guns or dangerous weapons at the battlefield. But she possesses the courage to do ordinary things in extraordinary ways and she is gifted in making difficult tasks appear ordinary through her philanthropic gestures. “Truly, she is humanity-personified. Of a truth, humanity’s blood runs in her veins. She loves being identified with the underprivileged and the downtrodden and this she has continued to do till date. “She’s also a mentor blessed with an innate ability to dream big, challenge assumptions, inspire teams and knows how to translate big ideas into concrete action and results.” No doubt, Dr. Lola Bayode has touched and transformed many lives through her philanthropic gestures. Present at the epoch-making event was also Nollywood actress, Foluke Daramola. In her commendations, she said: “I knew the celebrant through her philanthropical works, My foundation takes care of the elderly ones and she has helped my foundation on this same course She has a good heart that cares. “I wish her a wonderful birthday and may God bless her and all that concerns her.” Hon Festus Akingbaso, representing Idanre/Ifedore federal constituency at the National Assembly, who was also present at the event, said: “The CEO of Dorian Home in her magnanimity, attends to the neglected ones in the society, removes rags on them and clothes them with royal regalia. “She provides them with not just a roof above their heads, but keeps them in a Palace and continue empowering them academically. “This is, undoubtedly, one of the numerous ways of nurturing future leaders and she is highly determined to ensure that these children, having discovered their hidden talents through their enrolment in schools, would emerge our tomorrow leaders. “Her level of tolerance, perseverance, patience, understanding, contentment and submissiveness is quite unequalled, commendable and phenomenal. “She is a very nice woman She’s someone I cherish so much, she has laid a very good legacy for the young women and I believe that they will follow her footsteps.” Fielding questions from newsmen, Dr. Lola Bayode declared that she’s created by God to take care of humanity in her own little way. She said: “This is actually what I have been looking forward to do. I want to always celebrate my birthday with the underprivileged with a view to giving them sense of belonging. I want them to know that they can also be felt in the society. “It is good to be with them because, at the end of the day, they are what matters in the society. If you have everything in this world and you keep celebrating with your rich friends, what gain have you? I feel happy and fulfilled seeing these set of people around me. “What motivated me into doing this is because, when you look at life, you will see that life itself is vanity. If you have everything in this world, you are not taking them anywhere. “I understand the real meaning of vanity upon vanity and I decided that this is what I will live my life for, which is humanity. I don’t want to live for anything else, I want to be for God and for humanity. “I am not doing this for anybody to give me accolades, I’m only doing this to give my creator all the glory because at the end of the day, we are here to celebrate God in me. I’m a child of grace. Looking at this environment, I built it through God’s grace and I’m happy about it. “I’m very happy doing this and I’m not doing it because I want to join politics. I pray that one day, I will have partners that have same vision like me and would partner with me towards making this world a better place.” Some of the beneficiaries of the largesse distributed, who spoke with newsmen at the event, described Dr. Lola Bayode as their destiny-helper. They said they could not pay her back enough for the help she rendered to them. Speaking on how they would make use of the gifts, some of them disclosed that they would be starting off businesses to make their lives better, which they explained is the only way to make their benefactor proud of them.