About five weeks ago, the newly elected president and commander-in-chief of armed forces, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and some state governors were sworn in following their elections. It was, however, observed that since then, majority of states including the federal government have failed to form their cabinet for all-inclusive and successful governance. As this culture of delaying cabinet formation pervades the system, we question and investigate the repercussions and effects of conducting a government without a cabinet. Report by ROLAND OGBONNAYA, WILLIAM ATTAH, KAZEEM AWOJOODU, NICHOLAS UWERUNOYE, PASCHAL NJOKU and KINGSLEY KENNETH According to the 1999 constitu­tion, executive power is vest­ed in a president who serves as both the head of state and the chief executive, is directly elected to a four-year term, and nominates the vice president and cabinet members. The constitution establishes a bicam­eral National Assembly comprised of the House of Representatives and the Senate. Each state elects 10 mem­bers to the House of Representatives for four-year terms; members of the Senate are chosen for four-year terms as well, three from each state and one from the Federal Capital Territory. President Bola Ahmed Tinubu is in his fifth week in office. As president, one of his most significant responsibil­ities is to form a governance cabinet. And he just has roughly 30 days to do something about it. The National As­sembly established a 60-day deadline for a new president and governors to form their cabinet, based on the fact that former President Muhammadu Buhari took six months to appoint Ministers to his government, which unfortunately turned out to be a com­pletely inadequate cabinet. Furthermore, the stakes are excep­tionally high today, and Nigerians are aware that failure to attain democratic stability through a meritorious, trans­parent, and inclusive government process may jeopardise the country’s destiny as a cohesive state. Ministers chosen by the president and con­firmed by the federal legislature are crucial cabinet members who contrib­ute to the policy and decision-making processes that effectively drive gover­nance. It follows that the heads of Min­istries, Departments, Agencies, and uniformed Services who manage critical governance responsibilities under the executive must be men and women with not only integrity, but personalities who will not shy away from directly processing the facts and making difficult decisions on which success frequently hinges. Their choice must be devoid of hu­miliating medieval clannishness. In this light, individuals who are even­tually entrusted with supporting the president in delivering genuine gov­ernance must approach their job with an understanding – a set of principles – that reflects a sense of the nation’s long-term destiny. In this context, ru­mours that President Tinubu is look­ing for a global experience both within and beyond the country to add signif­icance to the governance agenda he has outlined are encouraging. But the delay has been quite uncomfortable. That’s why experts say strange, weird, and unexplained things hap­pen in Nigeria, and because the per­petrators of such actions usually get away with it, they tend to become the standard. In 2015 for example, former Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari squan­dered three months setting up his cab­inet, causing massive loss and harm to the nation’s economy. Nothing was done or even stated to make him real­ise he was playing with the fate and future of 200 million people. POLL In contrast to Nigeria, Australia had elections on May 18, and Scott Morrison was elected. Three days before his inauguration, on May 26, he presented his cabinet, which was sworn in on May 29. India’s Narendra Modi was sworn in on May 30 and formed his government the next day, on May 31. Similarly, South Africa had its election on May 8, 2019; the in­auguration occurred on May 25, and the new president, Cyril Ramaphosa, constituted his cabinet four days later, on May 29. On February 24, Senegal held elections. Macky Sall, the election winner, was inaugurated on Tuesday, April 2, and his cabinet was formed the following Monday, April 8. According to reports, this odd wait in putting up a cabinet has become the norm. And, as if that wasn’t enough salt in the wound, state governors have followed suit. Almost six weeks after their February 28 election and their inauguration, the majority of them have yet to designate commissioners. Nigeria’s presidential system of gov­ernment, as well as the enabling con­stitution, call for an executive council, both federal and state, to aid in the development of the economy and the well-being of the people. It stinks of political and economic bankruptcy, as well as administrative inexperience and stupidity, for a gov­ernor to run for office, be elected, and then delay the appointment of his commissioners on the flimsy pretext or flimsy argument that the state lacks funds. “Since after their inauguration on May 29, it’s only Rivers and Osun States who were elected earlier and Abia State on Friday, July 7 that have constituted their cabinets. Others have been running the state as sole admin­istrators,” says a system expert, who also insisted that the culture is aiding corruption as well as encouraging fi­nance misappropriation. “We believe that these governors are unaware of the ramifications or risks of governing a government. It’s the equivalent of a CEO avoiding re­sponsibility to stakeholders because he lacks a board of directors. It’s unfor­tunate. It bolsters the claim that many Nigerian politicians enter public office with no vision, mission, ideas, or pro­grammes to pursue and implement,” Dr. Tim Adesanya, a political analyst told Saturday INDEPENDENT during the week. Meanwhile, the governor of La­gos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has debunked the allegation of running a one-man show by a Lagos lawyer, Mr. Ebun Adegboruwa for not constitut­ing his cabinet since he resumed office for the second term. In a statement, the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Gboyega Akosile said Lagos State government is still operating within the timeframe stipulated by Nigerian constitution and that the wheel of governance is moving progressively in the state. “Our attention has been drawn to an unsolicited counsel from Mr. Ebun Adegboruwa, alleging that the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide San­wo-Olu is running a one-man show, simply because he has not constituted his cabinet yet since he resumed office for the second term. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Nigerian Constitution is very clear about the number of days required for a State Governor to send his nom­inees for various cabinet offices to the State House of Assembly for legisla­tive approval. According to the fifth alteration (No. 23), the bill seeks to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to require the President and Governors to sub­mit the names of persons nominated as Ministers or Commissioners within sixty days of taking the Oath of Office for confirmation by the Senate or State Houses of Assembly; and for related matters. “Governor Sanwo-Olu has only spent thirty-nine days in the office and therefore, has not flouted any law. “Secondly, we must remind Mr. Adegboruwa, that Lagos remains a model State, where governance issues are taken very seriously and as such, his comparison of the State with oth­er States he used in his submission is laughable. We also need to remind the erudite lawyer that Osun State Gover­nor, Mr. Ademola Adeleke was sworn into the office in November, 2022, mak­ing it more than seven months before he sent his Cabinet nominees to the Osun State House of Assembly. “We must also enlighten Mr. Adeg­boruwa, that with or without the Cabinet members at the moment, the wheel of governance is moving progressively in Lagos. The Perma­nent Secretaries are fully in charge as the Chief Accounting Officers of their individual Ministries and they are working tirelessly with Gover­nor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in conjunc­tion with the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, Secretary to the State Government, the Chief of Staff and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Gov­ernor as well as the Head of Service, to achieve the administration’s vision of a Greater Lagos Rising anchored on the THEMES+ agenda.” However, two Abuja-based legal practitioners and rights campaigners, Pelumi Olajengbesi and Henry Eni- Otu, have claimed that the inability of President Bola Tinubu and some state governors to pick cabinet members does not obstruct governance or lead to maladministration. In response, the lawyers stated that the president’s ac­tions are legal and in accordance with the Constitution. “The President is sending the prop­er signal to the Nigerian people that it will not be business as usual and that government is becoming more serious in terms of taking actions, appointments, and giving direction for the government,” Olajengbesi added. “It is going to be a government that is going to work and not just sit down. Certain actions have been tak­en by this administration that portend certain challenges for the Nigerian people. However, we are relying on the promises of President Tinubu’s government of renewed hope that things will get better in the country. The President is within the 60 days window provided by the Constitution for him to appoint his cabinet, and he has demonstrated the zeal through his recent appointments that he will pick the right people to work with,” Olajengbesi said. On his part, Henry K. Eni-Otu pos­ited that the President has not com­mitted any crime by not appointing Ministers. “I am aware that some State Governors have not made appoint­ments, while some have forwarded the names of their Commissioner designates to their various State Hous­es of Assembly. Mr. President and the Governors are still within the legiti­mate period to select those that will work with them. So, no forwarding of the names of Commissioners and Ministers does not constitute a clog in governance. “However, some politicians are quick to blame the slow pace of ap­pointing ministries or commissioners on the majority of Governors and the President’s involvement in election petition tribunals. Some of these Gov­ernors may be waiting for the end of the litigations they are facing in court before doing anything,” one lawmak­er remarked, “but unfortunately time may not be on their side.” Also, an Abuja based lawyer, Sunny Anyanwu, has urged for calm follow­ing condemnations in some quarters over delay by President Tinubu, to form a cabinet, with few weeks left to the 60 days allowed by the 1999 consti­tution as amended. Barr Anyanwu, in a telephone con­versation with Saturday INDEPEN­DENT said that “The president is still within his constitutional limit of pow­er to appoint his cabinet members. He has within 60 days, and you and I know that he has not spent up to 60 days. “He has spent at least 30, and is go­ing to 40 days now. To me, he is delay­ing because he doesn’t know who to appoint. “I think that he is looking for the right person that Nigerians will ac­cept. He shouldn’t bring up the old people we know are Wike and co. If they appoint Wike today we wouldn’t say that he has brought in brand new persons.” He, however, expressed fears that the delay could slow down the wheel of the administration to deliver on good governance. “He’s running the show with one or two people, Dele Alake, and with one or two persons. It’s not a one-man enterprise that we would do alone. It’s going to affect the programmes and objectives of the gov­ernment, but this is the way we found ourselves,” he added. The Human Rights ac­tivist further took a swipe on state governors who are yet to constitute state exec­utive councils, as he noted that “some of them are not even too sure of their seats. So they’re not in a hurry to appoint commissioners. “However, they are still following in the footsteps of the president, which is not supposed to be. “I expect them to start work upon resumption. It will not take them any­thing to appoint commis­sioners or ministers in governance. “So, you can see the fed­eral allocation given to them. They’re not doing anything with it, other than paying salaries, and eating the rest of them. Therefore, it should be en­shrined in our constitution to appoint commissioners and ministers within 30 days.” In the case of Gombe State, Governor Inuwa Yahaya only appointed the Secretary to the State Government, the Director General of Press Affairs, and another Director Gen­eral of Research and Docu­mentation two weeks after taking office, leaving room for conjecture and high hopes. Gombe legal practi­tioner Luka Musa Haruna said the implication of the lack of appointment of the commissioners or minis­ters within the prescribed time is that the Governor or President will be vio­lating the provisions of the Constitution which is the grand Norm which he was sworn into office and he promised to uphold the provisions of the Consti­tution. “Prior to this moment, elected Presidents or Gov­ernors were not given the limitations of how and when to appoint their cab­inets,” he said. So many Governors will be elected, and after being sworn in, they will continue to run their government without creating a council or cab­inet to assist them in car­rying out their responsi­bilities as elected officials. Again, the Governor will be seen to be violating the Constitution. He will be overburdened by the nu­merous works and duties that he has to discharge as a Governor. But nowadays, most of our Governors do not stay in one place.” Another lawyer, poli­tician, and former State legislator, Ibrahim Rambi Ayala, agreed with him, saying that it has become a law, as signed by former President Buhari, that the President must establish his cabinet within 60 days of being sworn into office, and the same goes for State Governors. Professor Isaac Ola­wale Albert of the Uni­versity of Ibadan went on to say, “Members of the public may be disap­pointed, but they must be more patient. Yes, po­litical leaders have been preparing for these posi­tions for quite some time. They were elected many months ago. They assured Nigerians that they would assist them in resolving their problems, and one would presume that while they made these promises and arrangements, they understood what kind of personnel to utilise to achieve their goals. Spending so much time after winning elections without establishing gov­ernments may indicate that they are unprepared.” Professor Albert spoke on how to move people out of the economic morass, adding, “President Tinu­bu has started well. Let us all pitch in to aid him. He looks to have a good idea of where the rain started to pour on us. He is taking steps to remedy the prob­lem. A scientific analyst understands his activities promptly. If he is given the chance, I believe we will soon see some light at the end of the tunnel. Nigeri­ans are suffering terribly, but I believe that if we take the easy way out, things will get worse. Let us suffer now and then begin to put the problem behind us,” he stated. According to Michael Olanrewaju, General Man­ager of Diamond FM in Ilorin, Kwara State, the re­fusal of the President and or Governors to appoint political aides such as Min­isters and Commissioners was accomplished by ex­ploiting a constitutional flaw by appointing some aides such as Secretaries to the Federal and State Governments and making them executive council members. They oversee the state’s affairs with the help of a few appointees. “But many politicians, such as Rauf Aregbesola, will lead the people to be­lieve that appointing com­missioners late is a method for their state to save mon­ey. What were the so-called saved monies used for after they were appointed?” que­ried the media expert.