The recent revelation by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) about the case of Joy Mmesoma Ejikeme’s alleged falsification of her 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) results has generated reactions from Nigerians. APATA OYENIRAN writes on the development as Nigerians put JAMB on the edge. On 6th May, 2023, the news of Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma, a student of the Anglican Girls Secondary School, Nnewi, hit the newsstands as the overall best student in the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) conducted by the Joint Admission Matriculation Board (JAMB). The information, which made Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma, the toast of the period, claimed she scored 98 points in English Language, 89 points in Physics, 94 points in Biology and 81 points in Chemistry to get 362 of the total 400 points. The unconfirmed result earned the little girl a lot of attraction and mention as the Anambra State Commissioner for Education, Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh, commended the feat, describing it as “excellent and very outstanding.” Besides, the Anambra State government promised to “monitor her academic progression as she pursues whatever career she desires.” The alleged feat earned Miss Mmesoma Ejikeme a lot of accolades as Innoson Automobile Company (IAC), the Nnewi, Anambra State-based Company, gifted her N3 million and a scholarship for coming top in the last UTME. It would be recalled Mmesoma’s name was not included in the list of the top 12 candidates presented by the JAMB Registrar, Is-haq Oloyede, during the board’s policy meeting with heads of tertiary institutions last week. The Bubble Bust However, the celebration for Mmesoma, the child of an Okada rider, who was set to be honoured by the Anambra State Government was cut short when one of its top officials put a call through to JAMB to confirm her claim, only for the Board to reveal that Miss Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma had actually scored 249 and not the 362 she claimed. POLL JAMB explained that Mmesoma who had earlier been celebrated to have scored the highest mark in the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME) falsified her result. The board has also threatened to withdraw the candidate’s actual results for allegedly falsely announcing herself as the top scorer of the computer-based test used to rank candidates seeking admission into Nigerian universities. A statement from the Board read, “The attention of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has been drawn to several publications in both print and online media celebrating certain candidates for being high scorers in the 2023 UTME. The Board is constrained to set the records straight and wishes to state unequivocally that many of the results that many of these candidates are parading are fake. “Unknown to her, the Board had changed the design of the 2023 UTME result sheet. Her original result remains 249, as nothing can change that. With this her ignoble act, Miss Mmesoma would be prosecuted and her original result withdrawn,” JAMB stated. Miss Mmesoma Not Alone With Fake Results JAMB cited another case of Atung Gerald in Kaduna State, who reportedly claimed to have scored 380 in the UTME. According to JAMB, Mr. Atung never obtained the 2023 UTME forms “not to talk of sitting the examination. In many instances, some of these candidates had actually obtained far lower scores than they are claiming and had used some funny software packages to manipulate their results to deceive unsuspecting members of the public,” it said. Ensure Due Diligence On Candidates’ Results Reacting to the development, a public commentator and parent, who preferred anonymity, urged the Board, the West Africa Examination Council (WAEC), the National Examination Council (NECO), and other examination bodies to scrutinise claims by candidates before admission into programmes. “These revelations have put relevant examination bodies in Nigeria on the edge and double-check results and claims by candidates before admission. The poor girl is not alone in this scam. There are lots of Nigerians who alleged of using fake results or gain admission into institutions using certificates belonging to friends and relatives. The examination bodies should be more discreet proofs about claims made by candidates even for job placements.” “All institutions should verify and always cross-check these claims by candidates before rushing to offer them opportunities or honour mediocrity and giving undeserving awards. The issue of fake results is not new. Students parade results that are not in tune with their intelligent quotient.” Miracle Results Blamed On Overpriced Education, Corruption Adaramoye Michael, the National Mobilisation Officer of the Education Rights Campaign (ERC) blamed moral decadence among the citizens and students as well as poor funding of the education sector and corrupt management of education by stooges of the government. He said such age-long negligence has made it impossible for students participating in UTME exams to rely on education provisions from the government. He said as education is daily being priced out of the reach of many poor Nigerians, indigent students, and poor parents are devising means to settle bills and tuition. “The poor funding of the education sector and the corrupt management of public education by stooges of the government have made it impossible for students participating in UTME exams to rely on education provision from the government. Though ERC condemned illegal practices, it added, “In fact, many now turn to private tutorials, exam racketeering as well as prayer centres for miracles. So, it should not be a complete surprise if there are some who seek to manufacture their miracle through the declaration of false results. “It only shows the abysmally low level the society has been driven to through age-long attacks on public education. People now consider overcoming UTME a miracle! While we condemn illegal practices like a false declaration of exam results, we must also note that it is a direct outcome of how political officeholders have handled the affairs of the country, especially their obstinate disregard for the education sector. “Therefore, an upgrade of the education sector through proper funding and democratic management is needed to ensure students have access to adequate facilities to seamlessly pass the examination. This will make exams to be less of a crazy horse race and make meaningless any exhibition of the few high-scoring candidates,” ERC added. Innoson Puts JAMB On Edge Innoson Automobile Company (IAC), Nnewi, Anambra State-based company, which gifted Miss Mmesoma Ejikeme N3 million and a scholarship for coming top in the last Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has taken JAMB to task to prove that the young girl did not make the marks she claimed to have got. The organisation insisted that nothing would change as to its determination to help her in her educational pursuit, except the organisation was able to sustain its claim of her scoring 249 instead of the 362 she claimed to have scored. IAC spokesman, Cornel Osigwe described JAMB’s outburst as strange to hear that Ejikeme manipulated her result, adding that the company had actually conducted its own independent report before coming out with the offer. “It is strange to us because we did our independent verification and found out that Mmesoma Ejikeme actually scored 362 when we printed her result. When it was claimed that she was the highest, we waited for JAMB to come and clarify it, but they did not and the media was publishing that she was the highest. “We also waited to see if there was going to be a counterclaim, but since there was no counterclaim, we awarded her the scholarship as the highest scorer. On Sunday, it was reported that JAMB claimed that she manipulated her result. We are doing our independent investigation as we speak to know if she actually manipulated her result or if the fault was from JAMB. “If we find out that the girl actually manipulated her result for obvious reasons, we will withdraw the scholarship. But if we find out that the mistake was actually from JAMB; that they were the ones that awarded her the score, or probably did a review and found out that her actual score was 249, then our scholarship will still stand.” Osigwe advised Ejikeme not to panic during this period of investigation, saying that they have the capacity to carry out a proper investigation to unravel the truth, saying that if the girl is innocent of the allegation, whether she scored the highest or not, the scholarship will still stand. Anambra Tops List Of 12 Best Candidates The overall best candidate, according to Mr. Oloyede, was Umeh Nkechinyere with registration number 202330325356GA. Miss Nkechineye, an indigene of Anambra State, scored 360 points. She applied to study Chemical Engineering at the University of Lagos. JAMB gave names of the top 12 scorers In 2023 UTME: Umeh Kamsiyochukwu Nkechinyere, 360; Aguele Stephen Osezuha, 358; Ositade Oluwafemi Anthony, 358; Gbolahan Azeem Ayinde, 357; John Fulfilment Ibhanfiodon, 3556; Duruji Chimdubem Ugonna, 355; Adesanya Jermaine Oluwaiomiloiu, 355; Shittu Priscilla Adedunni, 355; Atenisumen Enoch Oluwagbemisoke 355; Adetunji Victor Adewale, 355; Ofonime Iniobon Idongesit, 355; and Imoukhuede Andrew Onayeme, 355. However, JAMB has announced the withdrawal of Miss Mmesoma Ejikeme’s results, saying others guilty of the results falsification would be prosecuted.