LAGOS – The Coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) for Good Governance has challenged Governor Dauda Lawal of Zamfara State to give details of his asset declaration at the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB). The group in a press con­ference on Tuesday addressed on its behalf by Comrade Femi Lawson, doubted that Lawal is worth $5 billion, warning that it would take legal action if CCB fails to give details of the asset declaration. “We have had bogus asset declarations by some of our governors, ostensibly to cover for the graft that will follow their activities as the state helmsman. “Today, we zeroed in on Zamfara for obvious reasons. Why Zamafara? This is because despite the availability of gold and other mineral resources, in large quantities, the people of Zamfara haven’t been able to benefit substantially from these God-given resources. “The security issues and underdevelopment have put the state in a state of comatose. Why is it that terrorism has re­mained unabated in Zamfara? “Who are the beneficiaries of this mindless bloodletting? These posers we need to inter­rogate further. It’s an open se­cret that when Mr. Lawal was sworn in, the news was every­where that he’s worth $5 billion and N1 billion in nine banks. $5 billion? “This emboldens the con­viction in us that the news that he, Gov. Lawal declared assets worth N9 trillion is true which he only denied when the uproar and public scrutiny was huge and resounding. “The African richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, is worth $15 billion with his assets, and Lawal is worth $5 billion with­out any known companies or major breakthroughs in new inventions or technology. POLL “How did he make his mon­ey? From the information we gathered, Lawal had declared such a humongous amount to the Code of Conduct Bureau as part of the enabling laws to take over as state governor. “Our challenge now is that it is incumbent on Mr. Lawal to lead by example. What we are now asking is for Mr. Lawal to tell the world how he made his money and details of his asset declaration, before the Code of Conduct Bureau. “We don’t want to hear the usual refrain after his exit when he’s been called to account that he didn’t enter government as a pauper. The era of humongous wealth without enterprise is gone forever. We want to know how he made his trillions so that other governors who are super rich will also follow suit. “We are doing this because Nigeria is now in a precarious situation more than ever. The debt issues and economic cri­ses we are in now require that we do our best.” On his part, chairman, Cam­paign against Impunity, Shina Loremikan, said, “We came together as different CSOs to express concern over the as­sets declaration of Lawal. The declaration is bogus and cannot be tied to any business venture. “We don’t know his past, we don’t know his businesses. If he says this is his monetary worth as he has declared in dollars and naira, can we trace it to any business venture? Zamfara is very lucrative with illegal mining, diamond, gold etcetera, and we also know that there is a large scale of illegal mining there,” he said.