MAKURDI – The Benue Rebirth Movement (BRM) has advised minorities in the country to make the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Senator George Akume their rallying point. BRM also charged all Governors in the North Central states and indeed other minority states in the country to submit to the SGF, Senator Akume, so that the entire middle belt, through him, can submit in total loyalty to President Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The group also insisted that the position of Secretary to the Benue State Government (SSG) and the ministerial slot meant for the state should be ceded to the people of Benue South senatorial district (Zone C) of the state. Speaking at a press conference in Makurdi on Monday, Atsar Baba Gundu, a chieftain of the youth wing of BRM noted that hopes were dashed when the state governor, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia gave the position of SSG to someone outside the Zone. According to him, “The realignment of Benue state to the national political grid brought more good tidings with the appointment of our Political Leader, Senator George Akume, as the SGF. “This great opportunity given to Benue state is an opportunity for the state to become the platform to unite all Northern minorities (Middle belt), Southern minorities and everybody in strong support for the pragmatic leadership which the President and Commander-in-Chief, His Excellency, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is proffering. “It is in view of this that we, under the umbrella of the BRM Youth Wing, wish to thank God Almighty for the emergence of our dear President, His Excellency Bola Ahmed Tinubu at this time of Nigeria’s fragile state, when a unifier is in dire need. “In Benue state, the victory of Rev Fr Alia brought succour to the suffering masses, particularly to the minorities of Zone C and other minorities within Zone A and B. Our expectation was that justice and equity which had eluded Benue state for over 47 years was on its way to be entrenched. POLL “Unfortunately, the appointments being made by the Governor, following the old pattern of denying Zone C the position of the SSG has raised the red flag that our joy is likely to be short-lived. “The Youth Wing recalls the maiden courtesy call by the BRM National Coordinator, Air Vice-Marshal Monday Morgan (rtd), on our Governor before his swearing-in. We passionately demanded for the return of the post of SSG to Zone C to show sign of good faith that a new era has come.” Gundu who is from Tarka Local Government Area (LGA) of the state further noted that “The race for the ministerial slot has started and speculations in the political space have it that another Tiv son is being recommended to the President and Commander-in-Chief. “We the youths are highly agitated by this move. We can not stand and watch while our political elders are preparing grounds for dangerous ethnic rivalries for us and our children as these actions have generated ethnic tensions for too long and must be corrected.” Among other prayers made by the group include that “The next Minister from Benue state should be from Zone C irrespective of religion, age or gender. “The Governor should liaise with the APC Leader in the state, Senator George Akume, to identify a loyal party man or a technocrat from Zone C for appointment as minister. “All the Governors in the North Central geopolitical zone should submit in total loyalty to the SGF, Senator Akume so that the entire middle belt region can be galvanized in total loyalty to the President and C-in-C. “This will ultimately push the President to pay full attention to tackling the big crisis of insecurity in the Middle Belt so that our people can return to their farms and their ancestral lands.” In conclusion, the BRM chieftain observed that “The connection of Benue state to the central power hub is not an accident, and we believe our Governor will re-strategize and propel the state, with the fear of God to ensure inclusiveness in the governance of the state and properly align it with the powers at the centre” for the larger benefit of minorities. End.