Governor of Oyo State, ‘Seyi Makinde, has enjoined residents of the state to support his administration to have a successful tenure, noting that once the governor records success, the impact will be felt by all the residents. Governor Makinde, who lauded the people of the state for their support for his administration in the first four years and their support during the election, said he would never take that support for granted. “From the bottom of my heart I cannot take your support for granted. You have supported us for a second tenure and you must support us to have a successful tenure because, if we are successful, Oyo State is successful and the impact will definitely be on all of us,” the governor said. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Sulaimon Olanrewaju, indicated that Governor Makinde stated this at the Omituntun 2.0 Victory Invitational Golf Tournament Dinner, held at the Ibadan Golf Club, Ibadan. The governor appreciated his friends for putting the event together, noting that he would continue to strive to develop the game of Golf and ensure it is played across the state. This was as he reiterated that his administration would continue to put in the hard work necessary to put the state on the path of sustainable development. He, noted, however, that there was the need to continue to support the administration so that it could achieve its set goals of uplifting the state and bringing about sustainable development. The governor added that he would be receptive to constructive criticisms and ideas that could help move the state forward and that residents who have concerns about the spread of government’s efforts to their localities should feel free to express such. POLL He said: “This is an event organised completely by my friends and associates. I want to let you know that a dime did not come from me nor from the coffers of Oyo State for this event. “Let me thank the good people of Oyo State and all of you seated here for your support. Some of you may not have supported me directly but I am aware that you did that indirectly. “People may not know that I do monitor the Whatsapp loop of this Club and I know those that criticise me. But once God has vindicated one, there is no need to engage in any sort of fight further. Yes, we can disagree to agree, in as much as the end result is to make our society better. “So, I will say that even under Omituntun 2.0, you can challenge and tell us where we are not doing well. Tell us when good projects have not gotten to your neighbourhood and we won’t take it personal but, instead, address your genuine concerns. Victory is sweet after the hard work. For the past almost six weeks after we were sworn in for the second tenure in office, we have just been enjoying ourselves. “I know it is time to roll up our sleeves and get to work again. But we are here tonight to celebrate the sweet victory that occurred on March 18th through the support of the majority of you, and to have a victory party. By the grace of God, one thing I can promise the people is that we will continue to work really hard to take our state on the path of sustainable development.” The governor noted that his love for the game of Golf would not wane, even as he called on the Club and its members not to hesitate to ask for his assistance. “As for my love and support for this game, not only for IGC but Ogbomoso, Saki and other Golf Clubs around Oyo State, I will continue to strive to ensure that the game is developed and widely played throughout the state. “I also look forward to our own Tiger Woods. “