Journalists have been charged to target their reports on resolving conflicts and peace building in the society, rather than triggering crisis. The charge was part of the communique issued in Abuja by an International Human Rights Capacity Building Non-Governmental Organisation in Nigeria, Global Rights, at its two days training on “Conflict Sensitive Reporting” for journalists. The training, held for Wednesday and Thursday last week, had seasoned facilitators taking journalists through various conflict-sensitive reporting issues across the globe to deepen their knowledge and understanding on crisis management. Chidi Odinkalu, Nigerian Human Rights Activist and Chairman Board of Trustees Global Rights Advocates for Sustainable Development, supported by the Open Society Initiative for West Africa. Dayo Aiyetan, Executive Director of International Center for Investigative Reporting, (ICIR) said media practitioners should always be guided by their constitutional roles to hold Government accountable by their reports. He said the main goal of investigative journalism is the maintenance of public morality by exposing transgression or immoral behaviour and activities. “The main goal of investigative journalism is the maintenance of public morality by exposing transgression or immoral behaviour and activities. Such exposure is expected to lead to change or policy reforms”. POLL He again said: “Media men should not be carried away by the ‘Breaking News syndrome, which often time leads to insufficient facts of the story thereby leading readers to seek for other unauthorized sources with dire consequences on the peace and security of the citizenry. “Despite threats, physical and moral hazards, media practitioners are expected to live up to the values and standards of the profession, while isolating all forms of incitement among the warring parties. Speaking, Mojeed Musikilu, Chief Operating Officer, Premium Times journalist challenged the media on the need to do their reporting objectively in other not to escalate a potential crisis. He said: “Journalists should make sure they gather accurate information concerning any conflicts report they file, to avoid causing chaos.” He warned journalists working on conflict and crises situation to stay off judgemental representations and to express reality without embellishment. The Programme Manager, Global Rights, Edosa Oviawe, on his part said struggle for power and poverty were part of the factors fuelling mass atrocities in the country. According to him, “Ethnic and religious divisions; political interests and power struggles; 20 million out-of-school children; 130 million multidimensionally poor; 90 million absolutely poor; 33 per cent unemployment rate and over 50 per cent youth unemployment among others are drivers of mass atrocities in Nigeria.” He added that the security and welfare of the people should be the primary purpose of government as amended in section 14(2)(b) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999. Hafez Yesufu, IT/Security Consultant on his part said that journalists should be mindful of their safety by adhering to usage of safety kits while covering in conflicts zones. They should in spite of threats, redouble their efforts and live up to the values and standards of the profession. A total of 29 journalists were selected from online, print and electronic media across different newsrooms in the country.