Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh, a youth activist, is the National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he discusses some of the actions of the Bola Tinubu administration so far and how they impact on the citizens. Excerpt: The Nigerian government has been granted a fresh $500 million by the World Bank. How do you see this development bearing in mind that the country is already neck deep in foreign loans? It is foolish to live large on loans. This $500 million loan is said to be the second since Tinubu assumed office as reported by the media. The question I ask is: If the government of Tinubu sees taking of loans as the only thing he has to offer Nigerians, is there any hope for good governance in sight? I ask because all these loans have string attachments that will negatively affect us. What will these two loans worth over a billion dollars be used for? A cross section of Nigerians is of the view that this latest foreign loan shows that President Bola Tinubu may not be too different from his predecessor, President Muhammadu Buhari. How would you react to this? Are you talking of a disparity between Buhari and Tinubu? Bola Tinubu, during the electioneering campaign told Nigerians that he would continue from where Buhari stopped. You will agree with me that Buhari ended his government by taking loans for a few days to handover without any positive impact on the masses. Since it has been the view of the government that Petroleum Subsidy has been a fraud. Do you think President Bola Tinubu will have the political will to prosecute the perpetrators of the fraud in order to sanitise the nation’s oil industry? This statement is a deception and strategy meant to tell the people what they want to hear. I see it as a failure on the part of the government to say there is fraud in the administration of petroleum subsidies. Nigeria is not the only country paying subsidies in the world. So, why the hullabaloo? The US is paying a subsidy on wheat, likewise other countries on energy and other essential commodities and services. Why do we not hear of fraud in theirs? In 2012, the same people who deceived Nigerians to protest against subsidy removal during the Goodluck Jonathan administration have all failed woefully. So, Tinubu has no political will to prosecute the perpetrators of the fraud and bring sanity to the oil Industry as you cannot give what you do not have. How do you see the proposed increase in the tariff for electricity, especially as Nigerians have been crying over the effects of oil Subsidy removal? POLL The Renewed Hope mantra in reality is Renewed Hardship, especially when you are told he will continue from where his predecessor stopped. Haven’t we suffered enough in the hands of electricity service providers to warrant a serious president with a political will to sanitise the power sector? Why is privatization in the Telecommunication Industry yielding positive results while that of the power sector has become a clog in the wheel of progress? Power sector remains the worst with unabated broad day robbery of the poor masses. Increasing the tariff on electricity is not the problem, but paying this high cost without power supply is the issue. Every successive government will tell you they want to reform the power sector to justify a hike in tariff, but at the end worse of service is what you get in return. What is your take on the recently signed Students Loan Scheme law? Going by the way it is, do you think that it can really be of much help to indigent Nigerian students? Our government has treated us so badly that every one of their policies, especially the one they hurriedly formulate and implement, tells you they stand as a major beneficiary. Whatever that benefits the poor masses, the Nigerian government will not do. The loan is for students whose parents’ annual income is below N500,000. So, it is as good as no loan because there is no parent earning below N500,000 who can train a pupil in Nigeria of today. Buhari came in 2015 with school children feeding which gulped trillions of naira with nothing to show. Now, Bola Tinubu plans to give a loan of N500,000 with stringent conditions. What Nigerian students need is a revamped economy where they can thrive, not loans. In a local parlance, ‘Whoever goes borrowing goes a sorrowing’. I tell you, in no distant time, names will be rolled out as beneficiaries of this students’ loan scheme. In fact, it is a deception as the same government is saying that it can no longer continue to fund our higher Institutions, but wants to give loans to students. By implication, this will put students in a tight corner because school fees will be astronomically increased beyond expectations. How do you see the recent retirement of Service Chiefs and the appointment of new ones? Do you think this will bring about an improvement in the war against insecurity and insurgency in the country? In 2022, I flew to Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, and travelled by road to Taraba State. My heart bled over the inhuman condition I saw our soldiers along Maiduguri-Baga-Potiskum Road. It was really terrible. I wish the war against terrorists had ended before now. I am not talking about an improved war against terrorists, but an end to the war against insecurity with victory on the side of our gallant soldiers. The past administration of Muhammadu Buhari kept the Service Chiefs beyond their retirement age, especially the Chief Of Army Staff Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, without any improvement. It was the same with the recently retired Service Chiefs. It is expected that those who were appointed by Tinubu should do something different to avoid the same story. Would you say that Nuhu Ribadu, as a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), will enjoy the respect and cooperation of the Services Chiefs as the National Security Adviser? Nuhu Ribadu’s appointment as National Security Adviser (NSA) should not be seen from the angle of whether he will wield influence as a retired AIG, but his competency to deliver since the job is not a master-slave relationship. So, it is expected that a strong co-operation between him and the Service Chiefs will exist. Keen observers of the war against graft have suggested that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) should be merged with the Independent Corrupt Practices and other crimes Commission (ICPC), and the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB). Do you think that this will make the fight against corruption more effective? The problem with us in this part of the globe is duplication of duties. Why should the taxpayers’ money be wasted on EFCC, ICPC and CCB for crying out loud, since they perform the same duty? It is good they are merged to one anti-corruption agency for optimal performance. The cost of keeping the three anti-corruption agencies which perform the same duties is high. President Bola Tinubu recently attended an Economic Summit in France. Would you say some gains could accrue to Nigeria from this? Attending an Economic Summit is good, but negotiating with foreign investors to attract investment is best. Was there any negotiation during the session to woo those investors? If yes, then there is hope for gains for attending the summit. Where does the scheme of things in the new political dispensation leave your people, the Middle Belt? So far, the Middle Belt is not left behind in the current scheme of things. So far, we have produced the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) with the appointment of HE. Dr. George Akume by President Tinubu.