What is Addison’s disease? Addison’s disease, also called adrenal insufficiency, is a condition that can cause people to lose weight and feel tired and weak. Addison’s disease occurs when the body’s adrenal glands do not work normally, that is adrenocortical insufficiency due to the destruction or dysfunction of the entire adrenal cortex. In Addison’s disease, the adrenal glands make too little cortisol and, often, too little of another hormone, aldosterone. The adrenal glands are small organs that are located on top of each kidney. Normally, the adrenal glands make substances called hormones. These hormones do many things in the body, such as help keep blood sugar levels and blood pressure normal. In people with Addison’s disease, the adrenal glands do not work properly and do not make enough hormones. This causes symptoms. Some people have symptoms like those of Addison’s disease, but their symptoms have a different cause. Normally, adrenal glands make hormones after they receive signals from the brain. Some people have problems in the brain that cause these signals to be abnormal. Then, the adrenal glands do not make enough hormones. Around two to three times more women than men get this disease, because autoimmunity is more common in women. The peak age of the start of Addison’s disease is between 30 and 50, but it can happen at any age. John F. Kennedy and Jane Austin both had Addison’s Disease. While John F. Kennedy survived the disease, Jane Austin died from it. Causes of Addison’s disease Damage to the adrenal glands in Addison’s disease is usually caused by autoimmune disease—when your immune system attacks your body’s own cells and organs. In developed countries, autoimmune disease causes 8 or 9 of every 10 cases of Addison’s disease. Certain infections like tuberculosis can also cause Addison’s disease. POLL What are the symptoms of Addison’s disease? Most people with Addison’s disease have the following symptoms: ●Feeling tired or weak ●Weight loss and loss of appetite Other common symptoms can include: ●Darkening of the skin, especially on the face, neck, and back of the hands ●Nausea and vomiting ●Feeling light-headed or dizzy when standing or sitting up ●Muscle and joint pain ●Craving salty foods ●Losing hair from the armpits and pubic area (in women) Sometimes, a person’s symptoms can become severe and life-threatening, called “adrenal crisis.” Symptoms of adrenal crisis can include: ●Fever and weakness ●Nausea, vomiting, and stomach pain ●Confusion ●Passing out, or going into shock Adrenal crisis usually occurs when a person’s body is under stress, such as from an infection or injury. Is there a test for Addison’s disease? — Yes. Your healthcare provider might order different tests to check for Addison’s disease. These involve checking your cortisol levels. Cortisol is an important hormone that the adrenal glands normally make. In people with Addison’s disease, the glands don’t make enough of it. Tests can include: ●Blood tests that measure cortisol – Sometimes your healthcare provider will give you a hormone shot, then measure your cortisol level 30 or 60 minutes later. ●A saliva test that measures cortisol How is Addison’s disease treated? — Addison’s disease is treated with hormone medicines to replace the hormones that are missing in the body. People usually need 2 different medicines, which must be taken every day for the rest of their life. It is important to let your healthcare provider know if you have any side effects from the medicines or develop any new symptoms. Your healthcare provider might also prescribe emergency medicine that you should keep with you at all times in case you have adrenal crisis. This medicine comes in the form of a shot. If you think you are having adrenal crisis, use the medicine and then call for an ambulance. Your healthcare provider might recommend that you also use this emergency medicine if you: ●Have a major injury, for example if you break a bone or lose a lot of blood ●Pass out ●Vomit up your daily medicine What foods to avoid if you have Addison’s disease? Focus on a diet that is rich in fruits, vegetables, and lean protein sources, with plenty of calcium and vitamin D. You may also need to increase your salt intake. Avoid foods high in sugar and saturated fat and limit or avoid processed meats, refined grains, soft drinks, and fried foods. What if I get sick or know that I am going to have surgery? — If you get sick or know that you are going to have surgery, talk with your healthcare provider. For example, if you are vomiting and unable to keep your medicines down, let your healthcare provider know. When people are sick or have surgery, their body might need more adrenal hormones than usual. Your healthcare provider will tell you if you need to increase your medicines, and how and when to do it. What if I want to get pregnant? — If you want to get pregnant, talk with your healthcare provider. Most women with Addison’s disease can get pregnant and have a baby. But your healthcare provider will want to follow you closely. He or she might make changes in your medicine dose during the pregnancy. What will my life be like? — Most people with Addison’s disease lead an active and normal life. But to stay as healthy as possible, you can: ●Follow your healthcare provider’s instructions about treatment ●Carry an emergency medicine shot with you, especially if you travel to areas that are not near a hospital ●Learn about the symptoms of adrenal crisis so that you will know when to treat it or get help ●Wear a medical alert bracelet, and carry an emergency medical card MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is a Harvard Medical School scholar affiliated with Parkland Hospital, Texas, United States. He specializes in internal medicine, acute care and emergency medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics