Prince Dapo Abiodun, Ogun State Governor, on Sunday charged Nigeri­ans to emulate the virtue of selflessness in public office, as exemplified by the immediate past Vice-president of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, saying he has distinguished himself by raising the bar of good gover­nance. Abiodun, gave the charge during the public thanksgiv­ing and appreciation reception held in honour of the former Vice-president by the Ikenne Development Association, at Obafemi Awolowo Square, Iken­ne-Remo. He lauded Osinbajo for being focused and loyal to his princi­pal as he served with dignity, integrity and utmost character, adding that the Ex-Vice President played a significant role in his emergence as Governor, in the face of stiff opposition from his predecessor. Abiodun said,” Let us emu­late Professor Yemi Osinbajo by using the opportunity of where we are today to diligently serve our people, we must appreciate the fact that the same people that we left behind while going into public office will still be the same people we return to meet after our service. “We are not only celebrating Prof Osinbajo’s achievements but we are also reflecting on the impact he had made in Ogun State in particular and Nigeria as a whole. “On a personal note your Ex­cellency, I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart, for the unwavering support you gave me in 2018 in the course of my jour­ney to Oke-Mosan. One of the lessons we all have to learn from this exemplary leader is that power is transient, we all have to understand that an office is nev­er permanent, what is however permanent is the legacy that we leave behind and how we impact the lives of those who trusted us to lead them into a better future for their collective dreams.” Osinbajo, in his remarks re­iterated his resolve to continue supporting his ancestral home of Ikenne, especially in the area of helping the young ones in the town to reach their full potential. ” I want to thank the Ikenne Development Association for showing leadership and commit­ment in developing this town and its people, on our part, we will continue to offer support in any way we can”. POLL Speaking on behalf of the members of the Federal Execu­tive Council that Professor Yemi Osinbajo worked with, the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation; Boss Mustapha described him as a detribalized Nigerian, noting that he played a significant role in the success recorded by the immediate past administration. Also speaking, the Governor of Bayelsa State; Douye Diri de­scribed professor Yemi Osinbajo as a man of character, commend­ed him for his love for the people of Bayelsa State, as the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, eulogized Osinbajo’s high intel­lectual capacity and acumen, saying he displayed high degree of work ethics while in office. The Chairman, Ogun State Council of Obas and the para­mount ruler of Remoland; Oba Babatunde Ajayi, while speaking said the former Vice-president was the greatest export of Remo land to the seat of power in Abu­ja, adding that he represented the people of Remo land and the state very well as a number two citizen of Nigeria then.