ABUJA – The Permanent Secretary of Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Mr. Olusade Adesola has hinted that the meeting of the Technical Committee of G-7 states is to tackle security challenges bedevilling the seven-member states. He gave this hint at the opening of the meeting on Wednesday in Abuja, 2hile adding that the G-7 provides an opportunity for intelligence gathering, sharing and joint-border operations. The Technical Committee of G-7 states, made up of FCT and its six neighbouring states, have met in Abuja, to develop strategies to tackle cross-border security challenges. The committee comprised of security chiefs of the FCT, Benue, Kaduna, Kogi, Nasarawa, Niger and Plateau States. They are Commissioners of Police, State Directors of the Department of State Security Services, and Commandants of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps. Adesola, who was represented by Mr Ishaq Sadeeq, acting Secretary, Agric and Rural Development Secretariat, FCTA, said the security chiefs convened the G-7 States Technical Committee Meeting, to tackle the recent upsurge of criminal elements traversing the FCT and member states. He added that the objective of the meeting was to review operational strategies that would guarantee optimal success. According to him, “The G-7 states would periodically hold joint meetings to appraise the prevailing security challenges and articulate an agenda of action for implementation. “Security, as we are all aware, is a fundamental pillar upon which any thriving society is built and an essential component that ensures the safety, well-being, and prosperity of our residents. POLL “In recognition of this fact, the FCT Administration has consistently prioritised the platform for the enhancement of security measures within our territory and beyond. “Just recently, the Administration provided several operational vehicles and security gadgets to security agencies within the Territory, in a bid to effectively combat crime and criminalities.” Adesola ,however, charged members of the committee to come up with adaptable strategies in combating cross-border crimes and deploy same for the safety and security of the FCT and the neighbouring states. Earlier, the Chairman of the Committee, Commissioner of Police, FCT Command, Mr Haruna Garba, said that the G-7 was initiated in 2007 by the then Minister of the FCT, Dr Modibbo Umar. Garba said that the idea was to deal with issues of crime and criminality that was plaguing the FCT and its contiguous states. “The idea was for the states to pull their resources both man and materials, together to fight the criminals simultaneously. “As we gather here, it is imperative that we acknowledge the gravity of the task at hand. Our dear states stand at a critical juncture, where security concerns have become increasingly complex, and technology driven. “This requires a coordinated efforts from all stakeholders. “The G-7 operations represent a united front, bringing together our collective expertise and experience to tackle the prevailing security challenges facing our states,” he said. The commissioner stressed that the G7 platform provided a unique opportunity to reinforce collective efforts and chart a way forward for better result. This, he said, would not only mitigate existing threats to the collective survival of the FCT and the contiguous state, but also prevent future ones. “Our collaboration, coordination, and seamless exchange of intelligence will undoubtedly serve as the bedrock of our success. “Let us leverage this platform to foster understanding, strengthen partnerships, and devise innovative strategies that will defeat crime and criminality,” he said. Also speaking, the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone 7, Adebowale Williams, stressed the need for community partnership in addressing security challenges peculiar to the G-7 member states. Meanwhile, the Director, FCT Security Services Department, Adamu Gwary, said that the G-7 initiative would strengthen collective efforts in fighting security challenges, particularly cross-border crime.