ABUJA  – The Jack-Rich family has reacted to an online pub­lication, alleging sexual misconduct against the wife of the former All Progres­sives Congress presidential as­pirant, Mrs. Elizabeth Jack-Rich. In a statement, signed by High Chief I.J. On Sunday, de­bunking the allegations, the family described the reports as fabricated, insisting it was sponsored by political elements, aiming at injuring the future of Mrs Jack-Rich and her innocent children. ”With honour, we appreciate your understanding, and for de­testing the avalanche of the most injuriously preposterous insult melted on the family by mischievous politicians. The family described the sponsors of the report as people with no employable skills out­side political office other than blackmail. According to Chief Ibiwari, they decided to form a coalition of political hostage taking at home and overseas, to pursue their 2027 interests. “These miscreants’ only vi­sion is to promote their likes, to stay in public office by any means, to continue to feed fat from what we produce as they spend, yet they have no respect for producers and employers of labour. ”Those who understand fam­ily at core, detest these types of political charlatans with satanic lifestyles because they have no respect for society with what they say,” the family said in the letter. POLL It also noted that those behind these attacks are just envious of Mrs. Jack-Rich’s giant strides as a young woman. ”This is the climax of political desperation by desperadoes who want to forcefully enter a house they fought against. ”Their vice style is to attack to enter. Now they want to come in­side the house by attacking those who are the builders of the house they once fought. ”Nigerians are watching with keenness what will become of this melancholy. Dr. Elizabeth is a well-groomed Yoruba mother who understands matrimony. ”She is brave, intelligent, beautiful, and an asset anyone cannot object to acquiring. A beautiful mother to many count­less families in her care.” The family urged the Pres­ident and Nigerians to watch out for this group of cruel and desperate monsters, who were desperate for power, and so were willing to unleash political may­hem on the ideals of APC. ”A party they once called names and found nothing good in it. The public should now be aware that because these in­terlopers and their cohorts are weaklings with no value to de­liver any public economic good; their only means to power is to launch blackmail on critical in­tellectual assets, including the likes of Dr. Elizabeth.” The family therefore, ex­pressed its unflinching support for Mrs Jack-Rich in the face of any type of attack or provo­cation. ”Dear Dr. Elizabeth, your husband, and Nigerians stand with you. In the face of this provocative, baseless, malicious, harmful, and most preposterous allegation with devilish imprint. ”You are an icon of societal good. Your good works are un­beatable, not even those drunks can stand near your achieve­ment even with their loot,” the family concluded.