‘Per capita consumption of milk in Nigeria is 8 kilogrammes. If I go to the extreme, Holland is 320 kilogrammes. Even if we are able to develop the milk consumption awareness, to just half of what it is in Holland, there is a huge opportunity.’ SIAKA MOMOH This is the summary of the status of dairy milk venture in Nigeria. Yours sincerely has kept tap on the dairy milk making space for some years now, and can conclude that the argument made here is the story of dairy milk in Nigeria. We will publish excerpts of some stories on milk, published in the past, that support the stand taken here. But firstly, let us do some background stuff on milk to help our understanding of the status and importance of milk. According to informed industry source, in 2021, production of milk for Nigeria was 531,587 thousand tonnes; production of milk in Nigeria increased from 229,000 thousand tonnes in 1972 to 531,587 thousand tonnes in 2021, growing at an average annual rate of 1.89%. The source states: In most developed countries only 5-10 percent of whole milk is used directly for human consumption. The bulk of milk production is processed before being marketed as liquid milk (e.g. standardized, pasteurized, skimmed, etc.) or is manufactured in to products such as cream, butter, cheese, evaporated and condensed milk, milk powder, casein, yogurt, ice cream, etc. About 70 percent of whole milk is processed into dairy products; the by-products of these processes (e.g. skim milk, buttermilk and whey) are used either for feed or are manufactured into other dairy products, e.g. dry skim milk and low-fat cheese. Processed milk and dairy products are often supplemented with vitamins, mineral and various additives: Opportunity for milk business in Nigeria is huge – Peter Eshikena In May 2013, whilst in BusinessDay, I spoke to the CEO of FrieslandCampinaWAMCO then – Peter Eshikena. Excerpts: How is FrieslandCampinaWAMCO coping with Nigeria’s harsh business environment? POLL The harsh business environment is not peculiar to FrieslandCampinaWAMCO. All companies operating in Nigeria operate under the same environment. In any case, I do not want to see it as harsh. I see it as an opportunity. I will tell you why. If you look at the poverty level in Nigeria, which is put at 50 percent of the population or less than $2 a day, people tend to think that there is no market here. But this is wrong. The big opportunity in that market has not yet been tapped in terms of the proposition that we can make to address that level of consumers. Companies in general have not made enough effort. That is an area which we are working on now to tap into opportunities that are available. That is one. Two, we sell a product, milk, which is a most complete food – most complete food in the sense that knowledge about milk is still very limited even for myself. Until a few years ago, I never knew the enormous potentials that milk possessed. You can have other foods in any kind of format, but milk is the most complete food that if we can make Nigerians take one glass of it per day, the potential of growth, of healthy living we will be able to achieve will be enormous. What is the present status of your dairy development programme which you started in 2010? All the milk collection centres we have built are operational. The yield that we get from those centres is on the increase. At the moment as at April we have collected the highest we have ever collected – 7000 litres per day. But that is still a small drop compared to the volume of milk that we process. We process 500 million litres per day. So if we look at the volume, it is still very small. But it is a long yielding process – it is not a process that you start and you get the result immediately… Why are we still way back in dairy milk production? The breed of our cows, the weather condition, the availability of good pasture, availability of water, good roads (which are all on the low side), are the things that are making it very difficult for us to be self-sufficient in dairy milk production now. Cow farming is a big time business. If you go to where our parent company is situated, you will find out that you have to take care of the entire value chain – from grass to glass, right from the field where the cow is treated, to how you milk the cow, to how you package it as a finished prodcess the milk, and eventually how uct that the consumers will buy. The downstream as far as we have seen in this country is full of potentials for harnessing the opportunities that are available. Once we are able to up the downstream sector with the upstream, the upstream is already there, the market is there. The challenge is just for us to tie up the downstream sector with the upstream. How do we make milk available to the 50 percent poor, those earning less than $2 a day? The importance of price point comes to play here because if you see the big pack we have now in the market, the prices are at the level that they should be but they are not easily affordable for this group of people that we have spoken about – the poor. This involves a huge research and development for which our company has not yet developed – to develop a proposition that will carry the same kind of nutrient, the same kind of vitamins, the minerals that you have in the big packs, and cascade it back into small packs. Don’t forget that the smaller the pack, the lower the margin line for the manufacturer. That is the game balance that we have to manage. The second leg is on the distribution. There are 20,000 villages in Nigeria and very brightly, if you want to go from village to village to run your distribution, you need to face the hurdles that come with it. At the moment, we are studying two countries, we are looking at Asia – some countries in Asia – particularly, and we are looking at India that has been able to establish a good model for their rural area. We are trying to see how we can adapt that here. They have a very good system of microfinance banking. We want to see how we can overcome that challenge of microfinance and see how we can take the product to the rural area. What steps have you taken to support those involved in milk collection? Initially when we started our dairy development programme, we were making boreholes – water is very important for dairy production. These were boreholes powered with generator sets. But over the years, we have found out that the generator sets could not be maintained by the host communities. We change to solar power. At the moment, we have 36 boreholes that are powered by solar. We are now connecting the boreholes to those communities. So wherever we have a milk collection centre, we put a borehole powered by solar to move milk from point of production to points of collection. The dairy development programme is generating employment for the host community. So you find now people going into transportation. You find all kinds of transportation models – okada adapted to carry load, tricycles – all a product of the ingenuity of the indigenes of the host community. We want to provide them milk collection tanks because we do not want them to use any kind of tanks. We have invested in special containers for milk collection. They are now making money and we now see that their living standard has improved. Those living in mud houses are have now plastered their houses. Forty years on, what is the business outlook in the milk industry in the years ahead? Forty years, I agree with you, is a long time, but the opportunity of the current business has improved even if you take current business that you run. The opportunities are still there. I give you an example: Per capita consumption of milk in Nigeria is 8 kilogrammes. If I go to the extreme, Holland is 320 kilogrammes. Even if we are able to develop the milk consumption awareness, to just half of what it is in Holland, there is a huge opportunity. And that is what we are encouraging with our one glass of milk per day campaign. Eshikena The humongous challenge and the huge opportunity in milk making is apparent in the chat with FrieslandCampinaWAMCO’s Peter Eshikena here. 