ABUJA – The Senate President, Godswill Akpabio, on Thursday, assured a delegation from the business community that the single forex window recently introduced by the federal government was designed to boost investors’ confidence in the economy. Receiving representatives of JAMPUR INTERNATIONAL GROUP FZE, led by the CEO, Mohammed Shafiq, in his office, in Abuja, the Senate President explained that the federal government was interested in assuring foreign investors of the safety of their investments anywhere in the country. Senator Akpabio also restated the commitment of President Bola Tinubu-led administration to providing a conducive business environment. “Nigeria is very safe and ready for investors. I am aware you are already investing in Nigeria in the area of mining, power and trading. Thank you for employing Nigerians in your companies. “The current administration has been able to normalize our foreign exchange rate by having only one window. Investing in Nigeria is worth the while because of the returns in investments based on our population of over 200 million and the land mass. “The President is ready to ensure that people get value for their investments, himself being a strong businessman. He has a track record of achievements in Lagos State when he was the governor. Lagos today has become one of the largest economies in Africa because of the foundation he laid,” he added. Akpabio assured his visitors of the safety of their investments through legislation, saying “I assure you that the Federal Government will do everything humanly possible to protect your investments by putting in place enabling laws on investments and security for its citizens and foreign investors. “ Earlier in his speech, Muhammed Shafiq said he was in the Senate to formally congratulate the President of the Senate on his emergence as the Chairman of the National Assembly and to wish him well in office. POLL “We are here to congratulate you on your election as the President of the Senate and to intimate you on our readiness to continue to partner with the government in the area of mining, agriculture and power.”