LAGOS – Mr. Yakubu Dati, the immediate past Commissioner for Land and Survey in Plateau State has explained why Mr. Simon Lalong agreed to be the Director-General Campaign Council to President Bola Tinubu during the electioneering campaign despite the myriads of attacks that trailed his acceptance. Dati in a statement to journalists in Lagos, said that the former governor of Plateau State agreed to take up the position because of his democratic belief, adding that the former governor doesn’t believe in primordial divides. Dati recalled that there were ferocious attacks on the persons of Lalong immediately after he agreed to take the position of DG Campaign Oranisation for the presidential ticket of Tinubu-Shettima of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which many antagonists labelled as an anti-Christian ticket. The former commissioner lamented that Lalong was assaulted with vicious campaigns of calumny second only to the ones unleashed on the presidential candidate and his running mate. He pointed out further that the opposition political parties relocated to his home base, to discredit and punish him for the role he played in selling the Tinubu candidacy to them and entire Nigerians. Dati, however, expressed shock that now that the election had been won and lost, some of the APC members who kicked against the joint ticket and worked against the interest of the party are now at the forefront of lobbying for positions. He alleged that the opposition party in connivance with some members of the party had embarked on a well-orchestrated media campaign to demonise Lalong for selfish political gains. But, he stated that their agenda, which he claimed was to set booby traps for the president and punish Lalong for delivering the election for Tinubu had been exposed. POLL Dati emphasised that just like Tinubu where the factional leadership of Afenifere and a former President from the South-West, led the onslaught to discredit him, history was repeating itself in the case of Lalong. He alleged that the current campaign against Lalong was being led by two former ministers, Pauline Tallen and Dasuki Nakande, some National Assembly members and Joshua Dariye, a former governor who he declared Lalong staked his political career for and successfully negotiated his release from prison. He added: “President Bola Tinubu is known to be a rewarder of loyalty and he is known to acknowledge those that stick with him through thick and thin. “Drawing from our recent history, former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Muhammad Buhari appointed their campaign Directors-Generals, Fidelis Tapgun and Rotimi Amaechi, respectively as ministers, while then President Goodluck Jonathan retained Amb. Sarki Tafida as Ambassador to the United Kingdom, thereby institutionalising a reward system. “Moreover, Lalong is no stranger to the paying price for ideals and can take the bullet for a leader he believes in. He survived the first recall process in the history of Nigeria’s democracy when he refused to lead the plot to impeach former Governor Joshua Dariye, while he held sway as the Speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly.” He added that Lalong also stood for former President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC when there were campaigns of calumny against them. Dati declared that to be the Director-General of a campaign organisation, especially a presidential campaign council, was no mean feat, stressing that it required all the tact, resourcefulness, wisdom and political wizardry to get the job done.