LAGOS – Mrs Oluwabunmi Adebunmi, a lecturer and member of the Society of Women Accountants of Nigeria (SWAN), has charged secondary school girls and other professionals to navigate their career paths into the accounting profession. Adebunmi of the Department of Accounting at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) gave this advice on Wednesday while delivering a career talk on the topic: Navigating Into the World of Accountancy Profession: Making Your Dream a Reality. The career talk was held hybrid for over 100 secondary school girls, selected across 10 schools in District IV at the SWAN office, Ebute-Metta in Lagos. She tutored that candidates who are interested in the profession could become members by navigating either through WAEC, NECO, JAMB, Direct Entry, or undergraduate and professional courses. “You can become a professional chartered accountant with your secondary school certificate by enrolling into the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Accounting Technicians Scheme West Africa (ATSWA) programme, recognised globally. “This could be done with five credit passes in English, Mathematics and any other three subjects in not more than two sittings. “You can become an accountant through higher education either from a degree-awarding university to obtain a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree in Accounting or through a Polytechnic to obtain a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Accounting,” she guided. POLL According to her, accountants and other professionals who have demonstrated competence through the accounting association of an institution of professional examination certification, are certified to use titles such as Associate Chartered Accountants (ACA) in Nigeria. Adebunmi said accountants certified in the United Kingdom use Associate Certified Chartered Accountants (ACCA) and Certified Public Accountants (CPA) in the United States and Canada. She advised the girls to work toward becoming chartered accountants, noting that female accountants are ‘non-current assets and not a liability to their families or society because they are of inestimable value. Mrs Nwamara Nnaji, National Chairperson, SWAN, added that the Society organised the programme to guide the girl-child in choosing a career, by selecting the right education and skills needed. Nnaji noted that making careful and well-thought-out decisions regarding career choice would increase the chances of comfort and success in life. “There are lots of advantages when you choose to be a chartered accountant, such as opportunities to work in any industry of your choice. “You will be in a profession that is respected and known for integrity and ethics, solving real business problems, being a lifelong learner, earning an above-average wage and becoming your own boss if desired. “We look forward to welcoming you all in the near future into ICAN as we applaud the untiring efforts of your dear principals and teachers,” she said. In her remark, the Chairman of the Planning Committee of SWAN Career Talk, Mrs Ronke Akeredolu, said the programme is one of the society’s long-outstanding activities of developing the girl-child for a greater future and enlightening them about SWAN, ICAN and the accounting profession. Akeredolu said the idea of having the programme as a hybrid is to train the girls on how to make use of Zoom conferencing and understand how Information Technology (IT) works, which is the in-thing for developing a career path. She named the benefitting schools as Wesley Girls Senior Secondary School, Yaba, Herbert Macaulay Girls Senior School, New Era Girls Senior Secondary, Onike- Girls Junior High School, Ijero Girls Junior High School. The committee chairman also mentioned Ajigbeda Girls Senior Grammar School, Gbaja Girls Senior High School, Clegg Girls Senior High School, Ideal Girls Senior High School and Itolo Girls Senior Secondary School. “On behalf of the planning committee, I thank God for making this historic day a reality, our resource person, Mrs Adebunmi, HOD, ICAN Students’ Affairs Department, our donors, all queens and queen mothers and SWAN EXCO members,” she said. Also, the Head of Department, ICAN, Students Affairs Department, Ms Funmi Otitoju, assured that the institute would continue to regulate the accounting profession. Otitoju, represented by Mrs Tenilola Enweliku of the ICAN Students Affairs Department, urged the students to take advantage of the various opportunities ICAN had presented to them to advance their careers in life. Responding, on behalf of the students and schools, Mrs A.O Bankole the Principal of Wesley Girls Senior Secondary School, thanked SWAN for the life-changing opportunity given to their students to participate in the seminar. SWAN, established 44 years ago, comprises the female members of ICAN. It assists the institute to attend to the soft issues and non-core areas regarding the development of women and children, especially the girl child.