ASABA – Professor Bashiru Aremu has hailed the appointment of two Iwo, Osun State indigenes and legal practitioners, I.T Tewogbade, Esq & L.O. Agbaje appointed as Notaries Public by Chief Justice of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Honourable Justice Olukayode Ariwoola. Prof Aremu made this remark in a press statement made available to some group of journalists in Asaba, Delta State capital by his Executive Assistant On Media, Publicity and Communication Matters, Comrade Bieni Victor Emenike as Prof Aremu hailed the two illustrious sons of Iwo for their hard work, diligence as seasoned legal practitioners. In Nigeria, only a legal practitioner can become a Notary Public in line with Section 2 (1) of the Notaries Public Act (NPA). They are appointed by the Chief Justice of Nigeria and are deemed to be officials of the Supreme Court. A Notary Public is a public official usually a lawyer who has been authorized by the Federal Government of Nigeria to notarize documents, perform acts in legal affairs such as witnessing of signatures, administering of oaths, making affirmations, statutory declarations, taking Affidavits and authenticating documents. UNESCO Laureate sees a Notary Public as an official constituted by law to serve the public in non-contentious matters usually concerns with general financial transactions, estates, powers-of-attorney, and international cases. While congratulating the duo of the Indigenes of Iwo Kingdom on their appointment as Notary Public, used the medium to thank the CJN Justice Ariwoola for the appointment of their sons, UNESCO Laureate thanked the Chief Judge of Osun State, Hon. Justice Ojo on successful swearing-in of  Tewogbade and Agbaje for the rank of Notaries Public. Prof Aremu, while thanking God, prayed for God’s wisdom, protection and their success, more upliftment for the duo of managing part of A+ Legal Practitioners and Head of Chambers, who were appointed as Notary Public. The two illustrious sons of Iwo Kingdom whom Prof Aremu referred to as legal practitioners who for donkey years had discharged their duties with doggedness, utmost professionalism, due diligence, truthfulness, good conduct, which he said has resulted in this laudable achievements being celebrated today. POLL UNESCO who described the duo legal practitioners as great personalities, outstanding, illustrious sons of Iwo.