LAGOS – Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos state Governor has said that his administration is committed to providing easy access to safe water and hygiene, not just because it is expected of the administration, but because it is a fundamental human right and it falls within the welfare policy for the State. Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, his Deputy stated this while speaking at the 4th Lagos International Water Conference (LIWAC) held at the Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos on Wednesday with the theme; “Attaining Sanitation and Hygiene for All in Lagos State Megacity through Regulation and Innovation” “It is also by this index of sanitation that our dear State will be adjudged for livable suitability and ensures that we achieve the SDG target six which will, in turn, announce our utmost readiness for local and international investments. He said since the inception of the LIWA Conference in the year 2020, the state has sought to reposition water governance and regulatory dispensation in the state, improve water security and investment opportunities. “Our commitment is in line with this administration’s goal of improving access to clean water and sanitation. The megacity status of Lagos State and the pace at which our population is growing underscores the urgent need to promote and facilitate efficiency in the water sector, as well as guarantee its financial viability. “It has been estimated that Lagos by 2050 will hit a population of 40 million, hence it has become crucial that we get in front of this issue and come up with sustainable strategies that will provide safe water sanitation and ensure better hygiene for the people of the State. The Governor said that the state’s commitment to improving access to clean water and sanitation is hinged on four initiatives, which include: provision of public toilets and bathroom, in each Local Government/Local Council Development Area, construction of community waste water treatment plants, develop our integrated waste management system, expanding and protecting water sources to improve the city’s water supply. Funke Adepoju, Executive Secretary of the Lagos State Water Regulatory Commission (LASWARCO) while speaking said due to the constant population growth, particularly in the last couple of decades, water, sanitation, and hygiene infrastructure development has fallen far short of the requirements for the current population in spite of huge capital investments in the sector. POLL She said that this has largely contributed to the limited access to adequate sanitation and hygiene services for the majority of the inhabitants of the State who have to create alternative means of meeting their sanitation and hygiene needs. The common sanitation challenges include open defecation, plastic-bag defecation, various types of latrines, pour-flush toilets discharging to open drains, and pour-flush toilets discharging to septic tanks. She noted that Lagos has no main sewerage system apart from a few scattered treatment plants within its housing estates and at the State secretariat. Adepoju said presently in Lagos, there are four Lagos State-owned Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTP) in Abesan, Iponri, Oke-Afa, and Alausa Secretariat; eight Federal Government owned WWTPS and several mini privately-owned WWTPS. “As of today, only about 0.04% of the population in the State has access to wastewater treatment via the use of a municipal waste treatment plant, which is less than one million residents in Lagos.