CELESTINE AMOKE It was a day of joy and celebration for the Parish Priest and the Lay faithful of St. Paul Catholic Church, Ibafo, as the Bishop, Catholic Diocese of Abeokuta, Most Rev. Dr. Peter Odetoyinbo, on July 2, 2023, administered the Sacrament of Confirmation on 33 candidates and opened their ultra-modern Priest’s House. Indeed, it was a treble celebration as Bishop Odeyinbo also blessed and commissioned the borehole constructed for the service of the Priest’s House. The Dean and Parish Priest, St. Paul Catholic Church, Ibafo, Very Rev. Fr. Joseph Yemi Akinlotan, mulled and commenced the construction of the new Priest House in 2021, and worked assiduously for its completion within two years. The event started with the celebration of the Holy Mass officiated by His Lordship, Bishop Odetoyinbo, during which Very Rev. Fr. Akinlotan presented the 33 candidates to the bishop for the administration of the Sacrament of Confirmation. The Sacrament of Confirmation is instituted by Jesus Christ and confers the gifts of the Holy Spirit (wisdom, understanding, knowledge, counsel, fortitude, piety, and fear of the Lord) upon the recipients, who are baptised Catholics. In his homily, the Lord Bishop thanked the Parish Priest, Very Fr. Akinlotan, and parishioners for the wonderful work they have done and for making the day a success. “You shall receive the blessings of God. Under the canopy of God, all of you will be protected by the grace of God,” he said. POLL He appreciated the efforts and difficulties of parishioners in coming to church to worship God. All the efforts will never be in vain. This is your own mountain of God, once you get up to go to church, it is a religious privilege that has its own graces and benefits. Most Rev. Odetoyinbo admonished the recipients of the Sacrament of Confirmation to remain steadfast in the faith and power they have received and proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. He enjoined the candidates not to abandon their faith for any reason or obstacle but allow the Holy Spirit and the gifts they have received to rule their lives. In his address entitled, “Our Journey to the Finished Line,” the Chairman of Parish Pastoral Council, Mr. Stanley Ekweaga, praised God for being generous to the Priest and parishioners of St. Paul Ibafo despite the hardship being experienced in the country.” He thanked God that in spite of the challenges, they have finished the Parish House which was started in 2021. He thanked the parishioners for their sacrifices each time they were called to do so. He thanked all those working quietly behind the scene, the benefactors, the family of the Parish Priest, and the inspiration of our beloved Sister, the late Tolu Obamuyiwa, in whose memory the entire work system and borehole of our parish house were donated. He also appreciated the outside professionals, especially Architect Adekoya and in-house engineers, artisans at various levels, and all those who contributed and cooperated in the building of the house. He acknowledged the financial transparency and accountability of Very Rev. Akinlotan the Parish Priest that enabled the achievement of the vision in record time. He told the bishop that the project cost approximately N40 million, and was presently in debt of N6.9 million, thought of as an interest-free loan. He, however, promised that parishioners would work harder to pay off the debt and also to connect the house to a public power supply source.