Even while it may seem like the Cen­tral Bank of Nigeria (CBN) failed to deliver on its core objective of keeping inflation in check with the recurrent rate hikes, members of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) admitted that although the soaring inflation rate in the country has brought un­told hardship on the people, it is a necessary evil that is meant to stave the economy off bigger troubles. The members in their personal statements during the 291st meeting of the committee held on May 23 and 24, provided insights into what influenced their individual decisions at the meet­ing, and how they within a year raised the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by 700 basis points while trying to return inflation to the long run objective of 6-9 percent. ­ Aliyu Ahmed, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance and member of the MPC, in his statement admit­ted that although inflation is intolerably high at 22.22 per­cent in April 2023, empirical evidence shows that it could have hit 30.22 percent in April, if not for the hike. According to him, “Inter­est rate hikes narrowed what could have been the actual rate of inflation by 800 basis points, which suggests that tightening has had some disinflationary impact. The result is validated by the Banking Stability Re­port in which despite observed growth in deposit, there is an absence of a corresponding growth in lending”. This, he said, is not to in any way deny the fact “that high inflation imposes signifi­cant hardship on the citizens, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for the low-income earner, including the poor and vulnerable. The regime of mon­etary policy tightening, though at some point could negatively impact investment through the credit channel; low and stable inflation, however, engenders a stable macroeconomic envi­ronment, which drives invest­ment and growth.” Agreeing with this submis­sion, Mrs. Aishah Ahmed, another member and Deputy Governor, Financial System Stability, at the CBN, noted that containing inflation in Nigeria in line with the price stability mandate which is the appro­priate monetary policy priori­ty of the CBN, it will, however, be prudent to raise the policy rate with caution, “recognising underlying structural factors driving price developments and the potentially negative effect of a significant rate hike on credit expansion, financial system stability and economic growth.” Acknowledging these fears, Edward Adamu, also a member and DG, Corporate Services, called for a firmer monetary policy stance to “ensure that flattening is quickly achieved to pave the way for decelera­tion… against the backdrop of an uncertain outlook for fiscal policy, energy prices and wages in the rest of the year.” The then much anticipated removal of subsidy on pre­mium motor spirit (PMS) in the second half of the year, he stressed, “contributed sig­nificantly to current inflation outlook and therefore, cannot be ignored.” POLL Also, he noted that “the strong possibility of upward adjustment in the minimum wage cannot be totally dis­counted. Unless monetary pol­icy remains tight, these risks could easily crystallise into greater inflation pressure in the rest of the year.” Based on this, Adamu said despite posing a risk to infla­tion, the removal of subsidy on Premium Motor Spirit (pet­rol) is appropriate because “it should significantly reduce the need for monetary accommo­dation going forward.” Notwithstanding the argu­ment justifying the inflation level, Robert Asogwa of the African Development Bank, Abuja, and member, believes domestic headline inflation is “still a source of concern es­pecially with recent monetary policy rates increases.” He also noted the continued soundness of Nigerian banks with good safety and profitabil­ity, even as there are generally no threats to the current capital situation of banks. On his part, Festus Adeni­kinju, a committee member and Professor of Petroleum Economics, Department of Economics, at the University of Ibadan, agreed that there is need to tackle the stubborn in­flation, citing data on monetary aggregates showing “clearly that money supply and liquid­ity growth, both domestic com­ponents of monetary aggre­gate rose between March 2023 and April 2023… due mainly to unbridled growth in the credit to the government. This is not sustainable,” he stressed. The MPC, he continued, “Needs to sustain its current tight monetary policy stance to dampen inflationary pres­sures. This is in addition to oth­er administrative measures by the (CBN) to control liquidity in the system.” On the fiscal side, Adenikin­ju drew attention to the report on Banking System Stability Re­view presented to members of the MPC, with Capital Adequa­cy Ratio (CAR) at 12.8% in April 2023 (within the 10-15% pruden­tial requirement), non-perform­ing loans (NPLs) ratio fell from 4.5% to 4.4% in April 2023, while Liquidity Ratio (LR) rose to 45.3% in April 2023, from 43.8% a month earlier higher than the recommended 30% minimum. Also, although operating cost to operating income fell marginal­ly from 70.6% to 70.5% in April, he said the operating cost envi­ronment in the banking sector is still high, compared to 23.5% in Turkey, 50.6% in Brazil, 41.0% in Malaysia, 62.0% in South Af­rica, 43.2% in Angola, 35.2% in Egypt, Kenya is 45.2% and Ghana, 46.1%, hence the need to address it.