JOY ANIGBOGU All may not be well with some residents of Kano State who have continued to count their losses after the inauguration of the new government led by Abba Kabir Yusuf, popularly known as Abba Gida-Gida. As soon as Yusuf became the governor of Kano State, the state started witnessing a revolution of some sort. Critical among the events that have unfolded is the demolition of multi-billion naira structures built on public land at several locations within the metropolis. According to the government, part of the campaign promises of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) led government was to take decisive action against what it considered as illegal structures built on public property. Unfortunately the residents had no hint of how quick the Yusuf-led administration would actualise the promise. Analysts believe that the action of the new government is to get at the immediate past governor, Abdulahi Ganduja who has come to become a sworn enemy of his predecessor. Beyond what many consider as vendetta, the majority equally view the entire demolition exercise as another ploy to settle the lingering political discord with former Governor Ganduje. Many believe the entire exercise is being orchestrated to pay back Ganduje for the humiliation he meted on the leader of the Kwankwasiyya movement and political godfather of the NNPP Governor in Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso. POLL Recall that Ganduje had some time ago ordered the cleansing of Kwankwaso’s name on all public projects constructed by Kwankwaso while in government. Ganduje had also used state power to prevent Kwankwaso from entering Kano for more than three years. “What kind of embarrassment could be worse than that? So if you ask me, I would not doubt if what is happening now is an act of payback,” Aminu Abubakar, a public analyst said. So, in quick succession, Governor Yusuf began the demolition exercise of illegal structures three days after taking oath of office at a newly constructed 90-shop complex along Race Course road in Nasarawa Local Council. The multi-million naira complex that was brought down by bulldozers is allegedly owned by the family of the immediate past Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. Yet, the former governor is yet to debunk the claim. The demolition train relocated to another multiple storey-building sited at the former famous Daula Hostel along Murtala Muhammed Way. In less than 24 hours, the complex, also allegedly owned by the family of the former Governor Ganduje was brought down. The government sent the bulldozers to Hajj camp, near Katsina road, where construction of a new shopping complex and other private property were being developed. Again, the structures under construction were crushed. The new administration had accused former Governor Ganduje of illegally disposing of the vast plots of land originally meant for Hajj operation to family friends and cronies. Again, the central Eid ground at Kofar Nassarawa was the next port of call to pull down illegal storey buildings where more than 5,000 shopping complexes were already marked for demolition. Apart from the physical demolition of structures, the NNPP government has ordered immediate revocation of private property owners who bought public buildings where the popular Asiya Bayero paediatric hospital formerly operated. The immediate past administration had relocated the only state-owned children health facility to Isiyaka Rabiu Specialist Hospital, Zoo road after the then government sold the original facility near the Emir’s palace. The governor contends that his actions are meant to correct the institutional damages and abuse of privileges the state suffered in the hands of the former Governor. His conduct is being perceived as acts of vendetta against Ganduje in some quarters in the state. More disturbing for the naysayers is what they termed the negative economic implication of the governor’s actions. Recall that the NNPP, before the election, even as an opposition party, consistently accused the immediate past administration of Ganduje of abuse of office, especially on the sale of government landed property preserved for public conveniences. The Kwankwasiyya Movement didn’t hide its feeling against the incursion of the former administration on public space, including portions of public schools, hospital, court and mosques that were sold, just as they warned individuals who acquired the public property of possible demolition. While rejecting the government’s action, Lamash Properties Limited, a developer handling some of the projects demolished, has demanded a N10 billion compensation from the state government for incursion into its property without prior notice. In a petition made available to journalists, the firm described the demolition of its properties as flagrant disregard of the globally acceptable principle of fair hearing, even as it threatened legal action against the government to seek compensation. The statement by Alhaji Aliyu Abubakar, the company’s Director of Sale, explained that the company, like every other corporate body, was invited by the Kano State government in the late 2020 to bid for the redevelopment of the old Daula Hotel under a Public Private Partnership (PPP). “We submitted a bid of three components, including Residential, to comprise 25 luxury apartments, Commercial Hub, various sizes of lettable commercial space, and Daula Boutique Hotel – a 90-room five-star hotel. “Our bid, like every other bid submitted, went through all the processes including going before the State Executive Council after which we won the bid. We were issued the letter of award and we signed a PPP contract agreement with the Kano state government after which we began work on the project. “The value of the land being the equity contribution of the Kano State Government into the project plus the agreed profit share of the state government all in the sum of N2,297,016,622.89 was converted into the Hotel and its ownership was given to the Kano State Government as its share into the project, under the PPP arrangement. The statement added, “To our utmost surprise, we received a call around 2am on Sunday, June 4, 2023 that officials of the state government, led by the new governor, Abba Kabir Yusuf, have mobilised to the site of the project with bulldozers and were tearing down all the buildings on the land, including the already completed 90-room 5-star Daula Boutique Hotel, the 90% completed commercial area (malls) as well as the ongoing residential apartments. “It was, to say the least, a development most appalling that in this era of paucity of funds available to government and high rate of unemployment in the country, the state government, under whatever guise, decided to demolish a property (the Daula Boutique Hotel) that belongs to it and was supposed to bring in huge revenue to the government and also help reduce unemployment in the state, among others. “We wish to put it on record that at no point did the state government or any of its officials notify us or invite us for clarification on the project and thus negating the globally acceptable principle of fair hearing. “We have instructed our legal team to institute legal actions against the state government to claim compensation to the tune of N10 billion already invested in the project and to stop the state government from further taking actions that will negatively affect us, based on the PPP contract agreement we signed with it.” The developer, however, appealed to the general public in Kano State and beyond not only to understand the “nature of our business” as against what is being erroneously portrayed, but also to know that the action of the new state government on investors that invested hugely in the state, under the previous administration, is going to affect the perception of other potential investors coming to put their money in Kano state economy. Prior to that, the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano has also condemned the ongoing demolition. The APC cautioned against the likelihood of youth restiveness and security threat the action of the state government may further trigger. Addressing journalists recently, the state deputy chairman, Shehu Maigari, condemned the continued demolition of private property by the NNPP-led government, describing it barbaric and regrettable. The APC leadership maintained that the act of destroying property legally procured by individuals has invariably brought about undue advantage of recklessness, rampant vandalism and daylight stealing of valuables by youths. The APC deputy chairman charged concerned individuals to remain calm and rather explore all legal means to protect their properties, saying the party was ready to join them in the legal battle. Responding to allegations of outright sale of public property leveled against Ganduje, Maigari, who did not deny Ganduje’s action, however, accused previous governors including Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso of selling public properties to cronies. “The barbaric and wanton destruction of the people’s means of livelihood by the state government calls for serious prayers by all well-meaning persons as the people are now counting their losses in billions of naira. “This has now paralysed and brought the commercial activities in the famous Kantin-Kwari and Kofar Wambai markets, among others, to a standstill. Now, the action of the government has brought chaos, rampant vandalism, daylight stealing and grabbing of innocent people’s properties by the youths. We condemn this barbaric behavior in totality.” On its part, the new administration insists that the demolition exercise is simply in full compliance to its campaign promises. The government has said the ongoing demolition of illegal structures, originally initiated by immediate past administration, will continue without any obstruction. Essentially, the NNPP maintained that the demolition remained the only way to restore sanity and correct the gross abuse of power by Ganduje’s administration.