ABUJA  – Malam Nuhu Ribadu, the Na­tional Security Adviser (NSA), on Monday said the security chiefs will work tirelessly to ensure that they accomplish the objective of securing the country, establishing peace, stability and getting our lives back. Ribadu said this after Pres­ident Bola Ahmed Tinubu met with his newly appointed security chiefs at the Presi­dential Villa, Abuja, where he charged them to do everything possible to secure the country from terrorism and other crim­inal elements. The meeting with the ser­vice chiefs which was the first of its kind since their appoint­ment also afforded Tinubu an opportunity to reel out his expectations of where the country should be in terms of security. The meeting which was brief had in attendance the Chief of Defence Staff, Ma­jor-General C.G Musa; Chief of Army Staff, Major- General T. A Lagbaja; Chief of Air Staff, AVM H.B Abubakar; Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Em­manuel Ikechukwu Ogalla; and acting Inspector-General of Police, DIG Kayode Egbe­tokun. Recall that Tinubu shortly before embarking on a trip to Paris, France to attend a finan­cial summit had jolted the na­tion when he sacked the former service chiefs and announced new ones as replacement. Tinubu had also gone ahead to appoint a former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Malam Nuhu Ribadu, as the National Security Adviser (NSA), replacing Babagana Monguno. While the new service chiefs have since assumed duties, their appointment had gener­ated diverse reactions among Nigerians. The NSA, Nuhu Ribadu, however, told reporters that the crux of the meeting was to thank the president for giving them the opportunity to serve the country. POLL The former EFCC boss said they are poised to work tireless­ly to guarantee the peace and stability of the country. He said, “We’re here to thank Mr. President for the opportunity he gave us to serve our country and to serve his own government. We also pledged our loyalty to him, Nigeria and Nigerians. We believe the choice he made is the right one, the correct one, and we know what he wants for this country. We’re going to work tirelessly to ensure that we accomplish that objective of securing our country, establish­ing peace, stability and let’s get our lives back. “He gave us the assurance that he’s with us hundred per­cent. He told us that we must work as a team and that there’s work to be done, he’ll expect us to deliver and we’re grateful for the opportunity. That’s why we are here”. Asked jokingly if he is aware of the big task ahead of him, he replied saying, “Yes, and it is going to be done, insha Allah”. Asked where would be the starting point? He responded again saying, “Where we are today and you can see already things are improving in our country. If you see the record of crimes and activities of crimi­nals are going down, it will con­tinue to go down. We’ll secure this place. Nigerians have seen the quality of the people that are given opportunity, they are probably some of the best we have and they are not going to fail you, they’ll certainly deliv­er”.