It was an atmosphere of excite­ment at the weekend as Dan­gote Granite Mines, Ijebu Igbo, a subsidiary of Dangote Group, awarded multi-million Naira scholarships to 60 host com­munities’ students in various schools in the country as parts of its Corporate Social Responsi­bility (CSR) to foster educational development in its host commu­nities. The company also prom­ised the beneficiaries automatic employment should they excel in their studies. The management of the Company said the scholarship was in furtherance of its efforts at ensuring that its host com­munities are not left behind in terms of development especial­ly in the area of education and infrastructure noting that edu­cation is one of the key areas of focus for development. Beneficiaries of the schol­arship award were drawn from the five host communities to Dangote Granite Mines which includes Ajebandele; Olorun­modi Ademowo; Saliu Baba Risi; Idi-Omo and Ijebu-Igbo township. The scholarship cov­ers both secondary and higher institution students. Mr. Ebenezer Fola Ali, Di­rector, Human Assets Manage­ment, Dangote Projects who handed over the cheques to each of the awardees explained that the scholarship was meant to help the parents of the ben­eficiaries to lessen the burden the education of their children placed on them. He stated that the scholar­ship award was part of the agreement reached with the leadership of the host commu­nities during the signing of the Community Development Agreement (CDA) and urged the beneficiaries to face their education as they will be given automatic employment f they do well academically. While also presenting the signed CDA to the Ijebu Igbo monarch, the Sopenlukale of Oke Sopen, Oba Muftau Adesesan Yussuf, Mr. Ali thanked the monarch and the communities’ leaders for creat­ing an atmosphere of peace in the area and for showing the un­derstanding that has led to the tranquility being enjoyed by the company and the communities. He assured the communities of the readiness of the company to do its own part of the agree­ment and ensure it identifies with the people at all times while also promising that the manage­ment would follow the CDA to the letter.