Delta Governor, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori has congratulated the immediate past Senator representing Delta South Senatorial District, Senator James Manager, on his 63rd birth anniversary. In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Sir Festus Ahon, the Governor paid glowing tributes to Senator Manager who was the pioneer State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta for his laudable and patriotic contributions to the growth and development of the party in the State. He said that successive administrations in the State had continued to leverage on the rich political profile of Senator Manager who represented Delta South for 20 years in the Senate. Oborevwori described the former top lawmaker as a very dependable politician and leader of inestimable value. “As pioneer Chairman of our great party in Delta, you worked very hard and laid the foundation culminating in the successive victories of our party in the State “For 20 years, you bestrode the Senate like a colossus giving astute representation to your people and attracting several life-changing infrastructural and human capacity development projects in your Senatorial District. “On behalf of my family, the Government and the people of Delta, I congratulate our pioneer Chairman and immediate past Senator for Delta South, Distinguished Senator James Ebiowou Manager, CON on the occasion of his 63rd birth anniversary. “At 63, Senator Manager made remarkable and invaluable contributions to national development for 20 unbroken years in the Senate. POLL “As a Government, we are proud of your sterling contributions to nation-building as a distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic for 20 years. “We thank you for your statesmanship which you have continued to display both in and out of the Senate and on this special occasion of your life, I join your family and political associates in celebrating 63 years of outstanding accomplishments with which God has blessed you,” the governor said. Oborevwori prayed that the Almighty God would grant Senator Manager longer life, good health and strength to keep serving God and humanity.