Cassie had a romantic affair with her sister’s husband – a relationship that was on for quite some time, a secret well kept. Even when it happened right under her sister’s nose, the sister never caught them in the act. To keep her and make her stay in the secret affair, the sister’s husband gifted her expensive things and even treated her on special trips outside the country and often justified his actions with tales of his wife not performing her conjugal obligations to him. Now she is grown and mature and has realized her mistakes. She didn’t want to continue in the secret affair but he was stuck on her. “I had to stay in my sister’s house when I got admission into the university. At first, I never had any fear of something going wrong, like this fear of him hitting on me because he was a respectable man in the society and even in the church. You know that kind of man whose presence would make you shiver in reverence or fear messing up around them. “My little mind saw him as a big uncle that must be respected. I think my elder sister too is afraid of her husband. The first night at her house confirmed it; the husband was shouting and insulting her and she never said anything to defend herself. “After a few months in the house, I noticed the man was unusually nice to me. He became softened around me, especially when we were alone. He gave me lots of money and not long after I started having feelings for him. “I think my sister suspected us and asked me to stay on the school campus. She said it would be easier for me to commute to school. I left her house and stayed with a friend around the school vicinity. “From that moment, we started seeing each other more often. “He kept complaining that my sister was not sexy, and that she didn’t allow him to touch her, and that she was always having mood swings. He was happy I came into his life and wished I was the one he had married, bla bla… “Our relationship has been very discreet; he has covered up everything. He bought me my first car just to make me stay when I told him I was done. I traveled with him to Dubai which he had never done for my sister. All these were either to make me stay or to appease me after an abortion and I did several abortions for him. POLL “I am done with school now and I have realized my mistakes. I hate myself for everything I have done with my sister’s husband and I want to end it. I don’t want to continue with the affair but he is not letting me go. I don’t know what to do. He has threatened to tell my sister about the affair and even boasted that my sister would do nothing to him. I know I will bear the brunt if the whole thing comes out. “My sister doesn’t know about this; I have been avoiding her lately. I can’t stand her. I feel ashamed and have lost my peace.” Dear Cassi, you know this affair was doomed from the onset. There was no way this secret would remain covered forever. I think your sister’s husband with the cheap personality behind his image is currently sick mentally or drowning and doesn’t want to drown alone. I think you need to tell your sister about this but not outrightly. You can involve somebody she respects. She must know the truth and this will stop his threats. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.