In a bid to train 1 Million software developers across the continent by 2027, Power Learn Project (PLP), in partnership with Adanian Labs Nigeria and the Job Red, will launch the #1MillionDevs4Africa Programme in Nigeria. Nigeria is the fifth country in Africa, after Kenya, South Africa, Zambia, and Tanzania, to introduce the #1MillionDevs4Africa programme. Digital Skills in the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and their Impact on National Development, have been highlighted as pillars in Nigeria’s National Digital Economy Strategy (NDEPS). In actualising NDEPS for Digital Nigeria 2020 – 2030, unveiled by President Muhammadu Buhari on November 28, 2019, developing digital literacy and enhancing the digital society is crucial to enabling emerging technologies. The country’s potential is evident in its size as the most extensive digital market and the leading destination for investment in Africa. Experts estimate that Nigeria’s digital sector could add $88 billion and 3 million jobs to the economy by 2027. “ Digital Sector: Skills Gap Report’ indicates that Nigeria’s digital economy holds the potential to create jobs and reduce the rate of unemployment. However, to fully harness the sector’s potential, there is a need for the country to invest in digital and soft skills. With many courses in Nigerian universities becoming less marketable in the work world and students lacking employable skills when seeking opportunities, acquiring digital skills is the right direction for achieving digital inclusion. Mumbi Ndung’u, Chief, Growth & Operations Officer of Power Learn Project, said: “For personal growth and access to job opportunities across the local and international tech ecosystems, students need to migrate to online study platforms and pursue their educational aspirations” POLL Launched in April 2022 in Kenya, PLP is a Pan African impact organization with a vision of driving transformative change for the youth in Africa by empowering them with relevant technology capacity through providing quality, affordable and decentralized tech training.