Welcome to the Assisted Reproductive Technology series with Dr. Ken. Here, we discuss Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) as a means to tackling the problem of infertility. In the last article, we treated the wonder in Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) and Preimplantation Genetic Screening (PGS). In that piece, we defined the terms as a diagnostic method which helps intending parents avoid the risk of passing on a known genetic disease to their children. It is also the technique of screening of embryos for abnormalities in the chromosomes. The article listed several benefits PDG and PGS including how it helps to prevent genetic disease This is in addition to its benefits to couples in family balancing opportunity. Specifically, it offers  intending parents a chance to choose the gender of their baby. Today, we will be looking at a more precise innovation for the female gender which offers hope of conception by making eggs available irrespective of age. I am referring to Ovarian Rejuvenation! It is a known fact the number and quality of eggs which a woman produces depreciates with age, and it gets to a point where there are no more eggs available, hence the hope of conception is dashed. But there is Great news! Advancement in age, and ovarian dysfunction can no longer stand in the way of the full actualisation of your fertility potential.  But, a great possibility presents itself in ovarian rejuvenation. In simple terms, ovarian rejuvenation (or revival) is a process where the ovaries are invorigated (stimulated) to induce follicle growth or development, and produce eggs for fertilization. Basically, restoring or enhancing ovarian function in women who are experiencing early menopause or premature ovarian aging is the main goal of the emerging field of reproductive medicine known as ovarian rejuvenation. Women who want to increase their fertility potential or conceive naturally will greatly benefit from this procedure. POLL Stem cell therapy, platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy, and the use of growth factors are some of the options for ovarian rejuvenation. These methods stimulate the production of healthy eggs as well as the development of new ovarian tissues. Stem cell therapy however presents as one the most promising approaches to this procedure. Stem cells are undifferentiated cells that can develop into specialized cells, such as egg cells, through differentiation. These can be obtained from the woman herself (from sources like bone marrow, fat tissue, or umbilical cord blood) or from a donor in this procedure. After that, these cells are injected into the ovaries, where they can help healthy follicles grow and produce eggs. Ovarian stem cell therapy has been shown to be effective for treating women with low ovarian reserve or premature ovarian aging. This has also been found to improve women’s ovarian function, such as increased levels of anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), as well as the production of viable eggs. Another method used in ovarian rejuvenation is platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy. PRP is a concentration of platelets taken from the patient’s own blood and containing a variety of growth factors that have the potential to encourage tissue repair and regeneration. PRP is injected into the ovaries during this procedure to encourage the growth of new eggs and healthy follicles. This could be done in two ways: the ovary injection (which involves a transvaginal approach where PRP is inserted in the ovaries), and the uterine infusion which as the name implies, means the insertion of PRP into the uterine cavity). This also produces the  favourable outcomes of better ovarian function which include higher levels of AMH, as well as the production of mature eggs that are suitable for fertilization. In addition to the PRP therapy and stem cell therapy methods mentioned, growth factors are used in other ovarian rejuvenation treatments. Growth factors are substances that naturally occur and encourage cell growth and regeneration. They can be delivered via targeted drug delivery systems or by injection into the ovaries. Ovarian rejuvenation is indeed a promising field that offers great possibilities. And going into the future, more methods that will add to these will surely come into the picture. Underlying medical conditions, age, as well as the severity of ovarian dysfunction are some of the basic factors that play a important role in the outcome of the procedure. Ultimately, each woman’s body response to treatment differs, therefore, there is no one way approach and predetermined outcome. In conclusion, this procedure offers a great chance at conception in the following situations: -Recurrent Implantation Failure -Failed Embryo Transfer -Low Ovarian Reserve (Low AMH) -Thin Endometrial Lining -Poor Egg Quality -Poor Egg Quantity and -Poor Response to IVF Africa’s Premier Hospitality-based Fertility Hospital, Alps Hospitals and Diagnostics, pioneered this service in Nigeria and currently has the best expertise in it. Thanks to breakthrough and innovation in reproductive healthcare. Cheers to endless possibilities for you! Until next time, stay fine, and always remember that conception and child bearing is a possibility for everyone that so desires. Dr. Kenneth Egwuda is a consultant Obstetrician and Gynecologist with specialty in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). He has over 16 years of practice and experience. He trained in the UK, India, Bulgaria, Italy, and Germany. His Facility, ALPS Hospitals and Diagnostics, Jos, Nigeria, stands at the center stage of Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) in Nigeria. It holds the record of the oldest first-time delivery mum in Africa through IVF at the age of 63. For more: Visit www.kennethegwuda.com.ng And follow on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter @AskDocKen You can also subscribe to his YouTube channel @AskDocKen AskDocKen… Anything Infertility!