Stakeholders of the Plateau State Chapter of All Progressive Congress have unanimously passed Vote of Confidence on Plateau former Governor Barr Simon Lalong as the Party Leader on the Plateau at an extraordinary stakeholders meeting held on Thursday at Jos Kalwa House Secretariat of the party. The spokesman of the party Hon Sylvanus Namang who addressed newsmen on the outcome of the meeting said after several hours of discussing on the thorny issues that were affecting the party,it was resolved that the stakeholders should bury their differences and come together to work for the unity and progress of the party on the Plateau. According to Namang, the stakeholders also passed a vote of confidence on Hon Rufus Bature state leadership of the party leadership led by Rufus Bature. According to him, it was also resolved at the stakeholders meeting that Governor Mutfwang should call stakeholders meeting across political parties and religious bodies in the state to brainstorm on how lasting peace could be restored on the Plateau for the good and growth of citizens of the state, stressing that they can be no development in a state that is bedeviled with crisis. He hinted that in the recent past, there were reported cases of attacks and killings in some Parts of the state. Similarly the stakeholders condemn the attacks and killings on the plateau . POLL The stakeholders condemned the Sacking of the local government chairmen and their councilors by Governor Mutfwang knowing fully well that they were legally elected to be in office for four years which should last till 2024. They argued that the affected chairmen and councilors have obtained a subsisting court order on this matter from a Jos high court. According to Namang there were two supreme court judgments on such matter in Oyo and Ekiti states in the recent past. Present at the meeting were past Governor Simon Lalong, Former Deputy of House of Representatives Hon Ahmed Idris Wase, Former Minister for women affairs Mrs Pauline Tallen, Senator Diket Plang, House of Representatives and State House of Assembly members, Elders of the Party and several party faithfuls who graced the event. He said at the end of the meeting they all agreed to work for the unity of the party in the state.