LAGOS  – The Ibilla communities in Oju Local Government of Benue State are in a sorry state. The people have remained in mourning since several of the residents were mowed down and properties destroyed in what observers termed unprovoked attacks by their Oju counterparts. At the last count over 15 people were found dead while several houses and other properties worth millions of naira were destroyed, thereby rendering the survivors homeless. According to reports, the crisis started on Sunday June 11, 2023, when youths of Ibilla and Oju communities engaged one another in a bloody fight over land. Following the clash, a curfew was imposed by the state government in a bid to stem the violence the next day. A reprisal attack was said to have led to the loss of more lives. According to the youth leader of Igede Youth Council, Andyson Egbodo, calm has however returned to the area. Mr. Egbodo, who spoke on the issue stated: “Some persons died from both sides and properties were destroyed also. “From the information within my reach, about 14 persons died; two from one community and 12 from the rival community.” Following the clash, Governor Hyacinth Alia, a Catholic priest turned politician who only on May 29, 2023 assumed office, declared a curfew on the two communities the next day, from 6.pm to 6.am. But, according to Egbodo, when the government discovered that the measure was not effective, the curfew was extended to 24 hours starting from Wednesday. POLL On Tuesday, a meeting was convened by elders of the warring communities with the Commissioner of Police at the local government council. During the meeting, the police warned that anyone caught fomenting trouble would be killed by the military. Feelers from the area indicate that following the meeting, there was no movement in the warring communities as everybody was indoors as soldiers patrolled the area. Since then, there been the search for lasting peace in the area. The residents also sleep with one eye open, that is if they even sleep at all, while those whose houses and properties were destroyed have continued to lament, some sulking in silence. Several prominent people of Ibilla extraction who live in cities, but built their choice houses in their communities lost their houses and no longer have homes they cancall their own in their villages. According to Sunday Independent sources, crisis started when youths took up arms against one another over the location of a private tertiary institution on a piece of land that both clans were laying claims to. The immediate cause of the mayhem was said to be the plan by an Australia-based professor from the Ibilla community who proposed to establish a university on a plot of land belonging to the community. The residents had reportedly objected to the siting of the university on their land. They reportedly had demanded to know who authorised the professor to make use of the land in contest. It was said that a signpost of the proposed university, mounted on the land had the name of another community on it and not that of the supposed land owner. This, it was gathered, triggered a protest by the community laying claims to the land. However, in a statement by leaders of the Ibilla communities made available to Sunday Independent, the people lamented the death of their people and destruction of their properties. The statement, titled ‘Unprovoked Killings and Destruction of Ibilla People and Villages By Oju Clan of Oju LGA, Benue State’, was signed by Mr. Jerry A. Ede, National President, Ibilla Community Development Association, and Mr. Victor Obeka, the National Secretary. It stated: “We the law-abiding, peace-loving and helpless citizens of Ibilla clan of Oju LGA have deliberately refrained from responding to the vicious attack against the Ibilla people and villages on Sunday, June 11, 2023 (Black Sunday) by Oju clan in the interest of peace and unity of our dear Oju LGA and Igede land as a whole. “Painfully, the attack resulted to the heartless killings of countless indigenes of Ibilla and destruction of properties worth billions of naira. “We have also intentionally refrained from reacting to the hateful and disdainful press statements issued by the Oju clan on the subject matter. “However, owing to the continuous misinformation and disinformation in the public space, we feel compelled to make a public statement on the attack on our people thus: “That the Ibilla people are aware that the Oju clan in a hasty and desperate attempt to cover up their violent and premeditated attack against Ibilla people on that Black Sunday has been engaging in false propaganda especially with the narrative that it was Ibilla people that provoked their action of killing our helpless people on the Sunday morning worship period. “At the appropriate platform, which we hope will be provided by concerned stakeholders, the unfortunate falsehood being circulated in the media will be corrected accordingly. “We are also aware that the erection of a signpost sometime in October 2022 with an Oju clan address on it at Imoho village of Ibilla clan where the University of Applied Science and Technology (UNAST) was initially planned to be established by a foreign based son of Ibilla, Prof. Johnson Ihie Agbinya, was intended to provoke a reaction from Ibilla people to pave way for Oju people to implement their well-prepared plot to violently attack Ibilla people. “Interestingly, Ibilla people did not respond to the known schemes of Oju people in the interest of peace in our area. “It is a known fact too that Oju clan has a large cache of weapons of mass destruction with funding from their prominent sons and daughters as well as their supporters to annihilate the Ibilla clan, take over our land and rename every Ibilla village as Oju. “The procurement of such large weapons is to also enforce their creed that since the Federal Government has named our Local Government as Oju, the local government headquarters and now all villages in Ibilla clan must adopt the name, Oju as identity. “We are equally aware that the Oju clan is violently frustrating/preventing the establishment of the proposed University of Applied Science and Technology, an institution that would contribute to the social and economic development of Oju LGA, Benue State and Nigeria as a whole. “No wonder, when the late Walter Rodney wrote the book, ‘How Europe Underdeveloped Africa’, one wouldn’t have imagined that his thoughts would one day translate to how some group of Igede people are under developing our already impoverished land. “We note that Oju people are only hiding under pretentious demand for the renaming of the university location, Oba Oluwa, which is an age-long undisputed farmland belonging to Anyuwogbu village of Ibilla to Oga Oluwa (an Oju clan IDP camp also made up of displaced settlers from neighbouring Orikpi community of Uwokwu). “The Anyuwogbu village of Ibilla clan who are the age-long owners of the land has freely donated the land for the establishment of the proposed university, but the Oju people are killing our people and destroying our hard earned properties to fulfill their creed that every village in Ibilla must carry Oju name as identity. “In all these massive killings of Ibilla people, destruction of our properties and unwarranted provocation by Oju people, we have continued to act lawfully and in good wisdom which largely prevented the possible unimaginable casualties. “It is in view of our current state of helplessness that we call on the government, traditional institution, elders of Igede land and all people of good conscience to rescue the peace-loving people of Ibilla community from total annihilation from our ancestral land.” Also, the Igede Progressive Elites Caucus Association (IPECA) strongly condemned the crisis between Oju and Ibilla communities. The group, in another statement made available to Sunday Independent, decried the wanton killings and destruction or properties in the Ibilla community by their neighbouring Oju people. The statement signed by Adima Simon, the IPECA Secretary General, described the current misunderstanding which resulted to waste of lives and properties as ill-motivated and barbaric. The association urged the general public to join in condemning in strongest terms the violent clashes between two clans in Oju LGA. The statement quoted the President of IPECA, Mr Alewu Mike, the IPECA President, in the statement, cautioned all sons and daughters of Igedeland to distance themselves from the crisis as any attempt to give veiled support to either side would escalate the imbroglio and set the whole land on fire. The association stated: “We must stand in solidarity with Igede nation in the quest for peaceful co-existence in order to attract development to our land. Elections have just ended and appointments are being given. “This is the time our people should come together to resolve where we ought to be. We need unity of purpose to get our own fair share of the present regime. It is sad that we are beginning this way. “We must also not overlook the fact that Sunday’s violence adds to the long list, not too long ago, of the squirms of violence within the communities. “We must do everything we can to prevent such acts of violence based in hatred, prejudice, and ignorance,” the statement said. “IPECA also called on the new governor of Benue State, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia, to step in by constituting a panel of inquiry into the recent crises in the land with a view to bringing the ugly development to an amicable end.”