The President of the Senate, Godswill Akpabio has been cautioned not to dabble into the Minority leadership issue. Akpabio was also cautioned to concentrate on assisting President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to deliver sound legislation and good policies to ensure good governance in Nigeria during this critical period of change and renewal. A group under the aegis of PDP Action 2023 gave the warning in Abuja at the weekend. The group, in a statement by its Chairman, Hon Dr Rufus Omeire, titled “Who is afraid of Tambuwal,” said, “We counsel the newly elected President of the Senate not to allow people to destabilise the Senate by dabbling into the Minority leadership issue of the 10th Senate but to concentrate instead in assisting Mr President to deliver sound legislation and good policies to ensure good governance in Nigeria at this critical period of change and renewal.” The group cautioned those sponsoring attacks on Senator Tambuwal, to first purge themselves of the ignoble roles they played in the last presidential elections, adding, some Nigerians have no shame. The group also noted that these elements have leveled all sorts of spurious and unfounded allegations against Tambuwal, adding, “They allege that he has once betrayed some people and PDP. Behind these allegations is an attempt to re-litigate the 2022 PDP presidential primaries. They have consistently tried to pin on him the issue of the betrayal of some of his friends because of the patriotic role he played during the PDP National Convention. “We cannot hold brief for Tambuwal, but at the appropriate time, the relevant question would be asked: Who betrayed who? Tambuwal had shown interest in the PDP presidential nomination long before some people suddenly appeared on the since and expected him to drop out for them just because they believed that they had more financial resources than him, whether they had better programmes for Nigerians didn’t matter. “Tambuwal has shown himself to be a team player and a responsible and sophisticated leader with bright ideas for the development of the Nigerian nation. He didn’t betray the PDP or the nation in his 8 years as Sokoto State Governor. POLL “His colleagues trusted him with the leadership of the PDP Governors Forum. An office he handled with distinction and aplomb. In fact, at a time, the Forum became the only true voice of constructive opposition in Nigeria, always preferring workable solutions to Nigerian problems. Did he betray PDP then, of course not. “His colleagues also found him worthy to be the Vice Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum. Did he not represent the PDP and the Forum credibly? Yes is the redoubling answer. Was there any complaint of lack of capacity or untoward conduct? None whatsoever. He defended the ideals of PDP and Nigerians in such a way that his colleagues once again unanimously elected him as the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum, a position usually reserved for majority party Governors. “And why did they do that? Because they saw in him the critical leadership qualities for nation-building. He did not allow or participate in many anti-people and anti-democratic proposals at the dying days of the Buhari regime. He rallied around the entire Nigerian Governors to speak with one voice and assist the nation at its trying times of transition.” The PDP Action 2023 asked if those afraid of Tambuwal are doing so because they are worried that he may become a stumbling block to an alleged plot for complete dictatorship in Nigeria. “Are they afraid that he might mobilise his colleagues to say no to certain anti-people policies being foisted on the Nigerian nation? “Are they afraid that he is not corrupt and has not soiled his hands in his years at the highest echelon of public service?” The group pointed out that in the National Assembly, a Speaker outranks a Senator, adding that as a former Speaker, he has the ranking and qualifications to become the Minority Leader of the 10th Senate. “Tambuwal is a parliamentarian per excellence. A strong defender of the prerogatives and institution of the legislature. A strong and tested advocate of the independence of the legislature and a strong believer in combining this independence with a constructive role to ensure the deliverance of democratic windfalls for the people. “He has demonstrated the capacity to forge alliances within his team for good cause. He has also shown that he is not over-ambitious. He demonstrated the political equivalence of supreme sacrifice by voluntarily relinquishing his quest for PDP presidential nomination in 2022 when he was a strong enough contender to clinch the ticket,” the group said.