— Reconstitutes APC National Caucus— Submit Audited Account Of Party, PCC The All Progressives Congress (APC) was on Tuesday thrown into confusion as Senator Abdullahi Adamu, its National Chairman disowned the list of principal officers announced by the leadership of both chambers of the national assembly. Addressing a meeting of the APC National Working Committee (NWC)and the Progressives governors at the party’s National Secretariat, Senator Adamu said the list of principal officers announced today on the floor of both chambers did not emanate from the party, as is the tradition, declaring to the APC governors that the event he gleaned from social media never held as far as the party is concerned. Adamu said the meeting was called partly to update the governors on the outcome of the recent Senate and House of Representatives leadership election and fill the rest of the positions, however, expressed surprise in the two chambers and insisted that the APC leadership was yet to endorse any list of candidates to the Senate and House of Representatives leadership to fill the principal offices. “What we called you today over and above what we want to hear from you as the national executive committee of the party is that you will get an update on the National Assembly leadership election; election of the Senate president and deputy senate president, and the Speaker and deputy speaker have been determined and the holders have resumed their responsibilities. The remaining offices to complete the leadership of the two chapters is yet to be done, “. While acknowledging that both the Senate President, Godswill Akpabio, and deputy as well as the Speaker paid him courtesy visits, recently, it appears the issues of the principal offices were not discussed, as he maintained that the announcement made by Akpabio and Abbas never emanated the party. He said the meeting will also receive the list of the newly constituted Caucus of the party as well as the audited account of the party in the last year, adding that the audited Account of the Presidential Campaign Council of the APC has been submitted to INEC as required by law. He urged the progressive governors to come forward with advice that will sustain the progress made by the party and reduce friction. POLL “But, I am just hearing as a rumor now from the online media that there have been some announcements in the Senate and House of Representatives. The national headquarters of the party of the NWC has not given any such information or communicated about the choice of offices. “And until we formally resolve and communicate with them in writing which is the norm and practice, it is not our intention to break away from traditions. So whatever announcement is done either the President of the Senate, Deputy Senate President, Speaker or Deputy Speaker, is not from this secretariat. “We are going to formally inform you that we are going to have a caucus, and for quite a time, there has been no caucus in place. The caucus has been reconstituted according to the constitution of APC. And we will be discussing that with you as governors, you know your states more than we know it. Even if we come from the same state, the leadership is in your hands as governors. *We will hear your advice and then see how we can ensure that we comply with the provisions of the constitution of the party. “We hope that we will be receiving some reports from the Progressive Governors Forum, NGF, Chairman, or his representative, to get to know about your feelings and what is going on. “And what is your thinking on what to do to improve the chances of the party and therefore reduce the problems and bickering that we have been hearing from time to time? Then we will have time by the grace of God permitting, we will have interactions. “Along with the caucus, the National Advisory Council will give you the list that has been prepared and make sure that every state is represented. And we will give you the knowledge of it and advice. You will also be given the benefits of All the detailed accounts from April 2022 to April 2023. The PCC account has been audited and it has been submitted to the INEC by the party.