Mrs Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Royal Exchange General Insurance Company Limited in conversation with CHRIS EBONG, speaks about the significance of the unveiling of new logo project. Excerpts: What’s the significance of this renewed project for the company? I would say that there are three things. First, there is transformation process and the project is about changing to a new company even though we are old. We are evolving as an organisation. Our processes are changing, our approach to customer services -we are scaling it up significantly, our people are changing. We are aiming towards becoming the best insurance company in Nigeria in terms of service delivery. Any money we make, any person we get, we want to make sure that the customer is treated super special. So everything about the organisation is changing. We are becoming digital, our processes are changing and completely paperless system is where we are heading to. Our general approach to business is changing and first step for doing that is actually renewing ourselves internally and we have started with renewing our brand, it’s a refresh. We’ve maintained the colours; we maintain the Blue which is a very strong colour; the shape of R represents royalty, bold and the Yellow. Of course, we are an old company. We are going to treat our customer with royalty. We retain those colours because we are not a new company, what we do is a refresh. That is number one and we are good to say that we are on the path of refresh as an organisation. POLL The second step for us is, in 2007, the ownership of Royal Exchange separated the licences to general business and Royal Exchange General today is a single indigenous separate company from other Royal Exchange subsidiaries. Most people don’t know this. So, again, we want to differentiate ourselves and show that we have shareholders as a business entity. We are still the same but a lot of injection of newness into our organisation. And lastly, the journey to completely transforming that will lead us to this whole brand refreshing and relaunch has begun. And hopefully by January, 2024, the perception, the look and feel of this organisation will be completely seen. The first is our transition processes, second is our new ownership and third is our move to a new location. And before we get to that new location everything about our operations, service excellence…. will already be practised. Our movement to new headoffice is just to start the new things. The word ‘Excellence’ has been reoccurring in virtually all the speeches and statements, what are the things you’ve put in place to achieve this noble goal? Let me say that Royal Exchange at some points was the darling of all brokers, most of the old customers that have existed for over 30 years, this was their insurance company…. Overtime we lost some of those customers. We lost some momentum; we lost some reputation when it comes to service excellence. Now we are on a path going exactly, back to the situation where we were …even as a better company. We want a situation where when anyone thinks of using general insurance business, be it fire, motor, accident, oil and gas, the first call should be Royal Exchange General Insurance Limited.