Talk of one traditional ruler with a unique mien, then you are talking of the Oonirisa of the cradle of Yorubaland. How do we mean? The age-old long tradition of African Obas nay Nigerian is one that really intrigues and fascinates many al­beit; and it’s about how the royal fathers of yore built harems in their palaces via acquiring many wives in quantum as their Oloris; but it appears this tradi­tion of marrying more than one or two wives is gradually being eroded by most contemporary Yoruba Obas, which is a far cry from what their forefathers and ancestors practiced with much candour, affinity, relish and fondness back in the good old days. The current case of the present Ooni of Ife, HIM, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogun­wusi, Ojaja II, is however rekindling this nearly abandoned age-old tradition of Yoruba Obas, especially in the area of following the culture of amassing wives as Oloris which serves as a reflection of the numerous variables to show that the representatives of God on earth are al­ways given the power of God on earth, as it is that Eledumare, empowers them to make decisions and to succeed on earth, provided they are in tune with Him. The youthful king is only proving to many of the pundits, tradition can never be reversed; it can only be momentarily halted or trampled upon. Since he mount­ed the throne of his forefathers about eight years ago, HIM Ogunwusi has been quietly, swiftly, steadily and stealth­ily building a harem for royalty in Ile Ife, where he holds sway as the Ooni Adimu­la, the Supreme representative of God on the throne of Oduduwa, the progenitor of the Yorubas on earth. At the last count, the amiable and ir­resistibly handsome and charming Alai­yeluwa has taken as many as six wives as his Oloris in a time not too long from another, and he may had more all things being equal. Interestingly or quite uncharacteris­tic, safe for the last demised Alafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, who can equally boast of a large number of women as his Oloris, hardly can one point at any of their contemporary Obas in Yoruba with such a large barn of Oloris, and this is not an aberration to these Obas, since the idea is a matter of choice; but truth be told, this tradition is gradually being wished away directly or indirectly, wheth­er we like it or not. And this is where the affable and ultra-traditional Oba Ogun­wusi is shining like a million stars to situate tradition in its right and proper place as a King who must be cynosure of many as his wives at any given time. Another sharp departure between Ooni’s increasing wives and other kings with many wives is the quality and intel­lectual capacity of his carefully-selected Oloris, of all the women he has courted as his potential Olori and all his current substantive Oloris. They are all morally sound, intellectually gifted, academically endowed and quite averse to the glitz and glamour of the palace, facing their respec­tive businesses and callings with verve outside the precincts of their queenly sta­tus, and are only readily available when their husband, the Kabiyesi needs them as tradition demands. HIM Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II is indeed a study in excellence when it comes to upholding tradition with a firm grip, and he is really living up to the billing. Call him a traditional technocrat and you will just be stating the obvious, leaving a tell-tale for other younger Obas to follow, not as a polygamist in this sense but as a sucker for tradition in all its ram­ifications. In fact, when he freshly mounted the throne years back, many were skeptical about his tendency to uphold the demand of culture that open him to marrying more than one wife, but here we are, as he has proven more than what many can ever discern as he may just add another Olori to his group of beautiful, intelligent and resourceful wives before one blinks an eye. That is the hallmark of a King who knows the power and cultural in­trinsic and extrinsic values of the throne he occupies as a Royal Father with his people at heart, without fear or favour to gender and above all tradition. POLL The Kabiyesi, Oba Adeyeye’s wives embody high caliber, substance, and so­cietal influence – remarkable women who are both industrious and academically gifted likewise they can actually stands shoulder to shoulder to compete with anyone nay private-corporate or public function. These beautiful and queenly Oloris; PRINCESS RONKE ADEMI­LUYI, OLORI MARIAM ANAKO, OL­ORI OPEOLUWA AKINMUDA, OLO­RI TOBILOBA PHILLIPS, PRINCESS ASHLEY AFOLASHADE ADEGOKE, OLORI TEMITOPE ADESEGUN. The intimidating profiles of Oba Eni­tan Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II beautiful Oloris, read below… MARIAM ANAKO, the wife of the monarch of the Yoruba Kingdom, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, is a remark­able individual who embodies beauty, intelligence, and industriousness. With her impeccable work ethic and dedica­tion, she climbed the corporate ladder to become a top management staff at the renowned Oil &Gas Company, Nestoil, which excels in the fields of engineering, procurement, construction, and commis­sioning. Mariam Anako serves as an inspiration to those aspiring to achieve success, both in their personal and profes­sional lives. Her accomplishments show­case the endless possibilities that come with determination, hard work, and unwavering commitment to excellence. OLORI OPEOLUWA AKINMUDA is a remarkable individual in her own right and a woman of substance and achieve­ment. With a successful career as an IT entrepreneur specializing in Electronic Data Processing, Olori Opeoluwa has made her mark in the tech industry. Her expertise and experience led her to work with Ztech Global Ltd in the United King­dom, where she played a significant role in constructing commercial buildings. Olori Opeoluwa is a true embodi­ment of beauty, intelligence, and grace. Her presence alongside Oba Ogunwusi symbolizes unity, strength, and a shared vision for the Yoruba Kingdom. With her unwavering support and unwavering spirit, she is a beacon of inspiration and a true asset to the Yoruba Kingdom. TOBILOBA PHILLIPS is a dynamic woman who effortlessly balances her roles as a fashion entrepreneur and a queen consort. Hailing from Okitipupa in Ondo State, Tobi has made immense strides in the world of fashion and be­yond. One of her notable accomplish­ments is her popular fashion label, QTP Luxury Fashion. Through her label, she has redefined elegance and sophistica­tion, captivating the hearts of fashion en­thusiasts both locally and internationally. Tobiloba is also a talented 3D artist. Since 2018, she has been exploring her creative side in this digital medium, showcasing her skills and pushing the boundaries of what is possible within the art world. Her foray into 3D art further exemplifies her passion for innovation and her de­termination to constantly explore new horizons. As the queen consort of the Yoruba Kingdom, Tobiloba brings her unique blend of creativity, intelligence, and grace to her noble role. Alongside her husband, she plays an instrumental part in promoting the rich cultural heritage and traditions of the Yoruba people. PRINCESS ASHLEY AFOLASHADE ADEGOKE is an extraordinary individ­ual who is making a significant impact in various areas of her life, hailing from the Lafogido ruling House of the source, Ile-Ife, Queen Ashley exemplifies grace, elegance, and intelligence. With a back­ground in accounting and finance, she is a chartered accountant holding a Masters Degree from the prestigious University of Greenwich. Her remarkable education has equipped her with the knowledge and skills necessary to excel in the business world. Operating from her base in London, Princess Ashley is not only an accom­plished entrepreneur but also a dedicated philanthropist. She is the driving force behind the Ashley Adegoke Foundation, a non-profit organization established in honor of her late father, Prince Jacob Adebiyi Adegoke. The foundation’s pri­mary focus is to uplift the lives of less privileged children and widows in soci­ety. Her vibrant spirit and compassionate nature have touched the lives of many, offering hope and support to those in need. Her contributions to society, both as an entrepreneur and a philanthropist, serve as an inspiration to many. TEMITOPE ADESEGUN is a remark­able woman who has achieved great suc­cess in the fields of business and manage­ment. She holds a Linguistics degree and a diploma in Data Processing from the University of Lagos, as well as a Bache­lor’s degree in Business Administration from the same institution. Throughout her career, Temitope has held prominent positions in both the private and public sectors, worked as an administrative executive and public relations officer at various organizations, showcasing her expertise in these areas. In addition, she served as the Personal Assistant to the Secretary of the Lagos State Government, Princess Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya, from 2009 to 2011. Temitope’s passion for continuous learning and growth is evident in her ed­ucational achievements. She is a certified alumnus of renowned universities such as the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom, INSEAD Business School in France, the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom, and Harvard Ken­nedy School of Government in the Unit­ed States. These prestigious institutions have undoubtedly equipped her with invaluable knowledge and skills. Aside from her impressive profession­al accomplishments, Temitope hails from a distinguished lineage. She is a princess from the Adesegun Ibipe Royal Dynasty of Ago-Iwoye in the Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State. This rich heritage undoubtedly adds to her sense of purpose and drive. Further­more, Temitope is the CEO of Hopes Alive Initiatives (HAI), an organization dedicated to making a positive impact in society. PRINCESS RONKE ADEMILUYI is a highly accomplished individual with a diverse range of talents and achieve­ments. As a London-trained lawyer and entrepreneur, she has made a name for herself both in Nigeria and the United Kingdom. Her educational background includes graduating from Fiwasaye Girls’ Grammar School in 1985 and studying law at Thames Valley University in Lon­don. One of Princess Ronke’s notable contributions is her role as the founder of African Fashion Week Nigeria and African Fashion Week London. These fashion shows have become prominent platforms for showcasing African fash­ion and promoting African designers on a global scale. Princess Ronke also takes on the important role of Heritage Ambassa­dor for Queen Moremi Legacy. This ap­pointment highlights her commitment to promoting and safeguarding the lega­cies of the great African heroine, Queen Moremi. Through her work with the Queen Moremi Initiative and the Adire Odua foundation, she contributes to the preservation and advancement of Yoru­ba culture.