The agent Provocateur who allegedly incensed South East Youths to observe sit-at-home for no reason, Mr. Simon Ekpa hid himself to avoid the ruth of Biafrans who organised a in rally in Finland on July 7. In a statement, the group’s media and publicity Secretary of Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB) Emma Powerful said Ekpa carefully sat indoors during the rally held in front of his house in Lahti, Finland. According to Powerful the rally “was organized in line with IPOB’s global sensitization agenda on the plight of Biafrans and illegal incarceration of our Leader, Mazi Nnamdi KANU, the IPOB hardcore were at Lahti, Finland on July 7, 2023, to continue the sensitization rally around Europe”. Powerful added that “the organizers all hardcore took time off their busy schedule to attend the Finland rally as the imposter, the Crime Minister went into hiding at the news that IPOB was in town.“It is unfortunate that during the epic event at Lahti, Finland, the self-acclaimed Biafra Crime Minister was nowhere to be found. Finnish people wondered why the so-called Biafra Prime/crime minister didn’t show up to address his people but chose to hide even when the rally took place in front of his apartment building. “We thought he dared IPOB to come and protest in Finland, but at last, he was nowhere to be found. How can a true IPOB member hide from fellow Comrades? We are using this medium to warn the ignorant followers of this scammer and one-room Crime Minister to retrace their steps before it becomes too late. “It is obvious that there is nothing in the fish brain. The message has been passed to Finnish people so that they will not be deceived”. Looking at the way Ekpa had been conducting himself, and his role in the Biafran agitation, Powerful said “Biafra agitation is not for criminals and scammers who were paid by our enemies to create insecurity and criminality just to blackmail IPOB and Mazi Nnamdi KANU, and more to make Biafra agitation unappealing to our people “Those contracted and backed by the compromised Nigeria Security and government to enforce a non-existing sit-at-home will be held accountable someday”, the group warned.