ABUJA  – Former governor of Zamfara State, Senator Sani Yerima, has hailed the courage of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu for announc­ing the removal of fuel subsidy on the day of his inauguration. He said if Tinubu had delayed a bit, it would have been a tough decision for him. Sen. Yerima gave his obser­vation on Monday, shortly after he met with the president at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The former governor, who spoke with reporters after the closed door meeting with the pres­ident, described Tinubu as highly courageous and ready to deliver on his mandate. He said he was optimistic that when the palliatives being initi­ated by the government becomes effective, the market forces of de­mand and supply would naturally take its course and bring the price down. “You see, the removal of sub­sidy on the day of inauguration is the best decision on the part of the president, otherwise this would not have happened. “Former President Muham­madu Buhari had planned to do this many times. But in the end, he shifted the take-off of the re­moval of fuel subsidy till June. “Mr. President as a very seri­ous person who has ruled Lagos successfully for eight years, in fact, continuously he knew that this has to go. And he quickly removed it and as an economist, once the forces of demand and supply is in place that will help equilibrium in the prices”, he said. POLL Yerima, who was a presiden­tial aspirant in the 2023 presiden­tial polls, however, maintained his earlier stance on the need for Tinubu to initiate negotiations with bandits as a means of ending the menace. He hinged the prevailing ban­ditry and insecurity in the coun­try to poverty and ignorance, say­ing no sane person would take up arms and kill an innocent person. According to Yerima, the presi­dent should toe the path of the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua by talking with the bandit. “You see, these people are Ni­gerians. And I believe that Nige­rian government has the capacity. The military, security, have the capacity to deal with them im­mensely if so directed, if they are given the resources, they require, the support and political will. But the collateral damage that could be associated with the actions that is taken, is what I believe should be avoided. “If you send an aircraft now to where you identify the bandits, is not only the bandits that would be affected. And if you will recall, Mr. President, Umaru Musa Yar’Ad­ua had similar interaction with the militants in Niger Delta, it was successful. “So I believe that as Nigeri­ans if they are called upon by governments, the major causes of this problem is poverty and ignorance. You cannot find an educated human being properly educated human being who has something to do, to take up arms, a gun to go kill an innocent soul, just in the name of looking for food. These people are having very high level of poverty and ignorance. So if the government now comes up with a programme of rehabilitation just like they did in the issue of Boko Haram when the issue was handled, I’m sure you will have a successful ending of this crisis. “The economic policy that the government is planning if you look at the documents of Renewed Hope, I’m sure by the time the im­plementation takes off properly, all these issues would be handled”.