AUSTIN OBOH The announcement of principal officers of the Senate and the House of Representatives on Tuesday reopened the plastered cracks in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) with President Ahmed Tinubu once again pitted, albeit covertly this time, against party chairman, Abdullahi Adamu. Theirs has been a running battle of wits which probably started ahead of the APC president primaries in June 2022. At the time, Adamu – whose reported choice of presidential candidate was immediate past Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, had tried to sell his choice as the choice of then president, Muhammadu Buhari. But this scheme allegedly crashed when former Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, and other governors who had thrown their weight behind Tinubu were able to discover that Buhari was bent on playing a neutral role as he had promised. The conflict between both men, which had been remarkably subdued in the period after the elections, is now threatening to resurface even though tenuously with the latest appointments made in the National Assembly on Tuesday. Trouble started when, on that day, Adamu rejected the appointment of the party’s principal officers announced by the current NASS leadership. He said the list of the new principal officers announced by the Senate President, Godswill Akpabio, and the House Speaker, Tajudeen Abbas, did not emanate from the party’s National Working Committee (NWC). Adamu spoke during a meeting he had with APC governors at the National Secretariat in Abuja. APC governors were led to the meeting by their leader, Hope Uzodimma. Adamu said news of the new principal officers in the Senate and the House was “a mere rumour” because the NWC had not approved it. “I am just hearing as a rumour now from the online media that there have been some announcements in the Senate and House of Representatives. The national headquarters of the party, the NWC, has yet to give any such information or communicate about the choice of officers. And until we formally resolve and communicate with them in writing, which is the norm and practice, we do not intend to break away from traditions. So whatever announcement is done is not from this secretariat,” Adamu said. But the Standing Orders of the House gives prerogative to members of the party with the majority, not the NWC, to nominate principal officers. According to that order, the “leader of the House shall be a member nominated from among members of the majority party in the House.” This conflicts with previous practice in which parties with the majority in both chambers were directly involved in choosing their principal officers. New Principal Officers At the plenary, on Tuesday, Senate President Godswill Akpabio had announced Senators Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti Central) as Leader; Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South) Chief Whip; David Umahi (APC, Ebonyi South) Deputy Leader, and Lola Ashiru (APC, Kwara South), Deputy Whip. Akpabio said the appointment of the majority principal officers was sequel to a letter written to that effect by the APC caucus in the Senate. POLL He also announced names of minority principal officers as indicated in a letter written and forwarded by 38 of the 50 senators in the six minority parties, with Senators Simon Nwadkon (PDP, Plateau North) as Minority Leader; Oyewunmi Olalere (PDP, Osun West) as Deputy Minority Leader; Darlington Nwaokocha (Labour Party, Abia Central) as Minority Whip, and Rufai Hanga (NNPP, Kano Central) as Deputy Minority Whip,” he said. There was an opposition to the above appointments from a member of the minority parties, Senator Garba Musa Maidoki, who said he was oblivious of the decision purportedly taken by senators from the minority parties. “No meeting whatsoever took place among the entire 50 senators on the platforms of minority political parties in the Senate on election or selection of principal officers,” he said, and argued that the method or process used was undemocratic and non-transparent. However, Senate Leader Bamidele, at an interactive session with journalists, explained that the method and processes used for appointments of presiding officers across the majority and minority parties were in order. He said: “The presiding officers emerged without rancour in a manner that was transparent and democratic. It was an issue that needed inputs of critical stakeholders of the party which were made. “On the other hand, with regards to the minority parties, it was not entirely a party affair, because it wasn’t a typical situation where you have one opposition party. Rather, six opposition political parties were involved and fifty of our colleagues were also involved. “So rather than it being a decision to be taken by political parties, it was more of a decision taken by members who were elected on the platforms of the six minority parties, and thirty-eight (38) of them by virtue of their clear signatures, took a decision as to who their leaders should be.” Similarly, in the lower chamber, following two separate letters signed by the majority and minority caucuses, Speaker of the House, Tajudeen Abbas, announced a new set of principal officers. Abbas announced Julius Ihonbvere as Majority Leader; Halims Abdullahi, as Deputy Majority Leader; Bello Kumo, Chief Whip; Adewumi Onanuga, Deputy Chief Whip. For the minority parties, Kingsley Chinda of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was appointed the Minority Leader, while Ozodinobi George of the Labour Party emerged as Deputy Minority Leader; Ali Issa (also of the PDP), Minority Whip, and Ali Madaki (of the New Nigeria People’s Party, NNPP), Deputy Minority Whip. While speaking on the choices made, Chairperson of the House Ad-hoc Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon. Khadija Bukar Abba, told journalists that “it is a uniform decision, and endorsed by the whole members of the House.” House Speaker, Tajudeed Abbas, had said the Presidency was not involved in the emergence of the principal officers. According to him, “There was no list from the villa, we are also not pretending about the fact that we have two arms of Government being controlled by the same ruling party, we can’t pretend about that. In any civilised democracy in the world, the party and by extension those the party has put in governance in all arms of government will show interest in those who lead, our own democracy is fashioned after that of the U.S. As a matter of sanctity and as a matter of clarity, the vice president of the country in the U.S. is even the President of the senate. That is the extent of their involvement. Section 60 of our own constitution is clear.” Also, in reaction to speculations that former Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, had influenced the emergence of the principal officers of the minority parties, Senator representing Delta North Senatorial District, Ned Nwoko, said the rumour was baseless. Nwoko stated this while speaking with journalists in his office on Wednesday. The lawmaker said Wike could not have represented seven political parties that made up the minority. Nwoko, a member of the PDP, stressed that the opposition Senators decided on their own before Tuesday’s plenary. He said: “The minority parties in the 10th assembly consist of seven political parties. This becomes the requirement for those parties to nominate who will be the minority leader, and the question is this, is wike a member of seven political parties?” Nwoko pointed out that a number of signatures were required before the minority leaders were unveiled. “Over two weeks now, some people were going about to collect signatures of Senators for this exercise and have met the requirements, so there is nothing anybody can do.” NASS Moves On Adamu’s rejection of the appointments in both chambers of the federal legislature has reinforced opinions in some quarters that the party is yet to get over its pre- and post-election disagreements. Former Kaduna Senator, Shehu Sani, has remarked that there is indeed a rift between the APC leadership and the Federal Government, pointing out that the National Assembly leadership appears to be conferring with the presidency without consulting with the party. “Akpabio and Abbas’ list seems to have been announced with the consent of the president but without consulting or harmonising with the party. The signal here is that the party is shut out or kept at arm’s length,” he said tweeted on his Twitter handle, @ShehuSani. Regardless, the NASS leadership appears to have put the disagreement behind it and is set for deliberations on national affairs. After the announcements of the principal officers, Senate President Akpabio said the legislature was now ready to receive names of President Tinubu’s appointees, including the service chiefs and ministers, for screening and confirmation. He said with the composition of the principal officers, full legislative activities had commenced, adding that official communication from the president was welcome. Also, expression the preparedness of the lower chamber to begin work in earnest, Speaker Abbas said, on Tuesday, that the constitution of standing committees was still ongoing. His words: “May I also report that the constitution of committees is ongoing. The process is designed to meet the interest of every member, irrespective of party and political affiliations. However, we will be guided by the legislative interests, experiences, capacity and background of every member. The same principle should be adopted in filling up the remaining principal positions of the House.” He also said entrepreneurship, employment, health, education, infrastructure, citizen-focused diplomacy, institutional capacity development and citizen engagement, constitutional amendment and restructuring, as well as renewable energy will be placed on the front burner in the House. He added: “If, as a legislature, we ask questions about how other arms of government utilize appropriated funds, we must equally be open to taking such questions from citizens. This equally requires having functional constituency offices and regular interactions with our constituents. We will strive to return the legislature to those who own it through regular, meaningful, and productive engagement. “As noted in my acceptance speech, Colleagues, I remain grateful for the privilege of leading the 10th House as the Speaker. I assure you that I will not fail in discharging my duties alongside everyone. Let me reiterate that the House, under my leadership, will be fair to every member irrespective of our political leanings. Feel free to approach us anytime, as we carry this responsibility of service to the fatherland. “May I remind us once again that we have been called to serve at one of the most difficult times when our nation and people face tough challenges with huge expectations, but for us to succeed in this task ahead and bridge the massive deficit in citizens’ trust in government, we must set aside our differences and work together as patriots, committed to the ideals upon which our great nation was founded. “Let us put the interests of Nigeria above all else and strive to create an inclusive society that upholds the rule of law, protects human rights, and promotes social and economic progress for all. Together, let us work tirelessly to address our nation’s pressing issues.” The Speaker said the House would strengthen committees to conduct oversight of MDAs effectively, stressing that oversight duties, including investigative hearings, must be brought to their logical conclusions with reports and recommendations tabled before the entire House for necessary legislative actions. He expressed concern over the possible lack of legislative capacity of fresh members, who are large in number due to high rate of turnover at the last general elections. He said: “Colleagues, we cannot gloss over the capacity challenges this 10th House will have to grapple with as we settle down to work. This, of course, is owing to the high turnover rate of the legislature. It is perhaps the highest in our democratic journey since 1999. It is in this regard that I implore you to consider competence, capacity and experience in choosing your Aides. “There is an array of experienced hands within and outside the National Assembly you can rely on. Your success as a legislator is largely dependent on the quality of your legislative aides as well as the legislative bureaucrats. In view of the high legislative turnover which has become part of our democratic culture, the House, going forward, will consider professionalising legislative aides services to ensure that new members have a smoother transition into the Assembly.” Tinubu Steps In Fortunately for the 10th National Assembly, President Tinubu was reported to have intervened in the inchoate dispute of the ruling party on Wednesday. This information came from the APC chair himself who said the party had resolved the issue of the appointment of principal officers of the National Assembly with President Tinubu. He said the issue was discussed during Wednesday’s party leadership meeting with the president at the State House, Abuja. Tinubu had a meeting with Adamu and the National Secretary of the party, Iyiola Omisore, on Wednesday. Adamu said: “We have met the president and the issues have been resolved. It’s a family affair, and there were some misunderstandings. We have resolved our differences.” He continued: “Those eager to see the continuation of the conflict should please sheathe their swords. We have a complete understanding now. The president is the leader of our great party; we met him, and we are very satisfied with the discussion we had with him on the subject matter. As far as we are concerned, the issues have been laid to rest.” Interestingly, Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State had given his backing to the appointment of principal officers made by the NASS leadership. Uzodinma said he, alongside his colleagues of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), would ensure a sound working relationship between the party and the principal officers of the National Assembly. He said: “The National Assembly leadership belongs to our great party, they are members of our party and they enjoy our support. If there is any way that there is a communication gap anywhere, we will make it up and we have our internal mechanism of resolving such things. “The National Assembly leadership enjoys the support of progressives governors and that of our party. We don’t have any problem at all.” In the light of what have so far transpired in the party and Tinubu’s deft moves, there are speculations that the July 10 and 11 meetings of the APC National Caucus and the long-awaited National Executive Committee (NEC), Adamu might be facing a gargantuan challenge. The crucial sessions of the two statutory organs of the party, according to reports, would be attended by President Tinubu, his deputy, Kashim Shettima, former President Buhari, past and present APC governors, as well as former and current Senate President, Speaker of the House of Representatives, National Working Committee (NWC) members and other party stakeholders. It would, indeed, be a big one for the party and Adamu’s time to demonstrate his capacity to stand against political headwinds.