LAGOS  – The Chief Executive Officer of PowerCap Limited, Mr. Abiodun Ogunleye, has said that upward changes in inflation and foreign exchange make electricity tariff increase inevitable in Nigeria. He spoke at a press conference ahead of the 2023 PowerSolution Conference slated to hold in Lagos between July 19 and 20, 2023, with the theme: “Sustainable Resolution of the Gaps in the Power Sector.” Ogunleye, who noted that the Distribution Companies (Discos) and their investors may have been losing money without the knowledge of consumers, maintained that a lot of the Discos had been taken back by the federal government. According to him, if inflation and increment of tariff were off the table and Discos’ net income taken back to the baseline, it would be clear that the power distributors were not making as much money as they were making way back. He added: “We have moved from about N200/$ to about N400/$. Now, we are at N700 and something to the dollar. Please, let’s be fair to them (the Discos). The only question I think we need to address further is, what is the definition of the fair tariff ? “Let’s make it straight and simple: at all times, let’s allow market forces to determine what happens. What gladdens my heart is the fact that our new president has said he’s looking at wages and it will also come with additional inflation impact and all that. “But it’s a better way to go than to stifle growth in any sector or to say we are now going to be subsidising the electricity sector because this sector has a lot of users. That would be a more dangerous approach to use. “So, effectively, the Discos seem to be the whipping baby in the whole value chain. Customers think the Discos are making too much money because you have to pay more. POLL Shedding light the coming conference, he said speakers would examine the 2023 Electricity Act, highlight its implications for the sub-nationals and federal government as well as the expected opportunities and challenges. Some of the topics billed to be discussed at the two-day event include, Right Operating Environment: State Governments and Creation of New Markets; Power Generation: Making More Capacity Available; Transmission and Distribution: Maintaining Network Infrastructure to Enhance Sustainable Grid, among others.