Here we go again. President Tinubu announced that “subsidy is gone” and commentators are falling all over themselves praising his courage and wisdom. In reality, the accolades are undeserved yet for two reasons. First Tinubu did not stop the subsidy. Buhari did; by not funding fuel subsidy beyond May in the 2023 Budget. Tinubu has no funds with which to pay subsidy in June – even if he wants to. Second, the combination of fuel subsidy removal and harmonisation of exchange rates will inevitably result at first in an economic upheaval guaranteed to lead to a recession sooner or later. Bold announcements cannot be substitute for a well thought out economic programme. Right now, what Tinubu has achieved amounts to demolition of the old order – without replacing it with a new comprehensive policy. Nature abhors a vacuum. But, it is not only in the physical realm that a vacuum is disruptive. National economies also cannot abide policy vacuum. POLL Right now, there is a lack of direction in the economy. Underthecircumstances, thefirstthingprospective investors do is to shelve any new projects – to wait and see what would happen next. Most Likely Occurrences One of the first things a student learns in macro-economics is the fact that no major economic decision by government stands alone. Every single policy change produces direct, indirect and collateral effects; which affect different segments differently. Price is inevitably a crowd controller. Since the pump price of petrol galloped to N600 per litre, filling stations have noticed a significant drop in the number of vehicles coming in; and very few now ask the attendants to fill the tank. Queues have disappeared. One large filling station, with over twenty active pumps up to May 31, now operates eight pumps. Twelve of the staff of the station were laid off in June – and that is a sure sign of things to come as businesses and private individuals come to grips with the reality of fuel selling at N600-700 per litre. Thousands of filling station attendants face unemployment any time soon. They represent the first casualties in a war declared against workers in general and the petroleum sector in particular. Through a special arrangement with three filling stations in Lagos, I can now obtain authentic figures of tankers delivering fuel to the stations on a weekly basis and see the trend in that sector. Nobody needs to be an economist to understand that a person rendered jobless by the announcement “subsidy is gone” will not applaud the person whose decision took away his job. Harmonisation of exchange rate, which is another price increase in disguise, has placed public and private borrowers in jeopardy. Unless the new policy makes exceptions for governments and banks, all those with external loans to discharge will need to find more billions of naira to pay off their dollar obligations or default on payment – with disastrous consequences for all concerned. Banks in particular have no idea yet how much the change will cost them. Manufacturers are already raising the alarm; and for good reason. The last time something like this happened was in 1987 – when the Structural Adjustment Programme, SAP, was introduced. The biggest members of the Organised Private Sector, who, hitherto, had been collecting foreign exchange at favourable rates, selling some to the black market (called “arrangee” at the time), suddenly found themselves unable to compete. I was in the brewery sector; and watched as 33 breweries were reduced to less than ten in two years. Over a million people directly or indirectly, lost their jobs on account of that policy change. We can expect another upheaval in that sector very soon; for a simple reason. Alcohol consumption comes under discretionary spending. A very hungry person cannot forsake food for beer. So, breweries and bottling companies will get hit soonest. Why The North Now Faces The Worse Situation The major economic disruptions, we have suffered in the past, have decimated the South more than the North for two cardinal reasons – one economic and the other political. The North, since the 1970s, has had comparative advantages in food production and political power. The North, as the bread basket of Nigeria had been sheltered from high food prices. They might not buy as many cars as Southerners; but, they eat well generally. In addition, the North had dominated political power – especially the Fulani. Even when a non-Fulani was the military or civilian Head of State, he invariably took the Northern interest into account. They occupied the most lucrative posts in the Federal Government and its parastatals; and this gave them the opportunity to enrich themselves, their friends, relatives, associates and network of acquaintances. What historians will probably regard as the worst form of nepotism or Northernisation of power, unfortunately, paved the way for the destruction of the North’s comparative advantage measured by its ability to feed itself and feed the South. Buhari’s rise to power destroyed the North far worse than an invading army could have done. In 2015, Boko Haram was the only security threat in the North; and the leaders did not try to spread themselves too thin by going too far from Borno State. Granted, there were occasional raids into Yobe, Adamawa and Gombe. But, it was still a Northeast affair. And, they effectively thwarted our Wheat Project which was anchored on areas around Lake Chad. Buhari increased the threats to food production when, as Life Patron of the Mayetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, he and El-Rufai allowed herdsmen to become Nigeria’s first roving armed army not under government control. In fact, herdsmen enjoyed unlimited immunity. Agatu in Benue State was their first rehearsal in 2016. The genocide at the heart of one Nigeria’s biggest food producing areas should have served as a wake-up call for a responsible government. Buhari was partisan and irresponsible. It never dawned on him that, left unchecked, herdsmen killing farmers would eventually result in farmers leaving the land and ultimately food scarcity nationwide. Well, food scarcity is now a reality. The defence of the North’s poor and rural dwellers against economic adversity has been removed. They are now totally helpless against what will follow eventually – economic recession. Political power is also slipping from their grasp. In 2019, the line-up was as follows: President – North, Senate President – North, Chief Justice – North, Chief of Staff – North, National Security Adviser – North, Chief of Army Staff – North, Inspector General of Police – North, Comptroller of Customs – North. Today, as we wait for Ministers to be appointed, the new power line-up is now: President – South, Senate President – South, Chief Justice – South, Chief of Staff – South, National Security Adviser – North, Chief of Army Staff – South, Inspector General of Police – South, Comptroller of Customs – South. Apart from NNPC and INEC, which will most probably shift South, these are the heavy-weight appointments; where the officer can make a pauper into a multi-millionaire with one contract. Buhari made sure they were monopolised by the North without regard for the Federal Character principle. El-Rufai recently boasted that the Fulani jihadists made Tinubu’s election possible. As usual, the erudite former Governor was more emotional than rational.