AKURE – Constitutional Lawyer and Rights Activist, Dr. Kayode Ajulo, has cautioned politicians, political office holders and public servants in Ondo State not to engage in any activity that could undermine the existing peace and tranquillity in the state or risk being exposed. He handed down the caution on Sunday in Akure, the state capital, while commenting on the ongoing politicking in the state in preparation for the 2024 gubernatorial election. Ajulo, who had earlier visited one of the Afenifere chieftains in the metropolis, expressed displeasure about different news on political permutations filtering out of the state on the 2024 governorship race, which he said were unfavourable. He, therefore, cautioned political gladiators in the state not to engage in political intrigues that could result in undue altercation among appointees of government and crisis in the state in the quest for succeeding Akeredolu in 2025. Commending the people of the state for supporting and praying for Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu while on sick leave, the legal practitioner implored the people to continue supporting and praying for the governor and his deputy, Lucky Aiyedatiwa. Ajulo said: “I have been privy to top and confidential information from inside and outside of the State and confirmed them in few days I have been in the State. “It is embarrassing to hear the excessive opposition the Acting Governor is confronting, especially from those who are supposed to be his guides. “You cannot be a loyalist of the Government and be working against who the Governor appointed by the provision of the constitution to be at the helms of affairs in his absence because the Acting Governor’s success is the Governor’s success and vice verse. POLL “And you cannot love the people of Ondo State and be engaging in political computations liable to disrupt the peace of the State. So, those working against the Acting Governor should understand they are indirectly working against the interests of Arakunrin Akeredolu SAN and the good people of Ondo State.” “In case they don’t know, the Governor himself, being an intelligent leader, understands why he trusts his Deputy with power unlike many of them doing the political manipulation. If they could recall, it was the same Governor that began touting his deputy’s ambition when he wanted to be Ondo State representative and MD of the NDDC. This should tell them that Arakunrim knows better than they imagined.” Ajulo, therefore, charged security agencies to head up security around the Acting Governor, saying “These same people even went as far as setting a narrative to trick the innocent people of Ondo State into believing that there is a problem between the Deputy Governor and the family of Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu SAN while some are planning impeachment. “Though, we have their names complied already and will be published for the people of Ondo State in due time. It’s that bad that the court is approached to seek an impeachment injunction. “We are giving them seven days ultimatum to voluntarily resign their appointments or have their names published with proof in the dailies. They must desist from their acts or resign instead of working against the success of the government from within because the peace and development of Ondo State are more paramount than their inordinate ambition. “If they could be that obsessed to get the AG out at all costs, they can result in using physical attacks. Therefore, the DSS and other government security outfits must give the AG undivided security attention at all times.” The seasoned lawyer commended Governor Akeredolu for his exemplary leadership and the Ondo State Council of Obas for their firm support for the Governor and his deputy. He said: “Ondo State has been number one in advancing the cause of fairness and transparency in government and resolving pressing issues for other States. We cannot be seen as one having the same issue and cannot solve it. We wouldn’t allow a situation where the Save Nigeria Group would occupy Ondo State to resolve the issue by protest. “Governor Akeredolu SAN has remained steadfast in his advocacy for upholding the rule of law in government, and it is for the continued development of Ondo State and in the interest of its people that he had transferred power to his Deputy before embarking on health leave. Therefore, the AG deserves the support of the people,. “The Acting Governor, Mr. Lucky Ayedatiwa also needs the support and prayers of the people of Ondo State, particularly now, against needless political opposition he is contending with for standing in the gap in the absence of the Governor.”