Nigeria’s multireligious personality inscrutably belies its intolerance for religious freedom. This fact replays itself every day on the national stage with very tragic consequences. At the core of this intolerance is an eagerness, a feverish compulsiveness, of fellow Nigerians to intimidate, or destroy, those whose choices they do not accept. Basically, that is the most critical reason why we may never rise beyond our present miniscule status. A national religious drama, albeit largely subdued, came up recently in Ilorin, the capital of Kwara State, where an Osun priestess, Yeye Ajesikemi Omolara, was intimidated into dropping her plans to hold the Isese festival which, according to reports, is an occasion to celebrate the Yoruba Ifa spirituality and practice. The festival would certainly have involved religious processions in the open and, going by the clarifications so far made in the media, this is the point of disagreement. The bits that have been reported reveal that the Osun priestess had sent out fliers to publicize the schedule of the festival this year for July 22 to July 24 in Ilorin but a Muslim group known as Majlisu Shabab-l-Ulamah Society had got wind of this and thereafter visited the priestess at her residence to threaten her against holding the event in the Ilorin Emirate because it was antithetical to the (Islamic) religious practice approved by the emirate. According to the reports, they also claimed to have been sent by the Emir of Ilorin, Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, to warn her of dire consequences if she went ahead to organize the festival. Transcribed sections of the reports quoted members of the group declaring that “Ilorin does not permit idol worshipping; we are ardent Muslims in the land of the Emirate.” They added: “We are here on behalf of the Emir of Ilorin to ask that you desist from any Isese. We are also backed by the laws of the land. We are not here to fight you but to warn you against this celebration.” In her presentation, Yeye Omolara disclosed that she had been overwhelmed by threats from different corners yet neighbours had deserted her at this most trying period of her life. “I have been living in Ilorin for many years and I have experienced nothing but peace until recently. I have always been fair and kind to my neighbours and this has been reciprocated over the years. “One of my people shared the invite online which caught the attention of the Imams. In a matter of hours, I was tagged on numerous posts and also began to receive death threats. I also heard that meetings were being held to ensure that the Aje festival does not hold in Ilorin,” she said. POLL But the state Police Command responded to a newspaper inquiry on the matter by stating that it had not received any official report of the ban on the festival by the Islamic sect. The Police Public Relations Officer, Okasanmi Ajayi, said: “Kwara Police Command has not received any official report from any citizens concerning the warning to Yeye Olokun you referred to, assuring that “we are firmly on ground to forestall any security breach that could happen.” Curiously, the spokesman of the Emir of Ilorin, Mallam Abdulazeez Arowona, confirmed that the emir and the palace were in support of the Islamic group even though they had not given a direct instruction to the group. The Emir had warned residents of the Ilorin Emirate against idolatry in his Sallah message at the 2023 Eid-El-Kabir celebrations in Ilorin, saying that no event bordering on idolatry should be held within the Ilorin Emirate. Miffed by reports of the incidents in Ilorin, Wole Soyinka, in a statement on Thursday titled, ‘’Isese Festival: An Open Letter to Sulu Gambari,’’ criticized the Emir for the role he has played in the matter, bearing in mind the vicious outcomes of the refusal to be accommodative. Addressing the Emir, Soyinka wrote: “Your Royal Highness, it is conduct like this that has bred Boko Haram, ISIS, ISWAP and other religious malformations that currently plague this nation, spreading grief and outrage across a once peaceful landscape, degrading my and your existence with their virulent brand of Islam. It is conduct like this that has turned, before our very eyes, a once ecumenical city like Kaduna into a blood-stained mockery of cohabitation. It is conduct like this that makes it possible for a young student, Deborah, to be lynched in the very presence of armed police, on mere allegation of having belittled the image of a revered prophet. “It is action of this nature, perpetrated in obscure as well as prominent outlets of the nation that turns a young generation into mindless monsters, ever ready to swarm out and kill, kill, kill. Simply kill for the thrill of it, but under presumption of religious immunity.” The Emir’s Spokesman, Malam Arowona, in his response to Soyinka on Friday, said the intention of the palace in issuing orders against non-Islamic practices was to guard against outbreak of violent reactions ostensibly by adherents of the approved religion in the Ilorin Emirate. He also reminded the Nobel Laureate of the historical basis of the Emirate’s position. He wrote: “Dear Professor Soyinka, the culture of the people of Ilorin Emirate is synonymous to peace and unity, and it must be respected and adhered to. The stool of Emir of Ilorin belongs to the three monarchs accorded and answering the title of Shehu in Nigeria. Namely, Shehu Usman Danfodio of Sokoto caliphate, Shehu El-Kanemi of Borno Empire and Shehu Alimi of Ilorin Emirate. It will be wrong of anybody under any guise to relegate, throw or drag such status into the mud of controversies.” By and large, the argument of the palace is that for peace to reign, no one must publicly undertake activities that veer from Islamic beliefs, and any activity that does not accord with Islamic propagations will push adherents of the approved faith to react violently and thus endanger public peace. The sentiment expressed by Malam Arowona is very familiar. It says, ‘if you want peace, you must have it on our own terms’. It is that warning voice you hear everywhere in Nigeria where non-state actors arrogate to themselves the prerogative to determine the choices of others. It is unfortunate that the victim of this latest order is African traditional practice not the usual rival: Christianity. Unfortunate because African traditional religions are non-proselytizing and so pose no threat to other religions. As a matter of fact, African religious groups are restrictive maybe because they are held with suspect by the modern world and find it more convenient to restrict their membership to only the few that truly believe. As for being idol-worshipping, that is what makes them different, and they are entitled to their peculiarities. In other words, they should be entitled to a life of their own just as other religions. And in a democratic space such as Nigeria, it is against the spirit of the law to hinder people from expressing their convictions or sympathies publicly, so long they observe the dictum that ‘a person’s freedom ends where another’s begins’. Beyond this, I must say I find these recurring by-products of social misalliance or incongruities in Nigeria quite disturbing because as the nation grows by years, its frailties multiply. Rather than grow cohesive, it is actually degenerating into fractured and grotesque enclaves that viciously defy logic, refinements and coherence. What a wasted journey so far! If we indeed propose to live as a people willing to confront the same destiny, we do need to purge ourselves of the vile feeling of self-importance that belittles others, especially that arrogance that feeds on impunity. Note that the police have claimed to be unaware of Yeye Ajesikemi’s ordeal and would certainly have been nowhere had the group gone beyond threats and intimidations. An important strand of social cohesion is definitely missing in the political tapestry called Nigeria. In Sokoto and every other place where inflamed orgies have been audaciously enacted in mockery of civilization, that very element of social cohesion has been pitiably missing. What we have sometimes called Nigeria’s complexities have actually been convoluted perfidies authorized or ignored by the state. And if nothing is done to halt the insistent denial of freedom in our political spaces, Nigeria will convulse into a permanent nightmare. This is just a simple way to say that state authorities’ endless duplicity will plunge the country into an endgame. I doubt if this is our wish.