LAGOS  – Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, on Friday, called on President Bola Tinubu not to entertain, habour or negotiate soft landing deals with ex-government offi­cials known to have abused their offices by looting the nation’s treasury. Frank, who made this appeal in a statement in Abuja, lament­ed that the zeal of the President in going after corrupt elements during his early days in office seems to have waned or com­pletely dead. He urged the President to rev up his drive to make corrupt officials account for their stew­ardship in order not to make the arrest and ongoing investigation of the Governor of the Central Bank, Godwin Emefiele and Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), AbdulRasheed Bawa to appear as being vendetta driven. He also called on the President not to reward ex-governors and ex-ministers with corruption cas­es or criminal allegations against them by the anti-graft agencies with fresh appointment “as doing so would make his anti-corrup­tion drive a mere child’s play.” He urged the security agen­cies executing the anti-battle under Tinubu to extend their probe to the oil and gas sector by ensuring that those who fraudu­lently benefitted from fuel subsi­dy regime and bogus daily PMS consumption in the country, are made to refund the people’s mon­ey they looted in the process. Frank said: “From all indica­tions, your (Tinubu’s) Govern­ment is negotiating with looters and that is the reason why up till now we have not seen any new action against looters after the arrest and detention of Emefiele and Bawa. “Many Nigerians were happy and commended the actions you took on these arrests but at this time we think a lot of the people who looted the country under ex-President Muhammadu Bu­hari’s administration would have by now been arrested and being prosecuted in court. “Unfortunately, no further ac­tion has not been taken to bring them to justice and information at our disposal show that a lot of these looters are negotiating with your government for soft landing. POLL “Most importantly, the zeal with which you started the fight against corruption which Nige­rians applauded with the hope that you have come to surprise the country by genuinely fighting corruption has clearly died down and probably may not happen again. “If care is not taken, it might turn out that Emefiele and Bawa were just victims. In other words, from your body language so far, we don’t think you are ready to genuinely continue the fight against corrupt government officials but only after those per­ceived not to have supported your bid to emerge as President. “Otherwise there are lot of looters out there which despite the plethora of evidence of cor­rupt tendencies against them are going around freely and it is very likely that nothing will happen to them anymore.” Frank, who is the United Liberation Movement for West Papua (ULMWP) Ambassador to East Africa and Middle East, said described a situation where former political office holders with known corrupt tendencies are now finding their way into Tinubu’s cabinet. He said: “It is very clear that most of them might be appointed into your administration as Min­isters or other key government positions which would be tanta­mount to rewarding looters. “For instance, it is highly un­becoming that Senator Godswill Akpabio, with all the atrocious actions he took as Minister of Ni­ger Delta Affairs in emasculating and annexing the Niger Delta De­velopment Commission (NDDC) to frustrate development of the region as Minister of Niger Del­ta Affairs, has now been brought back and reworded with the po­sition of President of the Senate, while Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman who was sacked over corruption allegations as managing director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) is now Special Adviser to the President on Policy Coordi­nation. “Most likely, Nigerians will see more known looters reward­ed with juicy positions in his cabinet. “Besides, former governors and ex-ministers that should have no role in the present ad­ministration due to series of petitions against them at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) but that are perhaps pushing for posi­tions include former Minister of State for Petroleum Resourc­es, Timipre Sylva (now angling to be re-elected as governor in Bayelsa State), former Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Jus­tice, Abubakar Malami, Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) of Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL), Mele Kyari, former Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Devel­opment, Sadiya Umar Farouq, former Personal Assistant to ex-President Buhari, Tunde Sabiu and former Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed.”