YENAGOA – A stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, Preye Aganaba, has condemned the stagnant growth of the state under the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), saying the state must join the ruling APC at the centre for speedy development. Aganaba, who stated this in Yenagoa, at the weekend, alleged that the state governor, Douye Diri, was confused and had shown an absolute lack of ideology to position Bayelsa on the path of growth and development. He said the APC governorship candidate in the November 11 election, Timipre Sylva, was the only hope of the state to align with the centre and urged the people to take advantage of the opportunity. The former governorship aspirant said that Sylva possessed the capacity, experience and network to win the forthcoming polls and speed up the development of the state. Aganaba commended the immediate-past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources for attracting a federal tertiary institution to Nembe. He dismissed the rumoured crisis in the state APC over ministerial appointments and described it as the handiwork of naysayers. He said, “Bayelsans know that they were richer between 1999 to 2015 when both the state and the centre were in the same party than between 2015 and 2019. That was why the people decided to align with the centre by voting for David Lyon, unfortunately, their will was altered by the decision of the Supreme Court. “Bayelsans desire to be part of the centre. We have an opportunity in this election to align with the centre. It is in our interest to do so in this forthcoming election by bringing APC to power in the state”. POLL Aganaba, who was the state coordinator, Tinubu/Shettima Independent Campaign Council (ICC), hailed President Bola Tinubu for removing the fuel subsidy, which he described as an albatross hindering the development of the country. The APC chieftain urged the people to remain calm and patiently wait for the positive effects of the ongoing reforms and policies of the President. He described the cases at the tribunal against Tinubu as a sheer waste of time, adding that they would only end in social media hype as the plaintiffs lacked the evidence to prove their cases. Aganaba said Tinubu with his recent appointment of the service chiefs had demonstrated equity, fairness and balancing, observing that the service chiefs were appointed from different zones in the country. He also said the president knows people with the capacity to help him deliver on his renewed hope agenda and would include them in his cabinet.