AKURE – Regional overseer of The Apostolic Faith Church, Ondo and Ekiti states, Reverend Akinwumi Ajayi on Tuesday called on Nigerians to be patient with President Bola Tinubu and pray for him as he strives to reposition the nation’s economy. He made the call while addressing newsmen during his visit to the leadership of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in preparation for the 60th anniversary of the church in the state. Revd. Akinwumi noted that “For a change of government like this, that are engaging in policies that they feel will benefit the masses, there must be a spot where our shoes will pinch us. “We have prayed for this nation and we have prayed for this government, now that they are engaging in a particular exercise that may be pinching us, my advice to Nigerians is that we should wait and see. “All over the place now, the economy is generally affected because of this petrol, whenever the issue of petrol is talked about, it’s as good as touching the soul of everybody. The market will rise up, house rent will rise up and so many other things, but my advice is that let us wait and see what will be the result. “But then, as a church organization, by the special grace of God, we will continue to pray for this government. We should be prayerfully patient with this government. “On the N400 billion saved from fuel subsidy removal, it is my humble belief that the money is not saved for a particular family. I think the money was saved for Nigeria’s populace, the money will be used to benefit the populace and believing that at a point in time, this money will be used to benefit the masses of this country. “Although, corruption has eaten deep into the fabric of this nation. That’s one of our centers of prayers. If that corruption does not affect the N400billion that they have saved, within some few weeks, I think that we can heave a sigh of relief that this money will be used to rehabilitate Akure-Ado road. If the money is judiciously used, we shall all be okay.” POLL Revd. Akinwumi, therefore, tasked journalists to continue to put public officeholders on their toes and fight corruption. Speaking on the anniversary,he urged the general public to celebrate with them, sayingthe church is a trinitarian church, as they all believe in trinity. He said: “The church peaches the entire bible and the doctrine of salvation, the need for somebody to be born again and be transformed. Whatever we do in the Church, the central theme is of salvation. We thank God that we made it through thick and thin, we that are old are handing over to the youths”. “The church engages in serous evangelism, we are on air for people to get the messages of the gospel, we visit hospitals, prison yards and other homes to reach out to more people.” He was accompanied by Overseer, Ondo District, Revd. Joseph Aro, Secretary of the Planning Committee, Brother Harrison Adesemoye and others.