ABUJA – Key stakeholders of the All Progressive Congress APC in Rivers State, have protested what they described as overbearing influence of the former Governor of the State, Nyesom Wike on the party’s activities, especially at the national level. To this end, they have written a letter to the President, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, expressing their grievances and seeking his urgent intervention. Recall that Wike’s loyalists suprisingly emerged in the nomination of principal officers in the two chambers of the National Assembly, a development that created some bad blood among the party stakeholders. The letter seeking the intervention of the presidency was signed by Comrade Darlington Nwauju, APC Publicity Secretary, Rivers State on Friday. “We wish to clear the air that Gov Wike did not deliver any value to our dear Rivers State APC.” In an open letter to the President, dated 6th July, and sighted by newsmen in the State House, Abuja, Friday, the Rivers state branch of the APC also called on the President to reject former governor Wike’s overtures to stealthily foist himself on the party in order to take control of it’s structures in the state. Nwauju, told President Tinubu to be weary of Wike and his cohorts, saying the former governor’s claims of working to favour the party now will only undermine loyal and dedicated APC members and other stakeholders. Continuing, the group recall that the former Governor had in the past meted unquantifiable brutality on members and families of APC in Rivers State with countless casualties. POLL “Mr. President Sir, we wish to recall that the 2015 presidential election melted unquantifiable brutality on members and families of APC in Rivers State with countless casualties. Yet the Rivers APC resisted the onslaught of former Governor Wike lead aggression on innocent party followers and members.” The Rivers state APC shrugged efforts to accord recognition to Wike following the party’s election victory in the state. It said “Dear Mr. President, we wish to clear the air that Gov Wike did not deliver any value to our dear Rivers State APC, rather he fought against our dear Rivers APC.” The chapter urged Tinubu as “a consistent party man who built your ideals of party growth and sustainability on practical people-oriented philosophy, and a known rewarder of stewardship, to resist former Governor Wike “because he has no political ideology as script he follows.” “We know that your leadership will not allow those who believe in political thuggery, those known by local and international community as perpetual abusers of our democratic stability and mischief markers, whose thrive is money mongering to highjack our dear Rivers APC because they now see party politics as tradeable commodity,” the Rivers APC wrote in its petition to the presidency.