Dr. Tunde Elebute, a developmental economist, a rights promoter and public affairs commentator is the Deputy Director, Crime Victims Foundation of Nigeria (CRIFON), Lagos State chapter. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the Executive interference in the emergence of the National Assembly leadership and the Principal Officers, the rejection of the EU election observer team among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the raging controversy over the JAMB result of a candidate, Mmesoma Ejikeme, from Anambra State? This case is quite unfortunate. How could they have accused this young girl so openly? How secure is JAMB’s system? JAMB is exposing the insecurity of its system. To what extent is JAMB’s system protected from cyber criminals? What JAMB is telling us is that the results they have been producing are unreliable? JAMB’s strategy of playing to the gallery is not helping it as it shows that its cyber space is not safe? If JAMB cannot protect its cyber space, I think it should be disbanded and each institution allowed to conduct its admission. Why are they destroying the future of such a brilliant young girl? What JAMB is doing to the girl is raising doubts over its computer system and its cyber space. JAMB should have done its investigations discreetly and handled the matter without such publicity, knowing the adverse publicity it could attract to it. What is your view on the performance of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu so far? He is doing well. People did not expect him to have done so much within a short time. External investors are now interested in Nigeria. His decision of Foreign Exchange unification is excellent and is very impressive. It encourages investment and production. Everybody can now get foreign exchange at the same rate. Before now, people were reaping off others by trading in foreign exchange. His action may reduce the rush for the dollar and reduce pressure on the rate of the Naira to the dollar. Before, people did round tripping, buying and selling dollars at huge profits without doing anything. Now, people will not be buying dollars and reselling anyhow. With the way the National Assembly leadership emerged as well as the Principal Officers, do you see the 10th National Assembly living up to expectation? Generally, the Executive is always trying to pocket the Legislature and ensuring that the lawmakers will be on their side, but, I believe that this 10th National Assembly will be different. Godswill Akpabio is intelligent. He is an achiever and is brilliant. He can ‘chop’, but he can deliver. Even if one is backing the Executive, it should not be so open and brazen as was the case in the 9th National Assembly. The National Assembly can be smart in its backing of the Executive without looking so cheap. This Executive does not want to leave loopholes. The Federal Government rejected the European Union election monitoring team report. How do you see the penchant of Nigerian governments to reject reports of reputable organisations when they are not favourable? POLL The words of these foreign bodies are weighty and a lot of people opened up to them. The government wants to do window dressing to erase doubts in the minds of the people. But the people have already believed what the EU monitoring team said. It is information in the public domain and the case is still going on. Government rejected the EU report but did not refute it. What the government is doing is just trying to discredit the EU report. The EU is not a local organization and has nothing to gain. What they put out is authentic, but the government cannot just keep quiet so that people do not use it against it. Attention is now focused on Dele Alake, President Tinubu’s spokesperson. Some observers now see him as the new Lai Mohammed of the new administration. What is your take on this? Well, whoever is a government spokesperson has to say something on the side of the government to disabuse the minds of the people. It is part of propaganda. Propaganda can be positive or negative. A propagandist can even discredit the government. We should expect more of these propaganda machines when the government appointees fully come on board or where the president has interests, etc. We will see more of that under this administration. Don’t you think the Federal Government’s palliative measures to cushion the effects of the petroleum subsidy removal is becoming too late considering the hardship the action has thrown Nigerians into? In fact, since they knew that petroleum subsidy would go by June, they should not have waited to put in place palliative measures. Tinubu was close to the Muhammadu Buhari government. The former government should have put in place palliative measures knowing that the subsidy is gone and what will be the likely effects on the people. They should not have been silent on it. It would have been better for the announcement of the removal of subsidy to have been made along with the palliatives. So, the government should hasten the palliatives. The removal of subsidies is biting the people so much. Cost of goods and services have gone up and people are suffering. The government should unveil the palliatives without further delay to reduce suffering in the land. What is your take on the planned hike in electricity tariff? I will advise them to shelve it for now. Subsidy removal is biting people so much. If you add a hike of electricity tariff it may bring instability because there will be protests by the people and this will not augur well for the government as it will lose the little support it is now getting from the people. Let the government put in place palliative measures first for the subsidy removal before thinking of hiking tariffs on electricity. Electricity is not even stable, yet they are talking of hiking the tariff. If they do it, there will be a crisis in the nation. This time, the government cannot prevail on Labour not to protest. The Federal Government seems to be slow in announcing the fate of the suspended Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, and the also suspended EFCC Chairman, Bawa? Why do you think this is so? When the government says they are investigating, we have to be patient. Government will always remove whoever they do not want. Now, we are hearing several reasons why they were removed. So, we have to be patient for the investigations to be completed. Godwin Emefiele did a lot of damage to the society and the economy. People lost a lot of money because of his policy and the naira redesign. People suffered. Nigerians were using N4,000 to get N10,000. His policy was a failure. He punished society instead of those the policy was targeted at. There is a link between Bawa, Emefiele and then President Muhammdu Buhari over the naira policy. So, let us wait till when the investigation is completed. The government is only one month old. Some loopholes have been discovered in the Students Loans Scheme Act which was hurriedly passed the day the sponsor, Femi Ghajabiamila, was bowing out of the Assembly. What amendments of law would you suggest to both the Executive and the Legislature? From what people are saying, if the law will not favour the targeted people, let the Executive return it to the Legislature for amendment. I suggest that the two arms of government should fine-tune the law and come out with something that will really be useful to the target audience. The National Assembly should not hurriedly pass laws that will die at inception. It is sad that the National Assembly hurriedly passed such a bill sponsored by an outgoing lawmaker and got it immediately and the president also hurriedly signed it. So, they should have a rethink and come out with something better and more acceptable. What is your take on the recent retirement and appointment of Service Chiefs and the emergence of Nuhu Ribadu as the National Security Adviser? I think between when a new president is declared and inaugurated, there should be proper due diligence on the officer. It is not wise to retire over 150 top officers in all the uniformed services in one fell swoop. It is a colossal loss to the military and all the uniformed services and the nation. Some of the retired officers are still very young and by military tradition, they have to go because their juniors appointed Service Chiefs. How do you see the emergence of Nuhu Ribadu, former EFCC Chairman and retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), as the new National Security Adviser (NSA)? The National Security Adviser is a political appointment. There is nothing anyone can do about it. Ribadu is tough. He is one person the Service Chiefs and other top military officers will respect. He is vast in Intelligence gathering, especially as the EFCC Chairman. The World Bank recently granted this country a $100 million loan when a lot of loans are hanging on the neck of the country. How do you see this development? I don’t think the Federal Government was well advised. This is not the time to borrow money. They should have looked for aid, local loans or another way to increase Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). But, the government should do that without double taxation as it can lead to more problems. Government may need this loan to take off, to be able to function and generate more revenue. But, because we are already heavily indebted, the government should desist from taking more foreign loans. This is not the right time for that. What is your advice to Nigerians at this crucial period? I will advise Nigerians to be patient with the new government. They have started on the right footing. We believe that if their plans come to fruition, it will favour the people. However, we are still awaiting the decision of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal and possibly the Supreme Court on the presidential election. Whoever the courts finally announced as the winner of the 2023 presidential election, that is the will of God and we will continue to be praying for him as the nation’s leader, according to God’s injunction. The Bible enjoined us to pray for our leaders.