If there is a traditional ruler who can be said to have become a monarch right from when he was a baby, specifically at the age of two, he is unarguably the reigning king of Agbor, His Royal Majesty Benjamin Ikenchukwu, the First (Keagborekuzi I), reverently hailed as the Dein of Agbor Kingdom by virtually all Ika-speaking communities in Delta state, and a smidgeon of Ika-speaking communities in Edo State.   His ascendancy to the throne was characterised by a very exclusive circumstance. The matchlessness of his ascendancy to the highly revered throne lies in the fact that he was born on June 29, 1977, and crowned as the paramount king of the Agbor Kingdom in 1979 at such a young age after the out-of-the-blue death of his father, Obi Ikenchukwu I. Against the backdrop of the unexpected death of his father, there was no denying the fact that the kingdom was thrown into anxiety as the Crown Prince during the period of the sad incident barely knew what was going on. But tradition was followed and he was crowned as the Obi Keagborekuzi I the first; interpretatively put to mean, “What is Agbor saying again?” This feat of being the youngest king in the world was documented in the Guinness Book of World Records in 1980 when he was acknowledged as the youngest crowned monarch. However, given the circumstances of his birth, particularly when viewed from the prism of the fact that he was taken away immediately to study abroad, where he spent most of his formative years in the diaspora, there is no denying the fact that not a few Nigerians might have wondered how he easily adapted to the concept of traditional rulership as practiced in the Agbor kingdom, and to a large extent in other Ika-speaking communities in the State where a deep understanding of the culture, history, and traditions of the Kingdom is compulsory.  And being a custodian to administer justice in line with the laid down customs and traditions of the people, the Dein who returned from overseas in 2000 at age 22 to formally occupy his throne has been ruling his people with the ability that can literarily be likened to the wisdom of Solomon. His ingenuity as a traditional ruler cannot be pooh-poohed as it was collectively inherent in the congratulatory messages that were poured on him by key personalities from far and wide. Unarguably throwing insight into his experience on the throne, he once at a media parley said, “It has been extremely frustrating. This is an amazing country that has abundant mineral resources God has blessed us with, but we are not making use of what we have. I find that very unfortunate, I’m not one of those people who feel very comfortable when there are people around that are not doing fine. So, it has always been a problem for me over the last 19 years, seeing that the country is actually going backward. We are not actually where we should be. “For me as a monarch, it is extremely frustrating. I have electricity because I can afford to buy diesel for my generator. There is electricity here now but I can tell you that the whole neighborhood is in darkness, so definitely I cannot be comfortable with that. “I don’t know how any leader can be comfortable living in luxury and while their people are suffering, I can’t understand it at all; it has not been the best experience for me because as long as Nigerians are suffering, I’m suffering as well”. POLL When asked what has been the most interesting part of being a monarch, he responded thus “The most interesting part for me is the opportunity to be able to make a change. As a normal Nigerian, nobody would listen to you if you talk but because of my position, I have the opportunity to talk to people and they listen. Sometimes I just wonder if those of us who have the ability to be listened to are just comfortable in our own small corner of the world watching as the horrible situation gets worse. “God forbid that it should ever happen but if this country should experience another civil war, we wouldn’t be able to sit here. I am very grateful to Almighty God that I did not witness the civil war. I know those who witnessed it and went through hell it is something they will never forget. “As a nation, why do we even want to return to those tragic days? How difficult can it be to agree with your neighbours? At the end of the day, you want something, your neighbour wants something, agree to disagree, that’s what life is about. The opportunity I have enjoyed over the years by virtue of my position is to be able to talk to those in power. Reiteratively put, and without being panegyric at this juncture, it is expedient to say that reflections of his leadership qualities are inherent in the flurry of congratulatory messages he received from not a few Very Important Personalities (VIP) that wished him happy 46th birthday that was celebrated on Thursday, June 29, last week. For instance, the Governor of Delta State, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori who extended warm congratulations to him, on the commemoration of his birth anniversary said, “As you mark this significant milestone, it is my sincere prayer that the Almighty God will continue to bless you with good health and wisdom to effectively lead your kingdom’s traditional affairs.” In the same vein, the Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Emomotimi Dennis Guwor felicitated with the Dein on his birth anniversary, described him as a well-respected traditional ruler in Nigeria, and prayed to God to grant him good health and greater peace in his domain. He stated in his congratulatory message, “I joined millions of well-wishers to celebrate one of Delta and Nigeria’s revered Monarchs, HRM Benjamin Ikenchukwu Keagborekuzi 1, CON, the Dein of Agbor as he marks another royal milestone of 46 years on earth. “The Ancient Agbor Kingdom is blessed to have a Royal Father with a distinctive touch who has shown good leadership, as evident in deeds and welfare of his subjects while influencing the development of his kingdom. “Your Majesty, on behalf of my family, constituents, and members of the Delta State Assembly, it is my humble prayer that your reign on the throne of your ancestors is marked by greater peace and prosperity. May the sun continue to shine upon your kingdom”. The Speaker also congratulated the entire subjects of the Dein of Agbor for the birth anniversary celebration of their king and urged them to remain supportive of a peaceful reign in the kingdom. According to the Council of Chiefs (Indichen Agbor and Indibodein), with whom he regularly works with since his installation, some salient remarks in their collective congratulatory message go thus:  “You have displayed uncommon goodwill to the less privileged, orphans,   Widows and Widowers in our community, Delta state, Nigeria and the world at large. “We appreciate your love for all of us and we are delighted to use this opportunity to esteem your good character, conduct, competence, integrity, and capacity for building our community. “Your fervent mission and passion to lead our people through your well-articulated visions and plans gives us hope and trust that your rulership will not only continue to bring a high level of development and prosperity to the Ancient kingdom of Agbor and Delta State but it will also garner faint accomplishment that would further lift us to a greater height. “We wish you excellent health, God’s protection, and guidance as you pilot the affairs of our people.”