The Ogun State Government has promised to fast-track elec­tricity supply to the Ministries Department and Agencies (MDAs), and communities in the 20 council areas of the state through the implementation of a new model of sustainable electricity supply. The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Energy, Mr. Olaniji Adedapo, stated this while briefing the members of the Group 1, Senior Executive Course 45, 2023, National In­stitute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPPS), Kuru, Jos, at Mitros Residence, Abeokuta on the Roadmap for Ogun state Electrification projects. He said about twelve years ago, the state government recognised the importance of reliable power supply to the effectiveness of governance, and initiated a state-owned In­dependent Power Generation based on Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) engines. He added that the establish­ment of the state Independent Electricity Distribution Net­work (IEDN) was to distribute the power generated by the state government’s power plant to various state government facili­ties, infrastructures, later to the inhabitants of the state. He said the power model would bring about a new narra­tive in electricity supply to resi­dents of the state, saying that it would guarantee a stable power supply to the communities. However, the consultant to the governor on energy, Mr. Seye Ogunseye, added that the projects would be affordable for the citizenry and common men of the state, saying that more cooperation and support are expected from members of the communities, who are to play their part to ensure the full re­alisation of the project. He pledged the commitment of the government to the proj­ect, assuring that the resolu­tions would be looked into and fully implemented. On her part, leader of the delegation, Professor Oluwa­funmilayo Para-Mallam, said tad the state government is de­termined to ensure the success of the initiative by giving the Electricity Cooperative Model, all necessary support, believing that the Federal Government would also come up in comple­menting its efforts in the area of power generation.