In many ways, Arsenal are in uncharted waters here. After unexpectedly chal­lenging Manchester City for the 2022-23 Premier League title until late in the season, they have now agreed a fee of £105million ($133m) for West Ham United mid­fielder Declan Rice, topping City’s £90m offer for him. That was Arsenal’s third bid in this window for the England international. All have been well over their current record outgoing transfer fee of £72million for Nico­las Pepe in August 2019, and they represent a couple of things about the club’s approach to next season. Firstly, Rice has always been Arsenal’s prime target. Secondly, manager Mikel Arteta’s constant rhetoric of needing to “nail the re­cruitment” this summer in press conferences has been understood and supported by the board — who have sanctioned what would be a record-breaking payment for a British player. The heights Arsenal are willing to go regarding the fee for Rice may confuse some but, from the club’s perspective, landing the West Ham captain in this window is essential. Why? A number of factors have been clear with the evolution of their recruitment strategy over the past two summers. Moving from ‘Project Youth 2.0’ going into the 2021-22 season to signing expe­rienced players in their mid-twen­ties this time last year was key to Arsenal raising their level. Rice serves as a continuation of last summer’s strategy as a 24-year-old who has started all 12 of En­gland’s games at the past two major tournaments, started 93 per cent (190) of his 204 league appearances for West Ham and driven them to win the Europa Conference League final last month. Alongside all that, he is anoth­er player whose attributes lend themselves to more than one role, although the imminent signing of Kai Havertz from Chelsea — who will likely fill the left-sided No 8 role for Arteta — would see Rice slot in as a No 6. POLL With those parts of the jigsaw in mind, Rice is one of very few options with the attributes and quality to rival the league’s best in that role. In a West Ham shirt, he has become increasingly a box-to-box midfielder, travelling forward with the ball, but still has the experience of playing a deeper role for both them and England. Rice’s defensive qualities (mostly his anticipation and timing of tackles) are what im­mediately stand out when watch­ing him. That eye test marries up with the numbers: last season his true tackle win rate (denoting tack­les plus challenges lost plus fouls committed) was the highest in the Premier League (69.9 per cent from 113 true tackles or 4.2 per 1,000 op­position touches) among central and defensive midfielders. For context, paired with Tomas Soucek for most of last season at West Ham, Rice did not have to de­fend on his own in midfield but ex­celled when called upon. Everton’s Amadou Onana and Tyler Adams of Leeds United were in similar situations to Rice, as parts of a midfield ensemble for bottom-half teams. Onana had a 67 per cent true tackle win rate from 103 true tackles or 5.64 per 1,000 opposition touches while Adams had a 64.5 per cent true tackle win rate from 138 true tackles or 8.84 per 1,000 oppo­sition touches. Despite his dip in form in April, Arsenal midfielder Thomas Partey did this part of his role well for most of last season. In 33 appearances, he had a true tackle win rate of 58.3 per cent from 115 true tackles, or 8.12 per 1,000 opposition touches. That often fed into Arsenal’s ability to play a high line and dominate teams by keep­ing the ball in the attacking half whether they had possession or not. Again for comparison, Man­chester City’s Rodri had a slightly lower true tackle win rate of 56.4 per cent from 117 true tackles or 7.47 per 1,000 opposition touches. In a different area of midfield, Rice will be counted on more but his previous success rate bodes well. Extra security further back down the pitch may also give Ar­senal’s more advanced midfielders even greater freedom than they en­joyed last season, which could work nicely with Havertz’s off-ball move­ment or the inclusion of Emile Smith Rowe in a more central role. What happens with Rice in pos­session as an Arsenal player is a bit more of an unknown. Some may see that as a risk with a signing for a fee north of £100million who, like many of Ar­teta’s squad, will be stepping into the Champions League for the first time. Rice has been more likely to switch the ball to the wings with West Ham, which could be useful with Gabriel Martinelli and Bu­kayo Saka out wide. Arsenal are more accustomed to their No 6, whether that is Partey or last Jan­uary’s signing Jorginho, feeding vertical passes through the lines. Rice did this at times for England at the World Cup in November and December, but becoming more pro­gressive as well as measured at the right times to allow Arsenal time to breathe in certain matches — for example, Jorginho in the 2-0 away win at Newcastle United in early May — is a potential area for growth. For more considered periods of possession, patience may be needed if they are asking Rice to replicate what Partey has done in that role for the past two seasons.