AWKA – The Federal Cooperative College Oji River Enugu State has carried out her annual entrepreneurship development programme for youths and women who are mostly farmers in the Southeast and South-South regions of Nigeria. Speaking on the 2023 edition of the capacity building programme, the Provost of the College Dr. Owan Obodagu Tonica, said it is the mandate of the College to train as well as mentor youths and women who would become Managers and Chief Executive Officers of their own enterprises and businesses. The Provost said that the zonal training workshop for youths and women took the College delegation to Bayelsa, Delta, Edo, Anambra and Enugu states and that the aim was to empower youths and women with relevant skills for self-reliance and self-employment purposes. The Provost who noted that one of the principles of Cooperatives is concern for the community, stressed that from time to time the College reaches out to the host community to empower the people with hands-on skills, stressing that the Federal Cooperative College Oji River does that to inculcate cooperative education in Nigerians especially those who plan to own their own private businesses. He said that in each of the state visited, trainees were given grants by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture to assist them in their businesses and that the College helps the Federal Government to obtain progress reports on trainees in laison with Directors of Cooperatives in each state to ensure proper deployment and utilisation of grants. The Provost who stated that the College has done the zonal entrepreneurship training for 4 years now, noted that eloquent testimonies abound of the Federal Government using the training as veritable platform to alleviate poverty amongst Nigerians. Meanwhile the Provost equally talked about the yearly continual change of the face of the College. He said for this year, the number one big project is the renovation of the College auditorium. Other projects the Provost mentioned include the building of new office complex already nearing completion, a completed road project inside the school campus, furnishing of offices, students’ hostels and equipping of the College library.