ABUJA – The Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) has criticised a group that goes by the name of the All Progressive Congress (APC) concerned stakeholders for allegedly insinuating that the Chief Judge of Nassarawa State, Justice Aisha Bashir Aliyu is biased. Taking the group to the cleaners, on Thursday, the State Chairman of JUSUN, Comrade Jimoh Alonge, directed the aggrieved individuals to appeal against any order they are not happy with rather than maligning the person and character of the Chief Judge of the State. In the statement circulated to the media in Abuja reads in part “Our attention has been drawn to the purported write-up by some unpatriotic citizen by the name “Concerned APC Stakeholders” against the Chief Judge, Hon. Justice Aisha Bashir Aliyu on the above subject matter. “It is not in our character to respond to issues of this nature, especially when it has to do with politics and politicians. “I wish to inform the so-call petitioners that Nasarawa State Judiciary is an independent arm of Nasarawa State Government, so it does not receive orders from individuals or groups of persons. “That the integrity of Justice Aisha Bashir Aliyu has been tested and trusted not only in Nasarawa State and the Judiciary in particular but the country at large. “To my knowledge, any court of competent jurisdiction has the powers to either grant or deny order as prayed by litigants, more so Justice Aliyu the Hon. Chief Judge of Nasarawa State is not a magician to know whether or not another court of the same Jurisdiction has granted an order on the same case filed before her. “To our greatest dismay, some persons maliciously drag the name of my Lord to the public domain trying to paint her black and tarnish her image which she had taken pains to build for many years. POLL “I also want to bring to your notice that Justice Aliyu is not a politician and does not belong to any political party, but she relates to every responsible family in and outside the State irrespective of their political, cultural affiliations or social status. “The Petitioner should equally note that the Hon. Chief Judge of the State is not the 1st Chief Judge to be appointed Amirul Hajj in the State, her predecessors also occupied the same position before her appointment. “In fact, Justice Aisha was the Amirul Hajj of the year 2022, whose order did she grant before the appointment? “The petitioner should have sought an appeal of my lord’s order in the appellant court if he has locus instead of embarrassing himself by bringing this to the public domain. This has clearly shown that the Petitioner is a novice and does not know the law of the land.