Renault’s Alpine high-performance division is targeting revenue of more than €8 billion by 2030 with an expanded lineup of seven models, including a sports car and four-seat sports coupe on its own full-electric platform. The brand, which was revived in 2017 with the A110 mid-engine sports coupe that has remained its sole model, announced its targets last week at an event for investors and journalists at the headquarters of the Alpine Formula One team. “Only two years ago, Alpine was in a dead end, lacking clear perspectives,” Luca de Meo Renault Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) said in a statement. “Since then we have turned it into a fully-fledged car manufacturer.” Other financial targets include an operating margin of more than 10 per cent by 2030, and an annual revenue growth rate of 40 per cent from 2022-30. Breakeven is expected by 2026, with revenue of 2 billion euros by that date. One caveat is that €1 billion of the 2030 revenue target is dependent on the brand launching in China, Alpine said. De Meo has said that the brand could be separately listed at some point in the future. Porsche and Ferrari have found a warm welcome on the financial markets after their own listings from, respectively, Volkswagen Group and Fiat Chrysler. POLL The new models will be launched starting in 2024 with the A290, a small full-electric hatchback based on the coming Renault 5. It will be followed in 2025 by the GT, a compact crossover that will be built in France at Alpine’s historic factory in Dieppe, Northern France. The auto industry’s transition to Electric Vehicles (EVs) is accelerating. The year 2026 has emerged as a tipping point for acceleration in EV adoption that will drive automotive electrification trends ahead. Other future models include an EV replacement for the A110, expected by the end of 2026, and the A310, a four-seat coupe based on the same APP, Alpine Performance Platform, and underpinnings. Alpine and Lotus were originally going to work together on the platform, but that collaboration was discontinued this spring. Alpine said that the E-Ternite prototype, a full-electric version of the current A110, proved that developing its own platform would be beneficial in terms of costs and capacity. Two other models for the brand include midsize and large Sports Utility Vehicles (SUVs), which are expected to lead Alpine’s U.S. debut sometime after 2027, de Meo and Alpine CEO Laurent Rossi have said. Alpine did not offer details on the seventh model, but noted that the APP underpinnings will be used for other cars in addition to the A110 and A310. The future range is expected to be full electric, but Alpine said it is also working on a hydrogen-powered internal combustion engine.