LAGOS – The liberalisation of the for­eign exchange market by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in line with the plan by the Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s gov­ernment to free-float the naira and ensure unification has been given as one of the rea­sons the stock market recorded its highest level in 15 years in the first half of the year. The Nigerian Exchange (NGX) All-Share Index appre­ciated by 18.9 percent to close at 60,968.27 index points in the first half of 2023 from 51,251.06 it opened on January 3, 2023. This marks a significant milestone for the index, reach­ing its highest level in 15 years since March 5, 2008, when it stood at 66,381.20 points. The market capitalization of listed companies, which had opened the year at N27.915 tril­lion, closed on June 30 at N33.197 trillion, representing a gain of N5.3 trillion in six months. Significantly, the month of June saw the All-Share Index rising by 9.32 percent, breaking a four-year streak of losses for stocks during this month. It also represents the best monthly per­formance for the stock market in approximately two and a half years. Reacting, some analysts be­lieve that despite concerns such as rising inflation, interest rate hikes, and apprehension sur­rounding the fallout of the 2023 general elections, investor confi­dence remained strong, leading to increased buying activity. The positive sentiment among investors, according to analysts, can be attributed to several factors, including the peaceful transition to power following the 2023 elections, and favourable policies introduced by President Bola Tinubu’s new administration such as the re­moval of fuel subsidies, stream­lining of exchange rates, and the floating of the naira. Cyril Ampka, an economist, said, “Investors also responded to the changes in Nigeria’s foreign exchange operational framework and also viewed President Bola Tinubu’s deci­sion to suspend central bank governor, Godwin Emefiele, who had implemented restric­tive policies affecting their prof­its, in a favourable light”. POLL Market analysts believe the renewed sentiment in the local bourse market had also grown following crave to increase capital gains on the back of low prices of stocks owing to upset in the financial market arising from unstable policies and build-up to the 2023 general elections. David Adonri, Vice Chair­man at Highcap Securities, said the audacious macro-econom­ic policy moves that President Bola Tinubu took immediately after the swearing-in, led to the massive recovery in the mar­ket. “Those sentiments together with the usual half-year effects, when portfolio managers usu­ally rebalance their portfolios, usually orchestrate extra de­mands in the equities market. Hence, I would say that it was sentiment-driven and not fun­damentals of the economy or the market itself”, Adonri ex­plained. He noted that for the market to sustain the bullish trend in H2 2023, the macroeconomic policies of the current admin­istration must translate into concrete improvements in the fundamentals of the economy and of the market itself. He said, “If the sentiments translate into improved macro­economic fundamentals, then of course, we would have suste­nance of the market in the sec­ond half. But if there is no trans­lation to improve fundamentals, then of course, there would be a correction in the equities mar­ket to purge the market of the sentiments that have driven it in the first half”. Mr. Mike Eze, Managing Di­rector of Crane Securities Lim­ited, also attributed the rally in the stock market to the result of the election which brought President Bola Tinubu to stabi­lise the market. He said, “At the beginning of the year, there was so much tension and anxiety because of the election. When the election was over, investors saw that the tension did not lead to what was expected, it brought stability to the market. “And once the market is stable, it leads to a rally which means there is adequate de­mand for stocks in the capital market. So, one of the major reasons that led to stocks’ rally in half a year was the election that led to the emergence of Bola Tinubu as president of Nigeria.” Going forward, analysts at Investment One in the half-year review believe that the second half of the year for the equity markets will be tilted to­wards the upside, following the predicted growth by various financial managers, the float­ing of a unified exchange rate to remove liquidity constraints and restore foreign investors’ confidence, and the anticipated market-friendly policies by the government.” With the new administra­tion promising to implement a comprehensive reform pack­age to revamp the economy, analysts are optimistic that those critical policies and the foreign exchange management reforms will address the policy issues in the financial services industry, boost investors’ confi­dence, and redirect FDI, which will in turn increase capital and dividends. In his contribution, Charles Fakrogha, Chief Relationship Officer, Foresight Securities and Investments Limited, said the smooth transition of power alongside bold reforms led to the rise in market capitalisation. He also noted that the huge vol­umes of shares traded recently meant foreign investors might be thinking about making a comeback into the equities market.