Simon Mwadkwon, Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) member representing Plateau-North Senatorial district in this interview makes clarification about his emergence as Senate Minority Leader, why he will promote peaceful coexistence in Nigeria, and why he will remain loyal to the leadership of the PDP. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: We were told that you are neutral, you are not a cantankerous person, and that was why things worked for you. What we heard also is that the G-5 went against the mainstream PDP, and you emerged. Are you part of the conspiracy against your party to emerge as senate minority leader? I emerged as a result of the benevolence of my colleagues, who found me worthy to represent them. The PDP didn’t even intervene in the leadership tussle in the House of Representatives. I am sure that they also found it expedient not to interfere also in the leadership of the senate and I think it is a healthy development for the PDP. The senate standing order is clear on how the minority should be elected. Order 27 rule 1 states clearly that the minority leader shall be nominated by members of the minority parties. It did not specify one party but by all members of the minority party and we are six minority parties. These people came together and nominated me to be their leader. I think the PDP did the right thing by staying away. You can see that the APC has been rejected. While none of the officials of the PDP has come out to do that. All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) did not do that, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has not done that. The New Nigeria People Party (NNPP). The PDP is on the right track and on the issue of the G-5, I don’t know anything about G-5, all I know is that I am a senator under PDP, and the distinguished Senators in the minority, almost all of the about 50 of them. I got 36 nominations. It was overwhelming. There are speculations that there was some kind of inducement for you to emerge as senate minority leader, is it true, and was there any form of inducement? People will get to like you by your ability to handle issues. I don’t think that there was any form of inducement anywhere, perhaps in other political parties. POLL In PDP nobody was induced. It will interest you to know that 68 percent of the PDP senators nominated me. We are 3 senators from PDP and I got nominated by 22 of them. There was no formal meeting where some people were induced. I am not aware of any inducements and I know that my colleagues and the distinguished senators found me worthy by my presentation. I met them one-on-one and I told them that there was a need for us to have somebody they can rely on, someone they can trust. I told them that I am that kind of person that they can trust. I promised that I will do my best to make sure that there is a credible opposition that we are not going to fight the ruling party. The thing is that Nigeria will move forward. We need someone that will not relent in seeking our rights. We will give a credible opposition to the ruling party. We will be an opposition that is well understood and appreciated by Nigerians that these people are out to make sure that Nigeria moves forward by what we will say and do in the chamber of the senate. A lot of people say that you will be a rubber stamp, I want to put it to you that if the interest of Nigerians will be put forward. Will you stand tall for the Nigerian people, will you challenge the Senate president and the ruling party, what kind of bills will you put forward to end the killings in plateau State? I was nominated by 36 senators of the opposition party. The senate president does not have a hand in my emergence. Who is it that I will be a rubber stamp to? I am a senator of the federal republic of Nigeria. My focus is that Nigeria must move forward. Nigeria must be seen to be on the right track of development. Therefore I want to assure Nigerians that if the senate president or the majority party in the senate do anything that is inimical to the progress, development and peaceful coexistence of Nigeria, certainly I will stand against it. The minority party will stand against it. In the day that I gave my acceptance speech and I gave my acceptance speech as the minority just to say thank you to my friends that nominated me, I said it on the floor of the senate that Mr President, we are minority, our duty is to see that Nigeria moves forward, our duty is to give you a credible opposition, to keep you on the right track so that you will do the right for the citizens of this country. The issue of rubber stamps, I don’t know what they mean. Like I said I am not a novice in the political arena. I was not picked from the street to become a senator. I have two master’s degrees and a Doctor of Philosophy (PHD). I have been a lecturer in the University of Jos for 15 years. I know what is right for the people, having been a lecturer. I am a member of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). I want to assure Nigerians that they will have a strong minority in the senate. Senator Garba Maidoki said that you emerged through fraudulent means. He is a member of the PDP and he said that your emergence did not follow due process. He said that nobody contacted him, not even a text message, and no meeting was held among the 36 senators in the chamber to present you as the nominee. He said that you were smuggled in through the backdown, is it true or false? Senator Maidoki is entitled to his opinion. I don’t want to discuss issues with him. We are going to be in that senate for the next four years and I wouldn’t want to use any word or make any statement that would not be palatable. For him to have used the word that I came through fraudulent means, he understands what he was saying. I did say that I was nominated by 36 out of 50 senators. Of course he has the right to say that nobody contacted him, which is true. I couldn’t have contacted everyone. I was not the only one who ran for the position. In politics if you understand the body language of someone, you will not go chasing the winds. He was aware that we have been holding meetings of the minority. I don’t think that I have anything against him. That I did not approach him doesn’t mean that I didn’t approach others. I did approach others. It is unfortunate that he was not approached but that doesn’t mean that I came through fraudulent means. I want to believe that perhaps others that ran the position with me contacted him. I couldn’t have contacted him because at that time, we were on recess, a lot of people traveled. Our muslim brothers, some of them went to Haji. Some people went to their constituencies and some of us had court cases, some went to their senatorial districts to witness what was going on in the courts. I didn’t contact him and I didn’t contact everybody as well. I told you how I emerged by the senate standing orders, which is correct. It was the normal procedure, that the minority can emerge in the senate. We made the rules and must follow them to the later. Section 60 of the constitution did say that the National Assembly has the powers to make its own rules, does it mean that you did not consider Maidoki important enough to contact him? Not at all. It was not important for me to have contacted everybody because a lot of the senators were not around. Perhaps he was among those that couldn’t reach. I want to believe that he was not also in Abuja because if he was in Abuja, and I did not contact him that doesn’t mean that I considered less a senator than any other senator that nominated me. He is an important senator. He approached me on the floor of the senate and asked why I didn’t contact him to seek his opinion. I told him, well, I didn’t contact you but I have emerged, so let us come together and work together as a family because the aim of the minority is to give the majority a sense of direction. It is like we are a team that should correct whatever we see that is wrong. It is not an issue that I didn’t find him worthy or credible to have contacted him. He has approached me and I told that I was sorry that I didn’t contact him because it was impossible for me to have contacted everybody. Who were the people that you didn’t have opportunity to contact because you mentioned that some of them were on holidays, the impression is that out of the 36 senators, you spoke to a majority of them because if you are going to lead, you have to have the power of engagement even if they don’t all agree with you at least you have engaged them in one form or the other, that is the right to do…… I did all of that On the National Working Committee (NWC) and the leadership of your party, the PDP, some people have said that the actions of the emergence of the minority leader of the National Assembly demonstrates that there is a gradually and systemic weakening of the party because it seems like there is no cohesion in terms of even the emergence of the minority leader, they didn’t have hand in that, is it true that there is plan to weaken the powers of the PDP as a party as opposed to individuals? This is absolutely wrong. You recall in the 9th House of Representatives, the party had its position. It presented a candidate, the Speaker then who is now the chief of staff to the President, for whatever reason, decided to announce a different person. The person that was announced, Hon Elumelu followed the procedure by asking his colleagues to nominate him. . I believe that the Speaker felt then that he had obeyed the House of Representatives rules. He was announced. So, my party, the PDP this time around allowed the senators to express themselves and nominate their leaders. They did well because like I did say, the APC perhaps had something from their party and the party came out to deny them. We are happy that the APC leadership is being denied. We are happy that the minority parties have not come out to deny members that have been elected into the leadership of the senate. So the issue is very clear. What is your relationship with Aminu Tambuwal now? Mr. Tambuwal is my political godfather. We related very well. He was my Speaker in the 7th Assembly. We speak very often. It will interest you to know that ab initio I have a soft spot for Tambuwal and I wished he became the minority senate leader. I am from the north-central, when we saw the arrangement and the political office sharing in the whole country, the north-central was completely exempted. So, the north-central people met and made a decision that we must also vie for a position in the senate. We have been shortchanged in the House of Representatives. Beni Lar wanted to contest for a position in the House of Representatives but she couldn’t get it. When it was time for the senate we found out that no position was given to the north-central, so we decided to try. So, the north-central took a decision. It will interest you to know that all members of the minority parties in the north-central nominated me and decided that I should run for the position. I accepted the challenge. I have nothing against Tambuwal. I think Tambuwal did the magic even on the floor of the senate that day. A few people about three or four were not satisfied with my choice and they approached the President and said that we had to go into executive session and the president and he explained to them, and therefore they understood the thing. Tambuwal was the one that stood up and said that if Senator Simon has this number of signatures, he would wish to state categorically clear that I should be allowed to hold the position. So, the rumour that I defeated Tambuwal and the rest of the stores are false. I don’t have issues with Tambuwal. I respect him. He is a man of honour and he is still my leader, having been a member of the House of Representatives while he sojourned as the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Elder Emmanuel Ogidi, former national vice chairman of the party from the south-south. He said that the problem with the PDP is that the PDO has shown a lack of capacity to play the role of an opposition party, you are the senate minority leader in the 10th senate, are you going to make efforts to strengthen the PDP as an opposition party? I am categorically clear about the issue of minority leadership. In the speech that I made, I told the senate president that we are going to be partners in progress. If things are working well for the citizens of this country, if not we won’t be partners in progress. We will strategize to make sure that the PDP becomes more credible and stronger. We are hopeful. We are in the tribunal, it is possible we will take back our mandate from the APC. So, we are not going to stand aside and lament. The PDP must regain all its lost glory and I want to assure you that I will do my best to rally round the elders the leaders in PDP and we will make sure that we don’t just give the APC credible opposition but to make sure that if it doesn’t work well for us in the court we will have to get back to power in 2027.How is the senate going to cut down in cost, looking at Nigeria economy, what are the bills that you are going to push out to have a more transparent National Assembly in terms of allowances, money spent, trimming them down to demonstrate to Nigerians that the sacrifice that the President is asking citizens to make is reflected from the leadership? We will do that as a body. We noticed that there is a lot of hardship even from the subsidy removal Nigerians are crying. It is very clear that people are going through trauma as a result of the high cost of living. A lot of bills have skyrocketed and there is a need for us to do something to alleviate this suffering. As for the allowances and whatever that senate and the House I am not in the position to decide that but the truth is that we will make sure that nothing is done to further hurt Nigerians or put them in pain. We will ensure that Nigerians are considered in everything that we do. We will join hands with the ruling to make sure that we don’t go into anything that will further demoralize Nigerians.