Says He’s Behind Rerun Election In Ihiala AWKA – “With crutches and ill health, I was able to deliver two House of Assembly members, one House of Representatives member including a senatorial seat for APGA in Ihiala Local Government Area even though other local governments didn’t.” That was Hon. Kingsley Obi, the Transition Committee Chairman of Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State, as he recounted his experience and ordeals during the Anambra Governorship Election, House of Assembly Elections as well as National Assembly Elections in an exclusive interview with our correspondent. Obi during the interview said in spite of ill-health he was able to perform the magic of ensuring that the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) won all the elective positions in Ihiala in the last elections. He recalled that prior to the elections he told Gov. Chukwuma Soludo that he should forget about Ihiala and focus on other local governments because he knows how to play the game very well. Obi said he delivered two House of Assembly members, one House of Reps member and that he contributed 60% of the electoral conquest for APGA in Ihiala Local Government Area. He said despite insecurity, he was the only local government chairman that delivered all three elective offices for APGA in Anambra State. He recalled that on the election day, INEC officials refused to go to places like Uli but he allayed their fears and led them to deliver electoral materials in each of the wards in Uli; that even those who claimed they were stakeholders in Ihiala could not come out on the election day. POLL The TC chairman emphasized that despite insecurity, he was at the forefront with his crutches ensuring that electoral materials got to polling units so that election would be conducted while those who claimed they were stakeholders scampered for safety and could not come to the local government secretariat to monitor collection and movement of electoral materials. As the 2025 and 2027 elections beckon, Obi said politics runs in his blood and APGA has nothing to fear as far as Ihiala local government is concerned. He said he has been winning elections even when he was not the local government chairman and very determined to perform more magic now that he is in the saddle. Obi who told our correspondent that he was responsible for the cancellation of elections in Ihiala during the Anambra State Governorship Election, said when he noticed an unnecessary delay by INEC officials to release electoral materials at 1:30 pm and got reliable intelligence that the election was being rigged somewhere, he immediately raised alarm and told journalists that elections did not hold in Ihiala local government. He said, “I did it personally. I blocked the entrance gate to Ihiala local government secretariat when I noticed the deliberate delay by INEC officials to release electoral materials as late as 1:30 pm. I blocked the gate till about 2:30 pm and told them to announce that there was no election in Ihiala. That was why we had to rerun the election in Ihiala local government. I did it personally.”