Lions International, District 404B-2 Nigeria, says it is targeting over 500, 000 people to benefit from its’ Diabetes Screening and Treatment Programmes in the 2023/2024 period to curb the disease. The newly elected District Governor (DG), Lions International, District 404B-2, Lion (Prof) Emmanuel Dayo Fagbohun gave the promise on Monday in Lagos while reeling out his programmes of focus at the official handing over ceremony of the leadership mantle to him by the Immediate Past District Governor (IPDG), Lion Aare Lekan Owolabi. Speaking at the event held at the Protea Hotel Lagos, Lion (Prof) Fagbohun said the programmes aim at reducing the prevalence of diabetes in the country and improving the quality of life for those diagnosed. “We shall conduct Diabetes Screening and Treatment Programmes throughout the year for a minimum of 500,000 people before the ending of 30th June 2024,” he said. Apart from the diabetes programmes, Lion Fagbohun revealed that under his leadership as the District Governor, Lion International, District 404B-2, more efforts will be made to improve the quality of life for people, who are blind and visually impaired, as well as ensure that all it community members get access to nutritious foods. “Our core projects will also focus on vision where 100,000 glasses will be distributed, 100 cataract surgeries, and 50 Glaucoma Surgeries will be carried out. We’ll also donate and upgrade medical equipment to the Ophthalmology Department of Ekiti, as well as carry out a hunger relief programme for 500,000 people before the year ending 30th June 2024,” he added, while also revealing that the Lions International, District 404B-2, Nigeria has made huge impact in the country. “All communities have enjoyed what we do. There is non of our community in Nigeria you go that you will not find Lions International District 404B-2 Nigeria project,” he added. The Immediate Past District Governor (IPDG), Lion Owolabi commenting on his stewardship which ended on June 30th 2023, described it as exciting and daunting but commended his executive team for their resourcefulness, commitment, and unflinching support which enable them to move the club to a higher level. POLL “The experience has been so exciting because leading an association like Lions Club International, especially when you have members that are panning over seven states with a population of over 2750 members and these are accomplished professionals, captains of industry, entrepreneurs, people that have already made their mark in their chosen profession, you need a lot of wisdom for you to be able to navigate and make an impact and in the past Lion year it was a very exciting experience in the sense that we are to able to see to the welfare of our members. “One of the greatest challenges in this service journey is that it requires a lot of sacrifices because you will be needed in virtually every function and you have to make yourself available. Secondly, district administration, it’s also a very tasking job because of everything you have to attend to. All your officers must equally be on their toes because they need to ask Lions anytime you are being called upon as their leader and I must say they were really wonderful with their support and made the job easier for me,” Lion Aare Owolabi said. On his advice for the new executive, he added, “They need to make sure that our members; their welfare and interest should be paramount to them in their scheme of things. Secondly, they must be transparent, accountable and must equally make sure that anytime they have the opportunity to call our members out for Lions gathering they should try to make them somehow comfortable by providing an ambiance environment for them and take their hospitality to be very, paramount. So, my advice is that they should try as much as possible to ensure that all club presidents govern in line with global best practices, nip in the bud if there is any conflict so that they can be reduced or resolved without necessarily causing more collateral damage to the club and members in general.