There are strong indications that the Federal Government would submit names of ministers to the National Assembly immediately the Senate resumes from the recess. In a bid to ensure growth in the sector, players in the industry have called on the government to focus projects that will ensure growth. OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. Aviation stakeholders and professionals are still wriggling with the impact of President Muhammadu Buhari’s eight years in the sector. While some of the professionals said the last eight years witnessed growth especially in the acquisition and installation of infrastructure for the sector, which enhanced air safety, many others believed that the industry witnessed stunted progress within the period especially with the last minute effort by Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation to force Nigeria Air and airports concession on the industry. To this end, industry experts spoken with by our correspondent said that it was necessary for the new administration to reassess some of the policies of the past administration evolve progarmmes that would ensure developments and make the sector in Nigeria competitive. For instance, some of the professionals bemoaned the failure of the past government to remit to the foreign airlines their ticket sales, despite the assurances by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) within the period. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), foreign airlines blocked fund in Nigeria increased to $818.2 million from $744 million as at the end of April, 2023. IATA said that the figure made Nigeria the country with the most trapped funds in the world. Apart from Nigeria, other countries enmeshed in the trapped funds saga are Bangladesh; $214.1 million, Algeria; $196.3 million, Pakistan; $188.2 million and Lebanon; $141.2 million. POLL IATA maintained that the top five countries account for 68 per cent of blocked funds worldwide. IATA warned that rapidly rising levels of blocked funds are a threat to airline connectivity in the affected markets. Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of Sabre Central and West Africa, said that the Federal Government should take as a priority the full payment of foreign airlines’ trapped funds in the country. He regretted that the immediate past government failed to remit to the airlines their ticket sales despite all the assurances, stressing that the situation led to the suspension of some of the foreign airlines on the Nigerian routes. Olowo, who is also the President of Aviation Round Table (ART), said that the Federal Government needed to shore up investors’ confidence in the country, saying this is important in improving the economy. He also declared that the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos needed total rehabilitation for easy connections and operations by airlines. He said: “The priority of the new government should be first, to pay all the trapped funds to the foreign airlines to zero if you want that sector to flourish so that all the inventories will come back. This is to prove that we respect international trade. You cannot be begging the airlines to die. Where do you want me to get fuel to bring my aircraft down here when all the money is kept in Nigeria? Do you expect them to go and borrow to operate their aircraft into Nigeria? “Maintenance is due every six months, where do you want me to get the money from? Do we have maintenance facilities here in the country? What is the capacity of the maintenance? And if I am lifting fuel in Nigeria, what capacity will I lift at a time? So, the government should pay the debts instantly to zero and tell the world that we are ready to shore up investors’ confidence. Nigeria must honour contracts and this accumulation of foreign airlines’ funds is one of the major breaches that we have as of today in the country. “Sir Richard Branson of Virgin Atlantic is one of the most successful airline operators in the globe. The airline succeeded in the United Kingdom with Virgin UK, Virgin US, Virgin Australia and Virgin Blue. Virgin came here with Virgin Nigeria, but it ran back. Why? It was because of the sanctity of contract. Don’t sign what you cannot do. And why Branson was leaving, he issued a bad statement by saying ‘Nigeria is a business destroyer.’ “Also, let’s deliver a modern gateway. The international terminal at the Lagos airport is overstretched, it has expired and we need to shut it down. Strip it 100 per cent and rebuild. The plan for that airport is A,B,C,D, E fingers. We have been parading D and E since 1978, which is 45 years now. What happens to A, B, C fingers? Let’s go and build A, B, C and when that is ready, you can move in there and strip the D and E so that they can join later.” Besides, Comrade Olayinka Abioye, the former General Secretary, National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), said that the new administration needed to upturn some of the policies or actions of the past government. For instance, Abioye said that the last minute concession of Lagos, Kano and Abuja airports by Sen. Hadi Sirika, the former Minister of Aviation should be reversed. He insisted that the exercise was short of transparency as the minister could not address some of the labour issues and other stringent questions asked by stakeholders, especially the industry unions. “There is a need for a complete overhaul of the activities of the government in the past eight years. Concessioning is a good thing, we have told the minister on what to do with concession. We have the Greenfield option, which is very simple. The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has lands all over Nigerian airports. Bring your investors to go and tap into those virgin lands and they can do whatever they want there, including the aerotropolis. “What do you want to concession at the MMA for instance? It was until we dragged him that he now said it is the terminal that he wanted to concession because of infrastructure decays, which any serious CEO can tackle within a year. “All the problems at the MMA can be addressed within six months because it is removed and replaced. Technology has gone beyond the level we are displaying it in Nigeria. Antennas are no longer big facilities; they are now as small as a ceiling fan. Technology has helped us so much and I am afraid the way we are going, we will continue to fall,” he said.” Besides, Mr. Sam Oluwole, Managing Director, Precision Aviation Handling Company (PAHCOL) Ltd, canvassed for a minister of aviation with industry background. According to him, what the industry required now was a minister with an aviation background who could build on the achievements of the past government and hit the ground running. He warned that if a non-industry minister is appointed for the sector, it would set back the aviation industry in Nigeria, stressing that the country could not afford to delay. He said: “We need someone who knows from day one what the length of the runways is across the country. The immediate past minister is an industry man in terms of professionalism. We can speak the same language. Look at the Chief Executive Officers in the various agencies, they are all industry men. “These are the things we want to see, not just to go and bring a farmer who was planting groundnuts somewhere to be made the heads of any of the parastatals. These things will set us back. Also, Mr. Abayomi Agoro, the President, Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers’ Association (NATCA), explained that there was the need to review the 40 per cent deduction on the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the agency to the federation account. According to him, the status quo hampered the progress in the agencies. Agoro declared that the compulsory contributions to the federation account by the agencies, contravened their Acts, which stipulated that all revenue generated by the parastatals must be ploughed back into the sector for the purpose of infrastructure and human growth. Besides, Sindy Foster, Principal Partner, Avaero Capital, listed several challenges bedevilling growth in the Nigerian aviation industry. She mentioned industrial disputes, address the delays caused by Very Important Person (VIP) movements, bird strikes, blocked funds, aviation fuel availability and cost, optimisation of Lagos Airport runways, sunset airport operating hours and others as some of the challenges the new administration needed to address. She added: “We also need a full audit of what has been spent and in what. All agencies need audits. All governing boards need to be installed to avoid a repeat of the one-man band style of leadership and decision making we have seen of late. Also speaking, Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), aviation analyst, called for national flag carriers and not a national carrier as well as the concession of all the airports and not the international airports alone with “a unified, but autonomous airport security consisting the security agencies in the aviation security defence layers and not airport security force.” Ojikutu also insisted that the government should not involve itself in commercial aviation, but regulations oversight and enforcement. He added that the government could also provide intervention funds for aviation development, but the funds must be recoverable, if possible, with interest. He added: “Government must provide security fences to enhance the airports’ perimeter fences to fully comply with the provision of ICAO Annex17.”