..To Face Pillars In Playoff Finals  ASABA – Heartland Fc of Owerri clinched promotion to the Nigerian Professional League (NPL), after coming from behind to defeat Sporting Lagos 2-1 in their Group B fixture, at the ongoing NNL Super 8 competition, in Asaba. The Naze Millionaires needed to avoid defeat to solidify their promotion chances after bagging 4 points from their previous two games. An extra perk for the Owerri-based side was a chance in the play-off finals if they managed to win against their much-touted opponents. Heartland suffered an upset as Sporting drew first blood in the first half through Chukwuemeka Kalu, with the Lagos side dominating the proceedings. Heartland, however, managed to draw level against the run of play before the interval, as their determination slowly came to the fore. Heartland began the second half strongly, as their performance of their opponents waned, but despite carving Sporting open at the back could not apply finishing touches to complete their comeback. With 19 minutes left on the clock, impact substitute Chidiebere Ajoku finished off Divine Ukadike’s brilliant assist to send their fans into delirium. The win also meant that the Naze Millionaires emerged winners of Group B, and would face Winners of Group A, Kano Pillars in Friday’s finals.While congratulating his boys for the victory, Coach ofHeartland FC, Christian Obi (MON), said his team’s focus has shifted towards delivering a good performance in their final match-up against Kano Pillars. “I give God the glory, even my own management did not believe that we will get there but God has ensured that we have conquered. I am grateful to God for giving me the opportunity to show what I can do”. POLL In the other Group B fixtures Stormers Sporting Club’s outside chances of eyeing promotion faded, despite beating One Rocket FC by 4-0. In Group A, Kano Pillars finished tops on goal difference alongside Katsina United with 6 points apiece, despite Katsina United defeating them 1-0, with Victor Mbaomascoring his fourth goal of the competition. DMD of Maiduguri beat EFCC Fc 2-0.