Governor Hope Uzodimma has lauded the Heartland Football Club of Owerri for making Imo State proud by winning the Ni­geria National League competi­tion held in Asaba, the Delta State capital, and reassured them of government’s preparedness to always support sports. He did on Saturday when the footballers and their managers stormed the Imo State govern­ment House Owerri to present the NNL Championship cup to him. According to Oguwike Nwa­chuku, Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser to the gov­ernor, the footballers and their managers were received by the governor’s Chief of Staff, Barr. Nnamdi Anyaehie, who congrat­ulated the team on their excellent performance at the tournament that gave them the overall cham­pion. The Chief of Staff reminded them that they won the compe­tition because God’s grace was sufficient for them, hence the entire Imo citizens who collec­tively prayed for their success are excited over their victory. He emphasized that the un­dying spirit and dogged nature of Imo people in particular and the Igbo in general had once more been resurrected with the Heart­land FC’s victory. He reminded them that Gov­ernor Uzodimma had shown a lot of commitment in sports and youth development in Imo State as could be seen in the massive renovation of the Dan Anyiam Stadium and full sponsorship of the Heartland FC, among others. He seized the opportunity to appeal to the youths to shun crime and criminality and turn to sports for survival, growth and development “because crime does not pay.” “Successes in sports are re­warding and the gains can be reinvested.” POLL Anyaehie personally congrat­ulated the players and their tech­nical crew and promised that a better reward awaits them when they meet with the governor soonest. Presenting the NNL Cham­pions to the governor, the State Commissioner for Sports and Youth Development, Hon Eme­ka Okorokwo, said that “the team was committed to the victory by exhibiting gallantry and consis­tency.” Okoronkwo reminded the au­dience that the team was unbeat­en in 14 games, scoring 22 goals and conceding only three goals.