ABUJA – Troops of the Nigerian Armed Forces in the last three weeks have killed over 50 Boko Haram Terrorists and Islamic State of West Africa and Bandits across various theatres of operations. Troops also arrested 206 suspected terrorists collaborators, gun runners, members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and other economic saboteurs within the period under review. Briefing newsmen at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja on Thursday, the Director of Defence Media Operation (DMO), Major General, Musa Danmadami who was represented by Brigadier General Abdullahi Haruna Ibrahim said, troops also rescued 94 kidnapped civilians. According to him, these operational successes were recorded in the past three weeks within the six geo-political zones of the Country through both kinetic and non-kinetic operations between the period of 15 June – 6 July 2023. Brig. Gen Ibrahim disclosed that troops of Operation HADIN KAI in the North East zone neutralized 24 Boko Haram Terrorists and Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists, captured 10, apprehended 39 collaborators and logistics suppliers and rescued 35 kidnapped civilians. He noted that due to troops’ offensive operations against terrorists in the theatre of operations, a total of 967 terrorists comprising of 82 adult males, 354 adult females and 531 children surrendered to troops at different locations within the joint area of operations. In his words, “Troops of Operation HADIN KAI in the North East zone of the country have continued to intensify operations against terrorists including their logistics suppliers and collaborators. “In pursuit of this, between 17 and 18 June 2023, troops in conjunction with hybrid forces conducted fighting patrols to Kashimeri general area and cleared terrorists enclaves at Ajikawuri, Kuramari, Mbbalari, Kashimari, Muskanari, Gajibo Maila in Konduga, Dikwa, Gwoza, Bama, Ngala and Mobbar Local Government Areas of Borno State. POLL During the operations, troops made contact with the terrorists and neutralized 5 terrorists, captured 3 while others fled. “Troops also recovered 3 AK47 rifles, 2 dane guns, 16 rounds of 7.62mm special ammo, 1 x 36 hand grenade, 1 Unexploded Explosive Ordinance, 3 motorcycles, 3 bags of grains and other valuable items. “Also, on 22 June 2023, following an intelligence report on terrorists crossing from Cameroon to Nigeria, troops laid ambush along Bula Yobe-Darel Jamel in Bama Local Government Area of Borno State and made contact with the terrorists. Following a firefight, troops neutralized 5 Boko Haram Terrorists and Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists and recovered 1 bag each of flour and detergent each. “Furthermore, between 15 and 20 June 2023, troops arrested 10 Boko Haram Terrorists and Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists collaborators and suppliers at different locations within the general area of operations and recovered some logistic supplies meant for the terrorists include mosquito nets, mosquito coils, 2 bags of sugar and the sum of N246,235.00 only.” Moreso, he narrated that, “on 18 June 2023, troops arrested 2 suspected gun runners at Njimtilo check point along Maiduguri – Damaturu in Maiduguri Local Government Area of Borno State and recovered 500 rounds of 7.62mm special ammo, 1 locally made pistol, 1 vehicle, 3 mobile phones, 2 jack knives and other sundry items. “Also, on 4 July 2023, troops in conjunction with Civilian Joint Task Force conducted ambush operation at Mandara mountain, in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State. “Following the operation, troops ambush and neutralized a notorious Boko Haram Terrorists/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists commander identified as NAOIB Gambo Jundullah and recovered 1 AK47 rifle loaded with 4 rounds of 7.62mm special ammo.” Equally, he noted that due to troops offensive operations against terrorists in the theatre of operations a total of 967 terrorists comprising of 82 adult males, 354 adult females and 531 children surrendered to troops at different locations within the joint area of operations. “Consequently, within the weeks in focus troops recovered 19 AK47 rifles, 1 HK 21 rifle, 4 dane guns, 1 locally made pistol, 1 Unexploded Explosive Ordinance, 15 AK47 magazines, 582 rounds of 7.62mm special ammo, 41 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 25 cartridges and 1 tear gas. “Other items recovered include 2 Boko Haram Terrorists and Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorist uniforms, 4 mini solar panels, 2 wooden boats, 2 cutlasses, 3 daggers, 26 mobile phones, 5 blankets, cooking utensils, 15 livestock, 4 motorcycles, 3 bags of grains, 2 bags of sugar, 5 cartons of dry fish, 1 bag of flour, 1 bag of detergent, 3 vehicle, 4 motorcycles, 6 bicycles, 617 jerrycans of Premium Motor Spirit, 30 litres of groundnut oil, 2 bags of fertilizer, 56 sheets of zinc, mosquito nets, mosquito coils, box of matches and other valuable items as well as the sum of N354,875.00 only. “Troops also neutralized 24 Boko Haram Terrorists and Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists, captured 10, apprehended 39 collaborators and logistics suppliers and rescued 35 kidnapped civilians. All recovered items, arrested Boko Haram Terrorists’ logistics suppliers and rescued civilians have been handed over to the relevant authority for further action while captured terrorists and surrendered Boko Haram Terrorists and Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists and members of their families were profiled and documented for further action.” Indigenous People of Biafra and Eastern Security Network criminals and arrested 37 suspected criminals as well as rescued 15 kidnapped civilians. All recovered items apprehended suspects and rescued kidnapped civilians have been handed over to the appropriate authority for further action. However, General Ibrahim conveyed the military high command commendations on the unrelenting efforts and resilience of the troops and other security agencies in the various theatres of operations across the country. He also acknowledged the media community for their partnership and continued cooperation with the military and other security agencies, in our quest to restore peace and security to our dear Country. “Also, the entire populace is hereby appreciated, for the support given to the members Armed Forces and other security agencies in the conduct of our various operations across the country, while also urging them to continue to provide prompt and creditable information on the activities of terrorists and other criminal elements, in their respective areas.