Ebunoluwarotimi Adelesi, the first woman Police commissioner of Kwara State, has predicted that Nigeria will soon have its first woman Inspector General of Police, IGP, saying that both men and women police officers have equal opportunities in the force, though. “But as you know, positions are by appointment. “The authorities determine who and who should be what. But a foresee a situation where the country will soon have its first woman IGP,” she said. CP Adelesi made this comment on Tuesday during her maiden meeting with the media in the state at the police headquarters, Ilorin. Adelesi would be the state’s first woman CP, having once worked in Kwara as an officer in charge of administration at the police state headquarters in Ilorin. Reacting to questions as to why women police officers appear to be tougher, better disciplined, and achievers of landmarks in policing in the country, the CP said that it wasn’t as if women undergo better training than their male counterparts. “I don’t think it has anything to do with gender at all because we all go through the same training. But I may add that backgrounds from home make the difference sometimes. “My parents are disciplinarians so I had no choice but to learn and master the art of following rules,” she said. POLL Figures suggest that more men get thrown out of the police force or sanctioned for one infraction or the other. One of the newsmen at the police headquarters in Ilorin also observed women Divisional Police Officers, DPO, tend to perform better. An instance of high-performing women in the force was given at the media parley of the police division at Budo Nuhu, serving outskirt township and far-flung communities like Egbejila, Ajegunle Odo Eja, and so on, where for the past five years, women DPO have been in charge. CP Adelesi also said that her focus will be on crime prevention, noting too that though the crime level in Kwara is comparatively low, the incidence of cult-related killings, kidnap, and traffic-related infractions is high. She promised to deploy ICT resources to effect proper policing in the state. “Contemporary policing is IT-centric, thus urgent steps will be taken to improve on the employment of ICT as a veritable tool of reducing the probability of felons escaping apprehension. “Efforts will therefore be intensified in collaboration with other relevant government, non-governmental agencies, and the public to make crime unattractive and unprofitable,” she said.