Anyone who had embarked on space travel in the past four (4) weeks or so wherein he/she had no access to news about events happening on plan­et earth, would not recognize Nigeria in terms of administrative policy and regulations. That is because in a rather relatively short space of time (about four weeks), a seismic change has taken place in the socioeconomic and political landscape of our country. And all these have happened since our coun­try came under the political leadership purview of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the Presi­dent and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria on May 29, this year. And in what seems like one week, one bomb­shell decision of President Tinubu’s adminis­tration which is barely four (4) weeks old in office, he had ended petrol pump price subsidy in his inaugural speech on May 29. And on Fri­day, June 10, he signed the electricity Act that would ramp up electricity power supply in the country and catalyze the much sought indus­trial revolution. For too long, insufficient or epileptic electric­ity power supply has been touted as the bane of our country and the reason the much sought industrialization of the nation has remained a pipe dream, mirage or castle in the air. But with a stroke of the pen, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu on June 10 turned the tide in the process of unshackling the electricity sector for private investment by signing off on elec­tricity Act 2023 which has paved the way for private sector participation in the process of generating and distributing electricity without compulsorily partnering with the government at the centre. Although, in 2005 following the privatiza­tion exercise of the electricity sector, the un­dergirding law was reviewed to facilitate the sale of equity in existing government owned electricity generating firms, however, it did not authorize governments at the subnational level or the private sector to generate or distribute electricity without getting into partnerships with the Federal Government. In other words, electricity generation and distribution had remained out of the ambit of state governments and private sector investors as it was only within the exclusive preserve of the Federal Government to deliver electricity. POLL That is why the privatization only resulted in the unbundling of the sector for private sector participation but strictly in partnership with the Federal Government through the Bureau of Public Enterprises, BPE. While it was well known to bureaucrats and even ordinary Nigerians that the reason the nation still produces far less the capacity of electricity needed to industrialize our coun­try is due to the fact that the management of electricity production and distribution was in the exclusive list (only Federal Government involvement) rather than the concurrent list (both federal and state governments involve­ment), as such, electricity supply remained a central government’s business in an age where government has no business being in business, inefficiency synonymous with government ser­vices remained the hallmark of the sector. The disappointing reality is that none of the past leaders of our country— military or democratically elected— has had the courage to remove electricity generation and distribution activities from the exclusive list to the concur­rent, which is a decision that President Tinubu just made by appending his signature to the electricity Act 2023. Certainly, industrialization in Nigeria would take off when private investors start generat­ing and distributing electricity in the manner that telecommunications services providers like GLO, MTN, Airtel, 9mobile got involved in telecommunications services provision follow­ing the introduction of the law that pried the activity off the fingers of the Federal Govern­ment that was hitherto the exclusive provider of telecommunications. So, with a stroke of the pen, the electricity sector which had been shackled by archaic law has become an area that all players are welcome to get involved. When the telecommunications sector was opened up during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration to private sector par­ticipants in year 2000, the number of telephone lines in Nigeria estimated to have been a mere 400,000 grew exponentially into one hundred and seventy two million subscribers which is the current figure. And the greatest beneficiaries of liberaliza­tion in the telecoms sector are the masses who are better off as they are enjoying the benefits of the mantra: customer is king since they are being wooed by the service providers with all sorts of incentives. Today, as a result of that watershed deci­sion to open up telecommunications sector to private sector participation, apart from South Africa which is ahead with MTN, Nigeria is one of the leading telecom services provider in Africa through GLO founded by Chief Mike Adenuga, Jnr, which has footprints in a couple of West African countries and going toe-to-toe with Econet of Zimbabwe and Safaricom of Kenya. In like manner, investors can now go into electricity generation and distribution sectors and sell same to the masses who constitute a huge source of consumers with unmet demand and even go international as GLO has done with GSM telephony in Ghana and Benin Republic. As we are all very well aware, the Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals Company in Lek­ki, Lagos, commissioned last May generates 12 megawatts of electricity privately. So generat­ing electricity privately has been proven not to be rocket science and Dangote’s plant can be deemed as proof of concept. Since there is abundance of gas in the Niger Delta to fire electricity plants, enormous body of water in the South West to power hydro­power electricity systems and solar and wind energy in the Northern parts of our country to generate renewable energy from solar, there are limitless opportunities for investments in electricity generation and distribution sectors because there is a market of over 200 million potential consumers with pent up demand for electricity power. As a result, the current electricity gener­ating firms (GenCos) and distribution firms (DisCos) are already the major players in the sector, following the unbundling of the public utilities carried out by Bureau for Public En­terprises, BPE. Perhaps the giants in electricity power production in Europe such as the top four (4) firms: Electricite de France SA (116,977 MW) followed by Enel SpA (82,272 MW), and Iber­drola SA (56,306 MW), Energias de Portugal SA (22,659 MW) that failed to take the bait during the last privatization exercise in 2005 would be motivated to engage more directly in Nigerian electricity power market. Most Nigerians are well aware of how Nige­rian banks have been dominating the African market with subsidiaries across the continent following the opening up of the sector for pri­vate sector participation under the watch of military president, Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, after he took the reins of power in 1985. Before the liberalization of the financial ser­vices sector, it may be recalled that only govern­ment owned banks existed. And Nigerian banking public practically suf­fered untold hardships in banks to the extent that there was a parody that the banking public literally took mats to lie down and wait in the banking halls after obtaining tally numbers in order to get served. In fact, the harrowing banking experience of Nigerians back in those days is reminiscent of how the masses used to queue up in petrol stations for days and nights to obtain the com­modity until Mr. Go-Fast, President Tinubu, took the reins of government and abolished petrol subsidy that had imposed government monopoly in the production and distribution of petroleum products in our distressed country.