BOLAJI O. AKINYEMI On the 4th of June 2014, we witnessed the emergence of the first politician to become the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Emefiele might have been a politician before this appointment giving the political exigencies to rid Sanusi of the Office. However his avowed interest became known when he purchased APC form to slug it out with other Aspirants in the party among whom was Bola Ahmed Tinubu, our new President. His interest in politics is enough reason for him to have been excused, but since Buhari left him to continue his havoc which provided further complications of not seeing the next of Emefiele’s leadership of CBN, PBAT did well to excuse Godwin Emefiele after 9 years of holding down the economy. Emefiele is a Nigerian economist, banker, and *politician* who served as the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) from 2014 to 2023. He is widely regarded as one of the most influential figures in Nigeria’s economic and financial sector. Emefiele was born on August 4, 1961 in Lagos State, Nigeria. He is a native of Agbor, Delta State, Nigeria. He obtained a Bachelor’s degree in Banking and Finance in 1984 and a Master’s degree in Finance in 1986 from UNN. He also earned a Ph.D. in Economics from the same university. Emefiele began his career as a lecturer in finance and insurance at UNN and the University of Port Harcourt. He later joined Zenith Bank Plc, one of the leading banks in Nigeria, where he rose through the ranks to become the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer. In 2014, Emefiele was appointed as the governor of the CBN by President Goodluck Jonathan. He was reappointed for a second term by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. As the CBN governor, typical of a politician, he was driven towards conquest of power, he oversaw a largely controversial Central Bank, implementing various policies and initiatives to stabilize the Nigerian currency, boost foreign exchange reserves, support economic growth, enhance financial inclusion, promote agricultural development, and reduce inflation. POLL He also introduced a multiple exchange rate regime to manage the demand and supply of foreign currency in the country. During his time, the exchange rate disparity between the black market and the official market was as high as N300. Inflation also rose to 22.22%. Emefiele was suspended from office by President Bola Tinubu in 2023, following investigations into operations at the bank. History bears record of the popularity of Udoji among ordinary Nigerians for his salary review recommendation that saw lower and middle class civil servants earn more than what the can ever imagined. That record of popularity of a financial expert Emefiele now holds as the infamous former CBN Governor who was presumably absolute in power and subjected the people to untold hardship as a result of his naira swap project through which many died needless death. There have been CBN Governors before Emefiele. It’s important that we take a cursory review of them, for this let’s glean from Nairametrics’ insightful exploration of the past Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governors, who have played instrumental roles in shaping the nation’s monetary policies and financial landscape. (Late) Mallam Aliyu Mai Bornu 7/25/1963 – 6/22/1967 (4 years) Mallam Aliyu Mai Bornu, born in 1919, pursued his education and became an English Language Teacher after graduating from Kaduna College in 1942. He taught at Yola Middle School and later at Kaduna College. In 1954, he studied Economics at Bristol University after serving as a House Tutor at the Veterinary School in Vom. After completing his studies in 1957, he joined the Northern Nigeria Public Service as an Administrative Officer. In 1959, he was seconded to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as an Assistant Secretary and progressed to become the Deputy Secretary, Secretary, and ultimately the first indigenous Governor of the Bank in 1963. He retired from the CBN in 1967 and took up a role as the Director and General Manager of the Nigerian Tobacco Company. Despite resigning from the Nigerian Tobacco Company in 1969, Mallam Mai Bornu remained a member of the Board of Directors until his passing on February 23, 1970. (Late) Dr. Clement Nyong Isong Served From: 8/15/1967 – 9/22/1975 (8 years) Chief (Dr.) Clement Nyong Isong, born on April 20, 1920, in Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria, began his education at Qua Iboe Primary School. He completed his primary education in Oron and later attended the Oron Training Institute. In 1950, he pursued a diploma in Education at the University College, Ibadan. With scholarships from the Ford Foundation and Rockefeller, Isong studied Economics at Iowa Wesleyan College, graduating with a Bachelor’s degree in 1954. He continued his studies at the Howard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, earning his Masters and Doctorate Degrees in Economics. After working briefly at the Federal Reserve Bank in New York, he returned to the University of Ibadan as a lecturer. In 1958, Isong joined the newly established Central Bank of Nigeria as Secretary and later became the Director of Research. He served at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the United States from 1962 to 1967. During the Civil War, he was appointed as the Governor of the Central Bank, guiding the transition to the Nigerian Naira. He retired from the Bank in 1975 and was elected as the first Governor of Cross River State in 1979. In recognition of his contributions, Dr. Isong was honored with the Commander of the Federal Republic (CFR) national award in 1982. (Late) Mallam Adamu Ciroma Served From: 9/24/1975 – 6/28/1977 (2 years) Mallam Adamu Ciroma, born on November 20, 1934, in Potiskum, Yobe State, was the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria from 1975 to 1977. He completed his primary education at Borno Middle School in Maiduguri in 1949 and pursued his secondary education at Barewa College in Zaria starting in 1950. After obtaining his A Levels in 1957, he attended the University of Ibadan and earned a Bachelor’s degree in History. Throughout his career, Mallam Ciroma held various positions in the Public Service. He joined the Board of the Central Bank in 1970 as a Director and later became the Governor in 1976. He also served as a Minister in the Ministries of Industry, Agriculture, and Finance, and sat on the Board of several companies. (Late) Alhaji Abdulkadir Ahmed Served From: 6/28/1982 – 9/30/1993 (11 years) Abdulkadir Ahmed, born on October 31, 1940, in Jama’are, Bauchi State, had his early education in Jama’are and Bauchi before attending Barewa College Zaria in 1955. He graduated from South West London College in 1972 after studying at Nigeria College (University of Ife) in 1961. Ahmed began his career at the New Nigerian Development Company (NNDC) in January 1960, serving in various roles across the group’s subsidiaries and associate companies. He later became Bauchi State’s first Commissioner of Finance from March 1976 to June 1977 before being appointed Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. On June 27, 1982, he assumed the position of Governor of the Bank and retired on September 30, 1993. Alhaji Ahmed was a fellow of the Institute of Chartered and Certified Accountants (FCCA) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants (FAC). Abdulkadir Ahmed is notable for being the longest-serving Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Dr. Paul A. Ogwuma, OFR Retired as Governor – Served in the CBN from 10/1/1993 To 5/29/1999 (6 years) Dr. Paul Agbai Ogwuma, born on April 24, 1932, in Abayi, Imo State, had his early education at St. Barnabas School, Thie, St. Michael’s School, Aba, and St. Gregory’s School, Mbusi. He continued his studies at New Bethel College in Onitsha and Bradford Institute of Technology. From 1959 to 1962, he pursued further education at Bradford University in the United Kingdom. With a distinguished career as a seasoned banker, Chartered Accountant, and Administrator, Dr. Ogwuma has held various positions in organizations both in the United Kingdom and Nigeria. He served as the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank of Nigeria before being appointed as the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria in September 1993. 1977 to 1982 were the years of Ola Vincent, he was the first personality that drew my consciousness to the office of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. He became the Governor of CBN on the 28th of June 1977 and held on till 1982. Late Mr. O. O. Vincent was a highly respected elder statesman. His insightful perspectives on national matters held significant importance. Prior to his tenure at the Central Bank, he was appointed as a Vice President at the African Development Bank in Abidjan, Cote D’Ivoire from 1966 to 1973. Mr. Vincent held the distinction of being a life member of the Nigerian Economic Society and the Society for International Development. Additionally, he supported charitable organizations such as the Red Cross Society and the Nigerian Society for the Blind. With a simplistic legible signature that adorns every naira, he authorized and legitimized as tenders for exchange and circulation, I became attracted and attached to CBN as an institution. Literally his signature is engraved in my mind as well as his enviable achievements as CBN Governor. Olatunde Olabode Vincent wasn’t loud and lousy, I can’t remember him being vagrant and vulgar, though I was just 11 years old in 1977 and 16 in 1982 when he left office. Integrity wasn’t a prerequisite for becoming CBN Governor in those days, it was the personality among which the choices were made. Competence wasn’t the mark they left behind but the tool with which they got the job done. This piece represents an average Nigerian’s thought process of what was, what is and what should be as far as CBN and its Governorship is concerned! I didn’t know about macro and micro economic indices in 1979, but I lived in admiration of the power of One Naira and what it could buy, back in those days.