A clash between WBC heavyweight champion Tyson Fury and former UFC heavyweight champion Francis Ngannou has been announced. This fight has been a long-time in the making, with the pair first coming face-to-face and teasing a future clash after Fury knocked out Dillian Whyte in April last year and now it is finally here. The bout will take place on October 28 in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, under professional boxing rules. As per a press release, the fight will take place “under the official rules of professional boxing, with 3 judges ringside adopting the 10-point must system. “Both fighters however are promising to meet in the middle of the ring, go to war and win by knockout in devastating fashion.” In a similar fashion to Floyd Mayweather Jr vs Conor McGregor from 2017, this will pit one of the most famous names in boxing against one of the biggest draws in MMA. “As soon as that bell goes, it’ll be bombs away! This guy is supposed to be the hardest puncher in the world, but let’s see how he reacts when he gets hit by the Big GK,” Fury said. “I can’t wait to get back out there under the lights. I’m looking forward to showing the world that The Gypsy King is the greatest fighter of his generation in an epic battle with another master of his craft. POLL “Francis looked tough when he jumped in the ring after the Whyte fight, but there is no one tougher than me, and you’ll all see that in devastating fashion on October 28.” Meanwhile, Ngannou commented: “I’ve been waiting to meet Tyson in the ring for the past three years. My dream was always to box, and to box the best. “After becoming the undisputed MMA Heavyweight Champion, this is my opportunity to make that dream come true and cement my position as the baddest man on the planet. “All I will say to Tyson for now is he better dance in that ring because if I touch him, he’s going to sleep.” This will be the first fight of the year for both men and Fury has been relentlessly trash-talking in the build-up, claiming he could KO Ngannou after drinking 15 pints of beer. ‘The Gypsy King’ also said he would fight Ngannou and the current UFC heavyweight champion Jon Jones on the same night. But, perhaps now that the fight has been announced, Fury will start taking Ngannou more seriously, although knowing him that is unlikely and he will probably instead ramp up the trash-talk.