LOKOJA  – As the electioneering process in Kogi state gathered momentum, the Governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party SDP, Alhaji Muritala Yakubu Ajaka said his strength in winning the election lies in the massive sup­port of the electorate across the state for his candidacy. This is just as he expressed optimism in the INEC, Security Agencies and all stakeholders in exercising professionalism in the conduct of the forthcoming governorship election. The candidate of the SDP made the disclosure on Thursday when he addressed his crowd of supporters from all parts of the state who converge on Idah, head­quarters of Idah, Local Govern­ment Area of the state. While assuring of his holistic agenda for the people of the state, said, his aspiration to govern Kogi is to see a better state where citizens would be proud of their government. He lamented at the state Gov­ernment which is concerned about his rising profile among the electorate, and are bent on stopping him from the race, in­sisting that he was far from enjoy­ing a level playing ground since the kick off of the electioneering process. According to him, the state has not accorded him a level play­ing ground like others, stressing that their calculation and projec­tions were to create bottleneck in the wheel of his success. He admitted his confidence in INEC and security agencies in being professional in exercising their responsibilities, adding that all things being equal and with the massive support of voters, he has become a candidate to beat. . “I have an agenda for the state which is holistic and not sectional. My desire is to see our state better than what it is now. Although, there are mounting challenges – from the poor situa­tion of civil servants, poor infra­structures – we are out to correct them, to make the state what it ought to be with her God-given endowments and these are the reasons that I offered myself for the race. POLL “My manifesto is explicit on what we intend to achieve for the state. My Seven Point Agen­da will be vigorously pursued if elected and I’m confident that with their massive votes we are going to achieve our aims.