…As Govt Supports Program with N42.5m IBADAN – Oyo state government in collaboration with the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), has trained Neglected Tropical Diseases Service providers in southwest states. The program which was meant to strengthen their skills in logistics management. The Executive Secretary of Oyo State Primary Health Care Board, Dr. Muideen Olatunji, while speaking with journalists on plans of the board under Omituntun 2.O, in his office, on Wednesday, said it was essential for NTD commodities service providers to live up to expectations at all times. Dr. Olatunji hinted that the Oyo state government has supported the programs with N42,500,000 within two years in its bid to ensure that the people of the state continually have access to qualitative health care. He maintained that the commitment of Governor Seyi Makinde-led administration to the program has started yielding positive results. Dr. Olatunji added that the government is working with a non-governmental organization on NTD surgical intervention. His words, Olatunji said, “Oyo state government through the Primary Health Care Board, spent 31,500,000 Million Naira last year to support NTD programs and this year alone, while 11,000,000 Million Naira, has been spent on the same program, totaling, Forty Two Million, Five Hundred Thousand Naira. POLL “Oyo state hosted stakeholders in the south-west to a workshop recently, purely, the workshop was to build their capacity about the management of commodities to be supplied to manage the diseases under Neglected Tropical Diseases to ensure their security to the last pipe. “There is no state that has spent what Oyo state has spent in the past two years, late last year, the state won an award for its performance as regards NTD programs. “Any moment from now, 80 beneficiaries will be operated free of charge, this will be done in collaboration with a nongovernmental organization. While enumerating the achievements of the board under Omituntun 1.0, Dr.Oluntunji said the board would build on its achievements in Omituntun 1.0 through interventions and innovations. According to him, “part of the activities in the pipeline was to increase the numbers of birth attendants in PHC facilities, strengthen the referral system in primary, secondary and tertiary hospitals and the same back pathway, strengthening health insurance schemes so that more people can subscribe to the scheme and ensure there is a change in health care seeking behaviour of residents”. “In 1.0, we were able to build a strong foundation for a superstructure, part of the foundation was the implementation of PHC under one roof, single coordination for programme activities and service delivery and governance structure for health workers. “We have been able to achieve one PHC facility per ward, and over 200 PHC facilities were renovated and upgraded to level three PHC. “We are yet to get the required personnel, we have secured approval to engage a minimum of about 2,000 health personnel in this Omituntun 2.0 to join the workforce we have now.”