. Say President On Face-Saving Measure ABUJA – The Labour Party (LP) has hailed the position of the European Union (EU) on the outcome of the 2023 general elections, as it frowned at a statement by the federal government discrediting the EU’s assessment of the polls. The EI had faulted the modalities by which the conclusion was reached. The opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), said “Even the dead knew that the last election lacked credibility and even the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had been unable to explain why nearly five months after the election, it had refused to upload the full result on its result viewing portal; LP described President Bola Tinubu’s “face-saving measure” coming days after the submission of the report as feeble and medicine after death. Obiora Ifoh, Acting National Publicity Secretary of the Labour Party in a statement Sunday night stated, “It will interest the government to note that the European Union’s report is only one out of numerous submissions by other international Observers who have described the outcome of the election as a sham and an exercise that did not reflect the will of the majority of Nigerians. “Labour Party stands by the position of the EU observation mission. We have always said that this election was massively rigged in favour of the APC and their candidate. “What the FG is saying is just an afterthought and a shameless effort to mask the obvious. Even the blind can see, the deaf can hear and they know this election was manipulated. “Huge pieces of evidence are abundant for even the deaf and the blind to hear and feel. POLL “We are only hoping that the judiciary will dispense justice without fear or favour in the interest of the nation and posterity. Nigerians already know the true winner of the 2023 presidential election and no amount of slandering, denial, or rebuttal can change the fact that the party in power has no mandate of the electorate. We must also note that whatever position the INEC has taken is with active connivance with the Federal Government to deny the electorate and it clearly shows that INEC is not in any way independent. The Commission’s action is at the whims and caprices of the government and we know it. But Nigerians are looking to the Judiciary for justice. That’s where we stand.”