ABUJA – Justice Donatus Okorowo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on Monday, restrained the Independent National Electoral Commission from prosecuting the suspended Adamawa Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Hudu Yunusa-Ari, over his declaration of Aisha ‘Binani’ Dahiru of the All Progressives Congress as the winner of the March 18 poll gubernatorial election in Adamawa state. Justice Okorowo gave the order after hearing an ex parte motion moved by Michael Aondoaka, SAN, counsel to Mrs Dahiru. Respondents in the ex-parte application marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/935/2023, are the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and others as respondents. Moving the motion, Aondoaka submitted that until the election petition tribunal decides his client’s fate as it relates to section 149 of the Electoral Act, 2022, the prosecution of Mr Yunusa-Ari will be invalid and unconstitutional. Aondoaka argued that the decision of INEC to file an action against any person involved in Dahiru’s April 15, declaration as winner of the supplementary poll in Adamawa state when the tribunal was yet to determine the petition of his client would deprive her of section 285(6) of the law which gives 180 days within which the petition filed on May 6 should be dispensed with. He told the court that though a similar suit was filed before Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, where a judicial review of INEC’s action was sought, the court had ordered Dahiru to approach a tribunal with her suit, having been an election-related matter. However, Andoaka informed the court that an undertaking had been signed to prove to the court that the present suit was not frivolous and an abuse of the court process. He said in the undertaking, they were ready to face any cost should the court find the case to be frivolous. POLL Ruling on the motion, Justice Okorowo ordered the parties to maintain the status quo ante bellum pending the hearing and determination of the matter, before adjourning the matter to July 18 for a hearing. The court ordered the respondents to show cause while the reliefs sought by Dahiru should not be granted.