IBADAN – Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has de­clared that the Ibadan Dry Port Project may likely come on stream quicker than expected because the pres­ent leadership of the country under President Bola Tinubu, understands “the benefits of developing the economic val­ue chain.” He said the dry port project would also benefit Oyo State hugely because his adminis­tration would collaborate with the Federal Government more than ever before, stating that the recent change of govern­ment at the federal level would not affect the project negatively. Governor Makinde stat­ed this at the weekend when he inspected several ongoing projects, including the Ibadan Inland Dry Port, the College of Agriculture and Renewable Energy, Iseyin, a campus of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso; the Engr. Lere Adigun Housing Estate, Basorun and the Ibadan Circular Road. According to the governor, the state had made good prog­ress with regards to the proj­ects, admitting that there was still a lot of work to be done. He equally noted that his ad­ministration had been creating opportunities through infra­structure building and other key developments, which have begun to attract investors. The governor, therefore, urged the youth to key into the opportunities by contributing and getting the rewards, rath­er than leaving the country for foreign lands in search of imag­inary greener pastures. Fielding questions from newsmen on the projects in­spected shortly after inspect­ing the Ibadan Circular Road Interchange at Egbeda Local Government, the governor said regarding the inspected proj­ects: “Well, I will say so far, so good, there is still a lot of work to be done but we are making a good progress. You have seen it as well. “We were on that campus [LAUTECH Campus, Iseyin] before the election and we have seen between then and now that a lot of progress has been made. And even here [Ibadan Circular Road], we have interest-inves­tors coming around to say, look, what exactly are we projecting in terms of the opportunities in Oyo State. POLL “To the people, we have many opportunities around here especially for our young folks. They should not japa because if they are hardwork­ing, they can contribute and get their rewards. “So, I will say we are creating opportunities across the spec­trum and people are paying attention to what we are doing.” Governor Makinde, while re­sponding to a question on how the change of government at the federal level might stall the Ibadan Inland Dry Port proj­ect, reassured residents of the state the project would come on stream quicker than expected. He said: “I think the change of government is even positive for Oyo State because we have a new administration at the federal level that understands what it is to develop the eco­nomic value chain. So, I think we will even co­operate more with the Federal Government and that project will come on stream quicker than we were expecting.”