JOS – Ahead of the November governorship election in Kogi State, the Chairman of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Architect Gabriel Yakubu Aduku, has called on all the stakeholders to conduct themselves peacefully and in non-violent manner in order to achieve a free and fair election. The ACF Chairman, in his admonition made available to newsmen in Jos, the Plateau State capital at the weekend, said the build-up to the election has not been encouraging as there has been several incidents of violence in some parts of the State, especially Kogi East. He said if such violence continues, it could make the federal government to strongly intervene and take several measures to curtail it, including declaring the ‘State of Emergency’ on the state which is what many individuals, groups/parties are already calling for. Aduku, who is also the Former Minister of State for Health, said many persons and groups have equally been fingered in the violence, including the state government, stressing that people should be allowed to go about their electoral participation peacefully without any fear of intimidation whatsoever from any quarter. He called on Governor Yahaya Bello to ensure a violence free process as well as the protection of lives and properties as the number one security officer of the state, saying that the accusation from some quarters of him being part of the violence because of his own anointed candidate should be unheard of. According to him, even some lawyers and civil rights took to the street recently to protest the killings in the state under Governor Yahaya Bello, and calling on him to stop all forms of violence. Even some editorials in national dailies have recently been writing on the violence in the state (and which has been tagged Kogi political trademark), and the urgent need to halt it without delay. So, the Chairman said, the governor should as a matter of urgency heed all the calls and do everything possible to tackle the rising spate of political violence, killings and thuggery so that he can redeem himself from the tainted image of his complicity. POLL Meanwhile, he called on all aspirants and their supporters to go about their electioneering campaigns peacefully and in an unprovoked manner, and that people should be free to hold rallies, campaign for their candidates and eventually vote for them. Aduku said the people of the state have become more aware and their recent actions shows that they too are equally tired of political violence, and are now yearning for violence-free and credible election that will produce the true candidate of the people. He commended the peaceful rally days back by the candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Alhaji Muritala Yakubu Ajaka, in Idah, saying that despite the huge crowd, the rally was hitch-free. He urged candidates of other political parties to toe such line and imbibe the spirit of sportsmanship, adding that they should also be free to campaign in other zones apart from their zone without any fear of crisis or harassment.