I had wanted to apply wisdom in talking about the Biafra/Nigeria genocide civil war between 1967 and 1970, because I had already written a personal encounter to the war expedition, of which, I titled, THE BIAFRAN CHILD. I have kept my promise to stay mute until after the publication of the book. But I have to renege from my position after I read a damaging comment in a WhatsApp group, where one AYODELE vaunted that Igbos are yet to learn from what happened to them in 1967/1970 civil war. He went further to derogate all the Igbos as Biafran agitators-cum-terrorists.All these insults were all about the Igbos refusal to vote BAT in this year’s presidential election. Initially, I didn’t want to respond as I had earlier stated, but when you see a child in the middle of a road, mimicking certain incarnations, the child may not be acting alone. The 2023 elections in Nigeria has unconsciously pitched Igbos against some criminal minded people of other ethnic nationalities, and the simple truth was because Igbos voted for a candidate of their choice.If you can reflect on the threads of Igbos votes right from 1999 till date, they’ve always been consistent in their presidential choices. Those decisions were not borne out of tribal or religious sentiments, but their innate ability to discern their own best choice. It has nothing to do with ‘FOLLOW FOLLOW’ agenda. And I am extremely glad that the 2023 presidential election voting pattern has no truth to permit that PO was a sole agenda of the Igbos.I remembered that the beauty of democracy is the freedom of expression and choice. Why is anyone’s choice becoming an issue of ethic intolerance and hatred? The second reason why I decided to pen down this piece, was Ayodele’s incitement and threat against the Igbos with this serious warning of, THE BATTLE LINE HAS BEEN DRAWN. That’s an extreme threat to gloss over, because it seemed to portray a person who is either expecting another civil war, a sinister motive or he’s priding on the ugly killing spree of the Igbos in that avoidable civil war. It is a clear indication of the new perspective of most other ethnic nationalities about the modern Igbos. The truth remains that since after the civil war, we have not seen a situation or any place where Igbos are accused of carrying guns to chase their welcoming hosts. True Igbo man or woman will never compromise his or her burial obsession to be processed in his or her ancestral land. The reason why land grabbing by FGN cunning policies in Igbo land has failed woefully. Igbos will rather die than bequeathing their ancestral lands to unfriendly strangers.That’s why when someone says that Igbos are calling LAGOS, a no-man’s land, I get amused. How many Igbos are buried in Lagos? An average and true son and daughter of Igbo race have a limited time to stay outside his ancestral land. At certain age, an average Igbo person will go home and prepare to be buried with his or her ancestors. Igbos won’t drag anyone’s ancestral lands, because, they’re always home bound at their twilight days. If they’re in your community, state or country, they’re there solely for their businesses and means of livelihoods.The 2023 elections had polarised Nigerians, and unfortunately, every Igbo person has been degraded to be a member of IPOB, ECN or UGM. A sad narrative that must be debunked.Those who voted PO in Nigeria were not Igbos alone if you take a glance at the number of eligible and actual voters in SE. The revelation of the fraudulent votes manipulation in Lagos State wasn’t escalated by the Igbos but PDP chieftains. It’s becoming very unfortunate that most attacks about the 2023 fraudulent elections are now stigmatised against the Igbos, as every social media comments tend to not only insult the Igbos, but give a sinister impression that Igbos are parochial in uniting with other ethnic nationalities in Nigeria. The only sin being that majority of Igbos voted for an Igbo man. Nobody has accused the Yorubas allegiance to the unity of Nigeria simply because they voted for BAT. Equally, nobody has accused the Northerners for their presidential candidates’ choices, but for once, majority of the Igbos stood by their own person, whom they perceived will help build a new Nigeria, in terms of character, reputation, integrity and honesty. Suddenly, PO became an Igbos agenda. For this reason, Igbos should be expelled from Lagos State even after their shops and buildings were either burnt down or bulldozed.Are Igbos not free to vote whosoever they want to? Are Igbos the most heinous problem of Nigeria? What exactly is our problem as Igbos? How long shall the young generation of the Igbos suffer for the 1966 coup of their fathers that they’re not part of? We saw during the elections, where many Igbo elites campaigned for BAT and other Northern candidates, and yet, hatred still persisted. Call it emotional sentiment or whatsoever, I don’t think that anyone can sit down while his race is being insulted at every comment concerning a democratic election. BAT has won, and what else do you want from the Igbos? HopeRenewed has started and we are all enjoying the dividends, and why don’t we allow the Igbos to breathe free air. While the court judgement is being awaited, I am hoping that, in whatsoever outcome, Igbos will not be singled out for mob attacks immediately the Judges pronounced their verdict? This becomes very critical, because, Igbos have remained calm after INEC’s declaration and BAT’s eventual inauguration. Igbos have suffered enough of which I have a fair share of the derogations. If you don’t need Igbos in Nigeria, let us inform BAT to allow the Igbos off the hook of Nigeria.Since 2015 elections, even those I respected for their balanced intellectual discourse are all tenants to the promotion of fraudulent elections and society. Please leave Igbos alone, and this is because, OBEDIENT MOVEMENT is not about the Igbos, but the youths rallying point. A synergistic reaction of the marginalised youths who are bent on taking back their country from the old scavengers in politics. POLL When shall we forget the coup of the 15th January 1966 tagged as an Igbo coup? Haven’t the Igbos suffered enough?OBJ and other elder statesmen have in different dimensions clarified the proponents of the coup as a collection of all parts of Nigeria military officers…and why should it be tagged as Igbo officers coup alone? Why don’t we allow history to be taught in our schools? People are hiding behind their hatred for Igbos to spill out nonsense, and of course, criminalising all Igbos. Why are Igbos not crying for the way and manner their son, General Aguiyi Ironsi was ingloriously murdered in Ibadan in a counter-coup of July 1966? Till date, Igbos have unreserved respect for Col. ADEKUNLE FAJUYI, who stood up to defend an Igbo man even at the cost of his life. With such a sacrifice, how can Igbos hate the Yorubas. Despite Pa Awolowo’s starvation policy initiative against the Igbos during the civil war, he equally gave out a stipend of £20 to all returnee Biafrans. Igbos were warmly welcomed to Lagos State and other Yoruba enclaves with warm embrace, and yet, some few satanic agents are hatching the unfounded lies of Igbos hatred for Yorubas, or taunting that Lagos is a no-man’s land. Igbos are in Lagos because of the harmonious relationship between the Yorubas and the Igbos, having many centuries of friendly attachment and relatively same ways of lifestyles. What could have ignited this new wave of hatred, and I want to believe in the conspiracy theory that points to the Northern Oligarchy/Caliphate’s historical strategic manipulations against our mutual relationship sustainability. The carving out of South-South region out of the olden days South Eastern region by the Northern Caliphate/Military leadership was the reason why unity has eluded the once brotherly fraternity in the South Eastern region. The same strategy is being hatched by the same oppressors to constantly ensure that the Igbos and Yorubas are never united. And unfortunately, we are under the bondage of that conspiracy theory strategy. The truth is that no single Yoruba or Igbo person could actually understand why the hatred is dangerously escalating when they don’t hate each other, personally. We have always attributed this hatred to politics, but I deferred. Why should politics divide us when we have much to gain by staying in love? The reason is simple, we have allowed external forces to determine our friendliness, and secondly, we have forgotten that, “It’s easy to ignite a war but nobody can predict the consequences of the end of the war.” – DSM . The untold story is that nobody has apologised for the war crimes committed against Nigerians in all the regions during the three years of the avoidable civil war. Igbos equally suffered more than others, but they have moved on, and that’s why, Igbos are not talking about the number of Igbo military officers murdered in various military commands and even the Asaba massacre. Igbos are not talking about their pregnant women who were butchered with their children in the North. Igbos are we talking about the heinous death tolls committed on top of River Benue’s train massacre, where many Igbos were sorted out in the middle of the sea, killed and thrown into the sea? Igbos are not talking about the military disregard of international laws on war engagements and as such, children and women were murdered. Igbos are not talking about the policy of starvation against the Igbos, and which has been condemned globally. Igbos are not talking about a deliberate policy to starve the region of any federal establishments or even the fulfillment of the FGN’s promises of 3Rs – Reconciliation, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation. Well, hate the Igbos or not, and for people like Ayodele and few saboteurs in Igbo land, Igbos have been violated in various times and ways. They are not stupid even though they are all watching with dismay of their oppressors strategy of marginalisation, but let those haters understand that TRUE SONS AND DAUGHTERS of IGBO race will never be intimidated by any form of political induced violence, injustice, nepotism and annihilation threats.“No matter how much you want to push someone to the wall, when there’s no other way of escaping, the wall will become the last strength of survival.” DSM. As always I come in PEACE, especially for those who appreciate the gratitude of our existence as we live together as citizens and not as a selected dichotomy. Dr. Sunny Oby Maduka (DSM), is an Author, Resource Personality, Management Consultant/ Trainer, Chartered/Certified – Au d i t o r / A c c o u n t a n t , Financial Compliance Expert, Economic/Political Analyst Strategist, Marine Expert and Motivationist)