ABEOKUTA – The Senator representing Ogun East Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Otunba Gbenga Daniel has written Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, demanding the suspension of his monthly pension and allowances. OGD as fondly called, served as the Governor of the State between 2003 and 2011. In a letter titled, ‘Request To Suspend My Monthly Pension and Allowances’, and addressed to Governor Abiodun, Daniel asked that the N676,376.95 pension/allowances he is entitled to as a former governor be suspended. Although the letter was dated 14th June, 2023, the former Governor posted the same on his verified Twitter handle, @JustusOGD late on Thursday night. According to him, the suspension of the pension was in compliance with his conscience, moral principle and ethical code against double emoluments that a serving Senator, who hitherto was a former State governor, enjoys from the State. Daniel was inaugurated alongside other Senators on June 13 at the National Assembly. The Senator noted that he had not benefitted from any welfare packages be it medical, furniture, transportation and others since he left office in 2011. The letter read: “I write to request for the suspension of my monthly pension/allowances of 676,376.95 (gross) (Six Hundred and Seventy-Six Thousand, Three Hundred Seventy-Six Naira, Ninety-Five Kobo) being paid as a former Executive Governor of Ogun State. POLL “This request is in compliance with my conscience, moral principle and ethical code against double emoluments that a serving Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria who hitherto was a former State Governor, shall not be entitled to the payment of pension and allowances from such State. “It would be recalled that on Tuesday 13th June 2023, I was, with other elected Senators and Members of the House of Representatives, inaugurated as members of the 10th National Assembly. “It is pertinent to also have it on record that since I left the office in 2011, I have not benefitted from any welfare packages be it Medical, Furniture, transportation etc. Thanks in anticipation.”