Uche Aniche, the convener of Startupsouth, in this piece, counsels startups on how to raise funds and grow their businesses. The easiest way to raise money for a startup is to focus on the users/customers. It is interesting that some founders are scared of customers but need investment. “How will the investors get their money back? I know that last line doesn’t make sense, so let me rephrase. Investors don’t know what will work but they can try by gauging how it is currently working. “Sorry if I left you more confused. All I was simply saying is that why investors ask for traction is to do some mental maths of what is possible should they decide to back you. When you show up without traction, you make the maths more difficult. A guy told me he doesn’t want to take the risk of getting customers to make upfront commitment because he is scared he might disappoint them but he is looking for investors. It means he needs investor’s funds to perfect his product first. Now, I understand him and a lot of us were like this at different times. But, everyone who has chased a contract before understands that banks will fund as long as the awarding company is credible and you can demonstrate capacity. It is the reason Nigerians fight to be local distributors to foreign manufacturers. Local content buttered so much bread in this regard. Now, I know a lot of us in the startup coaching space have told you that banks don’t fund startups and loan is not a viable funding option for early stage. Please understand that there should have been a caveat to that advisory – it depends on what you do. If you do some manufacturing and you are able to convince customers to place orders way before your products are ready, you can actually get a bank to fund your production. You must, however, ensure that the orders are credible before approaching a bank. Proper banks know how to secure their funds and won’t fall for silly scams. Whether you are building a startup or you are chasing contracts, when it comes to customers and funding, the principles are largely the same. If you are afraid of customers, you should be way more afraid of investors. POLL So, investors’ money is not for experiments. Once you understand this, fundraising will be far easier.