BENIN  – Less than one month after Ken Imansuangbon, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, dumped the party for the Labour Party, LP, another chieftain of the party and governorship aspirant on the party platform in Edo 2020 guber election, Engr. Gideon Ikh­ine has also left the party. Engr. Ikhine, who was the Deputy Director General, Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council for the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki in 2020, is set to join the All Progressives Congress (APC). Reports had it that Ikhine’s decision to dump the PDP may not be unconnected with what was described as irrec­oncilable differences between him and Governor Godwin Obaseki. In a letter addressed to the Chairman, PDP Ward 7 (Uk­penu/ Ujolen/ Emuhi) Ekpoma, Esan West local government area and dated July 8, 2023, Ikhine did not state the reasons for leaving the party but said, “It has been a great honor to contribute to the growth and success of this party over the years, with Peo­ple Democratic Party recording outstanding results from my Ward all through the 24 years of working with you. “My commitment to the peo­ple of Ward 7, Esan-West Local Government and Edo people remains firm and resolute to keep serving them in other ca­pacities.” When contacted on the phone for the reasons he left the party, he said “It was for personal reasons.” On his governorship ambi­tion and his next destination, Ikhine said, “I am still consulting but I will be joining the APC a few days from now and I will address a press conference soon to clear the grey areas.” Ikhine was the first gover­norship aspirant ahead of the 2020 governorship election to step down for Governor God­win Obaseki and donated his campaign office and structure to Obaseki to realize his second term bid after he was disqualified by the APC. POLL It was gathered that there was an understanding between him and the governor that he would get the right of first refusal ahead of 2024 but it seems the governor is not ready to honour that gen­tleman’s agreement.