ZINOX Technologies Limited, one of Afri­ca’s leading integrated technology groups, has unveiled a plan to invest over $250,000,000 after years of re­search, test running durable and cost-efficient multifaceted renewable energy solutions for Africa particularly Nigeria. The partnership is with leading renewable energy companies in China, the UK, South Africa and Dubai. For 23 years, Zinox has pi­oneered innovative technolo­gies and boasts of an enviable track record of efficient deliv­ery of critical tech solutions in Nigeria and various Afri­can countries. The iPOWER Solar, Invert­ers and Batteries, a brand of global partnership, is now available in Nigeria with up to 25 years of warranty. Zi­nox plans to deliver within 24 hours all orders for iPOW­ER Products to major cities in Nigeria subject to stock availability. Unveiling this at the just concluded annual strategic business retreat, attended by captains of tech and Power in­dustries including the Chair­man of Zinox Group, Leo Stan Ekeh, the Managing Director of Zinox Technologies Limit­ed, Mrs Kelechi Eze-Okonta described Zinox as the tech heartbeat of the continent. She affirmed that it has been proven that Africa pos­sesses a level of Technology Independence with high-qual­ity tech-related projects time­ly and successfully deployed across Africa. ‘’We have taken our time, with huge investments in research with distinguished global partners, to come to this point. We believe that what is worth doing, is worth doing well. We now have tested products that have warranties of up to 25 years. We also plan to launch our integrated Exec­utive Mobile Energy solution for Professionals, SMEs, PaaS for Telcos’ Rural Telephony In­frastructure and students on the 4th of September.’’ She said, “We have worked with credible domestic part­ners to deploy renewable solu­tions in over 25,000 homes, schools and offices in the last seven years. POLL ‘’We are now excited to hit the market with specific cost-efficient energy solutions that are budget-friendly both for homes and businesses, no matter your size and scope, but most importantly, we will take responsibility no matter who you buy iPower – Invert­ers, Solar Panels and Batter­ies from. “ “We are also starting to train over 500 Nigerian En­gineers and certified techni­cians from 36 states plus Abu­ja who shall conduct standard power audit, installations and after-sales support nation­wide to offer our customer full value for money.’’