According to a report from Daily Mail, Manchester United are keen on a move for Robert Sanchez as an alternative to Andre Onana. The Spanish international is valued at around £30 million by Brighton & Hove Albion. The Red Devils have been heavily linked with a move for Andre Onana as well and it remains to be seen whether they can agree on a deal with Inter Milan. If the Cameroon goalkeeper proves to be an expensive option they could always switch attention towards the Brighton goalkeeper. Sanchez has had a difficult time at Brighton this past season and he has struggled to hold down a regular starting spot. The Spanish goalkeeper is no longer the first-choice option under manager Robert Sanchez and a move away from Brighton would be ideal for him. Meanwhile, Manchester United have parted ways with David De Gea after his contract expired and they will have to replace him adequately. Sanchez could prove to be a useful option for Erik ten Hag. The Dutch manager prefers goalkeepers with impressive distribution skills and Sanchez is certainly an excellent passer from the deep. He could be the ideal fit for Manchester United next season. The Brighton goalkeeper will be desperate to prove himself at the highest level and a move to Manchester United will be an exciting opportunity for him. The Red Devils will be competing in the UEFA Champions League next year and Sanchez will want to showcase his qualities against the European elite. A move to Manchester United could enhance his chances of holding down a regular starting spot for his country as well. An impressive season at Old Trafford could help him cement his place in the Spanish national team for the upcoming european championships next year. Furthermore, Sanchez will cost a lot less than Onana, who is reportedly valued at around £50 million. The 27-year-old Cameroon goalkeeper has worked with Erik ten Hag in the past, and he helped Inter Milan reach the UEFA Champions League final last season. There is no doubt that he would be a better option for the Red Devils but signing him could prove to be difficult because of his stature at the Italian club, and his asking price.