A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on Monday, nullified the expulsion of former governor of Enugu State, Chimaroke Nnama­ni, from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over alleged anti-par­ty activities. Justice James Omotosho, in a judgment, held that Nnamani was not given a fair hearing in accor­dance with the PDP’s constitution. Justice Omotosho said that going by the Article 57 of the con­stitution of the PDP, it was only the National Executive Council (NEC) that can convene a disci­plinary committee as against the National Working Committee (NWC), which took the decision. The judge said that the con­stitution of the party stipulated that it was the NEC that was vest­ed with the power to take disci­plinary action against any erring member who is a governor, depu­ty governor and a serving mem­ber of the National Assembly. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nnamani, who represented Enugu East Sen­atorial District in the 9th Senate, lost his re-election bid to a Labour Party candidate, Kelvin Chukwu, in the February 25 poll. The PDP NWC, at its 566th meeting, had expelled the former senator on February 10 for alle­gations bordering on anti-party activities. He was initially suspended on January 20 before he was subse­quently expelled. Nnamani was alleged to have campaigned for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Bola Tinu­bu, against the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abuba­kar. POLL Tinubu was declared the win­ner of the February 25 presiden­tial election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) after polling the highest votes and was sworn in as Nige­ria’s president on May 29. But Nnamani, in a suit marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/163/23 filed on February 6, had sued the INEC, PDP national chair­man and the NWC as 1st to 3rd respondents over alleged breach of his fundamental rights to fair hearing. In the originating summons, the plaintiff asked the court to determine whether he could be suspended without giving him the constitutional right to fair hearing. He wanted the court to deter­mine having regard to the provi­sions of Article 57 of the party, the decision of the NWC suspending him on January 20 was not null and void. He, therefore, prayed the court to declare that by virtue of the party’s constitution, the respon­dents did not validly conduct a disciplinary measure against him before his suspension. Nnamani argued that besides being a serving senator, he was a two term governor of Enugu State. He said that he was neither notified of any complaint against him nor afforded opportunity to fair hearing. But the respondents, in a counter affidavit and a prelimi­nary objection, sought an order dismissing the suit. They argued that Nnamani campaigned for another political party while being a member of the PDP. They said contrary to his argu­ment, the party had the power to suspend him having being found to engage in anti-party activities. They further argued that the issues bordered on the internal affairs of the party which the court lacked the jurisdiction to determine. Justice Omotosho said that though the Supreme Court held that the issue of party member­ship, etc, was within the party’s jurisdiction and a no-go area to the courts, he said Section 46(2) of the 1999 constitution vested the power on the court to hear alleged breach of person’s rights. He cited previous cases to back his decision. “This court will not dabble into the internal affairs of party but will restrict itself to whether the fundamental right of the plaintiff has been breached,” he said. He said though these rights are not absolute, they are entrenched in Chapter 4 of the 1999 constitu­tion of Nigeria, and that the Af­rican Charter on Peoples Rights also makes provisions for funda­mental rights. The judge agreed that a mem­ber of a political party must abide by its rules and regulation, hav­ing freely submitted himself to its rules, he however said that the court would only interfere where the party had violated its own rules and regulation. He observed that Articles 4 and 5 of the PDP gave provisions for fair hearing to erring members. According to him, fair hear­ing is giving equal opportunity to parties and where fair hearing has been done, a party cannot complain. “But the complaint of the plaintiff is that he was not given fair hearing,” he said, in accor­dance with Article 57 of the par­ty’s constitution. “The law is clear that specific provisions override general pro­visions,” he said. He said the available fact be­fore the court was that the NWC, at its 566th meeting, considered all the allegations against Nnamani and approved his suspension for one month. Besides, the judge also ob­served that it was the NWC that expelled him on February 10 in a press release. Omotosho, who said that this was a gross violation of the par­ty’s constitution, held that this had rendered all the actions null and avoid. He said the court was con­vinced that the plaintiff had been able to establish his case against the respondents. Justice Omotosho consequent­ly gave an order nullifying the de­cision of the PDP NWC that was taken on February 10, expelling the ex-lawmaker.