DAMATURU – The international NGO (INGO) community welcomes the commitments made during the Lake Chad Basin (LCB) Governors Forum (held in Ndjamena, Chad, between 5 and 7 July 2023) towards partnerships to meet humanitarian, development, and peace needs. In a Lake Chad Basin INGO Forums Joint Press release, the INGOS recognize that the situation has improved in certain areas of the LCB, and welcome the efforts made by the government and international actors through their strategy to stabilize and develop the LCB. They also acknowledge that 11 million people in Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria remain affected by a complex crisis resulting from protracted conflict and displacement, the adverse impacts of climate change, and deepening economic challenges. Meeting humanitarian needs remains one of the preconditions to build self-reliance and lasting change. “The situation in the countries surrounding the Lake Chad Basin continues to raise major concerns among INGOS. In our daily operations, we witness the burden on the people we strive to serve amidst insecurity and a reduction in the resources available to carry out humanitarian, peacebuilding and development assistance. “But we also have hope that coordinated action by all actors, starting from the government and supported by partners including the international community, can save lives, build resilience, move this region towards greater stability, and revive the development process that has been limited by the ongoing crisis in the LCB region,” said Camilla Corradin, Director of the Nigeria INGO Forum. In addition to dealing with physical and psychological trauma, crisis-affected populations face challenges in accessing basic services including food, water, shelter, and health. Food insecurity is on the rise in the region; about 5.6 million people are experiencing acute hunger – the highest figure in four years – and 758,000 children are severely malnourished. Humanitarian, development, and peace interventions are not mutually exclusive. As stressed by the LCB Governors during the Forum, if those actions are carried out in a complementary and coordinated manner and based on joint analysis, they can amplify impact. “Given the millions of people impacted by the crisis in the LCB and despite a complex operational environment, INGOs such as the International Rescue Committee (IRC) support people in need through initiatives that span across prevention, humanitarian response, and resilience building. POLL “For example, IRC has implemented innovative solutions including streamlined and simplified approaches to combating malnutrition and proactive action with cash programming, enabling communities to better cope with floods and drought,” Modou DIAW, Regional Vice President for IRC in West Africa. Unimpeded humanitarian assistance is key to achieving collective goals. “Humanitarian access is a major challenge in the LCB region. If we are to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the lives of hundreds of thousands of families, their needs for drinking water, quality food, and care must be met,” said Audrey Hernandez, Director of Concern Worldwide in Chad.