US President Joe Biden is in London for talks with British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, ahead of a NATO summit where he is likely to face criticism over a decision to provide Ukraine with cluster bombs. US President Joe Biden has arrived in the United Kingdom where he is due to meet Prime Minister Rishi Sunak and King Charles III before continuing to Lithuania for a NATO summit. The stop-off is a diplomatic gesture of goodwill which the White House says was designed to further strengthen “the close relationship” between the two nations. It comes just days after Biden’s administration announced its decision to send cluster bombs to Ukraine to combat the Russian invasion. Washington said on Friday that it would supply Kyiv with the widely banned bombs as part of a new $800 million (€730 million) security package. Several NATO members oppose the use of the munitions and Prime Minister Sunak has already made Britain’s position clear. “The UK is signatory to a convention which prohibits the production or use of cluster munitions and discourages their use. “We will continue to do our part to support Ukraine against Russia’s illegal and unprovoked invasion, but we’ve done that by providing heavy battle tanks and most recently long-range weapons, and hopefully, all countries can continue to support Ukraine,” he said. POLL During his stay in the United Kingdom, Biden is also expected to raise his concerns over post-Brexit challenges to the peace process in Northern Ireland. But when he moves on to the NATO summit in Lithuania, he’s likely to be challenged over the decision to provide Ukraine with cluster munitions. They are basically bombs that open in the air and release scores of smaller bomblets and are seen by the US as a way to provide Kyiv with critically needed ammunition to help bolster its counter-offensive. More than 120 countries have signed a convention banning their use, but the United States, Russia and Ukraine are among those who have not signed on. Also on the NATO agenda is Ukraine’s bid for membership. (SOURCE: Euronews)