The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO), has commissioned borehole projects in two communities of Lagos schools. A statement by Mr. Tayo Ajakaye, the Assistant General Manager, Corporate Communications, NAHCO, said that the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) performance was hailed by the beneficiaries and the Lagos Local Education Authorities. The statement hinted that before the intervention by NAHCO, pupils at the two locations in Ewutuntun and Mafoluku, where a total of five schools were located had always needed to go out of the school premises hunting for water from neighbouring houses during school hours. The absence of water had also made maintenance of hygiene difficult in the schools, the statement said. However, the commissioning last week by Mr. Indranil Gupta, the Group Managing Director, NAHCO, has substantially solved the problem. Gupta explained that Nahco was fully committed to supporting the government through its CSR initiatives. According him, stakeholders have to come together to support the government in achieving the dream of providing a better future for our children, stressing that it is the duty of the community, not just the family, to raise children. He added: “The borehole project is one that would provide water for the children in the school and those who will come after them. POLL In her remarks, Mrs. Florence Aderemi, the Head of Mobilisation at the Local Government Education Authority, said that the presence of the borehole facilities would lead to an increase in enrolment and retention of children in the schools. She pointed out that it had always been a painful experience for her seeing the school children going out of school premises in search of water. She lauded NAHCO for the assistance to the schools, while praying for the continued progress of the company. Also, Mrs. Victoria Adeyemi, Headteacher of the Ewu Primary School, was emotional as she danced during the commissioning for the timely intervention by nahco aviance. “All I can say is that God will bless nahco,” she kept repeating again and again. The first project located at State Primary School, 3 Bode Onifade Street, Ewutuntun, would serve the school, the Community Primary School, Ewu and the State Primary School, Mafoluku. The second borehole project located at Ewu Primary School, 1-7 Ogundele Street, Ewutuntun, would serve both the named school and Methodist Primary School, Ewutuntun.