LAGOS – The Dean of Ibafo Deanery and Parish Priest, St. Paul Catholic Church, Ibafo, Very Rev. Joseph Yemi Akinlotan, has called on fathers to be shepherds of their families, just as Jesus saw the crowd and had compassion on them. Very Rev. Fr. Akinlotan gave the admonition on June 18, 2023, in his homily during the Holy Mass to commemorate Father’s Day in the parish. “The message of today’s liturgy is about love and compassion. This was presented in the Gospel of this morning. “We are told of how Jesus had compassion on the crowd that he saw. And that made Jesus to see the crowd like sheep without a shepherd, without someone to lead them, to help them, to direct them. “Jesus looked at the crowd and called those who will become their shepherd and guide them and make each one of them a shepherd. “The same way you as fathers are called individually with a big responsibility to be shepherds of your individual families. “And that is the role of the father for his family, a role so important that you occupy the position of the apostle in the life of your individual family,” he said. He added, “It is also important that you occupy the position of the apostles in your individual families. It is such compassion and dignity that we want to pass on as we celebrate Fathers’ Day today. “ POLL The Parish Priest then prayed for those yet to identify themselves with the Catholic Men Organisation (CMO) to see the occasion as a springboard to be members fully and active for the good of our church and our community. He implored the fathers to return to family life by always returning home and staying with the family. “Do not be an absentee fathers, even if your work demands it; have time to pray together; show good examples, not only by words but also by deeds,” he advised. He told the fathers to build their families in love and love their wives as from the beginning of their marriage. He told them that no matter the challenges, they should never lay their hands on their wives. He urged them also to always pray for their children so that they would be successful in pursuing their dreams and to give them their blessings always for them to succeed. The Dean of Ibafo Deanery prayed for fathers to live in good health of body and mind and for the dead ones in the Parish that God would grace them with eternal life. He then congratulated the fathers for being good fathers, praying that God would bless them always and grant that they reap the fruits of their labour. The second part of the celebration took place after the Holy Mass. There was plenty to eat and drink. The event was spiced with a brief talk by Catechist George Adeniran on Catholic Marriage. Mr. Adeniran said that Catholic marriage is a Sacrament, which Christ himself instituted, adding that a Sacrament introduces us to Salvation, a closer union with God. Adeniran said Catholic marriage is about a man uniting with a woman in the church, the Christian community. He said, “If your marriage is blessed in a church, it is an indication that your marriage is on the right course. “This is not to say that marriage is meant to be a bed of roses. No, if there are challenges, they help us to have a share in the cross of Christ. You are not to say, ‘I no do again.” He said Catholic marriage is indissoluble, meaning that no matter the challenges. “If you take your challenges to Christ, they would be resolved,” he said, adding when two have become one in marriage, it is supposed to be lived out to the very end. He said the indissolubility of marriage stems from the fact that divorce has a negative influence on children and society. When two are fighting, it engenders hatred contrary to what God created and by extension would be promoting family quarrels.