LAGOS – Valentine Ozigbo, the Special Adviser to Peter obi on Technology and Strategic Alliances, and governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in November 2021 in Anambra State, has debunked rumours that he is considering taking up an appointment with President Bola Tinubu. Ozigbo who was a key mem­ber of the Labour Party Pres­idential Campaign Council during the 2023 election said he never had such discussion with anybody. In a tweet on Saturday eve­ning, Ozigbo said he has not had any conversation with anyone regarding taking up any appoint­ment in Tunubu’s government, declaring that he is still 100 per­cent ObIdient. He urged the members of the public to disregard such ru­mours. “I haven’t had any conversa­tion with anybody about taking up any kind of appointment with Tinubu’s government. Please dis­regard the rumours. I am still 100% Obidient,” Ozigbo wrote. Recall that Ozigbo, a strong supporter of Peter Obi, a few weeks to the February 25 pres­idential election, advised Pres­ident Tinubu who was then the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the candidate of the PDP to endorse Peter Obi or face defeat. The Labour Party chieftain made the remark in a statement on January 24, 2023, where he also refuted the claim of an “Abu­ja meeting” with the Atiku camp. According to Ozigbo in that statement, opponents were at­tempting to “derail the massive momentum of Obidients across Nigeria and worldwide”. POLL He accused them of spreading rumours and engaging in under­handed tactics rather than focus­ing on “a fair and open contest of ideas”. He called the “unprofessional conduct” an indication of fear of fair competition and lack of con­fidence in their own candidate’s abilities. “In a civilized setting, the wise thing for Atiku and Tinubu to do would have been to allow Peter Obi to go unopposed by honour­ably stepping down. “But if they insist on con­tinuing, they should be ready to accept their fate at the polls”, Ozigbo added then.