KANO – The immediate past administration in Kano state has dismissed as mere gimmickry a call by one Kabiru Dakata that President Bola Ahmed Tinubu should distance himself from the former governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. The former Commissioner for Information and Internal Affairs, Malam Muhammad Garba said in a statement that Dakata, who had been a card-carrying member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and is now in the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), has always been hiding under the guise of his ‘brief case’ Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) which he used to attack the former administration in the state. Garba who spoke against the backdrop of a “supposedly sponsored” press conference that Dakata addressed on Sunday in Kano, explained that Dakata was recently in the media desperately seeking attention and possible appointment in the NNPP government in Kano. According to Garba, Dakata’s current open romance with the NNPP government discredits him even from his assumed position as an analyst on current affairs where he features in programmes on radio stations to discredit the former administration in the state. The former commissioner pointed out that these acts amount to “jeopardizing the operations of genuine NGOs” and called on unsuspecting members of the public, particularly the NGO’s community to watch out for people who are being paid to operate fake organisations in order to discredit individuals, governments or organisations. Garba also recalled that a similar scenario played itself in 2019 when fake NGOs sprang up from nowhere to discredit the polls by sharing fake pictures of violence during the Kano gubernatorial elections, as well as in 2023 when fake election observers were discovered to be members of the NNPP. Dakata had during the press conference called on the intervention of Interpol to place Ganduje on the watch list, advised the former governor to submit himself for justice, while he also called on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to distance himself from Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. Ganduje stressed that Tinubu and Ganduje were two leaders sharing the same vision and experience about governance and development which was why they go together. POLL The former commissioner added that despite all efforts to put a wedge between them and scuttle Ganduje’s chances of getting a political appointment from the president, the duo has always been together, even as now they are currently in Guinea Bissau attending an ECOWAS Summit.