Delta State Governor Sheriff Oborevwori has given thanks to God for his legal victories at the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal and the Supreme Court on Friday. The governorship election petition tribunal sitting in Asaba, had, on Thursday, dismissed the petition of Mr. Ken Pela, the governorship candidate of the Labour Party for abandoning his petition. Similarly, the Supreme Court, on Friday dismissed an appeal brought before it by Chief Ikie Aghwarianovwe, seeking the disqualification of Governor Oborevwori for lack of merit. The thanksgiving service which held at Government House Chapel, Asaba, to appreciate God for the victories was attended by Governor Sheriff Oborevwori and his wife, Tobore, the deputy governor, Sir Monday Onyeme and his wife, Catherine, former Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and his wife, Edith, and the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Emomotimi Guwor among other top government functionaries. Speaking at the service, Governor Oborevwori who dedicated the court victories to Almighty God, thanked God for stamping His feet on the affairs of the state. He pledged to continue to be the governor of all Deltans and sued for the support of all in the task of building a virile and prosperous state. Rt. Hon. Oborevwori disclosed that his administration was anchored on Christ, just as he attributed his electoral victory to God’s divine mercy. According to him, “God cannot deny Himself. The victory God has granted us, is permanent and no man can destroy what God has done by himself. POLL “Today, we stand here victorious and we are grateful to God for guiding us through this challenging journey. God has taken over our battles, therefore, we are more than conquerors. “These victories of yesterday and today are dedicated to God and they have come as early birthday gifts to His Excellency, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa. “I congratulate our leader, Senator  Ifeanyi Okowa, for the foundation that he has laid. I once told him that he has done things that he will be remembered for. “I appeal to Deltans to know that the victories we have recorded are not from men, but from God and we give God all the praise,” he said. Earlier in a sermon, the Chaplain, Government House Chapel, Ven. Charles Osemenam called on Nigerians not to indulge in the nefarious act of pulling others down, emphasising that every evil committed would obviously attract severe consequences. Ven. Osemenam observed that evil was on the increase in the contemporary Nigerian society because, according to him, “many people are not with Christ”, pointing out that there was need for Christians to surrender their lives to Christ. He urged the governor to see his legal victories in court as a unique call to stand with Christ and render selfless service to God and humanity. Speaking in an interview with journalists shortly after the thanksgiving service, immediate past governor of the state, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa called on all Deltans to join hands with Gôvernor Oborevwori in advancing sustainable development in the state. Senator Okowa noted that thanksgiving to God was an application for more blessings hence the need for the governor to sustain his cordial relationship with God. “Truly I am thankful to God. If you recall in the very few words that I did speak before I left office, was that it will be my greatest joy to see the altar at Government House Chapel still aglow. “And coming here today and the stories I have heard in the last several days, I give God all the glory. This is the greatest legacy that can be left; because once God is present in our lives and governance, things will move smoothly. “The grace of God is sufficient for us. So I am truly very excited walking in here today since I left office and seeing the enthusiasm of people to serve God. “I thank God for the person of the governor and it’s my prayer that God will bring more glory and praise to his administration,” Okowa stated.