LAGOS  – Governor Umar Namadi of Jigawa State has called on Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to tackle the menace of violent clashes between herders and farmers in the state. Governor Namadi made the call during a working visit to the NSCDC Commandant General, Dr. Ahmed Abubakar Audi, at the National Headquarters, Abuja. The governor said that Jigawa State contributes a lot to the food se­curity of the nation and the affected area was a major point where food was produced for both the people of the state and the nation at large. “I want to passionately appeal to you to give us a squad or a team of your Agro Rangers who are well trained and specialised in dealing with the issue at hand. “If we have that opportunity, it will bring a lasting peace to the area, our people would be able to go to the farm, and economic activities in the areas will certainly improve,” he said. Gov. Namadi commended the Corps for its pivotal role in the main­tenance of internal security in the nation. He expressed satisfaction with the performance of the Corps na­tionwide and lauded Commandant General for providing quality lead­ership through dint of hard work, dedication, and patriotism. “I want to thank you for the good and commendable performance of the Corps in the area of internal security. POLL “Within just two years, you have transformed the agency through your hard work and repositioned it for better performance,” the Gov. said. He informed the CG of the con­cerns expressed by farmers in the state due to attacks by herders which has over the years led to fear. He appealed for prompt interven­tion of the Corps in providing secu­rity for farmers in the affected area in order to restore their confidence to freely go back to farming. Dr. Audi in response thanked the governor for his visit and promised to deploy well-trained Agro Rangers personnel to the state to find lasting solutions to the lingering farmers and herders clashes. “By our Act, NSCDC is mandated to protect and provide security for the government’s critical national assets and infrastructure. “We have over 10,000 staff in the Agro Rangers’ department that are well trained to provide security and safety for farmers and other agro-al­lied products and investments in the nation. “We concentrate on states that are major producers of food for this na­tion and Jigawa is one of the states that give food security to this country. “We have been getting intelligence reports on the way bandits and kid­nappers scare farmers and since we have some reserve personnel for this kind of request, we will provide the service that you need”, the CG assured. Dr. Audi also thanked Gov. Na­madi for his support to the Corps in Jigawa State and assured him of put­ting a stop to the security challenges facing the agricultural sector. He said that more effort will be channeled towards peace-building through the use of Alternative Dis­pute Resolution (ADR), pointing out that in the last two years, over 100 farmer/ herder clashes were amica­bly resolved by the corps.