ABUJA  – Hon. Billy Osawaru, member represent­ing Orhionmwon/ Uhumwode Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), has appealed to Nigerians to bear with the new government as the cur­rent hardship experienced by the people occasioned by the removal of fuel subsidy will be for a short period. He also appealed to Nige­rians to be tolerant and give the Ahmed Bola Tinubu-led government the benefit of the doubt as things will soon be okay. Speaking at the weekend with our correspondent in Abuja, Hon. Osawaru said, “Imagine someone that buys fuel for 180, today he is buying it for 537, it is not the same feel­ing, we know the hardship is there, but I can assure you that it is going to be for a short pe­riod. If we can go through this short period by being patient with the new administration, better days will be ahead for us all. “I know many times you cannot blame Nigerians if they don’t tolerate some of these things anymore, because in the past they have been taken advantage of, they have been taken for granted. We have to plead with our people to please be tolerant and give this new government the benefit of the doubt and I can assure you that everything will be fine.” He further said: “My Mes­sage is patience and tolerance, no pain, no gain. If we under­stand that no matter what we need to enjoy, let it be in the long term rather than just in the long term because whatever you are enjoying in the short term does not make sense. “If you get two thousand given to you as a subsidy, just on a short term, then that suffering is still there and we are still going to pay the price. But if we can just let the two thousand go towards some­thing else that would make our lives better in the long run, you are not just going to enjoy it, your children will enjoy it, and your children’s children will enjoy it. “I am sure that is our goal, that patience and tolerance are what we are pleading for because I understand the way it is, there is always going to be a shake-up and not in a pleas­ant way.” He called on Nigerians not to be afraid of the 10th National Assembly as being rumoured in some quarters to be a rubber stamp to the Executive arm of government. POLL The Benin High Chief said the National Assembly is going to be different, adding, “The first thing you want to know is, this is the most colorful assem­bly we have ever seen. Eight different political parties and we have found a way to work together peacefully for the uni­ty of the country. It is not as if we don’t have our differences from time to time, we do even with the leadership. But we just found out different ways of managing the situation.” The All Progressives Con­gress lawmaker said they had issues that they resolved themselves, stressing, “Does that make the assembly a rub­ber stamp? I don’t think so. You will see a lot of things because this Assembly is made up of a lot of mature politicians that understand how to get results. We have hit the ground run­ning just like the President. On the comment of the Na­tional Chairman of APC, the lawmaker said, “I am not sure in which context he said that he was not consulted because this is the House of Represen­tatives and what we are doing is not a secret. The positions were zoned out and names were mentioned, it was put on the table and that was how the Speaker and Deputy Speaker emerged. “Coming to the presiding officers that made up the lead­ership, we followed the same formula, it was zoning. You can see the leader of the House was zoned to South-South and that was how they all emerged. “The minority leader for the opposition parties produced another South-South leader and we all endorsed. We attend­ed meetings and endorsed the leadership. So, maybe people might just be taking what the Chairman said out of the con­test. All is well in APC. Hon. Osawaru also revealed his interest in tackling insecu­rity, and road infrastructure in his Constituency especially the Benin/Abraka road that has been abandoned by both Edo state and federal government for so long. “I have a motion coming up that will talk about the Be­nin Abraka road. The need to rehabilitate and dualize the road, because of the relevance of the road. Orhionmwon lo­cal government holds some of the largest oil and gas reserves in the country, looking at the number of communities in that axis, it is not something to joke with. In taking care of security, if we don’t get the road fixed, and dualize, then we are going to have a lot of kidnap­ping cases. That is why I am going to move the motion on Tuesday. This is something we are going to continue doing.” As a Palace Chief, he said, “Oba of Benin’s message is that I should go there and be a good Ambassador for the kingdom, represent your people, don’t bring bad name to your people and as an adult I understand what those messages mean. That is why in everything I do here I always consider those things because being a Benin man, like today the way I in­troduced myself when I was seconding a motion, that I am a proud Benin Chief, that advice from His Royal Majesty I hold very dearly.”