JOY ANIGBOGU It is expected that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would play a strong opposition role in the parliamentary arm of government but that didn’t happen. What actually played out at the National Assembly was a dominance by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The ruling party didn’t only dominate the majority principal officers but also the minority principal officers. There were reports of cases of financial inducements, though it is not substantiated but the parliament is controlled by the APC. The fear is that the 10th National Assembly is looking like another rubber stamp. The major concern for Nigerians is the fact that the National Assembly which is supposed to be a representative of Nigerians must have been hijacked by the ruling party which also implies that our democracy is in danger. If APC could win the battle to put its people as majority leaders and the minority leaders, then it simply means that the PDP may not have a legislative agenda but will only be dancing to the music played by the ruling party. The PDP didn’t just lose with the minority leadership it also lost during the election for the leadership of the Senate and the House of Representatives. Most of the lawmakers from the minority camp voted for the choice of the APC. So, unfortunately the PDP has lost this. The PDP being in disarray can be traced to the presidential primary election in May 2022 and that provided the narrative for the crisis which has factionalized the party for so long. POLL Aminu Tambuwal stepped down for Atiku Abubakar and that didn’t go down well with the then governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State. So, it will be said that the path to PDP’s current disunity started at the party’s presidential primary last May, when one of the presidential aspirants and former governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, stepped down for Atiku Abubakar, a development believed to have altered the equation and swung things in Atiku’s favour. Wike, also a presidential aspirant, did not take kindly to Tambuwal’s decision, especially the following day, when the suspended National Chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu, thanked Tambuwal and described him as the “hero of the convention.” These series of events soon led to a rebellion orchestrated by Wike and his friends. They insisted that for the balancing of power, Ayu must resign from his position and pave the way for a southerner to become PDP’s national chairman, since a northerner, in the person of Atiku, had emerged as the presidential candidate of the party. Wike and the others contended that the condition was what they all agreed to when Ayu was nominated as the party’s chairman. They maintained that Ayu’s refusal to go after Atiku emerged was a breach of understanding and trust that could not be overlooked. But while the party did not object to the request and claim outright, it noted that it was only possible after the general elections, a decision the G-5 rejected and since then waged war against the PDP leadership. Like in any war situation casualties could come from both camps, so the crisis cost some of the G-5 members their elections, but they are not deterred as they have continued to fight. This most likely explains why Wike and others moved against PDP a few days ago at the National Assembly, when it became clear that Tambuwal, a man said to have stopped Wike’s presidential ambition by standing down for Atiku, was being tipped as the party and Atiku’s choice for Minority Leader. Interestingly, the G-5 have resolved to continue to stand in opposition to PDP and seize any opportunity to give back to the party a dose of its own treatment. The G-5 has continued to fight the party and swore that the party would lose the election and the party lost the election and after the general elections the G-5 is still fighting, There are reports of Wike and other members of the G-5 meeting with the APC and joining forces with the APC to fight the PDP. Nigerians with so much expectation looked forward to the emergence of the minority leaders of the National Assembly, especially after the election of the majority leaders who were alleged to be handpicked by the executive arm of government. Unfortunately the hope of Nigerians was dashed with the emergence of the minority leaders who are said to be handpicked by the agents of the APC in connivance with Wike and his G-5 members. So, some people were surprised on Tuesday when the senate president Godswill Akpabio after a closed-door session with the senators, announced that the six minority parties in the upper house had picked their leaders. He announced Simon Mwadkwon (PDP, Plateau North) as the minority leader and Oyewunmi Olalere (PDP, Osun West) as the deputy minority leader. Darlington Nwokeocha (Labour Party, Abia Central) was appointed minority Whip, while Rufai Hanga of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Kano Central emerged as deputy minority whip. After the announcement, the Senate President directed the minority leaders to sit at their appropriate seats in the front row. Also the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Tajudeen Abbas announced the names of the principal officers during the plenary on Tuesday. Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers) also emerged as the minority leader of the House. Abdullahi Halims who represents Ankpa/Omala/Olamaboro of Kogi State emerged the deputy House leader while Mr Aliyu Madaki of NNPP was named the deputy minority leader. Other principal officers include Bello Kumo representing Akko federal constituency of Gombe as the chief whip; and Adewunmi Onanuga representing Ikenne/Sagamu/Remo North federal constituency in Ogun State as the deputy chief whip. So, for the first time in a long while, especially since Nigeria’s return to civil rule, the main opposition party has failed to assert any form of control or influence in the choice of the minority leadership in both chambers of the National Assembly, when the federal legislature chose its principal officers recently. The development not only left PDP in palpable disarray, but also further exposed the party’s gradual and systemic weakening by some of its own, who would not let any opportunity to take their supposed pound of flesh against the party leadership slide. Although not unexpected, the aggrieved group of former five governors of the party appeared visible in the politics of the minority leadership. They were also believed to have compromised the current leadership of PDP, under Umar Damagum, who might have given the party away to the G-5 governors, and let them steal the show. With this development, the mainstream PDP evidently lost out to the G-5 and the theatrics of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC). APC was believed to have reached an understanding with the G-5 to undo their party at every opportunity. From all indications, the mainstream PDP does not own the minority leadership in both chambers of the National Assembly, as those that emerged are not a true reflection of its choice. Typically, this development might have begun to relegate the opposition party, which watched helplessly as it was played out to the background of action in the legislature. The G-5 had allegedly enlisted and mobilised all the other opposition parties, especially Labour Party (LP), whose members were alleged to have resorted to “cash and carry” politics. The group was said to have effectively “captured” the other opposition parties and might continue to instigate them to always stand in opposition against PDP. The PDP has not totally given up as some of its chieftains believe that there is still light at the end of the tunnel. Speaking in an interview on Wednesday, Emmanuel Ogidi, former vice national chairman PDP, South-South, said that the party would bounce back and that the minority leaders though were not picked by the party, would remain loyal to the party. He said, “Sometimes it is difficult to deal with human beings. Sometimes human beings show ingratitude. You used to say the party is supreme and unfortunately today, individual interests have affected the supremacy of the party. “Today you see a lot of unfortunate incidents. We expect what is happening but the truth of the matter is that we have 36 senators, almost one third of the number in the chamber. APC tries to break our ranks, and this is possible because of the man in Rivers State, Nyesom Wike who sold out and he keeps selling out. “It is unfortunate, but he will pay the price in due time. Because what you sow in this life is what you will reap. He has tried consistently to destroy the party. He cannot kill PDP. I believe that God is with us. “We have a weakness in PDP. We don’t know how to be in position. That is why APC which specializes in opposition is doing what it is doing. I think that we are still learning to be in opposition. Thank God that we still have our members who are principal officers. I don’t think that they will disrespect the National Working Committee (NWC). “Recall when Elumelu became the minority leader, yes he was suspended but he did his bid. It turned out to be a good one, and now Chinda has come in. The truth of the matter is that they all have responsibilities and this time around it won’t be like the last time because the minority leader is not just leading the PDP, he is leading all other parties. “Nigerians are watching them and we are also watching them. I heard you talk about the APC national chairman say that the majority leaders were not their choice candidates. The truth is that the power of the party has been weakened by the executive consistently. “Right now even APC cannot recall anybody, once their president is in charge. I will not call him my president because we are in court. I believe that we will get it right. We are not happy but we will get it right. “Yes, we are still together. They will listen to the party because they still need the party at all times. They will still come back. They will need the party and the party has a big stick. Yes, it is weakened now. We are still in court. All our attention is focused on the court. It is a distraction for us now if you ask me. The big picture that we are after is in the court. Whke speaking about Mwadkwon, Ogidi said, “I’m not worried. He is a party man. The interesting thing today is that when you look at the APC principal officers, they are all those that we trained in the PDP. Akpabio that is the Senate President, was in PDP. They know our weakness and strength because they were with us. I think that they know us and we also know them. Like I said earlier, whatever you sow in this life you are going to reap it. The party is supreme. Whether anybody likes it or not. They are party men and I am sure that they will listen to us. Speaking in an interview on Thursday, the minority leader, Senator Simon Mwadkwon refuted the claim that he was picked by the G-5. He said, “I emerged as a result of the benevolence of my colleagues, who found me worthy to represent them. The PDP didn’t even intervene in the leadership tussle in the House of Representatives. I am sure that they also found it expedient not to interfere also in the leadership of the senate and I think it is a healthy development for the PDP. The senate standing order is clear on how the minority should be elected. Order 27 rule (1) states clearly that the minority leader shall be nominated by members of the minority parties. It did not specify one party but by all members of the minority party and we are six minority parties. “These people came together and nominated me to be their leader. I think the PDP did the right thing by staying away. You can see that the APC has been rejected. While none of the officials of the PDP has come out to do that. All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) did not do that, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has not done that. The New Nigeria People Party (NNPP). The PDP is on the right track and on the issue of the G-5, I don’t know anything about G-5, all I know is that I am a senator under PDP, and the distinguished Senators in the minority, almost all of the about 50 of them. I got 36 nominations. It was overwhelming,” he said. The minority members at the senate have also assured that they won’t be rubber stamps. Senator Neda Imasuen told Nigerians that the 10th Senate will not be a rubber stamp and also won’t be at a loggerhead with the executive arm of government. He also said that the role of political parties in the emergence of principal officers in the National Assembly is in advisory capacity, adding that the leadership of the Senate is chosen among themselves. While fielding questions from journalists, Senator Imasuen, who represents the Edo South senatorial district on the platform of the Labour Party, said that the aim of the 10th Senate is to work in tandem with the executive to resolve issues that seem to be dragging the nation backward. Reacting to the emergence of principal officers in the upper chamber of the National Assembly, the lawmaker expressed satisfaction, adding that what happened were divergent views and opinions, hence he did not see the 10th Senate as a rubber stamp, rather as a corrective one. He also stated that the emergence of the Minority principal officers was possible due to the bulk of the Minority Senators, who are made up of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party and New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP). He said: “I am satisfied because PDP with about 35 Senators took two seats that is magnanimous on their part. Labour has one seat and NNPP one I think that is fair. “In all this, I cannot speak for the PDP because I am in the Labour Party. You must also understand that the leadership of the Senate is chosen among ourselves, so whatever the political parties do is in advisory capacity, they can write to the Senate that this is their preferred candidate. But if the Senators themselves decide to say this is who they want, in this case, the majority of the Senators come together and choose who they want and this was the case. “We are about 50 opposition Senators and over 30 voted for this leadership and you cannot fault it. This is democracy and it is unlike the 8th or 9th Senate where there is a clear division as to the opposition, where you have the ruling party and one major opposition and you don’t have any other party as opposition. “We are over six opposition parties and you cannot discount anyone. A political party who feels aggrieved should also understand that there are other opposition parties put together to make such a decision. “I don’t believe this Senate can be a rubber stamp, I don’t think that can happen. The simple reason again like I said before is that there is no clear demarcation as to who is the opposition and who is the leadership, meaning, among the oppositions you have clusters of opposition parties. So, are you telling me that PDP will tell me how to vote, that is not going to happen. I have an independent mind, and so also NNPP, even among PDP Senators they are not so cohesive that they will all face one direction.”