There is concern in some quarters that Nigeria may be gradually drifting into a one party state if urgent step is not taken to stop some of the actions of the ruling party to control the National Assembly and turn the opposition parties especially the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) into a stooge of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Some people are quick to blame the PDP for its failure to function effectively as a main opposition party and they have even gone further to fault the action of the executive arm of government which has foisted its choice candidate as the Senate President and has gone ahead to get the support of senators, making the legislature an appendage of the executive arm of government. What is more worrisome is the allegation in some quarters that the ruling party is trying to also foist its candidate as the Senate minority leader. Reports have it that the main opposition party has named former Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal as its choice candidate for the office of the Senate minority leader but the APC is working very hard using some people outside the red chamber to frustrate the move. According to reports, former Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike along with his G-5 members and some of their supporters in the upper chamber of National Assembly are working very hard to assist the ruling party achieve its objective. Reports also have it that those working to frustrate the PDP from having its candidate as the minority leader are campaigning to get Senator Jarigbe Agom, who is representing Cross River North in the Senate as the minority leader. The lawmaker has come out a few days ago to debunk the stories in media that some former governors of the PDP are projecting him for that position. He said that even though he is qualified for that position, he has never indicated interest. POLL He said,” I saw in the newspaper that G-5 governors were projecting me for the position of the Senate Minority Leader of the 10th Senate. That story is unfounded. I have never indicated an interest in the position though I am qualified. “I have been elected to the National Assembly four times, two times as a House of Representatives member and twice as a senator. “I have never had any discussion with any member of the G-5. The only person I spoke with was the immediate past governor of Rivers State, and he has not mentioned that to me,” he said. Against that background, a bloc in PDP, called the Concerned PDP League (CPDPL), said it would oppose any attempt by the party to present Sen. Aminu Tambuwal, as Senate Minority Leader. Chairman of CPDPL, Mr Daboikiabo Warmate, alleged in a statement on Wednesday, 28 June 2023, that the group was not in support of Tambuwal, based on his actions as the Speaker of House of Representatives. Warmate said that instead of Tambuwal, the position should rather be zoned to a state in the North-Central, precisely Plateau. “That his ambition is dead in its imagination, how much more arrival, nevertheless, the past has caught up with him,” he said. Warmate stated that Tambuwal had during his leadership as Speaker of the 8th House of Representatives given to him by the PDP, defected to the APC. “It is with great disappointment and shock to have read on the papers that Tambuwal, the former Governor of Sokoto State and PDP Governors Forum Chairman, wants to be the minority leader of the 10th Senate “Somebody that in 2014 took the House of Representatives Speakership we gave to him and defected to another party. This same person eventually came back to the party. “Now, he wants to be the minority leader of the 10th Senate; we will not give support to you. “Look, for many years, he was the PDP Governors Forum chairman, but could not speak against the suppression and sufferings of Nigerians,” Warmate said. According to him, Tambuwal cannot be trusted the second time and does not have the needed courage to be the Minority Leader of the 10th Senate, judging from his antecedents. He called for a mid-term convention to be followed by the dissolution of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to give room for fresh ideas. The group also urged the Acting National Chairman of the party, Amb. Umar Damagum not to sign any letter introducing Tambuwal as the Minority Leader of the 10th Senate. “The former PDP Governors Forum Chairman, performed woefully as a leader of the opposition party. “No, enough is enough; PDP members cannot be used and dumped. “It is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), not Elite Democratic Party or Stakeholders Democratic Party, and that is what we want them to know. “We will not allow members, leaders or any leader to use the party and dump it at will, no! That is unacceptable. We need to tell them the truth.” Warmate commended the immediate past Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, for providing the needed opposition voice in the eight years of the APC Buhari-led Federal Government. On its party PDP Group, a pro-Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) platform named PDP Action 2023 has said any attempt to foist a leadership on the minority parties in the senate would result in destabilising the red chamber. It likened the move to impose a minority leadership in the chamber to a plot to complete dictatorship in Nigeria. The group which accused the majority party in the senate, the APC of instigating the move alongside collaborators, however cautioned the Senate President, Godswill Akpabio, not to allow them dabble into the minority leadership race. Chairman of the pro-PDP group, Hon. Rufus Omeire, in a statement, also decried the attacks against former Sokoto State governor, Sen Aminu Tambuwal, who is aspiring to be minority leader in the senate. Omeire said; “Why are some elements in the majority party and their collaborators desperate to control the leadership of the minority parties in the senate? “We counsel the newly elected president of the senate not to allow people to destabilise the senate by dabbling into the minority leadership issue of the 10th senate but to concentrate instead in assisting Mr President to deliver sound legislation and good policies to ensure good governance in Nigeria at this critical period of change and renewal.” He added that those attacking Tambuwal were worried that he may become a stumbling block to the alleged plot for complete dictatorship in Nigeria. Omiere added, “Since the issue of Minority leadership of the 10th Senate became topical, the media has been awash with contrived, manufactured, sponsored, desperate, irresponsible, and generally distasteful stories planted by people with inordinate ambition to stifle the voices of opposition and future accountability in the 10th senate. “They have zeroed in on Senator Aminu Waziri Tambuwal as their problem. “They have levelled all sorts of spurious and unfounded allegations on him. They allege that he had once betrayed some people and PDP. Behind these allegations is an attempt to re-litigate the 2022 PDP presidential primary. “They have consistently tried to pin on him the issue of betrayal of some of his friends because of the patriotic role he played during the PDP national convention. We cannot hold brief for Tambuwal, but at the appropriate time, the relevant question would be asked: “Who betrayed who?” Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central at the red chamber of the National Assembly, in an interview a few days ago, warned the PDP against relinquishing its position as a main opposition party. He said, “To be candid the main opposition the PDP has not taken a serious action against its members that betrayed or subverted its own course in the 2023 general elections. “They opted for the part of reconciliation but what is very clear is that the faction that broke away from the PDP to form the G-5 is determined to work 100 percent in line with the ruling party, and there is no way that you can call yourself an opposition if the people you are appointing in the position of leadership are simply the agents or stooges of the ruling party. “The former Governor who is a member of the G-5, all that he is trying to do, I believe is to have a minority leader that he anoints, which will give him the relevance in terms of his engagements with the ruling party. That is all politics. I believe that the ruling party has enough membership to be able to get most of its programmes, motions and bills too, but it is natural that it will need an opposition that will work together with it but not to the point that you have an opposition that will be a rubber stamp. “The danger is that the opposition will disappear once you have a minority leader who is there simply to work for the ruling party. The main opposition PDP has to be careful about this because if it allows those who are among the G-5 to have an agent who is going to be the minority leader, they have simply surrendered for the next four years the role that they ought to have played in the National Assembly,” he said.