Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, Ladi Adebutu and his par­ty on Tuesday stormed the Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abeokuta, with over 8,000 documentary evidences to prove his peti­tion against Governor Dapo Abiodun. Adebutu in the peti­tion marked, EPT/OG/ GOV/03/2023, is challeng­ing the victory of Abiodun based on alleged non-com­pliance to the Electoral Act and corrupt practices during the March 18 governorship election. The three-man panel led by Justice Hamidu Kunaza resumed for the hearing of the petition on Tuesday. Lawyer to Adebutu, God­dy Uche (SAN) presented the documents in various ‘Ghana-must-go’ bags be­fore the tribunal, sitting at the Magistrate Court, Isabo, Abeokuta. He prayed the panel to admit the documents as ev­idence against Abiodun. Uche argued that, the pre­sentation of the “exhibits” followed the instruction of the court in its pre-hearing report that both petitioners and respondents should present their documents for their cases. Uche said he had served the Independent Nation­al Electoral Commission (INEC), Abiodun and the All Progressives Congress (APC), the first, second and third respondents a 98-page schedule of documents, list­ing all the documents to be tendered before the court. The documents, accord­ing to Uche, included: INEC forms, BVAS reports, ECAs, voters’ registers and printed IREV results. POLL He also prayed the court to allow him call his witness­es for the commencement of trial. But, counsel to INEC, Peter Olatunbora, objected to Uche’s prayers, arguing that the petitioners should have availed the respondents with the documents before presenting them before the court. Counsel to Abiodun, Ke­hinde Ogunwunmiju (SAN), asked the court not to admit the documents as evidence, arguing that the petitioner did not follow the laid down procedure for presenting documents before the court. He prayed the court to give the respondents three days to allow them inspect the documents before admit­ting them as evidence. The chairman of the tri­bunal, in his ruling gave the petitioners two days to allow the respondents inspect the documents. Kunaza adjourned the case till Thursday, July 6. Speaking to journalists shortly after the ruling, Adebutu’s counsel said, “We came with all our docu­ments, in fact we came with more than ten bags full of documents and yesterday we also filled a schedule of doc­uments where we listed all the documents we are going to tender. It is about 98 pag­es, it will contain about 8,000 INEC forms, documents, BVAS reports, ECAs, voters’ registers and even the print out from the IREV. “But, the respondents said they need time to go and look at them (documents). Well, in the interest of fair hearing, we agreed that they can go and look at them. “As we have assured the tribunal, we are very ready to proceed, in fact, if the tribunal wanted even by tomorrow we will call our witnesses, but as it is, we will bring our documents tomorrow, we will call our witnesses. “One funny thing is that the order of the tribunal was even for the respondents to also bring their own docu­ments and show, but surpris­ingly, we are here today and they didn’t bring even one document”.