ABUJA – As the Senate awaits the list of ministerial nominees from President Bola Tinubu, a group under the auspices of Benue APC Critical Stakeholders’ Forum (BACSF), has appealed to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Senator George Akume and Benue State Governor Hyacinth Alia for fairness, equity and justice in the nomination of candidates for ministerial positions in the state. The group, in a statement on Thursday, signed by its Coordinator, Chief Denen Akumagbem, called for wide consultation with the key stakeholders in the state over the zoning and choice of ministerial nominees. They noted such consultations would cement the unity and development of the party and the state and give every stakeholder a sense of belonging. The BACSF while pledging their loyalty to our amiable SGF and the Executive Governor of Benue State appeal that “We want equity, justice and fairness in our party; and suggest that all zones in the state be treated democratically in the sharing of national positions. “Recall that Benue state is made up of two major ethnic groups spread across the 23 LGAs: Tiv and Idoma. While the Tiv controlled 14 LGAs, the Idomas control 9. There are other minority tribes such as the Igede, with 2 LG’s  added to the 7 LG’s of the Idomas totaling 9, Etulo etc. While the Tivs are in zone A and B, the Idomas are in Zone C. And since 1999, the state has had eleven ministers with Zone C leading with five while Zone A and B followed with three each. “They are as follows: Sen. Iyorchia Ayu (Zone B), Mr. Stephen Akiga (Zone A), Dr. Jerry Agada (Zone C), Chief Mike Aondoakaa (Zone A), Mrs Grace Ogwuche (Zone C), Prof. Nicholas Ada (Zone A), Chief Sam Ode (Zone C), Chief Abba Moro (Zone C), Chief Samuel Ortom (Zone B), Chief Audu Ogbeh (Zone C) and Senator George Akume (Zone B). “For equity, justice and fairness, we are appealing that Zone A should produce the next minister since Zone B has the SGF in the person of Senator George Akume. This will bridge the gap between Zone C and A and B. Let us correct the anomalies brought by the PDP where Zone C produced both senate president and ministers for eight consecutive years while Zone A and B had nothing. While Senator David Mark was senate president from 2007 to 2015 Chief Sam Ode and Chief Abbah Moro were also ministers. “Now, with Senator Akume as SGF from Zone B, the minister should come from Zone A, which has enjoyed the position for only three times. SGF is already a member of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), therefore, Zone B cannot be minister because it will mean Zone B having two representatives at FEC, which will not be in tandem with the principle of fairness, justice and equity. POLL “Zone A parades an array of young and vibrant thoroughbred professionals and technocrats. We appeal to our amiable SGF and our listening governor to choose from the pool of the KWANDE bloc of our loyal members of our great party. Our support and loyalty to this government remains 100%,” the group pleaded.