LAGOS – Nigeria’s Simi Nwogugu, the Chief Executive Officer of JA Africa has been named the winner of the Africa Education Medal 2023. Founded last year by T4 Education and HP in collaboration with Microsoft, the Africa Education Medal is Africa’s most prestigious education accolade. The Africa Education Medal was founded to recognise the tireless work of those changemakers who are transforming African education. The Nobel Peace Prize-nominated JA Worldwide, one of the world’s largest youth-serving NGOs that prepares young people for the future of work. Simi Nwogugu was first introduced to JA while working at Goldman Sachs in New York City. Impressed by the organisation, she quit her lucrative job at age 24 to bring JA to Nigeria, where it now reaches more than 100,000 young people annually, before going on to head up JA’s operations across the continent. Through the delivery of hands-on, blended learning in financial literacy, work readiness, and entrepreneurship, her organisation empowers young people to grow their entrepreneurial ideas, hone their work readiness skills, manage their earnings and secure better lives for themselves, their families, and their communities. For 25 years, Nwogugu has been leading JA’s efforts in various capacities as it embarked on a mission to help young people to generate and effectively manage wealth, create jobs for their communities, as well as apply entrepreneurial thinking to the workplace and skills that will secure their financial future. POLL Reacting to the award, Mayank Dhingra, Senior Education Business Leader, Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa, at HP said: “Congratulations to Simi Nwogugu on the fantastic achievement of winning the Africa Education Medal 2023. “Her work at JA Africa is truly empowering the continent’s next generation to face the future with confidence. “She is an inspiration to all of us at HP, where we have a bold goal to accelerate digital equity for 150 million people globally by 2030. Only by joining forces and aligning with NGOs, government, educators and businesses can we truly improve the education environment. The Africa Education Medal brings together all those who are changing the face of African education, whose vital work deserves to be celebrated.” Vikas Pota, Founder and CEO of T4 Education, said:“Simi Nwogugu has dedicated her life’s work to skilling up Africa’s young people, equipping them with the tools to not only survive but thrive in the world they’re entering. Pota added,” Your success will serve as a rallying cry for changemakers to come forward and help Africa unlock its potential.” In the same vein, Nigerian actress, Kate Henshaw said:“It is important to recognise the impact, advocacy and leadership of prolific individuals who are demonstrating their commitment to uplifting the standard of education in the continent. “That is why it gives me great pleasure to recognise and congratulate Simi Nwogugu, the CEO of JA Africa, who is this year’s medallist for the Africa Education Medal in conjunction with HP and Microsoft.” In her response, Simi Nwogugu said:“I am so honoured to receive this accolade, but it is not just about me. This award is for all the fantastic staff at JA Africa, and for all the inspirational young people they have worked with, helping to pave the way to a brighter future for our continent’s young. “I want to thank T4 Education, HP and Microsoft for giving these people hope that together we can make a difference.” Simi Nwogugu was chosen from the Top 10 finalists for the Africa Education Medal.