LAGOS – From time immemorial, international pro wrestling talents have stormed many African nations to compete with our home-based talents in Africa all in an effort to promote the grunt and groan game internationally and the coming of Dr. Jimmy McDowell, who hails originally from Little Rock, Arkansas, now the famous Pro Wrestling state of Florida would not be different. The talented actor, producer, professional wrestler of over three decades, a dentist and director is a man of many parts. Some call him “Jim of all trade and master of all”. He started his pro wrestling career over 30 years ago and it baffles all how he manages as a dentist and also competes favorably as a professional, wrestling mostly in Florida where he is based and around the US states whenever there are events that have been constant for a while now. Jimmy by day runs his dental office while by night, he runs circles around his opponents in the wrestling ring dealing with them squarely and that led to the saying “Dentist by Day, Pro-Wrestler At Night!” He has been privileged to compete over the years with world-talented and internationally rated superstars like Buff Bagwell, The Barbarian, The Warlord (both of The Powers of Pain tag team), Super Crazy, The Nature Boy Paul Lee, Chic Donovan, Pablo Marquez, Mo, Twin Towers and so on. So he does not see Cameroonian “L’animal” Alain Tazo as a threat having dealt with world rated grapplers. “The Golden Boy” Jim McDowell, is AIWF Golden Age current heavyweight champion and titleholder, 3 times AIWF National Heavyweight champion and the Latin America champion. He is ready to storm Africa on July 22, 2023 in an effort to showcase the hard stuff he is made of. He has also been training to prepare for his coming to Africa for the first time. Animal too has doubled his training as he claims that he may not be a legend as The Golden Boy coming from the USA, but the title is his legacy as a young talented African grappler. “I am a raw talent. I may not have the international experience of the Golden Boy who received training in the USA but then, I am an African made. Black means Power in Africa and I want Golden Boy to get this straight. “I have dreamt about this for over two years, and have been patiently working on it and this is the set time. I have been training in the morning, evening and at night. I have also engaged in training in the sun, in the rain, on the valley, on the mountain and among the toughest and roughest in the sport all in an effort to get prepared for the World Wrestling Heavyweight Title fight tagged: “BATTLEGROUND 2023,” L’animal explained. POLL Talented and industrious, Jim’s double passions started when he was a young child growing up in Arkansas. His pro-wrestling career started after starting four years in college while playing American football. He tried out for the USFL and NFL afterward before he attended dental school and he has been a dentist and pro wrestler for over 30 years. He has been privileged to travel nationally and internationally. He has wrestled against and trained with world-rated wrestlers from CCW, WWE, NWA, WCW AIWF, GWF and so on. Here comes the American legend to Africa. The championship will hold at the Palais de Sports, Yaoundé, Cameroon on Saturday, July 22, 2023 by 4:00 pm. After seeing the posters and banners at the last PWA/FECACATCH event of June 17th, Cameroon fans were very excited and they should troop out en mass to witness this fight of the millennium in Cameroon. Other Cameroon talents that night are El Kass, Moustapha Zouberu, Kirikou, Le Tigre, Bienvenue, Mbunga, Black Tiger, Valdess and Arc en Ciel.