MAKURDI – People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Vanguard for Sustainable Democracy, North Central zone, has advised the national leadership of the PDP to exercise restraint and caution in its bid to come up with a new National Chairman for the party, adding that reconciliation should be paramount during the process. In a statement signed by Alex Ogaba, Chairman, PDP Vanguard in the zone and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Saturday, the group also insisted that in the interest of fairness, the North Central should retain the position of the National Chairmanship of the party. While Ogaba applauded the peace processes embarked upon by the acting national leadership of the PDP, which it described as apt, he warned the party leadership to be even more cautious because if the process was not well handled it may serve to further divide the party. He however applauded the series of meetings that were held by the party to ensure that the internal crisis rocking the party as a result of the outcome of the last presidential primary was resolved. Ogaba said, “As the national leadership plan to meet in furtherance to entrench peace and stability in the party, reconciliation should be paramount. We earnestly appeal to our esteemed party leaders to exercise utmost caution and restraint, ensuring that their actions do not further divide our party. “We must learn from past experiences, such as the recent formation and fallout of the G5 group, which bears a striking resemblance to the emergence of the New PDP during the Goodluck Ebele Jonathan’s administration. “We all bore witness to the outcomes of these separate fallouts. To revive our great party and reclaim our former glory, we must find common ground and unite behind our shared ideals and values.” Ogaba further advised the PDP leadership not to be misguided by the school of thought advancing the opinion that the national chairmanship of the party be ceded to other geopolitical zones other than the North Central. POLL He pointed out that, “In as much as the party is making frantic efforts to resolve the issue in contention, the acting national leadership should bear in mind that the position of national chairmanship must not slip the North Central. “They should ensure that the position remains in the North-Central zone and allow it (the Zone) to complete its tenure. “The agitations by some members in other zones that the leadership of the party should zone the position of the national chairman to other geopolitical zones should not be encouraged. North-Central geopolitical zone should be allowed to complete her tenure. “In conclusion, we call upon all members of the party to exhibit understanding and demonstrate an unwavering commitment to the preservation of our great party. “Let us work together to resolve any existing disputes and navigate these challenging times, upholding the democratic values upon which the PDP was founded.” The group further appealed to all stakeholders from the North-Central zone to forge a common front to ensure that their tenure is not truncated, adding that whatever the leadership is doing now, should be done in the interest of the party to make the party remain as one, as it would be unfair for the party to move its national chairman from the north central. Recall that the position of the national chairman of PDP became vacant following the removal of Senator Iyorchia Ayu, by a Court in Benue State shortly after he was suspended from the party by his kinsmen. The move, therefore, truncated the four-year tenure of Senator Ayu.