Mmesoma Ejikeme, who was accused by the Joint Admis­sions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) of forging her result has denied the allegation. Ejikeme spoke in a video, expressing surprises that a re­sult she reportedly printed out from the JAMB portal could be termed by the examination board as fake. The candidate, who said she was traumatised by the claim made by JAMB, described herself as a brilliant student, saying she is not capable of do­ing what JAMB accused her of doing. In the video, Ejikeme said: “I am the owner of this result. I went to JAMB portal to print this result and this is what they gave me. This is the result here. This is my aggregate, 362. This is exactly how I downloaded it from that site. So, they (JAMB) are now saying I forged my re­sult is what I don’t know; and I’m traumatised that they ac­cused me of forging my own result. “I am not capable of forging results. This is the evidence. The QR code on the result was scanned and it showed another name, a Yoruba name, Omotola Afolabi, 138. That same person that got 138, they checked again and the person scored 238; meaning that there is problem somewhere.” Ejikeme explained that she was at the office of the Anambra Commissioner of Education on Friday with her secondary school principal and the education secretary. “We showed this result to the Commissioner of Edu­cation, both this one and the SMS they sent to me. So, she snapped it and sent to the JAMB officials. They called back, saying that this was a forged result, that I forged it myself, that the JAMB office doesn’t have a record of this. “They called the DSS over to come to her office. The DSS took us to their office and we made our statement there. The DSS said they would contact us later, that they are going to investigate this result to know where it came from. POLL “Instead of them (JAMB) to wait for the investigation to be over, they posted that I forged without confirming. I’m really, really sad about it,” she stated. She added that being a bril­liant student from her primary school days, she could not have forged the JAMB result just to impress anybody.