…Want 2006 white paper on Kwankwaso re-visited Some Civil Society Organisations have demanded the immediate resignation or sack of the Kano Anti-Corruption Commission, Barrister Muhuyi Magaji for alleged partisanship and incompetence. The rights groups also demanded a re-visit to the recommendations of the 2006 white paper report that exposes the land scandal of the former governor of the state Engr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, for fairness’ sake. Speaking Tuesday at a one-day Conference on Good Governance Appraisal in Kano, organized by some Civil Society Organisations, victims of demolition, and other stakeholders, various speakers decried actions taken so far by Governor Abba Yusuf in the state. In a communique signed after the conference, it was resolved thatthat the government of Kano state should stop further demolition of properties of innocent citizens with immediate effect. The communique was signed by the national coordinator of the Coalition for Good Governance and Change Initiative (CGGCI), Comrade Okpokwu Ogenyi, national coordinator of the Progressives League of Youth Voters, Comrade Abdul Us and Shuaibu and national coordinator of Northern Nigeria Civil Service Group. It reads: “The government should, as a matter of urgency, compile a comprehensive list of victims of the demolition and commence the process of compensation. “The government should set up a committee to verify genuine landowners with the view to return the same property to them. POLL “That Governor Abba Yusuf should take his time to study the handover note of the previous administration instead of taking hasty decisions, bearing in mind that government is a continuum. “That the state anti-corruption commission has completely been politicized especially with the appointment of a partisan and card-carrying member of the NNPP as Chairman and therefore Barrister Muhuyi Magaji, should either resign honorable or sack immediately. “That the Kano state government should appoint a more senior, experienced, non-partisan and competent person to replace Barrister Muhuyi Magaji immediately in order to give credibility to the commission “That the state government in the spirit of fairness should re-visit the recommendations of the 2006 white paper report that exposes the land scandal of the former governor of the state Engr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso instead of chasing shadow by embarking on a vendetta mission and face governance.” Speaking earlier, some of the victims of demolition and traders lamented their ordeal since their properties were demolished. One of the victims, Umar Ibrahim, said they were not given notice before their property was demolished, adding that goods worth millions of Naira had been looted as a result of the demolition. In his opening remarks, Comrade Ogenyi said recent actions of government in Kano state underscore the essence of good governance which “we advise the Governor to live up to his responsibility in ensuring the protection of lives and property of citizens. “The government is barely 40 days in office, it has ample time to correct its unpleasant decisions by reversing same for the interest of peace, unity, and progress of Kano state. “The recent demolition of properties in the Kano metropolis has caused pain and untold hardship to many families. The government must realize that it was voted in by the people and should do everything possible to compensate the victims whose shops and houses were demolished by the Kano State Government. “It is imperative to note that Kano State has the highest population in Nigeria with about 10.51 Million people living in abject poverty. The concentration of government should be towards reducing the poverty rate by creating job opportunities for the teaming population of young people instead of demolition legally acquired shops and business premises thereby creating more poverty and unemployment in the State. “One would be tempted to say, it is too early to assess the current administration in Kano State as the government came into power less than 40 days ago, but its actions within six days in office have prompted both local and international organizations to critically examine the process of governance and how it affects the people of Kano in particular and Nigerians in general. “Kano is an economic hub with every tribe in Nigeria residing in the State. Whatsoever affects Kano affects the whole Country. We, therefore, hope that Mr. Abba Yusuf’s administration will quickly retrace its steps and listen to the voices or reasoning.”