ABUJA  – The National Agency for Food and Drug Admin­istration and Control (NAFDAC) has once again extended hands of collab­oration to crucial stakeholders in the nation’s ports in an effort to revamp the export trade in the non-oil sector and reduce the rejection of Nigerian products, positioning the nation in a better place in the global market. This is part of efforts to find long-term solutions to the prob­lem of Nigerian non-oil export rejects abroad. At a consultative meeting with Pre-shipment Inspection Agents on Friday, the Director General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, who was represented by Dr. Abimbola Adegboye, the Director of the Port Inspection Directorate (PID), who also serves as the Head of the Office of Trade and International Relations (OTIR), expressed the Agency’s displea­sure with the alarming rate of violations. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen on Sunday in Abuja by the Resident Media Consultant NAFDAC, Sayo Akintola. She pointed out that the meet­ing was aimed at building effec­tive collaboration with NAFDAC to complement its robust regu­latory policies geared towards understanding the NAFDAC export processes, collaboration to safeguard a unified exporta­tion procedure and zero rejects of Nigeria export products. She expressed dismay that a competent authority on food safety with all her acclaimed global accreditation in food safety testing could be totally blanked out in the listed require­ments for issuance of Clean Certificate of Inspection (CCI) by the Pre-shipment Inspection Agents. No wonder there are high vol­umes of rejects from Nigeria as the NAFDAC regulated products were neither tested nor produc­tion processes validated for com­pliance before export. Present at the meeting were top management staff of Ner­oli Technologies Limited, the agent covering South-South and South-West zone; Anglia Inter­national Services Limited, the agent covering North-West and North-Central zone and Gojopal Nigeria Limited, the PIA cover­ing North-East and South-East zone. They all made commit­ments to immediate rectification of this lapse on their website and their process and enlightening their clients to use the Nigeria Single Window for Trade por­tal (www.swt.gov.ng) to procure their exports certification. POLL NAFDAC as a governmental agency was established by the Enabling Act Cap N1 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004, which empowers the Agen­cy as the competent authority in Nigeria and charged with the responsibility of regulating and controlling the quality of man­ufactured, importation, expor­tation, distribution, advertise­ment, sale, and consumption of food, drug, chemicals, and other regulated products. Essentially, the NAFDAC mandate is to en­sure traded products are of good quality, safe and wholesome. The Port Inspection Director­ate of the Agency has met with the Chairman of Comprehen­sive Import Supervision Scheme (CISS) and Nigeria Export Su­pervision Scheme NESS, Area Comptroller of Nigeria Customs Services at the Ports, advocacy visits were made to export sheds at seaports, airports, and land borders. She, however, expressed appreciation of the activities of PIAs as a main actor in the processes chain of exportation, adding that the coming togeth­er of the critical stakeholders will help make the trade of the non-oil sector to be better, more robust and more consultative.