The National Chairman of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Yabagi Sani has lambasted the Imo State government for high-handedness, accusing it of being merciless. Sani, in a remark when handing over a certificate of return to the party’s candidate in the upcoming gubernatorial election in the state, Dr. Nwoga Onyekachi, expressed optimism that ADP will dislodge the current All Progressives Congress (APC) government, for a more peaceful, more prosperous Imo State. The ADP National Chairman said that the candidate was the most suitable, filled with compassion for humanity and willing to extend such traits into politics for the benefit of the common man. According to him, the primary election in which Onyekachi emerged winner was peacefully conducted according to the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) guidelines in Owerri. “What we are doing today is the continuation of the process that started in April, 2023 when ADP held its gubernatorial primary election in Owerri. “The primary election was transparent, orderly, peaceful and successful and Dr Nwoga Onyekachi Steve emerged the winner. “On behalf of the National Working Committee (NWC), | congratulate you for winning the primaries. “Dr Nwoga is a distinguished Nigerian, imbued with many parts, a political colossus and a humanitarian medical practitioner who is knowledgeable and willing to reengineer Imo State,” he said. POLL In his response, Onyekachi promised to restore the peace and touristic prowess of the state amongst others. He also described the upcoming off-season elections in some states as an opportunity for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to right the wrongs of the immediate past polls. “The off-season elections in Imo, Kogi and Bayelsa States is an opportunity for INEC and other key stakeholders to demonstrate the capacity to relearn and right their wrongs.” On the EU report over the elections, Yabagi called on the stakeholders to see the report as an opportunity to improve the electoral process in the country. “The Action Democratic Party is of the opinion that the report is carefully put together in line with the international standards, which often than not dismisses the quality of exercise conducted in an environment substantially deficient of assumptions upon which such reports are produced. “Therefore, the report is an opportunity for Nigeria to improve on future electioneering processes in order to meet the minimum international acceptable standards. “The off-season elections in Imo, Kogi and Bayelsa States is an opportunity for INEC and other key stakeholders to demonstrate the capacity to relearn and right their wrongs.”