Stellantis launched its Charging & Energy business unit last week to make it easier to keep electric vehicles on the road and cash in on an expanding range of services around greener mobility. The company in a statement, said that the unit would offer a platform called Free2move Charge, providing customer services including access to more than 500,000 charge points in Europe “through partners” by the end of this year. The company is coming with this idea as a still-insufficient charging network across the industry created charging anxiety for all drivers of Electric Vehicles (EVs). The automaker, however, reiterated that it was still evaluating Tesla’s charging standard after rivals including Ford and General Motors signed deals to adopt it in North America. “We look forward to discussing more of that soon,” Ricardo Stamatti, Senior Vice President of Charging & Energy Business, said. Stellantis has plans for 100 per cent of its European passenger car sales and 50 per cent of its U.S. passenger car and light-duty truck sales to be battery-electric vehicle by 2030. The group sees business opportunities from operating charging stations, Stamatti said. “The margin on energy (used for charge points) itself is fairly rich,” he said. POLL “But ultimately charging is going to be more than energy, it’s going to be about what people do while charging…, think of advertising, retail, media consumption.” The Free2move Charge “ecosystem” would offer other services for private customers of Stellantis brands including support for home charging facility installation, and for businesses. It would also allow access to a network of public charging points with the help of partners in North America and other regions to be announced later, Stellantis said. Investments would be significant while key partners will include energy companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers and utilities, Stamatti added. More details will be provided over the course of 2023, including for the business unit’s financial targets.