Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, a political activist and public affairs analyst, is the President/Executive Director, Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative (CREMA Initiative). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on some of the actions taken by the President Bola Ahmed Tinubu administrations so far. Excerpt: There were reports that the Presi­dent Bola Tinubu within a month of his administration had just secured a $500 million loan from the World Bank. How do you see this devel­opment bearing in mind that the country is already weighed down by huge foreign loans? First, if there is no request for a loan, it will not be granted. The All Progressives Congress (APC) admin­istration, to me, is wrecking the ball. Through loan taking, the APC gov­ernment, past and present, has not only mortgaged the lives of Nigeria citizens, but enslaved and sold out the future of generations unborn. This borrowing is an ill wind that blows no one any good, especially as there is no commensurate devel­opment or production by the nation to boost its economy. The burden of these debts will impact on the pur­chasing power of the naira. They will definitely have psychological impacts that could result in negative social and political consequences. Nigeria may soon become an insol­vent and a failed state. Going by this fresh foreign loan, some analysts are wondering if President Bola Tinubu’s adminis­tration will really not be like that of his predecessor, former President Muhammadu Buhari. What is your take on this? It is sad. Financial indebtedness is a policy lifestyle in the APC’s gene, imbibed as a party and government in power. Three weeks before the Buhari Administration came to an end, they sought the approval of the National Assembly N22. 2 tril­lion as ‘Ways and Means’ loan and two weeks before leaving borrowed $800 million (N608 billion) and now $500 million (N380 billion). The loan, which is purportedly taken for Wom­en For Nigeria Programme – Scale Up (WFN-SU), was expected to go through the Ministry of Women and Social Development Affairs and may reach the ordinary women via the Office of the Iyaloja General of Ni­geria. Within six weeks of the same government (party), $1.3 billion has allegedly been given loans by the APC administration. It shows the same trend that justifies my submis­sion that the previous administra­tion was ineptly incompetent, with no positive impact on the citizens in its eight years in power. The same line is what President Tinubu is toe­ing. President Tinubu, has already said, ‘I will continue where Buhari stopped’. Since the Federal Government has realised that the petroleum subsidies have been a fraud through which few people enrich themselves at the expense of the poor mass­es, would you say President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has the political will to bring the culprits to justice, there­by cleaning the nation’s oil industry? President Tinubu was part of the party in government when the scam was perpetrated. And most of his own trusted people were in strategic positions in Buhari’s APC adminis­tration. Trying to probe them is like beaming torch light on the boys he sent to represent his interests, and will amount to betrayal of the ‘brotherhood’. To your question, the answer is ‘NO’. He cannot muster the political will to probe them as that will be washing their dirty linen in the public space. For a government fighting to get legitimacy and accep­tance, whatever they are doing now, like the Godwin Emefiele’s case, is window dressing that will go like the ‘Ikoyi Gate’ saga. I pray to be proven wrong. As for sanitising the oil industry, it needs to be seen how those who perpetrated the massive fraud within the oil sector, who are not dealt with by being probed and prosecuted, will become saints over­night to sanitise it. Nigerians have been told of the pro­posed increase in the tariff for elec­tricity. How do you see this develop­ment when the citizens have been subjected to immeasurable hardship due to the oil Subsidy removal? POLL I am a human rights activist, civil society advocate and a clergyman. My opinion on issues will majorly be influenced from Biblical perspec­tive. Proverbs 29:2 says: ‘When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn’. Within 24 hours of coming into office, the suf­fering masses, whose income and purchasing power had been dwin­dling, was heavily impacted. Groan­ing and mourning across the land as the first thing that was affected was transportation. The proposed tariff hike in power is a deliberate attempt to impoverish the masses the more. More groaning and mourning will continue as it is presently. There is no measure for succor or palliatives to cushion all these deliberate pol­icies that are negatively impacting on the citizens. The President recently signed the Students Loan Scheme Act. Would you say the proposed scheme would really help indigent students, or do you think it would put them in more discomfort? Poor implementation of good pol­icies has been the bane of Nigeria’s government. This obviously was re­sponsible for the failure of this same loan scheme that was operated in Ni­geria by the Student Loan Board and the Education Bank initiative. How this government intends to reinvent this loan scheme so that it does not go the way of the moribund ones needs to be seen. There is already public outcry that pegging the ben­eficiaries is discriminatory. More so, with unemployment ravaging the nation, student beneficiaries will carry baggage of debts into their fu­ture with no guarantee of securing jobs to start offsetting the loans. But, if the government can guarantee that beneficiaries of the loans will get automatic employment, it is then we can applaud the policy. How do you see the recent retire­ment of Service Chiefs and the ap­pointment of new ones by President Tinubu? Do you think this can lead to an improvement in the war against insecurity in the land? Change of Service Chiefs has become a routine tradition with Nigeria leadership each time we have a new government. Nigeria is ranked eighth in the global terror­ism index. Terrorism has been on since our return to civil rule in 1999 and became real violent a decade later. This implies that for 24 years we have been faced with fighting and combating terrorists and terrorism. Thus, the new Service Chiefs have played direct or indirect roles in the various administrations. When the president was sworn in, one of his first official duties was to sit over the Security Council Meeting and talk to the Security Chiefs and on the need for inter-agency cooperation and information exchange. That is a welcome development as Securi­ty Chiefs and the arms they head, being at cross purposes and trying to outdo one another cannot help to bolster team spirit in confronting any sort of enemy threat, whether internal or external. I believe for a nation that has faced and battled in­ternal security challenges for over a decade and half or more, it makes one desire to have fresh heads who have been part of the retired old or top ranking officers as they might have been in some of the strategy planning teams and executions. Like I surmised earlier, anything anyone says about whether these new mili­tary heads can achieve seeming or real peace from internal threats will be just postulations. Results will be measured against previous admin­istrations and Security Chiefs using various indices like frequency of attacks, demobilisation of terrorist chain network and capturing them and the terrorists commanders, etc, and the commensurate peace citi­zens will enjoy, when compared with the past administration. President Tinubu recently appointed Nuhu Ribadu, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and politician, as the new Na­tional Security Adviser (NSA). Would you say that being from the police, Ribadu would get the respect and cooperation of the Services Chiefs? That is a very big question that begs for an answer. Every profession has a psychological attachment. Babagana Munguno, a retired mil­itary officer, complained that he did not get the desired cooperation from the Service Chiefs. As a retired Major General and Commander of Guards Brigade, he did not earn the respect of those Service Chiefs in the combat field. They obviously did not imagine seeing themselves taking instructions from a non-com­batant and politician. Retired AIG Nuhu Ribadu is neither a military or combatant soldier, but a politician. The military disdains such with the ‘Bloody Civilians cliché. It will be a very high task for Ribadu to win their cooperation. The appointment patterns of NSA under the APC ad­ministration seems to degenerate in the required expertise for serious is­sues as security. It may drive home to the Service Chiefs that politics pays more than risking life in military services. This possible psychological issue could play part in the degree of cooperation the present NSA gets. What do you think of the calls by a cross section of Nigerians for a merger of the EFCC, ICPC, and the Code of Conduct Bureau for the effective fight against corruption? The idea is a welcome one that should be pursued. Governance in Nigeria is too expensive. These an­ti-corruption agencies are duplicat­ing the functions one can do. Despite the multiplicity of these agencies, Nigeria’s status or position in the Transparency International corrup­tion index has risen astronomically. The Federal Government should be more interested in efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation, rather than just setting up agencies duplicating themselves with no com­mensurate results in tackling cor­ruption, both at the private and pub­lic service space. Thus the question one should ask is: What is the need or essence of these multiple agencies performing the same functions? President Tinubu recently attended the Economic Summit in France. Do you see some gains accruing to Nigeria from the summit? The New Global Financial Pact Summit was the medium to review and sign agreement on issues that place vulnerable countries on a pri­ority list for support and investment, following the devastating impact of Climate Change, energy crises and after effect of the COVID-19 pandem­ic. What Nigeria stand to gain will largely depend on the parameters that will be used in judging the ben­eficiaries of the pact, if we fall under it. Are our financial challenges diffi­cult and short-term? Are we among the most indebted? Is our country vulnerable to Climate Change? What are the short, medium and long term developmental goals we have as a low-income country? Do we have Green Infrastructure for the energy transition to attract the right investment? A meeting like this would have been a good sell­ing point for President Tinubu to market this nation and his administration to the world on why we do not only deserve the support and partnership needed from the pact signed, but how he intends to use it in positioning Nigeria as a major player and force in promoting a vibrant economy, and dealing with pov­erty, insecurity and make the nation investor friendly.