Udengs Eradiri, the Labour Party (LP) governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, has explained why he decided to participate in the November 11, 2023 election, saying the people of the state are neglected by its leaders and politicians. The former commissioner for youth and the environment ministry, who stated this while unveiling his development plan tagged, “People, Education, Agriculture and Power” (PEAP), at his campaign secretariat in Yenagoa, insisted that “Bayelsa lacks competent leadership.” Other major contenders are the second-term-seeking incumbent Governor Douye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and a former Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who had previously served one tenure from 2008 to 2012. The 47-year-old LP standard flagbearer, from Agudama-Ekpetiama in Yenagoa Local Government Area, also stated that he joined the governorship race because the state was in dire need of direction, adding that all the problems affecting the state resulted from bad leadership. He said he would redirect and improve Bayelsa with his PEAP agenda as he had the capacity, requisite exposure and learning over the years to provide proper leadership, if elected governor. Udengs, a former national secretary of the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) said, “The reason why I have decided to participate in this (governorship election) process is because I have seen the nakedness of neglect of politicians, politics and leaders to the governed. “And having gone through the process of learning, exposing myself politically and otherwise, I think that I’m mature enough to take (up) leadership in my state. At 47, I’m not even too young (to be governor); I’m at the prime time when I should be in the saddle of leadership. “If you look at the world today it’s people in this age range that are presidents, governors and those who make decisions. And having gone through the exposure that I have been through, I have decided to participate in this process so that we can give direction to Bayelsa State. As we speak, Bayelsa State is going through a lot and all our problems are saddled on the shoulder of leadership.” POLL He expressed disappointment that Bayelsa was backward in development indices among the comity of states despite the trillions of naira in revenue allocation that had accrued to the state’s coffers over the years. “We lack competent leadership in Bayelsa State. Compare Bayelsa State to every other state in the country, you will discover we are backward in every indices and yet,we are supposed to be the richest state. “We have received trillions of naira over the years. You want to compare Bayelsa with states like Ebonyi and Gombe; these are states that don’t receive one tenth of what we take home (as revenue allocation) every month but go to Ebonyi and come to Bayelsa, you will be shocked and be wondering whether you are still in planet earth. “All this is because of leadership, and I think that I will no longer be part of those who complain but I will take action, and that action has brought us to this point (of contesting for governor),” Udengs added.