The recent Sallah celebra­tion which took place on Wednesday, June 28, must have been an eye-opener for many Muslims who struggled to buy chicken instead of the usual ram for the day’s cooking. It was possibly the most austere Sallah celebration within living mem­ory in the country. According to reports, rams went for as high as N400,000 in some places and even N700,000 in other places. One has only to add a little amount to the cost of rams to be able to get a used car. Soft drinks, which was among the cheapest items of refreshment now sells for N250. Those who stub­bornly insisted on travelling to their hometowns to celebrate with their kith and kin paid dearly for that humble ambition. Lagos – Benin by road was N20,000 and Abuja – Kano was N18,000. Pump price of fuel has been hovering between N535 – N600, depending on your lo­cation. Cost of transportation has blown up the prices of foodstuffs. Ironically, complaints over the now deplorable cost of living have been hushed among the people as though they are ashamed to admit that they brought the situation upon them­selves. Unfortunately, the men in the corridors of power today are car­rying on as though this is the most innovative government Nigerians have seen since 1960. President Bola Tinubu, the self-proclaimed hero of the season, is beside himself with pride at the fictitious ennoblement of the punitive measures he has rolled out against the Nigerian people, veiled indeed as economic reforms. This week he rode through Lagos in splendour, ecstatic over the fulfilment of his ambition to be president of the world’s most pop­ulated black nation. That sense of victory, as tenuous as it is, which has been so exaggeratedly evident and permanent in his mien since he was declared winner of the Feb­ruary 25, 2023, presidential election, is threatening to overwhelm him, pouring out like an infantile gloat­ing at every turn. It finally found ex­pression in his boast in Ogun State this week where he boasted that he knew he was going to win the Feb­ruary 25 poll whether or not there was a malicious cashless policy in­tended to bog down his campaign. I am simply at great pains trying to make sense of the accolades that he has been execrably adorned with for the decisions he has so far taken, one of which – the withdrawal of fuel subsidy – is a brutal attack on the people of Nigeria. At that same event in Ogun State where he boasted of his emilokan mystery, he tried yet again to justify the pains he has brought upon Nige­rians. “We will see positive changes as we move along – just go through these baby steps of pain. I’m tak­ing baby steps as the president, not matching in a hurry…” he said. This is just a rehash of an old and familiar refrain politicians in pow­er in Nigeria have found to be an attractive proposition to douse the embers of restiveness amongst the embittered. The changes have never come. What we have seen with ill-bred government policies is steady degeneration of life for the majority. In a characteristic Nigerian govern­ment style, the Tinubu government scrapped subsidy – to take the most shocking – as a knee-jerk decision to cut cost at the lowest levels not at the top. We have already been told that the Federal Government has saved N400bn in four weeks, which translates to N100bn every week, after it stopped paying fuel subsidy. So, it might eventually save – in the best of times – about N6trn in one year from its removal of fuel sub­sidy. How does this compare to the outcome of hyper-inflation, falling GDP, high cost of local production, disincentive to investment, ultimate failure of governance, and social dismemberment which are sure-fire consequences of the Federal Government’s decision to withdraw the only and most crucial privilege which hitherto penetrated all strata of the Nigerian society? All well-meaning Nigerians had pleaded for the maintenance of fuel subsidy while the government worked on adequate local refining but Tinubu did not find this argu­ment reasonable because he and his cohorts believe only a few persons benefitted from the subsidy regime. Now, how many people benefit from its withdrawal? Does Tinubu know? If a system is corrupt, is it not better to sanitise it than dump it altogeth­er? Honestly, I don’t see how the Fed­eral Government can reverse the negative trend set in motion by its withdrawal of subsidy. This should be clear enough in six months. The Federal Government’s be­lief that the capacity of the poor people of Nigeria to adapt to the most extreme of inhuman condi­tions is infinitely elastic because of their legendary naturally-endowed shock absorber is irritating. But, of course, that is the only reason that the government and its busi­ness partners, electric distribution companies (DisCos), had the guts to recently moot the idea of increas­ing electricity tariff soon after the withdrawal of fuel subsidy and its vicious impact on the people. The government is toying with the peo­ple’s sensitivity if it has chosen the energy sector for its experimenta­tions. Nigerians will revolt. Tinubu and his advisers can take it to the bank. If there is any sector which the government should fund, it is, indeed, the energy sector, being, in my opinion, the single most critical productive sector of the economy. Governments at all levels in the country have ignored the most ur­gent measure they were supposed to take, which is to cut down on gov­ernance and the lavish lifestyle of elected officers and political appoin­tees, and are hell bent on driving the people into endless pain. What more pain does Tinubu want the people of Nigeria to take after promising to make life better for them during his election campaigns? What pre­cisely is “baby steps of pain”? I guess he’s talking of his own style of unleashing pain on the people in an unhurried manner. In that case, he has contradicted himself. No other president has shocked the nation into a more hurried and horrid, even unthinking, agony as he has done. But this would have at least been understood if there have been commensurate actions at the top levels of government to reduce public spending to the barest and move funds to more critical areas to support the peoples ability to bear the ruthlessness of decades of bad leadership. Paradoxically, what the government is taking from the poor is being used to bolster their public megalomania. Presidents, gover­nors, presiding officers of the state and national legislature, and other miniature organs of government have dozens of assistants or aides, many of whom do nothing daily, in addition to ludicrous convoys to ac­company them to every event. Last week, I expressed my disappoint­ment with political appointees’ in­tense attraction for vulgar displays and squandermania even in these dire times, but it would seem it has come to stay as a political culture. I wish it were not so. Now, the Federal Government’s recent policies would throw about seven million people into the pov­erty bracket and asphyxiate the nations productive sectors where­as the measures just needed a few tweaking to minimize harsh con­comitants for the sake of the pop­ulace. Despite the naked realities, the Federal Government is bristling with pseudo-promises of foreign di­rect investments not minding the fact that nobody is coming to invest in a chaotic environment that Nige­ria has become. So far, no measures have been put in place to pad the pains of punitive policies by those who will never feel the impact of the pills they administer to others. While we are crowing over the changes in security and defence personnel, I want to see what the changes are worth in the next six months. That’s fair enough, isn’t it? In the meantime, I wish to ad­monish Tinubu to not be too con­fident that he can continue to drive Nigerians into the mud because his junkie-eyed economists tell him so. The Nigerian people are not donkeys. His baby-steps-of-pain prescription which excludes him is downright irritating.