OSOGBO – The Focal Person of the National Social Investment Program (NSIP) in Osun, Honourable Kehinde Ibitoye, has stated that the social investment programme is real, impactful and truly eradicating poverty in Osun State and Nigeria at large. Ibitoye also commended Governor Ademola Adeleke for the maximum support and strong partnership with the Federal Government towards the effectiv implementation of the programmes in Osun state. The State Focal Person who made the assertion in an interview yesterday, in Osogbo, applauded the Federal Government for the initiative and the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, for efficient implementation. Highlighting the summary of the status of implementation of NSIP in Osun State, Ibitoye said the National Home Grown School Feeding programem (NHGSFP), covered about 1,312 schools, and 95,983 pupils. He added that efforts are on top gear to capture all pupils in public primary schools in line with the development agenda of Governor Adeleke from class 1-3 as they progress. According to him, the upward review of the current N100 per child, would improve delivery of programs for results and meeting the aims of the Federal Government. He also emphasised the need to do further upward review from N100 school feeding budget for each child considering the current cost of living in the country. The Focal Person further said that the N-Power programme beneficiaries of Batch C in Osun now stand at 14,600. POLL He said that the data for the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) programme in Osun for the poor and vulnerable women, has increased to 15,522, saying it is a huge success as more data are expected to be allocated from national social register. Ibitoye also disclosed that the CCT programme is making a huge impact in the lives of the poor and vulnerable women in the rural communities. Speaking on the Government Enterprise and Empowerment programme (GEEP), the Focal Person stressed that the first batch which was implemented in Osun between 2017 and 2018 had over 25,000 small traders and artisans benefit form tradermoni and marketmoni. ”The GEEP programme has been reviewed, restructured and rebooted. Presently, there is an ongoing registration of intending beneficiaries targeting small traders, artisans, poor women and rural farmers across the 30 local governments areas of the state.”