Chief Martin Onovo, a petroleum industry expert and activist, is the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and currently the Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the recent $500 million World Bank loan, the recently enacted Students Loan Scheme, President Bola Tinubu’s political will among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the latest $500million loan reportedly granted Nigeria by the World Bank? The loan is said to be for ‘Nigeria Women Programme Scale-Up’. We do not yet have the details of the specific programmes to which the funds may be applied. However, we must consider our currently crushing debt burden and also review our long standing relationship with the World Bank. The World Bank, at this point, should be giving grants and not loans to Nigeria. We must evaluate comprehensively all our previous loans from the World Bank and how they failed to make a significant national development impact. For this new women programme scale-up loan, the existing programme must be first evaluated for relevance, impact and effectiveness prior to the proposed scale-up. If previous World Bank loans have not achieved their objectives, then, we must determine the causes to break the vicious cycles before taking additional loans. Don’t you think that the latest foreign loan is a signal that Bola Tinubu as president will not be too different from his predecessor, Buhari? During his campaign, he promised to continue with the policies of Gen. Buhari. So, it is not surprising. It is highly scandalous to see Alhaji Bola Tinubu as president. He was apparently not qualified to even participate in the election as he lacks the minimum educational requirement. He forfeited funds suspected to be proceeds of narcotics trafficking in Chicago, USA; he had previously acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Guinea and he had a pending case of forgery and perjury in an Abuja court. Also, he apparently lost the elections woefully and did not obtain the 25% of votes required in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Bola Tinubu parading himself as president is very damaging to the image of Nigeria with the publications in international media. Do you see President Bola Tinubu having the political will to prosecute the perpetrators of the fraud in the fuel subsidy scheme and sanitise the oil industry? We do not see Alhaji Bola Tinubu having the political will to prosecute the perpetrators of fraud in the fuel subsidy scheme because his supporters, party members and their fronts will be exposed. What is your take on the proposed rise in tariff for electricity especially as the people are still suffering the effects of oil subsidy removal? POLL The reckless and unconstitutional fuel subsidy removal caused hyper-inflation followed by devaluation and mass poverty, exactly as we predicted. Consequently, the production and logistics costs of all economic entities are increased. This will also induce an increase in prices of goods and services including tariff for electricity. The only way to stop the proposed rise in electricity tariff is for the government to subsidise the electricity cost. It may be clearer now why we opposed the unpatriotic subsidy removal. For emphasis, energy is critical to productivity and economic development. To increase productivity, we must provide abundant and affordable energy supply. The removal of subsidy does the contrary. It makes energy expensive and will surely lead to economic contraction and recession. This cannot be contradicted as it was confirmed when Gen. Buhari removed subsidy on petrol in 2016 and the economy slid into a recession. The immediate consequence of this reckless removal of subsidy is hyper-inflation. That was followed by devaluation and increasing poverty. Any policy that causes hyper-inflation, devalues the Naira further, constrains productivity and increases poverty is unpatriotic and unconstitutional. In fact, it is tantamount to national economic sabotage. Could you take a critical look at the recently signed Students Loan Scheme law? Do you think that as it is, it can really be of much help to impoverished Nigerian students? The Students Loan Act is pointless. The qualification criterion is impractical and the requirements are unrealistic. The qualification criterion of a student from a family with a combined annual income less than N500,000 excludes also all students that have both parents on minimum wage. Current annual minimum wage is N360,000. If a student has both parents on minimum wage, their combined annual income is N720,000. Such a student is not qualified. So, who can qualify? Also the requirements to pay two years after graduation and the requirement of high level guarantors can be very frustrating. What is your take on the recent retirement of Service Chiefs and the appointment of new ones? Do you foresee an improved war against insecurity? The uncertainty, iniquity and instability associated with the swearing-in of Alhaji Bola Tinubu and his reckless and dictatorial disposition is a foundational flaw for governance in Nigeria currently. It affects all government activities negatively. Otherwise, the retirement of Service Chiefs and the appointment of new ones would have re-energised the war against insecurity. The choice of these Service Chiefs reflected ‘Federal Character’, unlike the choice of special advisers. Do you think that Nuhu Ribadu as a retired AIG will have enough clout to earn the respect and cooperation of the Services Chiefs as the National Security Adviser (NSA) in the current dispensation? We do not know if he is their senior in the armed services. That will help as the armed services are strictly regimented with their hierarchical structure. He was Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) as a mid-level police officer. Also, the fact that he retired as an Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) may make him look junior to the Service Chiefs. A retired IG or DIG may have been better. He needs to show that he can manage the position as many were opposed to his appointment. Analysts have suggested the merging of the EFCC, ICPC, and the Code of Conduct Bureau for effective fight against corruption. What is your take on this? Merging of the EFCC, ICPC and CCB can only streamline the bureaucracy, but may not make the fight against corruption effective. We must diagnose before treatment. We do not think there is any fight against corruption. We see that there is a deceitful facade set up to mislead Nigerians to believe that there is a fight against corruption when corruption is currently official. The biggest obstacle to any fight against corruption in Nigeria is the lack of political will to fight corruption. We must note that the corrupt cannot fight their corruption. The fact that corruption is increasing in both amount and frequency confirms that there is no fight against corruption. The annual reports of the Auditor General of the Federation have enough leads to fight corruption in Nigeria, if there is sincerity of purpose in the fight. When we get the right political leadership, then, we can consider merging ICPC and CCB. The EFCC should be allowed to continue with its mandate. Do you see some gains accruing to Nigeria from Tinubu’s recent attendance of the Economic Summit in France? We see no gain. All we saw was disgrace. Other Presidents were received by the French President, but Alhaji Tinubu was received by the Foreign Minister. Also, Alhaji Tinubu was late for the photo session and was consigned to a panel of experts which he rejected. He was apparently despised by the participating Presidents. This may be as a result of the reports in the international media about the charade elections, his questionable education and his sundry domestic and international indictments.