A Chieftain of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in Ogun state, Ambassador Olufemi Ajadi Oguntoyinbo has said he has the capacity, quality and brilliance in governance to make Nigeria a better country rather than infringe more hardship on the masses. Ajadi, a governorship candidate of the party in the 2023 elections said if he is opportune to lead the country, his administration will focus more on masses oriented program, which will bring succour to the less privileged. He said he would improve the education and health sectors, tourism and hospitality, security of lives and property and improvement of the agricultural sector. He made the disclosure on Monday while speaking on leadership roles and community development. While explaining that a better way to confront economic woe bedeviling the country is to diversify from a mono-economy focusing on oil into other sectors like tourism, hospitality and agriculture, noted that the power sector should also be given priority. Ajadi maintained that Nigerians deserve the best, which he believes he has the mental and physical capacity to offer them. According to him, “I’ve been a very successful private sector person. I am not an ordinary person but an extraordinary person. I have come to make a name like the late sage Obafemi Awolowo, whose in all his life, he was given to the masses and not to eat public funds. I don’t know when I will leave, but whenever I am still alive all my effort will go to the masses and humanity. “I want Nigeria to change the education of our children, security of lives and property, helping the farmers bring commodity exchange, helping those who are extremely poor, giving priority to education, power generation so that we can have industrial growth. POLL “These are what I am for, I’m not like the rest of them. I’m a serious-minded man. We are not poor by all means, we can bring prosperity to Nigeria with brains and thinking. “You know me, I don’t break promises, I reward talents, our reward system for hard work will change, the truth is that if we don’t bring intelligent and brilliant people into the leadership position, those that have incredible pedigree, Nigeria will continue to be stagnant. “Let us develop our tourism and hospitality, power sectors to generate more revenue and create more jobs for unemployed youths.Nigerians deserve stable electricity, good roads, they deserve better welfare and health facilities, all of these, we can achieve with visionary leadership”.