LAGOS – The Nigerian public as well as small and medium business environment is often characterised by a lack of transparency, absence of proper accounting processes, business structures among others. As a result, most businesses struggle to grow their revenues and profits despite all their efforts. According to the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS), SMEs contribute 48 percent of national GDP and 96 percent of employment. Sadly, players in this sector are faced with an array of challenges that make them either struggle or not last beyond five years. In view of their very important role, SMEs deserve the best of support. One person who has positioned himself, providing accounting advisory services to give support to small business operators is Collins Nkwocha. Although, based in the United States of America, this Nigerian has had his foot print across the globe. He has had the privilege of providing consulting services to many small and medium business enterprises both online and onsite. Among them are Ladies Advertise Your Business Ltd, Oil and Gas Solutions Ltd, among others. Nkwocha, stated that the experience has been quite exhilarating, humbling, giving a sense of awe and fulfillment. Highlighting some core pain points faced by SMEs today, he said they include government insensitivity, multiple taxation, non-availability of basic facilities to aid startups, lack of accounting processes, lack of training and lack of credit to support growth and development. POLL He said his ability to set up accounting procedures for startups and saving them a ton of money inspires him greatly. Giving insight on what he does with this category of business owners. He said. “I provide basic advisory in terms of business models, business plan, data entry process and pricing, establishment of appropriate cash/inventory management and appropriate audit trail. “We also help create a proper working structure and strategy direction,” he added. The expert said he is one person who has submitted himself to learning the science of solving problems within the finance and small business ecosystem and today, his results speak volumes. Speaking on challenges, Nkwocha noted: “It was a difficult task for startups to understand account practices; however, I have been able to develop an easy guide in conquering their fears.” Describing his level of success in his work with small business owners He stated: “The success rate has been quite high but most SMEs are not patient enough and this could be mitigated by the government providing necessary support to them in terms of providing learning hubs, tax breaks, infrastructure and training. “I strongly believe that the government can do more with the provision of enabling environment, infrastructure, tax breaks/holiday for new businesses and startups, and provision of extension/training services to encourage these businesses.” Concluding, the accounting advisory expert mentioned that the world needs to be accountable in all spheres of life, adding, “This helps us to assess growth in our businesses. The role of accountants cannot be over-emphasised in today’s economic growth and development.