An unidentified electricity cable thief has been electrocuted in Delta State. The thief who was taking advantage of continuous blackout in Ogbe quarters, Okpu kingdom, Ika North East Local Government Area, Delta State eventually met his untimely death. Residents of the sleepy agrarian community, were shocked to discover around 5 :am on Saturday a dangling lifeless body hanging on a twin electric pole located at a 33 KVA transformer by the popular Afor market in the Ogbe quarter Okpu kingdom. Some residents who spoke to Daily Independent said they have been indoors since morning, no thanks to the torrential rain that kept them on their beds.According to a resident who simply gave his name as John, ” We were alert by a young boy who was going to the next village. We never knew that somebody was hanging up there.”“We didn’t go anywhere today do to the rain fall. Even though we came out to our front here, we did not notice the lifeless body of the young man hanging there “ ”The lifeless body is holding electric cable in his hands, which means that he was cutting the cable. For sometime now we didn’t have power supply but BESC brought light around 3 am today. Well, only God knows what happened.” “We have alerted the vigilante in this area and we are waiting for them to bring down the corps.”Another resident who preferred anonymity, decried the sad incident, blaming it in the get quick rich syndrome of our present day youths who does not want to suffer but interested in making quick money. “As you can see, he is holding cable on his hand up there which means that he was the there to vandalize the cable. Our youths don’t want to work but want to make money. Nobody can identify the corps because he is up there. Until they bring him down we won’t know whether he is from here or from any of the neighbouring villages.” As at the time of filling this report, neither the vigilante nor the police has come but residents of the area were on ground discussing in groups on the strange occurance.