LAGOS – Some members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have urged Nigerians to support the ongoing measures by President Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to reposition the country. In a press conference on Saturday in Ikeja, Lagos, their leader, Prince Hammed Olanrewaju Mohammed, a former Financial Secretary of Lagos APC, said Nigerians from all over the country should join hands with the present government in their efforts to take the country back to its lost glory. “Nigerians should join hands with the present government at the top and support President Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s efforts to reposition the country. “We are in a critical situation now and the only way of our present predicament is to support the present government to take us back to our lost glory,” he said. He said further: “We should always think about tomorrow and not want we can gain today. Whatever we are doing today will become history tomorrow but what should be paramount in our hearts is the future of our incoming generations. Our children are the future of tomorrow and we must prepare very well for them”. Mohammed, who once served as Youth Leader of the APC in Lagos State, therefore called on the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate at the last 2023 elections, Abubakar Atiku and his Labour Party counterpart, Peter Obi, to jettison their protests and grievances aftermath of the elections and give support to the present country in order to move forward. Speaking in the same vein, the President of the Lagos Hoteliers Association, Oluomo Jamiu Talabi while aligning with Prince Mohammed, said criticism is part of democracy but urged Nigerians to criticize constructively. POLL “We can criticize because it is part of democracy but we must do it constructively and not bring in tribal sentiments or religious issues. “We are going through a trying period but Nigerians should know that there is gain without pain but we should first give the present government a chance to succeed. “We are sure that at the end of the tunnel, there is light at the end of the day. We all need to support the government and forget our individual interest but put the interest of the country at heart first,” said Talabi. In her contribution, Woman leader, Mrs. Folakemi Afolayan called on the government to run a gender friendly government and carry women along in their decisions taking and appointments. She also urged the government to take into considerations the education and health sectors as areas that should be given priority. Afolayan called on the First Lady of the country, Senator Oluremi Tinubu to use her good position to ensure that women play vital roles in the running of the government. “So far, the present government has started very well with the few appointments made, but they should not forget the women as they also have roles to play,” she said.