KANO – The Chairman of Okehi Local Government Area of Kogi State, Alhaji Abdulraheem Ohiare, on Saturday suspended from office his media aide, Mr. Johnson Chiji Obojo for alleged blasphemy. A statement that was personally signed by Hon. Abdulraheem Ohiare obtained by INDEPENDENT dissociates his “person, the council, from the views connected to Ochiji J.D Obojo’s social media opinions.” Hon.Abdulraheem Ohiare’s statement reads: “My attention has been drawn to a recent unwarranted derogatory media article posted on social media platform (Facebook) by my Media Aide, Mr Ochiji J.D Obojo over a public issue that has called for concerns from the general public.” “I would like to state unequivocally here that Ochiji J.D Obojo has acted in his personal capacity to comment on the impasse involving some notable Ebira Citizens. And of course, his consequent blasphemous statements on the exalted holy lands of Makkah and Madinah, which has drawn criticisms on my humble self is hereby condemned in entirety.” “I had at no time directed him to comment in my official capacity involving such matters and therefore, through this medium completely condemn and as well dissociate myself and Okehi Local Government from his derogatory, inciting and blasphemous activities on Social Media. “As a practising Muslim, I’ve never and in no time, would I denigrate any person and or faith and so, would not accept with kid gloves any of my appointees or associates involved in such misdoings.” ” By the virtue of the above, I would like the general public to dissociate my humble person and my office from the matter in question and henceforth, should not be connected to Ochiji J.D Obojo’s Social Media opinions.” “Consequent upon the foregoing, I therefore, suspend Ochiji J.D Obojo from Office as my SA on Media and Publicity with immediate effect and my SSA on Media and Publicity, Muhammed Jamiu Otaiki to act in his capacity pending further actions.” POLL ” All inconveniences caused by this unwarranted provocation are highly regretted.”