GOMBE  – Gombe State Police Command has re­portedly neutralized a notorious armed robbery suspect in Gombe after a fierce exchange of fire with a ten-man gang who had been terrorising some parts of the state capital. The Police said the crimi­nal met his Waterloo during the gun duel that resulted in the arrest of three of the gang members while six are on the run with bullet wounds. Assistant Superintendent of Police, Mahid Muazu Abuba­kar, the Command’s Public Re­lations Officer (PPRO), gave the name of the arrested suspects as Adamu Usman alias Bali, 22, and of Barunde Quarters; Mus­tapha Abdullahi alias jammaye, 22, of Malam Inna Quarters and Abdullahi Hussaini alias Danbasi, 21, of Anguwa Uku. He also gave the name of the robbery suspect that was killed as ‘Abaru’ of Kumbiya-Kumbi­ya quarters. ASP Mahid explained fur­ther that the notorious gang had invaded the residence of one Alhaji Gidado Muhammad Sani at Arawa Quarters, shoot­ing sporadically and robbing the household of their valuable property and in the process in­jured the security guard on his head, left hand, and back on June 24, 2023. According to him, after the distress call received by the Po­lice, CP Oqua Etim, mobilised the tactical team of Operation 999 to the scene where the rob­bers engaged them in a gun duel that claimed the life of ‘Albaru’. Parts of the exhibits robbed from the victim were recovered and efforts are in place to arrest the fleeing suspects, the Com­mand’s PPRO said. He also reported the re­covery of four stollen bulls at an uncompleted building in Nassarawo quarters, Gombe by officers of the Command. POLL Mahid explained that a case of the theft of two bulls was reported at Gona divisional headquarters on 27/06/2023 at about 2230hrs. by one Jibrin of Gidim village that unknown persons entered his compound and made away with his two bulls valued at #700,000. On receipt of the informa­tion, detectives of the Division mobilised to the scene and traced the bulls to an uncom­pleted building at Nassarawo quarters where four bulls sus­pected to be stolen were seen and the complainant identified two bulls as his. In the process, a locally made pistol with two live cartridges was also recovered as exhibits. The investigation is ongoing to arrest the fleeing suspects, the police said. The command then reiter­ated the resolve and commit­ment of its officers and men to the public in responding to cases of urgent attention while appreciating the support and cooperation of the good people of the state.