…..Promises To Pursue Governorship Ambition Amb. Dr. Odion Cedrack Okpebholo, a foremost Edo State governorship aspirant under the platform of the Labour Party, LP, has dumped the party and joined the All Progressives Congress, APC, to pursue his governorship ambition. Amb. Dr. Okpebholo said that he has come to realize that APC has the structure and what it takes to realize his aspirations to deliver quality democratic dividends to the good people of Edo State. Amb. Dr. Okpebholo made this submission after due consultation with the Chairman of the APC in the state, Col. David Imuse, and other leaders of the party. The governorship aspirant promised that he and his teeming supporters nationwide and in the Diaspora will ensure the victory of APC in the 2024 Governorship election. While receiving Amb. Dr.Okpebholo and his team at the party’s Secretariat in Benin, Col. Imuse expressed appreciation and promised that the governorship hopeful and his supporters will be accorded every right and privilege enjoyed by the old members of the party Amb. Dr.Okpebholo also meets with the Esan North East party Chairman, Hon. Emmanuel Ibhagbemien, and the Chairman of his Ward, Hon. Godwin Ebhodaghe to obtain his Membership Card. His Publicity Secretary, Barr. Emmanuel Erhahon, in a chat with journalists, said that ” Edo State needs a man who understands the time we are in, which is the time of rebuilding our State to compete with other States in Nigeria and stand out in Africa and will be recognized in the world at large as a productive and positively working State. POLL “We have to channel our support to our son who understands the time and wants to sincerely make judicious use of the time to promote our welfare and development as a people. He is no other person than Amb. Dr. Odion Cedrack Okpebholo ‘He needs our support, let’s not withhold it from him” He averred that supporting Amb. Okpebholo to become our governor will not only restore the state to the ancient landmark of peace but will increase unity and further attract investors that will translate into a fruitful development in all ramifications. He said that human capital development will be his priority, as youths, and women will be highly empowered in all ramifications to perform squarely and pay their quota in rebuilding the State for the betterment of all. The rebuilding of Edo State is a joint responsibility, and the state needs him to front as the leader while the people follow. “Our farmlands will be fruitful, because when we support him to become our governor, the farmers will do well in cultivation and all agricultural practices will be achieved with improved varieties of seedlings, and fertilizers to provide adequate food supply to our people and improve our wellbeing at all levels. There will be job creation for our people and genuine visitors who will come to develop our land and not destroy it. Employment will be sincerely on merit and not on the basis of who you know as we are suffering the negative effects of joblessness as a result of not being connected to the administration in power. He will definitely work in synergy with all security agencies to improve our security as to enable us an atmosphere that will facilitate our activities in growing our dear State to an enviable height that will forever attract investors for rapid development.