EJIKEME OMENAZU/ JOY ANIGBOGU LAGOS – Mr. Romanus Ejik­eme, father of Mmesoma Ejik­eme, the 2023 Uni­fied Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) candi­date who falsified her result, has publicly apologised to the Joint Admission Matricula­tion Board (JAMB) and Nige­rians. According to a video inter­view with the Nigerian Televi­sion Authority (NTA), Mr Ejik­eme claimed that his daughter lied to him, stressing that now that he had known the truth, he wished that JAMB could pardon his daughter. He admitted to have made a mistake after the Anambra State government committee of inquiry set up to look into the controversy surrounding her daughter’s Joint Admis­sion and Matriculation Board (JAMB) result found her guilty of forging her result unaided. Mmesoma’s father main­tained that he did not know where his daughter registered for the examination, but that he gave her the money for the registration. He said: “My daughter did not open up to me on time. When I realised her mistake, I blamed her. “I told her, ‘Mmesoma, be careful. You know you are a star and will not dent your image’. “But, I am still apologising to JAMB and Nigerians as a father, to pardon her.” POLL Meanwhile, former Min­ister of Education, Oby Eze­kwesili, has commended the outcome of the Anambra State panel report indicting Mmesoma Ejikeme of forging her JAMB result. Ezekwesili spoke through her official Twitter handle @ obyezeks on Saturday. She noted that the panel’s investigation report showed that MsMmesoma had been given a fair hearing, and the facts from the reports showed that whatever consequences she got were fit for the action of her wrongdoing. It would be recalled that the Anambra State government committee of inquiry set up to look into the controversy surrounding the Joint Admis­sion and Matriculation Board (JAMB) result of Miss Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma indicted her of forging her result unaided. The committee revealed in an eight-page report that Mmesoma admitted she forged her results, using her mobile phone without any plausible motivation or help from some­one else. The panel consisting of professors and ICT experts, reviewed all evidences from JAMB and Miss Mmesoma, recommended that she tenders an unreserved written apology to JAMB, her school (Anglican Girls’ Secondary School, Uru­agu Nnewi) and the Anambra State government. According to a press release by Prof. Nkemdili Nnonyelu, chairman of the committee, the results released by JAMB with respect to the UTME score of Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma is 249, and the results paraded by Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma with aggregate score of 362 is fake as buttressed by the very significant and instructive variations in the registration number, date of birth, centre name and other infractions. “Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma admitted that she manipulated the fake results herself, using her phone. “The Principal Anglican Girls’ Secondary School — Mrs. Edu Uche and the Edu­cation Secretary, Diocese of Nnewi (Anglican Commu­nion) expressed dismay at the conduct of Ejikeme Joy Mme­soma. The committee said: “That Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma ten­ders an unreserved written apology to JAMB, the School (Anglican Girls’ Secondary School, Uruagu Nnewi) and the Anambra State Govern­ment. This should be done immediately. “Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma should undergo psychological counselling and therapy. “All prospective candidates for JAMB Admission should adhere strictly to guidelines, processes and procedures of the examination body. “The Committee of Inqui­ry commends JAMB for their diligent handling of the matter and the information supplied about the interface with the candidate (see attached). “We hope that this unearth­ing of the truth as we have dis­covered will go a long way in correcting the sentiments, mis­conceptions and deceptions that have been in the public domain. “We thank Mr. Governor, Prof. Charles Soludo for set­ting up this Committee, and, for the confidence reposed in the committee.” JAMB Reacts Meanwhile, the Joint Ad­mission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has said that it would always ensure credible, fair, and reliable assessments in its public examinations. It stated this in reaction to the report of the panel set up by the Anambra State govern­ment to look into the contro­versy surrounding the UTME result of Miss Ejikeme Joy Mmesoma. The committee’s report, which was released at the weekend, indicted the 19-year-old for forging her result un­aided. JAMB’s Head of Public Af­fairs and Protocol, Fabian Ben­jamin, stated in a statement that there had never been any doubt about the credibility of the examination body. According to him, the pan­el’s report not only vindicated the body but also reaffirmed the fact that the examination body’s system could never be compromised. He added that the board had been more determined than ever before in the fight to ensure a clean public ex­amination sector, regardless of distractions from detrac­tors. While clarifying that Mme­soma had finally admitted to forging her result, the state­ment also revealed that her real age was 19, contrary to the belief held by many that she was 16. The Board said: “The report of the Commission of Inquiry set up by the Anambra State Government, an independent and unbiased body, as demand­ed by some Nigerians to look into the Mmesoma saga, has vindicated the Board. This has further reinforced the position of the Board that its system was not and cannot be compromised. “It is to be noted that the Board has built a reputation in terms of the conduct of credible examinations over the years and cannot afford to fail the nation at this critical juncture of its development. “Therefore, we will not de­spair in spite of the painful realisation that some Nigeri­ans would do anything to cast aspersions on the good name of the Board. “However, in spite of all the posturing of its detractors, the Board remains resolute and uncompromising in its com­mitment to give Nigeria the best as far as credible and fair assessment is concerned. “In fact, the Board is, more than ever, determined to con­tinue to forge ahead unmind­ful of the shenanigan of those who desire its fall. “For the benefit of those who are still doubting the capacity of Ms. Mmesoma to commit this egregious crime and those who are pushing the narrative that the girl is just 16 years old, even against all available data that indi­cate her age as an adult of 19 years, Ms. Mmesoma has owned up to committing the heinous infraction, which was carefully crafted to de­stroy the very foundation of one of the nation’s agencies charged with the critical role of apportioning the limited educational resource of the nation based on fairness eq­uity and integrity. “It is, therefore, highly regrettable that some Nigeri­ans, who do not believe in the strength and resourcefulness of their nation’s institutions, would latch on to any opportu­nity to pull the Board down to their level of perfidy. “One vital lesson that Nige­rians should learn from the im­broglio, is to learn to appreci­ate the genuine efforts of their critical national institutions to chart the course of national re­birth. Hence, this attitude of at­tacking everything that makes the nation proud even by peo­ple who should know better, is disheartening. The flip side of this is to infer that some ethnic jingoists had perhaps been ele­vated to public office and recog­nition beyond their mental and emotional capacity. “The Board would continue to be guided by the principles of inclusiveness and fairness as demonstrated by its seam­less and unprompted deploy­ment of a dedicated software called the Central Admission Processing System (CAPS), which not only eliminates human interference in the admission process, but also engenders equity, fairness, transparency to all as we do not know tribe or religion.”