Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri has implored the Federal Government of Nigeria to learn from the São Tomé and Principe Governments by paying serious attention to the security of all its citizens. He stated this against the backdrop of the promptness and concern with which the São Tomé and Principe authorities moved to take custody of the country’s fishermen who were found and rescued in Bayelsa State days after they got lost while fishing in the Atlantic Ocean. Diri spoke at the “Unveiling of a New Media Campaign for Promoting Projects and Programmes Commemorating 2023 World Social Media Day/Launching of Prosperity 2.0”, organised by the state government’s New Media with the theme, “The New Media Paradigm: A New Gateway to Prosperity”, in Yenagoa. The Bayelsa governor had on Thursday formally handed over the three São Tomé and Principe fishermen to their country’s Head of Mission in Nigeria, Pires Dos Santos Aguia, at the Government House, Yenagoa. Two of them, Antonio Sabino and Osorio Pires, were rescued by fishermen from Okpoama in Brass Local Government of the state, while the third was said to be rescued by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency. He emphasised that the life of every citizen no matter how lowly placed was important, stressing that that was the message embedded in the manner the São Tomé and Principe government went about ensuring that their fishermen were taken home safely after their rescue in a foreign land. He noted that too many lives were being wasted in Nigeria and urged the Federal Government to stop the national carnage. Diri, while highlighting the hospitable nature of the Ijawman, said, “Just yesterday, by the very good deeds of some of our citizens, Bayelsans from Brass LGA and Okpoama, they made us proud. POLL “We didn’t know that we are so close to São Tomé and Principe. Fishermen got lost in their country and those fishermen were in the Atlantic Ocean looking for their direction. For over one week they got no direction until our fishermen from Okpoama saw them while they (Okpoama fishermen) were going to fish, and brought them home. That’s how kind an Ijaw man is. “They brought them to Okpoama and handed them over to the security, and my attention was drawn to it. I directed the DPO there, I directed the Commissioner of Police to ensure that the fishermen are brought to Yenagoa, and given appropriate medical attention. “And their Embassy in Abuja had to establish contact with Bayelsa State Government, and the Head of Mission himself came all the way to Yenagoa from Abuja. After all the medical checks we handed them over to their Head of Mission.” He continued: “Now, for fishermen, imagine the message; fishermen who got lost on their own, the President (of São Tomé and Principe) had to call the Head of Mission and he traced them to Bayelsa. I think that Nigeria has a lot to learn from this. “I don’t know if our fishermen would have gotten lost; if we will even hear that fishermen had gotten lost. They (São Tomé and Principe fishermen) slept here, we gave them accommodation, we had to buy clothes for them, and transported them back to Abuja with their Head of Mission. “And that’s to say how important a citizen is, no matter how lowly placed. The life of one citizen is important to the government of that country, and we keep wasting lives here in Nigeria. That has to stop.” Diri noted that the São Tomé and Principe head of mission while thanking the Bayelsa government for its hospitality, acknowledged the contribution of fishermen to their country’s economy and that they were as important as any personality, which was why the government had to look for them. He added, “My mind was just telling me: I hope that this message will get to Federal Government and it will not stop here in Bayelsa. He (Head of Mission) told me there was jubilation in São Tomé and Principe after the fishermen were found and rescued in Bayelsa State.” Diri however praised the Okpoama fishermen for demonstrating the true spirit of Ijaw people, and promised to reward them soon for their effort.