AWKA – The Commissioner for Culture, Tourism and En­tertainment, Don Onyenji, has stated that it is totally not fair for any person or group of persons to casti­gate and cast aspersions on Anambra State on the social media. Onyenji, who spoke with an emotion ladened voice during an elaborate press conference in his office at the secretariat complex, Awka, said those in the broadcast industry should be guided by the policy direction of the National Broadcasting Com­mission (NBC) and not pro­duce uncensored contents to tarnish the image and reputa­tion of a sitting government. He said rather than use uncensored videos and con­tents on social media to scare people away from investing in Anambra State, such ma­terials could be deployed in more constructive ways to the advantage of the government and people of the state. Onyenji, who is a radio cum televisiojn broadcaster of 43 years standing, advised that where such unwhole­some material is found, the individual should endeavour to interview the relevant gov­ernment officials to ascertain the true position of things in­stead of posting falsehoods in the social media to discredit the government. Onyenji said: “If you see anywhere such a thing exists, go and interview the relevant officers of government and they will answer you and take responsibility. That is the way to go. It is not fair to go on so­cial media and blast your own government. “So if you leave your primary station where you should explore and tell peo­ple what to do and go to the social media to scare people from coming into your state to invest and you talk against your own governor; it is high­ly unprofessional. “When a governor who is the Chief Security Officer is attacking insecurity with vigor and vitality and every­body is testifying and you know that things are not the way this government met it, what you can do is to point out areas of concern and the government will incorporate it into its activities and that is the best. “So I will like our people to be part of the new Anam­bra State. I did 35 years in broadcasting and today I am doing 43 years or so and we know how we conducted ourselves. POLL “Everybody in the enter­tainment industry should please be part of this govern­ment. Do not go to social me­dia and castigate your state. Please promote what is hap­pening in Anambra State.