A lot of thoughts are currently flying around Betty’s head. She doesn’t know who she should be with – a man she is madly in love with or to be with a man that loves and cares for her unconditionally? From her story, the one she loves so much is not reciprocating the same love to her; his heart seems to be far from her. And there is another man by the side who cares for her and is ready to make her his woman but she doesn’t love him in return. Confused Betty wants to know which of these men would be preferable as she considers settling down. “I have two men in my life but to be sincere with you, I am in love with one of them. He is my kind of man and almost the same age as me. He is a businessman and the business is just coming up and he is not buoyant. You see, even though he doesn’t have money, I still love him. My heart just longs after him. He doesn’t give me money, I am the one that supports him financially sometimes. “Despite all the love and support I give him, he is not appreciative. Sometimes he acts as if I am the cause of his many misfortunes. As if I am forcing myself on him. We have been together for six years and things have just been like this. He is always having a problem: if it is not a rent issue, it would be that his business has gone bankrupt and he needs money to settle debts. “He usually shares his problems with me and, unknown to him, those frequent problems he shares with me don’t trouble my soul. That is why I don’t even bother to ask him for money. Whenever we quarrel, and he says it’s over, I would be the one begging him because I love him so much. But it is becoming tiring. He is not even talking about marriage; in fact, any time I start a discussion about marriage he would pick offense and say I am desperate. He says if I can’t wait I should look for someone else to marry and leave his life. “Now, about the other guy. He is doing well financially, cares for me so much that even when I chase him away because of the other guy I love, he keeps coming to me. He says he loves me. He doesn’t joke with me. He doesn’t stress me. And he say he wants to marry me. “Do you know I never knew a guy could gift a lady money without sleeping with her? This man, although in his late 40s, was the first man that sent me big money to start a business without asking me to come to his house or to meet him in a hotel. But my only fear about him is if he is honest, whether he would continue being nice to me afterward. “I don’t know what to do. I am still with the one I love because we have come a long way and I love him stupidly. Please, what is your advice? POLL Dear Betty, this is the decision only you can take because, after all, it’s your life and it is difficult to advise a person that is in love. But if you ask me, I would say it is better you marry or be with a man that loves you more than be with the one you love. As a lady, it is sweeter when the man is doing the chasing and the loving. And to balance it, it is preferable when both partners love each other equally. Given what you have said, I think you should follow your instinct. And you have been with a guy for six years and no commitment yet? Sometimes people don’t know when to take a walk, especially when the relationship is long and deep – they wait till they get dumped and begin to cry foul. I hope he wouldn’t jilt you at the end. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.