His Royal Majesty, Eze William Ezugwu, is a top traditional ruler in Enugu State, South East of Nigeria. He is the Igwe of Ibagwa Opi Autonomous Community and the Eze Ogbozarra III of the Ancient Opi Kingdom. He is also a leader in the civil society community in Nigeria. In this interview, with our Correspondent CHIDI UGWU, HRM Ezeugwu speaks on the past and new administrations in Enugu State as well as the need for constitutional roles for traditional rulers in the country, among other issues. Excerpt: Recently you were elected as the Igwe of Ibagwa Opi Autonomous Community of Opi Ancient Kingdom in Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State. How does it make you feel? Well, I believe that there is time for everything. And for me, it’s time to be of better service to my people at the grassroots level, especially when my people desired that I serve them as a traditional leader in another capacity. So, I feel very comfortable with the new development and I appreciate the government of Enugu State, the people of Ibagwa Opi Autonomous Community and the entire Ogbozarra people in the Opi Ancient Kingdom for their support and cooperation so far. As you may know, Ibagwa Opi Autonomous Community is just a part of my larger domain as the Eze Ogbozarra III (the monarch of Ogbozarra), the third in the lineage. My larger domain, Ogbozarra, is made up of two autonomous communities. For that reason, I have just come closer to the grassroots to serve my people as their native leader as the custodian of the customs and tradition of the people. There is a new administration in Enugu State, how would you rate its start, especially in the last 30 days of the Governor Peter Mbah administration? First of all, the new administration in Enugu State is still too young to really assess the government of Governor Peter Mbah but I can tell you one thing: the new administration has started with very hopeful signs and I don’t think the Governor has goofed in any way. He is a reputable Nigerian maritime lawyer and an oil mogul turned Governor. He was in government as Chief of Staff to a former governor of the state and later a Commissioner for Finance and Economic Development in the state. He was a member of the Federal Accounts Allocation Committee, the Enugu State Executive Council as well as a member of the State Security Council. For me, the environment is not strange to him. And think that his antecedents account for the calmness and focus he has exhibited in the last 30 days as the Governor of Enugu State. Moreover, having interacted with him, just few days after he assumed office as the Executive Governor, I saw in him a leader who is ready to carry everybody along just like the former Governor, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi did in his fantastic eight years in office. Thus far, I can say that Governor Peter Mbah has started well. For example, the move by the Governor to host Diaspora and Investment Forum (ES-DIF), with the aim of raising a minimum of $2 billion in additional investments for Enugu State is a giant step. Remember that the Governor himself was an investor before taking up his current assignment. I’m sure he was motivated by the need to transform the state from a civil servant status to an industrialised state. This is leadership at its best so far. The challenges are enormous and to make headway, he needs to assemble his team and a lot of planning will be required for him to deliver the urgently needed dividend of democracy to the people of the state. As a traditional ruler, do you have any advice for him? I think the only advice I can give him now is to continue on the path he is as he is doing well. There are high hopes and expectations and the people are yearning for better welfare and the right environment to carry out their legal activities across the state. I already know that he is focused on delivering on the primary purpose of government, which is to ensure the security and welfare of the people. That’s why my advice to him is to continue on the right track which he is on and the people of the state will support his administration overwhelmingly. POLL You earlier mentioned the immediate past Governor, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. And, some people have been saying that he has gone into hiding since he left office. What is your reaction to that? We all know that even when the former Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi was in office, he was not into noise-making, he has been a quiet achiever all his life. So, it is not a surprise that those who don’t understand his lifestyle will come up with the rumour that he has gone into hiding. I see it as a mere blackmail. What will he be hiding from, after a meritorious service to the people? He laid a solid foundation and he has a worthy successor. May be they thought that he will assume the role of a godfather and start directing the new Governor on what to do and what not to do. Well, we all know that there is no godfatherism in Enugu State politics. The people follow their convictions and vote into office whoever they desire to vote for. Former Governor Ugwuanyi is a very articulate politician and technocrat that Nigeria still needs in higher capacity. He failed to win his Senatorial bid and…? (Cuts in) You see, losing that Senatorial election was not because he did not do well as a Governor. He was just a victim of some kind of political wave that almost threw away the baby with the bathwater in the state. Every administration has its own share of inherent challenges associated with governance and leadership, and many of such hurdles are unforseen. For instance, the administration confronted the many economic meltdowns of the former President Muhammadu Buhari administration amid revenue shortfalls from the Federation Accounts and the various waves of COVID-19 pandemic, which disrupted economic plans. And even with those challenges, as a Governor, Rt Hon Ugwuanyi was innovative, proactive and strategic in his style of leadership. He engaged with relevant stakeholders, supported democratic institutions, built infrastructure, managed the pandemic and two economic recessions, unknown gunmen and killer Fulani herdsmen and other security challenges and handed over to another administration and continued with his quiet life. Some individuals like being alone to draw inspirations for the tasks ahead and I think the former Governor is among them. Again, the loss of the Senatorial bid tells you that Rt. Hon. Ugwuanyi is a democrat who Nigeria needs at a higher level. He didn’t kill or maim to impose himself on the people. He allowed the people to make their choice, whether rightly or wrongly, he allowed the forces of democracy to have their way. That’s the kind of leaders Nigerians need, not those who impose themselves on the people. For me, Ugwuanyi is on top among individuals I consider as the faces of a new Nigeria. As a custodian of the culture and tradition of the people, is there any significant role the traditional institutions can play in the area of security and good governance? The truth is that integrating the traditional institution into the state and national security and governance architecture will go along way in bringing stability in government and assist in reducing criminality in our communities. Therefore, creating constitutional roles for traditional rulers as the custodians of the culture and traditions of the people nationwide is the way Nigeria must go. We have been running the affairs of the country without any clearly defined roles for traditional leaders in the constitution. The result is seen in the inability of the country to adequately manage the socioeconomic and security challenges we have today. These challenges have been on the increase. But our traditional rulers are the representations of the best of our tradition and culture. They have been playing useful roles in mediating between the people and the state, enhancing national identity and resolving minor conflicts in their various communities. They were used by the colonial masters to preside over native courts, helped the colonial government in the area of tax assessment and collection and took active part in law making, among others. And, before the coming of the colonial masters who gradually gave a big blow to our traditional values, the traditional rulers served as link between the people and their ancestors, appointed subordinate Chiefs for native administrations, maintained law and order in their respective domains and ensured the preservation of native laws and customs. These precolonial roles of traditional rulers helped in reducing corruption, minimising criminality in the communities, and led to boost in economic growth until the roles of the traditional rulers were eroded. If the traditional rulers are integrated into the governance system, many of the ills of the society and general lack of morales values in the society today will be gradually corrected and Nigeria will be a better place for citizens and visitors to the country alike. We all know that if the security of lives and property and access to justice are improved upon, investors from all over the world will find Nigerian states as investment destinations. This is why I think that there has to be clear constitutional roles for traditional institutions in governance for a better society.