Hon. Moshood Salvador is a former member of the House of Representatives and former Lagos State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview, speaks about the state of the nation, why Nigerians should exercise patience with the new administration of President Bola Tinubu. He talks about the need for Nigerians to dialogue with the government, demand improved services, and he commends the President for implementing part of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What is your take on the one month of Bola Tinubu’s administration? It is very important for us to know what we are doing before we start agitating; President Bola Tinubu has only been in office for a month, and we have 12 months in a year. We also have four years in a term. There are also eight years of the full term of President Bola Tinubu. We have 96 months for him to spend and he has spent only one month of the four years of the administration and people are already agitating. It is just like a new born baby, a new born regime, a new born administration. Personally, the administration has started well. In recent months, we talked about insecurity. We were all lamenting about the killings, kidnapping in the country and he sacked the service chiefs and appointed new ones after assuming office which is what a lot of Nigerians clamoured for. If you talk of security, he has done well. Now we will wait and see what the new security chiefs will do. It is not the President alone. We have to also look at those that he has put there and be monitoring every one of them. The chief of Naval Staff has reshuffled the structure. It shows that they are ready for the change. So, we will look at what the police, Nigeria Army, Air Force have done. Police are now talking of withdrawing police attached to Very Important Persons (VIPs). It is not the right thing to do. We are talking about insecurity across Nigeria. Why can’t you recruit more police, because we need more police in Nigeria now to secure the country? We’re talking of insecurity and you are considering withdrawing police from people that are paying your organisation for the services. When we are talking about unemployment, why can’t you recruit 2million youths to take their position? Why are you not recruiting more so that you can have more police? You can strategise because policing can also be a good source of revenue. They can make revenue from VIPs, embassies and even expatriates. We have expatriates living in my estate and they provide police to protect them. It’ll be an additional money for them and they’ll be happy and their families will be happy. They should learn to look at the positive side of things and not the negative side. The reforms are coming fast and there are plans for an electricity tariff hike. Do you support that? We shouldn’t be looking at agitation but we should state what we want and how we want it. If someone wants to increase the price of his goods, ask him what will be the difference between the value that he has provided before and the one he wants to give you now. I want Nigerians to ensure they commit the government. Tell the government that you want uninterrupted power supply, if it is there, and they make an additional increase of five or three percent, we won’t mind. It’s not enough to protest the increase in tariff, rather ask what the additional value you hope to get from the increment. If they allow that they’ll just be giving opportunity to labour union to keep negotiating and collecting money People are complaining of the high cost of living, and the World Bank has predicted that more Nigerians will fall into extreme poverty. What are your thoughts? Don’t mind the World Bank. Nigerians should stop listening to all the rubbish by the UK. The problem in Uk is more than what we are talking about here. Why would the United Kingdom try to deport 10,000 asylum seekers? It is their right to stay in the UK because their rights are threatened in their countries. We don’t have a problem, it’s just that we listen to the wrong people. I would ask all the youths to sit down and I would tell them what to do and make it in life. What I’m saying is that the youths should allow us strategies, so we can get something from this government. It is not all the time that you take to agitations. We should also try to see how we can dialogue. Obafemi Awolowo and MKO Abiola agitated for so long what they got? Are you aware of the high cost of commodities in the market because of President Tinubu’s reforms? POLL It is difficult, I know, but we should be rational. The way to make it easy for the youths is what I want us to think about. The high cost of commodities is a global problem. In the UK the prices of food and other commodities are up. It is not about the Ukraine war, it started after the Covid-19 period. May we all sit down and see how we can initiate strategies to ease the situation. We’re talking of fuel subsidies; if they bring the fuel price down today, transportation fares would still not go down. So, we will suggest that Mr. President be careful with some statements. You can remove fuel subsidies without chaos. What would it cost the government to say within one month let all state governors release 20 buses to all the states across Nigeria? The buses would be free and commuters would not pay. Let Nigerians be using these buses free for two months. I trust Nigerians that they’ll forget the hardship. They’ll not feel the negative effect of the policies because they’ll appreciate you. Dialogue should be applied in resolving government policies which are perceived unfavourable to the masses. I think Nigerians would appreciate constant power supply, even if you increase tariffs, but let them see improvement in the quality of what they are paying for. I also suggest the government should rather increase tariffs in industrial areas, and also areas where the elites reside. That will take care of the poor, considering the poverty level in Nigeria now. It may be costlier than what we have on ground now, but that difference should be taken up by the elites. Nigerians are also agitating that there should be a cut in governance. They are concerned that those in government are not considering making sacrifices. In fact the National Assembly is clamouring for a 114% salary rise. What is your take? It is very important for the government to cut expenses and reduce costs if they are serious. So, they can have enough money to take care of the poor. I was talking about how to take care of the poor; and also subsidise food. It is not by giving cash. Giving cash encourages stealing. We have strategies for dealing with the public. The President has suffered before so he understands. You cannot say that he doesn’t know the effect of suffering. The President said recently when he met with Aliko Dangote that Nigerians should pity these people and that statement was loaded. Let us think of avenues to channel our complaints. We have a President that can listen to us. So, for me it is just to get that channel to be speaking to him rather than agitating. There should be dialogue between the Tinubu’s administration and ordinary Nigerians. A lot of people are worried about the overwhelming influence the executive had in the election of the National Assembly leaders, especially the alleged plan to foist a stooge as senate minority leader. What is your take? There was an election, I saw it on YouTube, I was not there. It was only what the media presented to us that I can make my judgment on. Either voice vote or individual election as long as the rules and guidelines of the National Assembly allow and provide for what they did. We cannot have any objection to that. What was presented to us was an election, and people were elected. There are agitations that we don’t need a bi-cameral legislature. ? It is about the type of government we have, which is presidential. Who are the people saying it? Let them come out and talk. Today we only hear rumours, people don’t come out to talk. If you notice what Tinubu is doing now, he is only doing what we recommended at the National Conference in 2014, I was part of that conference. He would implement some of the recommendations. State police he would do it. If all those recommendations are implemented there would be changes. We’ve to work to alleviate the suffering of Nigerians. Are you optimistic that President Tinubu is the “messiah” for Nigeria? I don’t beat my chest for anybody. What I have seen him do now, the way he is talking I can see he wants to follow the 2014 National Conference recommendations to make change. The major recommendation of the national conference was to restructure the country, which is why the Northerners said they should throw it into the garbage.