LAGOS – Emmanuel Ogidi, former vice national chairman of the Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP), South-South has lamented the emergence of former Governor Nyesom Wike’s men as minority leaders in the National Assembly (NASS), stressing that the former governor has sold out and is as­sisting the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) to break the party’s rank. Ogidi who spoke in an in­terview on Wednesday said that Wike cannot kill PDP, even though he has tried consistently to destroy the party He said, “APC is trying to break our ranks, and this is possi­ble because of the man in Rivers State, Wike sold out and he keeps selling out. It is unfortunate but he’ll pay the price in due time. Be­cause what you sew in this life is what you’ll reap. “He has tried consistently to destroy the party. He cannot kill PDP. I believe that God is with us. We have a weakness in PDP. We don’t know how to be in position. That is why APC, which special­izes in opposition, has prepared itself. “I think that we’re still learn­ing to be in opposition. Thank God that we still have our mem­bers who are principal officers. I don’t think that they’ll disrespect the National Working Committee (NWC). Recall when Elumelu be­came the minority leader, yes he was suspended but he did his bid. It turned out to be a good one, and now Chinda has come in. He added, “The truth of the matter is that they all have responsibilities and this time around it won’t be like the last time because the minority lead­er is not just leading the PDP, he is leading all other parties. Nigerians are watching them and we’re also watching them. I heard you talk about the APC na­tional chairman saying that the majority leaders were not their choice candidates. The truth is that the power of the party has been weakened by the executive consistently. “Right now even the APC cannot recall anybody, once their president is in charge. I won’t call him my president because we’re court. I believe that we’ll get it right. We’re not happy but we’ll get it right. “Sometimes it’s difficult to deal with human beings, some­times human beings show ingrat­itude. You used to say the party is supreme and unfortunately today, individual interests have affected the supremacy of the party. POLL “We expect what is happen­ing but the truth of the matter is that we have 36 senators, almost one third of the number in the chamber,” he said.