Pat Utomi, a professor of political economy and management expert, in this interview, speaks about insecurity in Nigeria and what the Federal Government should do. He also regrets the fraud that characterized the fuel subsidy regime, calls on the government to look for ways to ameliorate the sufferings of Nigerians, and challenges the political class to stop self-serving. CHIBUIKE CHUKWU brings the excerpts Ex-Zamfara governor, Yerima, while in a meeting with President Bola Tinubu, said that the last option on insecurity should be to attack them while the best is negotiating with them; what is your take on this? Security is fundamental because without peace, it will be hard to make any progress. It is such a nuanced matter that sometimes people think of throwing in more soldiers and more money. We will track them down but there are many that are at play here. Yes the security architecture is very important because security issues should be discussed and operationalised right from the community level up to the national level. It is necessary that security architecture is looked into all the time but because of political issues. Nigerians seem not to understand that security issues are a lookout problem and you can get policing to function at different levels. I have repeated several times that I recall living in the United States as a graduate student many years ago and the university has its own police force, and well-armed people. The city where the university was located has its own police force. The county has its own police force and the state has its troopers and all these are for the interest of the people. Here we use all kinds of excuses to deny people organising for themselves security at their levels. If we organise security architecture properly, we have to ensure that people feel attachment to the state. When you have a situation where people think that the state doesn’t exist in their interest; when they think that political groups are groups that are fascist in their inclination and will bully other citizens into submission, you have a tendency as a government to respond in a way that will move the country away from anarchy. Thirdly, when you have a situation where we don’t focus enough on ordinary people, their pains, their worries and making life better for them and their families, then you are a political class that appropriate to yourself more than fair share of the limited resources of the country. You get resentment from the state itself and will move the state towards bad perceptions and that is what is happening in Nigeria. Instead of having a political class that is self-sacrificing, passionately working towards getting a better life for the people, we have a political class that is obsessed with getting personal gains from the system and in such situations, you are going to have this level of insecurity. What is at stake in Nigeria is a rebuilding of the very nature of the relationship of people to the Nigerian state which is at the moment at a very low level. There is a big disconnect between Nigerians and the political class because of the acts of the political class who are protecting its narrow interest and against the choice of the people. What is your take on the fuel subsidy removal and its impact on the people? This is part of not having a political class of rational public consideration. These issues are so nuanced that it is not a matter of either remove or don’t remove. It is far more complex than ‘we are for subsidy removal or we are against subsidy removal’. Subsidy is not necessarily our problem; the problem is where you subsidize, how you subsidize and the consequences. I have argued for more than 25 years that what we call subsidy is banditry; banditry in the sense that how much people who are involved in the process are stealing. It is also about how much crude goes out illegally from Nigeria but then it is a matter of taking a stand and saying this is a policy matter. If the state is serious it should arrest those people involved in this. Most of the people who do these are well known to the state. Like my friend Issa Yuguda said in a recent show, people in power know these people. Why do you think this economic sabotage festers? But even above and beyond the policing system that could catch those who are abusing the process. Economics is about incentives; if getting one tanker across the border will change your fortune forever, the incentive to corrupt everybody in the process to get that one tanker across the border will be there. So to keep holding policemen to account with such incentives will be much more challenging. So not to allow that process to fester is a reasonable way to go about it. Having said that, I think one of the things we are up to is trying to dance to music from somewhere else. Yes, we know subsidy is a way of abusing and stealing from the Nigerian people. So Nigerians should get away from celebrating and pampering some international order. What we should do in my opinion is to subsidise production and not consumption. But we have to make sure that few people do not take what is meant to cushion the effects of economic hardship like palliative. We should look at our condition and see how we can save our resources to move to produce; the real problem of Nigeria is that we are not producing. If you take the problem of petroleum subsidy and you actually subsidise these modular refineries all over the place and thirty, forty Nigerians get the appropriate subsidies for modular refineries around the country and employ thousands of young Nigerians who will be earning good money and producing something that can allow for competition with the lowest prices, we can take the theory that the subsidy will go but the competition will lead to lowering of prices. When all that you do is importing, a monopoly player can make the prices hang up there but when you have so many modular refineries out there competing, they will lower prices the same way GSM prices came down. These are very necessary but unfortunately we don’t have conversations in Nigeria; what we have is trading of insults and that is what has made our democracy not to grow. What you have highlighted is obviously a long term solution; before something like the modular refineries come up, what is the immediate solution given that there is high cost of goods and even job losses among other effects? POLL We all have been there watching these things over the years, the political class looting the treasury with no job created. We can all see it now. We are not going to have any magic wand to it. I think we have to look at some of the inputs that bring pain to people and look at how we can subsidize those inputs to limit the pain. There should be an arrangement that should, for instance, reduce the cost of travel for people for the meantime. Because people were profiting from the so-called subsidy, we refused to look for intelligent things to do for the masses. There is going to be some pain but we have to see how we reduce the same for the weakest in our society. The place where the heat is much is in the food prices; there is a huge effect in this. The question is how do we make sure we control those things which cause food prices to rise? How do we make sure that food prices do not continually rise? Even going to work, a lot of Nigerians don’t produce anything; they just show up because we don’t have a productive economy. How do we begin to change that? How do we change all of these and that is fundamental? How do we put smart people to work? I don’t need you to show up five days a week when in one day you can produce all that you can do in those five days. Let’s really be honest, most Nigerians don’t work; they just show up at work and feel entitled to an income. We need to reorganize the productivity chain.