LAGOS  – Analysts have advised the Federal Government to embark on decisive fiscal consolidation strategies and tight monetary measures to ensure macroeconomic stability. Nigeria, they said, needs tax structures that can best support Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita growth in the wake of the current financial and economic crisis. They reasoned that the failure of the fiscal and monetary authorities to boost the output capacity of real sector players over the last eight years of implementing capital control measures have exacerbated exchange rate pressure, due to growing import bills. They also maintained that bold tax administration reforms is of great essence to the success of the administration, adding that the current crippling power supply, weak tax structures, volatile commodity prices and a challenging external environment have contributed to the nation’s weak growth performance. They added that efforts of Federal Government was needed to initiate policy measures that will also address political stability and security, legal and regulatory, adding that local and foreign investors will need some convincing actions as regards flexibility and clarity in the foreign exchange framework going forward. They advocated urgent need for government to reform trade, textile and garment manufacturing, food and beverage manufacturing, and real estate and other contributing sectors of the economy to boost non-oil revenue generation and expand its tax collection bracket as the only option left to boost domestic revenue drive They implored Federal Government to enhance excise rates on “sin goods”, while in the medium term, emphasis could be placed on rationalizing tax expenditures and in the long term to improve revenue from cross border transactions and other international tax measures. In order to give producers and citizens some relief, they advised that government could tweak the tariff policies by granting concessionary import duty on intermediate products for industrialists, especially those in the food processing segments of the agriculture value chain. POLL They advised the Federal Government to prioritise greater investment in physical capital, education, and social safety nets, as well as more support for retraining and re-allocating workers to new and better jobs that will lead to the transformation of the economy to make it smarter, greener, and more resilient and inclusive. President Bola Tinubu had last week,approved the establishment of a presidential committee on fiscal policy and tax reforms. Taiwo Oyedele, fiscal policy partner and Africa tax leader at PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC), was named the chairman of the committee. Dele Alake, special adviser to the president on special duties, communications and strategy, announced the development at the weekend Alake said the committee will comprise experts from both the private and public sectors and be responsible for various aspects of tax law reform, fiscal policy design and coordination, harmonisation of taxes, and revenue administration. He said the committee’s primary objective is to enhance revenue collection efficiency, ensure transparent reporting, and promote the effective utilization of tax and other revenues to boost citizens’ tax morale, foster a healthy tax culture, and drive voluntary compliance. Zacchaeus Adedeji, special adviser to the president on revenue , while speaking on the committee’s establishment, said Tinubu recognises the import of a sound fiscal policy environment and an effective taxation system for the functioning of the government and the economy. ”Nigeria ranks very low on the global ease of paying taxes while the country’s Tax to GDP ratio is one of the lowest in the world and well below the African average,” he said. ”This has led to an over-reliance on borrowing to finance public spending which in turn limits the fiscal space as debt service costs consume a greater portion of government revenue, annually resulting in a vicious cycle of inadequate funding for socio-economic development. ”While some incremental progress has been recorded over the years, the outcomes have not been transformative enough to change the narrative.” Adedeji outlined the key challenges in Nigeria’s tax system to include multiple taxes and revenue collection agencies, fragmented and complex tax system, low tax morale and high prevalence of tax evasion. Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), in exclusive interview with Daily Independent, said it was commendable that the President Bola Ahmed Tinubu took due and far-sighted notice and consideration of the concerns. He noted that: “ In keeping with the trend of positive policy initiatives that we have seen with his administration, the four executive orders released has put paid to the anxieties of manufacturers in the affected sectors in particular and operators in the expansive value chain in general. “The suspension of the obnoxious aspects of the 2023 Fiscal Policy Measures, which arbitrarily imposed additional tax burden on the manufacturing sector, is a welcome development and has removed a looming clog on its operations and productivity. “Manufacturers in the affected sector are pleased and we can now reconnect with our projections and plans made in the beginning of the year. “We expect that the Customs Service will now stand down the requirements for compliance with the excise escalation and the registration for the green tax”. He stressed that his association will continue to value fruitful dialogue and engagement with the government, with a view to improving the manufacturing environment in particular and the economy in general. “The sector is already strained by several familiar challenges, including high interest rate and inadequate long-term fund, poor infrastructure, low demand for locally manufactured products, high energy cost in the face of low energy supply, multiple taxation etc.” Mr. Adewale-Smatt Oyerinde, NECA’s Director General, while commending the intervention of the President, told Daily Independent that the issue of multiplicity of taxes has become a major challenge to organised businesses in the country. He said: “ Currently businesses are made to pay over fifty different taxes and sundry charges, among which are: corporate income tax, import duties, export duties,excise duties, rents, capital gains tax, Personal Income tax, Value Added tax, Stamp duties, Property tax, Licenses, Motor Parking fee, Motor Vehicle fee, Withholding tax, Land tax, Market License fee, Road tax, Business Premises, dividend tax, NHIS levy, Advert fee, Regulation fees, the new NYSC levy as well as the regular user charges such as electricity, water, disposal fee. “These huge tax burden, no doubt, has been a clog in the wheel of overall performance of organised businesses over the years. We had, at numerous fora expressed concern on the escalation of taxes including exercise duties and its adverse implication on the business operating environment”. He noted that “we are indeed elated with the news of the Executive Orders, particularly with the suspension of the 5% Excise Tax on telecommunication services; suspension of Excise Duties on Tobacco (30% ad valorem rate with the introduction of specific rate of NGN 4.2/ stick of cigarette for 2022; N4.7 per stick for 2003; and N5.2/stick in 202); Beer (N40/ lite in 2002; N45/lite in 2023 and N50/lite 2024); and Wine/Spirit (20% ad valorem rate with a specific rate of N50/litre in 2022) as proposed in the 2022 Fiscal Policy Statement. “The suspension of 10% Green Tax by way of Excise Tax on Single Use Plastics (SUPs), including plastics containers and bottles; Import Tax Adjustment (IAT) of 2% on imported motor vehicles of 2000 cc to 3999 and 4% on 4000 cc engines. The new Orders will no doubt, support the efforts at improving the operating environment and mitigate the high cost of doing business in Nigeria, particularly with the aftermath of the removal of fuel subsidy”. He noted that: “in view of consolidating the gains that these interventions would facilitate, the NECA Boss urged that “beyond the definitive pronouncements of the President, we urge Mt President to also reconsider the VAT imposition on Automated Gas Oil (AGO) among some other urgent interventions. Dr Muda Yusuf, CEO Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE),told Daily Independent, said in keeping with the trend of positive policy initiative, the four executive orders released by the Federal Government has put paid to the anxieties of investors in the affected sectors in the economy. He acknowledged that the recent Consumer Price Index (CPI) report by the NBS indicated that Nigeria still has a structural problem, inhibiting both production and exports potential that demand urgent federal government intervention Yusuf, who expressed optimism that there is room for improvement in the provision and maintenance of infrastructure, investment productivity, and boosting of local business activities to support export activities and strengthen channels for dollar inflow, called for government value fruitful dialogue and engagement with the stakeholders on the way forward with a view to improving the enabling business environment in the economy. He said: “There is need to reduce the level of debt financing especially the reliance on commercial debt to fund government operations. Public debt is already at an unsustainable threshold. Steps should be taken to attract foreign exchange through a strategy of ensuring new investment opportunities to stimulate foreign capital inflows into the economy. The Executive Director of one of the new generation banks in Nigeria, who craves anonymity, told Daily Independent that the unwarranted and clearly disingenuous escalation of excise and introduction of new taxes in the 2023 Fiscal Policy Measures had the potential impact of truncating the business projections of producers and assaulting the purchasing capability of the average Nigerian. “It is therefore worthy of commendation that the President Bola Ahmed Tinubu took due and far-sighted notice and consideration of the concerns. Auwal Musa Rafsanjani , the Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), in a chat with Daily Independent, called for excise reforms through policy measures, property tax reforms by updating/completing property records and Value-Added Tax (VAT) administration and plugging compliance gaps to improve revenue mobilisation as they had potential to raise over N10 trillion annually. He said: “Nigeria needs to ensure sustainable fiscal management that is resilient to the global oil price cycles. “Improving tax collection and administration have become imperatives for achieving national growth objectives. The framework for tax exemptions should be reviewed and approvals targeted at growth inducing sectors even as the government improves collection “Efficiency in government spending has to improve; there is room for substantial savings in capital outlays and operating expenditure across the three tiers of government. “In addition, the government needs to be deliberate about increasing fiscal savings through a higher accretion to the Sovereign Wealth Fund which has investment objectives of diversification and improving long term economic prospects.”