LAGOS – Lafarge Africa Plc has launched Eco Label brand to transparently commu­nicate the environmental benefits of its sustainable building solutions. The Eco Label branding builds on the company’s net zero pledge and supports its ambition to accelerate green construction with the use of lower-footprint products. Lafarge UniCem brand which contributes about 23 per cent of the compa­ny’s entire volume is now eco-friendly. The products that are certified to be eco-friendly have a lower 30 per cent carbon footprint compared to the local in­dustry standard. Eco Label represents a broad range of green ce­ment for high performance, sustainability and circular construction. By the production of this eco-friendly cement, Lafarge’s end-users have the opportunity to make greener choices and accel­erate the country’s carbon reduction journey in the manufacturing sector. The product was formal­ly unveiled in Calabar. Khaled El Dokani, Coun­try Chief Executive Offi­cer, Lafarge Africa, while speaking on the initiative, termed this as a significant milestone for the company, in demonstrating its efforts towards the global climate change commitment of net zero emissions. “Lafarge Africa is proud to be the first local cement manufacturer of eco-friend­ly cement to the Nigerian market. With the rollout of this Eco brand, we are ac­celerating the transition to more sustainable building materials for greener con­struction.” POLL “We are proud of turning our net zero pledge into ac­tion with our broad range of green building solutions. The Eco Label is a key mile­stone on this journey, con­firming our group’s com­mitment to leading the way in sustainability and inno­vation,” El Dokani added. Sotirios Valsamakis , Plant manager of Lafarge Mfamosing Plant, reiterat­ed the company’s continu­ous commitment to ensure sustainable development through its effective manage­ment in line with global best practices in Environmental, Social and Governance. He added that Lafarge Africa, as a member of Hol­cim, is leveraging its four sustainability pillars of Climate and Energy, Circu­lar Economy, Environment, and Community in reinforc­ing innovation which has led to the introduction of this Eco-friendly cement brand. Also, Plant Customer Development manager, Sales & Marketing, Lafarge Africa, Vorke Enite said: “the Eco Label launch is a zero-emission initiative and is in compliance with global best practices.” Engr. Ninma Apim, the Cross River State coor­dinator of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), also speaking at the event emphasised the need to mitigate global warming by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, commending La­farge Africa for being the first cement factory in Ni­geria to introduce a cement brand such as the Unicem Portland “It is a good initiative and since it has started with Lafarge with this plant, we are hoping it will extend and other plants will follow suit and reduce carbon emission because cement factories emit a lot of it into the at­mosphere. And if we contin­ue to reduce emissions, we will have a greener earth,” he said