Phrank Shaibu, the Special Assistant on Public Communi­cation to Atiku Abubakar, has accused the Bola Tinubu ad­ministration of appointing crit­ics into government for sinister motives. Shaibu said in a statement on Saturday that Tinubu’s constant meetings with some key opposi­tion figures were being done for the purpose of seeking legitima­cy and surreptitiously silencing credible critical voices. Shaibu said the recent ap­pointment of Taiwo Oyedele, a tax expert at PwC, was only a ploy to get him to stop speaking about the government’s failures as he had been doing almost on a daily basis on television, radio and social media. He noted that former Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari similarly did this when he was appointing his economic advi­sory team. Shaibu added, “It is common knowledge that Mr. Oyedele is the loudest voice as regards tax reforms. Last Saturday, he pointed out some of the wrong tax policies of the APC govern­ment. In a bid to silence him, he was appointed chairman of a tax reform committee yesterday (Friday), but no other members were announced. Probably, they want him to work alone. “With this new appointment, Mr Oyedele will no longer be able to speak about the government’s failures. Mr. Oyedele would do well not to allow himself to be rubbished by Tinubu, a man whose only secret to economic boom is using firms linked to him to generate tax for a com­mission just as he did in Lagos. “Mr. Oyedele must not allow himself to be deceived by this appointment. In 2019, President Buhari similarly appointed Do­yin Salami, Chukwuma Soludo, and Bismark Rewane into his economic advisory team, but he never took their advice for one day. “In the end, Nigeria was plunged into one of its worst economic crises ever with an unprecedented debt profile, multi-dimensional poverty, and never before seen unemploy­ment figures.” POLL Shaibu said Tinubu was buying over opposition figures in order to give his government some form of legitimacy after a questionable electoral victory. He argued that the so-called government of national unity Tinubu was propagating was only a ruse to decimate the op­position.