The University of Lagos has won a joint University Administration Support Program (UASP) Alumni Small Grant along with Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. The grant, awarded by the International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX), is for a project entitled: “Entrenching Research Ethics and Integrity Values and Oversight Capacity Building across Two Nigerian Universities.” The UNILAG project team comprising Prof. Abidemi Akindele, the Project Principal Investigator and professor at the Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics & Toxicology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine; Prof. Titilola Aderonke Samuel, the Head, Department of Biochemistry and Dr. Temitope Olabisi Onuminya, the Deputy Director, School of Foundation Studies, and Associate Professor at the Department of Botany paid a courtesy call to the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Folasade Ogunsola. They were received by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academics & Research, Prof. Bola Oboh at the Research Management Office (RMO). The grant award for Stage 1 of the project has a value of $9,690 (nine thousand, six hundred and ninety dollars) and will run till September 13, 2023. The Stage 2 grant would only be awarded based on successful implementation of the Stage 1 activities. The team members from Obafemi Awolowo University include Dr. Bukola Olanike Oyebanji, Project Co-Principal Investigator and Associate Professor in the Department of Animal Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture and Dr. Olufemi Mayowa Adetutu, a Senior Lecturer at the Department of Demography and Social Statistics, Faculty of Social Sciences. It will be recalled that earlier in February, two of these recipients, Prof. Akindele and Dr. Onuminya along with Mrs. Angela Itegboje of the Research Management Office (RMO) were selected to participate in the University Administration Support Program (UASP) Fellowship in Research Management. POLL The Vice-Chancellor, Professor Folasade Ogunsola on behalf of the University community congratulates Prof. Abidemi Akinyemi, Prof. Titilola A. Samuel and Dr. Temitope O. Onuminya on this feat.