LAGOS – The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), stakeholders in the oil and gas industry have perfected strategic engagement at plugging fraudulent conveyor channels through which the country loses over $18 billion annually as a result of Illicit Financial Flows (IFF) in Nigeria’s extractive industry. The organisation said, the loss was largely due to tax evasion, caused by grand corruption, organised crime and other licit and illicit practices. Mr. Auwal Ibrahim Musa, Executive Director of CISLAC, while speaking at the opening of a two-day workshop organised by the Accountability in Extractive Sector cluster with support from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) in Lagos, stated that, although Nigeria might be an extreme case, the menace of illicit practice was replicated throughout Africa. According to him, recognition of the need to expand the frontiers of Nigeria’s collective struggle for transparency and accountability has necessitated the workshop. He stated that while legitimate corporate businesses have an integral role in national development, the involvement of Politically Exposed Persons who conceal corruptly acquired wealth through the complex networks of companies deliberately created to hide their identities has further increased the risks they pose to non-fortified economies. The CISLAC’ boss,pointed out that without transparent ownership of Nigerian and international companies operating within the Nigerian jurisdiction, we will not be able to stop the bleeding from illicit financial outflows, which costs us around 18 billion US dollars, annually. He said: “being the backbone of our economy, the extractives industry must be run transparently and accountably. Nigeria proved its desire to implement beneficial ownership transparency (BOT) commitments when it participated in the beneficial ownership pilot in 2015, signed up to the Open Government Partnership initiative in 2016 and complied with the principles and requirement of the global Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) to establish a beneficial ownership (BO) register by 1st January 2020. He emphasised that the course of these achievements, civil society partners sustained interventions to galvanise support from government and non-state champions for the advancement and realization of this commitment towards a more transparent and accountable extractive sector governance regime. POLL “We must however, not rest on our oars as the register is not an end. While it remains a signifiend in itself but a means to an cant effort in the fulfillment of the commitments to strengthen anti-corruption reforms and corporate accountability, it is only as important as its utilization in detecting, preventing, reporting and sanctioning corruption in the sector. “It is towards the above end that we have convened this workshop in recognition of the crucial role of the media as the fourth pillar of democracy and the need for building local stakeholders’ capacity on the importance of quality and timely beneficial ownership data, and to share skills, tools and methodologies to analyse and use the data”, he said.