Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the National Drug Law Enforce­ment Agency, NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd) on Thursday decorated three Deputy Commanders General of Narcotics (DCGNs) and four Assistant Com­manders General of Narcotics (AC­GNs) who topped the list of 3,248 newly promoted and regularised officers and men of the Agency at a colourful ceremony where 12 state commands and 148 other personnel were given awards and commenda­tions for their outstanding perfor­mances in the first half of the year. Speaking at the event, Marwa said the exercise was an indication that the agency has now entrenched the culture of excellence. He said, “Without grandstanding, we can say that we have raised the bar. Our weekly drug supply reduc­tion effort is a testament to our per­formance. The innovative approach we have taken to drug demand reduc­tion is commendable. The intricate and effective intelligence we deploy to track drug barons and dismantle cartels is a testimony to the capabil­ity of the new NDLEA we have col­lectively forged. Our success rate at prosecution is a definitive statement that we are doing our job. “Our fears have been allayed about what tomorrow holds for the NDLEA and its personnel. Even while we are still in a state of rapid evolution, there have been seismic changes, and we have evolved a bet­ter, more efficient, and sustainable system that guarantees viable work conditions, good staff welfare, and enhanced job performance. We have since been able to settle the problem of career progression by expanding the Agency’s structures. We are cooperating more with regional opposites and international part­ners. All these translate into ample opportunities for upward mobility for focused, hardworking officers.” While stating that the past two and a half years had seen a lot of changes in the agency, he said, “We have tried to reward hard work and professionalism by granting higher responsibilities to officers. Everyone to whom promotion is due has been considered. We are also expanding training opportunities. In the last 18 months, we have conducted over 150 trainings, involving more than 6,000 officers.” He charged them not to rest on their oars. “We have adopted global best practices, and we have no doubt that the NDLEA of our dream is here before us. I am therefore charging you to take more pride in your work. Society today appreciates our ef­forts. Just last week, on World Drug Day, the President and Command­er in Chief gave assurances of his administration’s unwavering sup­port for NDLEA. Our international partners and foreign governments are watching us and are giving us the needed push. And among drug law enforcement agencies, we are rated highly. Our name is out there for good. Therefore, the onus is on us not to slacken but to continue the good work.”