IBADAN  – The Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, Senator Rasidi Adewolu Ladoja has cleared the ground on the rumour making the rounds that he and other Ibadan High Chiefs will be crowned as Obas by the governor of the state, Engr Seyi Makinde on 7th July, 2023, saying the other High Chiefs begged the governor to allow them to resume the usage of their beaded crown, which they initially dumped. Ladoja, who is the former governor of the state said initially he has no crown before, hence, he cannot be part of High Chiefs seeking approval to return to their former ‘artificial’ crowns. Otun Olubadan maintained that it was rumour that Governor Makinde wanted to crown them on 7th July, 2023, as there was no evidence to that effect, noting that the evidence available to him was that the other High Chiefs themselves wrote the Governor begging him to allow them to start using their crowns, which were given to them by the former late Governor Abiola Ajimobi, the request Governor Makinde is yet to publicly approve. The former governor pointed out that nothing has changed on his stand that only crown he wished to put on his head is that of Olubadan of Ibadanland. Ladoja made the clarification while speaking with journalists at his Ondo Street residence in Bodija on Sallah Day. While declaring that it is not proper to make High Chiefs in Ibadan Obas, Ladoja insisted that it is not part of Ibadan tradition for High Chiefs to wear crown. The former governor, however, faulted the plan by High Chiefs to return to their ‘artificial’ crowns, noted that it is only God that ordains anyone who becomes Olubadan. He said something is not adding up on the plan to return to their former ‘artificial’ crowns by query the rationale behind the move. POLL According to the Otun Olubadan, “You don’t mend what is not broken. I don’t think it is right to make High Chiefs Obas. The only crown I want to wear is that of Olubadan crown. Everybody know that it is God that makes one an Oba. “As far as I am concerned, it is not proper for High Chiefs to wear crown. My intention is to become Olubadan. “According to information available to me, it is the remaining High Chiefs that wrote Governor Makinde to give them approval to return to their ‘artificial crowns, which I don’t have one initially, so I cannot be part of them.”