LOKOJA – The Focal Person of the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) in Kogi, Prince Abdulkareem Suleiman Onyekehi has commended Governor Yahaya Bello, for his ability to bring total transformation to all sectors of the economy, unite the people and secured the state. Onyekehi, who is also the Special Adviser to the Governor on Special Projects, gave the commendation in an exclusive interview with our Correspondent on Sunday in Lokoja. According to him, Governor Bello came to fix, unite, secure and rebuild the Kogi State of our dreams with evidence abounds. He stressed that Gov. Bello did not come to undermine and marginalize the state as witnessed under the past Administrations, but rather he came to break the jinx of tribal divides, developed, restored peace and enthroned equity, fairness and justice. Onyekehi noted that the system choice of Alhaji Ahmed Usman Ododo was carefully thought-out in line with justice including the required know-how only to the understanding of sound and sincere minds that knew the history of Kogi State. “This justice will go around in line with the laid down foundation by Governor Yahaya Bello administration, the foundation of equity, fairness and justice in making Kogi work for all Kogites in the distribution of the resources of the state across all zones. “The foundation of securing the state, infrastructural developments and urbanisation of rural communities, electrification, agricultural, educational, healthcare, women and youth empowerments, employment opportunities and economic stability of State. “All his policies and programs are people-oriented and even-handedly distributed across all zone, one of such example is the newly established University in Kabba, Kogi West.Kogi used to have only state universities in Kogi East, today the Governor has successfully established Confluence University of Science and Technology in Kogi Central and Kogi State University, Kabba. POLL “Kogi today under the leadership of Governor Yahaya Bello has been face-lifted; Lokoja was recognized as the third fastest growing city in Africa. “Kogi is rated as one of the safest states if not the safest in Nigeria at the moment,” Onyekehi said.