Ebonyi State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Hon. Stephen Uchenna Igwe has called on traditional rulers in the State to ensure peace and security in their communities. This he said can be achieved through vigilance and collaboration with security agencies by deliberately gathering of useful information and giving such to the security agencies. Igwe asked them to be vanguards and promoters of peace and security in their various communities. He gave the advice on the occasion of familiarization and Interactive meetings with all the Traditional Rulers in the State during the weekend. Speaking at the meeting held at the Traditional Rulers Council Hall, Onwe Road, Abakaliki, the Commissioner thanked them for always supporting government policies and stressed the need for them to intensify efforts in areas of peacebuilding and security as custodians of the people’s culture and tradition. He promised to give their welfare the needed priority and assured them that the meeting would be monthly to enable them present written reports on progress and challenges in their various communities. On his part, the SSA to the Governor on Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Hon. Paul Nwogha also commended the traditional rulers for their roles towards the emergence of Rt. Hon. Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru as Governor of the State. He also assured them that he and the Commissioner would ensure that some of their challenges, including that of welfare, staff of office and communities without traditional rulers are presented to the Governor for consideration. POLL Earlier in his welcome Remarks, the Chairman of Ebonyi State Council of Traditional Rulers, HRH Eze Charles Mkpuma welcomed the new Commissioner and the SSA. He congratulated the State Governor on his successful takeover as the fourth Executive Governor of the State, as well as the Choice of Hon. Uchenna Igwe as Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters. Ezeogo Charles Mkpuma also reeled out some challenges facing them including welfare packages and the need to give Staff of office to some traditional rulers among others. He, therefore, pledged their unalloyed support to the Commissioner and the State Governor, Rt Hon Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru.