Comrade Peter Adeyemi, Africa’s President of Public Services International(PSI), a global trade union federation representing 20 million working women and men, and General Secretary of Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on how most African leaders are trying to remove government from business by privatising public assets for their selfish interest; and they are no longer willing to commit public funds on public interest in their respective countries. Excerpts: The removal of fuel subsidy by the Presi­dent Bola Tinubu administration on May 29, 2023 has thrown Nigerians into panic mood because of the high fuel price that triggered the nation’s inflation rate. As a labour leader, what do you suggest the Federal Govern­ment should to cushion the effects of the subsidy removal? The fuel subsidy by the Federal Gov­ernment has worsened the optimistic reasoning of the Nigerian workers. It’s going to reduce the quality of their lives. Nigerian workers are likely to be the worst of it. No matter what the justifi­cations are, there are steps that ought to have been taken by this government before allowing the subsidy removal to happen. Unfortunately, it’s an APC govern­ment that is succeeding an APC gov­ernment at the federal level. When the year 2003 budget was only allowed to take onboard the subsidy up to the end of June, if we would have under­gone Buhari government we have com­menced measures before they came onboard because that renewed that government which president Tinubu succeeded since President Muhamma­du Buhari did not have the courage to execute the removal. The President Buhari administra­tion said last year they were going to end subsidy and practically came up with excuses to cleverly push the policy removal to the end of June this year. But, I think there is a problem in that, and the problem is that when President Buhari knows that he was going to end the so called subsidy, he ought to have started up a process which the new government will inherit. If we want to take it in good conscience, without being partisan, we can say we can’t hold President Tinubu responsible for this problem. This is because the three major frontliner political parties presiden­tial flag bearers in their campaign said they were going to remove subsidy, and even on the part of Labour movement, we didn’t start very well for protesta­tion, as they also recognised that there are things we ought to have started, the moment we knew the government was going to remove the so called fuel sub­sidy. POLL In the health sector, for instance, to which NASU is a part we havee been having some problems with President Buhari government, before president Tinubu was took over from him, we started a strike, we didn’t start the strike after Tinubu was inaugurated so that when the president was Inau­gurated, he met the strike and when he called all stakeholders to a meeting, we suspended the strike. So, what we did is that we tried from the last days of Buhari administration to begin to show protestation and that’s what has been missing. Labour ought to have started protestation to avoid the situation that we are now. I think on both sides, we have problem. The truth of the matter is that ev­erybody has been talking about this subsidy removal. In Nigeria today, you have three Cartels; the cartel en­joying the subsidy and are saying yes to no subsidy, the cartel enjoying the subsidy and don’t want to give, and the cartel not enjoying the Subsidy and are crying. But, it’s now we will know the various cartels as the subsidy has been removed. We had a report on deregulation when Comrade Umar was present of NLC and I was Deputy President, and we set out three sceneros basical­ly what government should do in the short term, what government supposed to do in the medium term, and what will be done in the long term. Unfortunately, we have refused to pursue the content of that report and that is why we are where we are today. Infact the fight against subsidy re­moval looks very foolish, because for every government that have come on board, they have been clamouring for removing subsidy. So, as far back as 10, 12 years ago, we would have accepted as labour ,that there is actually subsidy and we would have succeeded in purs­ing these short, medium and long term and in 12 years, we would have gotten some of this things resolved. It is unfortunate that it is now that we want to start doing it when the sub­sidy has been removed. The price of PMS has gone up over 300 percent above what it used to be and the workers’ pay has remained stag­nant and now they are talking about reviewing salaries, you know that anytime you review salaries prices of goods and commodities will increase. That’s a useless exercise and we are jumping at this. I don’t know level of research they have done, and it’s the government that is saying they need to review the minimum wage, we are supposed to be the ones putting the demands for government and say, our minimum wage is 500,000 and let the government begin to talk. As Labour clamour for the Federal Govern­ment to review the minimum wage of the workers in the public sector, workers in the private sector are not happy with the posi­tion of the labour movement. What is your take on this? Unfortunately, it only labour that can protest. But, you find out that a larger percentage of Nigerians are not even on salaries and they are going to sur­vive on the due salaries of workers and at the end of the day again, workers will be poor. You can’t even review minimum wage the way it is now if you don’t term up the value of our currency because it is possible that even in this process, that the Naria will continue to be de­valued no matter how much you gain, if the money does not have value it’s a problem you don’t need plenty of mon­ey if your currency is strong and you are paid something reasonable that money becomes a purchasing value will continue to affect your purchas­ing power. I think this government if they have courage should try to loot the looters of our common wealth to fix Nigeria. Loot them and put them under hardship. This president is not looking for any­thing again, but to make a mark. So, let him step on toes. He should get the people that are opened minded. This last government of president Buhari I am convinced were more cor­rupt than the Jonathan’s government because this is where every minister, parastals were all to himself. They do a lot of things and get away with it. There is need to probe and investi­gate the ministries. The first way is that Nigerians don’t have money and this government needs money. We hear as a rumor that all the money the former EFCC collected including the properties they were re looted. Even recently, we heard that what they are generating is being taken away. So where ever the nation’s money is hid­ing by various individuals who have served the government, this govern­ment should find a way of getting the money back. I think for me, that’s the first step. Like, I commend the president Tinu­bu for the courage on the action taken on the past CBN governor, Emefiele, because, the former CBN Governor has no sympathy for Nigerians. He was becoming more powerful than the president. The Supreme Court gave an order and he ignored it. But, they are more Emefiele’s to be carried. Not with Nigerian plane or Aircraft, but, with Keke. What policies do you suggest that this gov­ernment should take? Don’t forget that we have a clear ex­ample to showcase when Jonathan was in government. We had a fixed minister of finance and coordinating Minister who is renowned and make their mark, but in this past government, I didn’t see any personality that I can say near Okonjo Iweala’s experience. I think the first thing to do is to make sure that those who are going to be in our Finance Ministry, planning Minis­try’s , our Budget office are people who have made their marks You can’t talk of all this things when you don’t have competent people to sep­arate the wheat from the chaff. So, the first task is, ‘who holds the offices, what have they achieved? Be­cause even as we speak now, there is need to find out how the debts we have accrued, and how we actually spent those loans on the purpose we acquire them? If we say it’s for infrastructure, did we spend that loan for that purpose? Again, there is need to restructure our loans. Also, start a process of what happened during Obasanjo’s tenure. Asking for debt forgiveness and debt cancellation and thirdly, we must re­duce our appetite for taking loans, we have to resist IMF and others. We must have a responsible National of Assembly that will not be under the guise of working with the Executive that will continue to do things that will make our country to go down. The 10th Assembly should have a clear line of demarcation between the work of the national Assembly and the Executives. The National Assembly must not be in the pocket of the executives no matter what it is. It is going to be prob­lematic imagine what is happening in the United States , there is possibly they are going to be disagreement be­tween the national assembly and the executive on issues that will benefit the country. Are you saying the debt burden issue can be handled by purposeful and accountable leaders? Yes. Debt should not be an issue. Obasanjo had the same problem, but he was able to solve it. Don’t forget that the new President is not a novice when it comes to finance. More importantly, he should avoid borrowing. All the outgoing govern­ment did was that any time they needed money, they borrowed. President Tinubu should also con­duct proper investigation on the mon­ey we have borrowed. We are already crossing the red line. So, Tinubu will have to use his wealth of experience to address this. They have to check the ex­cesses of our lawmakers. The humon­gous payment. We have to look into that and other loopholes. I know the new President knows how to do that. The debt on ground should also be restructured in a way that it will not affect a common Nigeria. What is your say on the cost of governance in Nigeria? The cost of governance in Nigeria is corruption. It’s not transparent that is why see these consumptions. Check this recent pronouncement that Nige­rians consumes trillions of petrol or so a day and that triggers the amount we pay on subsidy when the subsidy is reduced, the so called trillions of the petrol we use drops to 50%, it’s shows corruption. So, clearly, we can reduce the cost of governance if we can be transpar­ent. Transparency is not just about the man, the man can honest like Buhari, what of the thieves that are working with them? So, this time around the president, Tinubu should not just be the transparent man. There must be mechanism put in place at regular in­tervals check the nerves and what they have those who are appointed to work with them. There must be machinery put in place to access the level of their wealth time to time. This idea of pick­ing one man from time to time, 8years to continue to acquire wealth is dan­gerous for our country. As Africa’s President of Public Services International (PSI), please, tell us what PSI stands for? Public Services International (PSI) is a global trade union federation rep­resenting 20 million working women and men who deliver vital public ser­vices in 163 countries. PSI champions human rights, advo­cates for social justice and promotes universal access to quality public ser­vices. PSI works with the United Na­tions system and in partnership with labour, civil society and other organi­sations. Our trade union brings together more than 20 million workers, repre­sented by over 700 unions in 163 coun­tries and territories. We are a global trade union feder­ation dedicated to promoting quality public services in every part of the world. Our members, two-thirds of whom are women, work in social services, health care, municipal and communi­ty services, central government, and public utilities such as water and elec­tricity. Our voices are heard around the world for social and economic justice, and efficient, accessible public services around the world. Can you please state some of the challenges you have encountered with Africa leaders in terms of governance in their respective countries? The problem in the African conti­nent is that some African Presidents do little or nothing about governance as they have lust for power. They want to be president, and don’t want to ren­der service. It is unfortunate that most African leaders are trying to remove govern­ment from business by privatising pub­lic assets for their selfish interest; and they are no longer willing to commit public funds on public interest in their respective countries It is on record that When govern­ments have public interest at heart, they will invest in health, education, security, but, the syndrome in Africa is that public assets should be privatise, and so they will quickly make sure they sell the public assets to individuals, their own cronies, that will pretend as private investors A typical example is what has hap­pened in our power sector in Nigeria where they sold our power sector for a peanut and when President Jonathan came to power they started using pub­lic fund to wage them. We have seen that even in the bank­ing sector when banks collapse, they use public fund to bail them out. Banks are not public institution, banks are private enterprises, but they use pub­lic funds to bail them that is the big­gest problem we are having in Africa, governments as they are disengaging gradually from governance. There is a problem of tax justice in Africa. We have canvassed severely that there is need for government to ap­ply appropriate taxation on individual. And to reduce the level of tax holidays, tax waivers, which are in trillions. In Arab countries, it’s only work­ers that are on salaries that pays tax. Our rich elements in the country don’t pay tax and that reminds me of what Trump is doing in USA.