AWKA – The Transition Committee Chairman of Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State, Hon. Kingsley Obi has joined other numerous Nigerians to call for the immediate release of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Mazi Nnamdi Kanu from illegal and prolonged detention. Obi who reacted to comments on the clarion call he made to Ndigbo especially indigenes of Ihiala Local Government Area to return home this year for the 2023 Christmas and New Year festivities while assuring them of a peaceful and tranquil atmosphere at home, said the release of Nnamdi Kanu will go a long way to address insecurity in the Southeast region of Nigeria and also end the incessant and unnecessary Sit-At-Home orders being imposed on the region by unpatriotic elements. Obi stressed that Ihiala where he is the Chief Security Officer as the local government boss has not been spared of pockets of insecurity especially with the council secretariat complex that was set ablaze in January this year by daredevil gunmen. Although he assured that insecurity is gradually becoming a thing of the past in Ihiala due to some strategies already yielding positive results, he declared that the release of Nnamdi Kanu will douse the situation because he believes that the insecurity in Southeast is not unconnected with the prolonged detention of the IPOB leader. The Ihiala local government boss opined that the court has said that Nnamdi Kanu’s hands are clean and that his concern for an egalitarian society where every part of Nigeria will be treated equally and fairly is justified just like every other region involved in peaceful agitations. Obi stressed that Ihiala indigenes wherever they are around the globe should not despair because the home front is safe now and the local government authority is tackling insecurity head-on. Obi equally assured Ndi-Ihiala home and abroad that the government of Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo is not relenting in the war against insecurity. He said the state government is assisting very profusely in the rebuilding of the ill-fated Ihiala council secretariat burnt down by hoodlums. He recalled too that Gov. Soludo had commenced the crusade for the release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu from detention and equally volunteered to serve as surety for his freedom to end insecurity in the Southeast but the federal government according to him has remained adamant. POLL He was however of the opinion that rather than aggravate insecurity, the release of Nnamdi Kanu will restore lasting peace and also rescue the economy of the Southeast from imminent total collapse.