IBADAN – Ambassador Olufemi Ajadi Oguntoyinbo, a chieftain of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in Ogun State, has urged the Federal Government to chan­nel money that should have gone into fuel subsidy payments to proj­ects towards improving citizens’ welfare. This, he said, is the only way to justify the removal in the first place, and also demonstrate the government’s genuine interest in the socio-economic condition of the Nigerian people. Ajadi, a gubernatorial candi­date of the NNPP in Ogun State in the 2023 general elections, while commending the government for the courage in removing the sub­sidy, said it should not stop there, but that they should go ahead to ensure that other areas of pain for the masses of the country were addressed. He mentioned as example social amenities like good roads, electricity and pipe-borne water, saying there was no reason for these to continue to be issues in the country now that the gov­ernment would be saving a huge amount of money through stop­page of subsidy payments. The politician who issued a release to this effect on Sunday, added that sectors like educa­tion, health and housing should equally be of concern to the government, asserting that their availability should be taken for granted in the country. “While I commended Pres­ident Tinubu for the bold step in removing subsidy payments, he should do more than that by ensuring that the larger Nigeri­an society feel the impact of the removal. “He should pilot the saved money to other areas of need so that the masses of the country could feel the impact of gover­nance. Such areas include light, roads, light and general cost of living. “Also government has just an­nounced that from next month, private and commercial motorists are to pay a N1000 fee for proof of ownership certificates. POLL “Hitherto, the document was issued for free to buyers of new vehicles by the Federal Road Safe­ty Corps (FRSC). “While the citizens go through all these pains, there is the need to cushion the effects of hardship through provision of palliatives. “I therefore, call on the Federal Government to pay every Nigeri­an citizenship benefit monthly, while the remaining of the re­moved subsidy should be used on education, health, housing and development of Infrastructure. “Let all these increments be channelled to citizenship benefits, private public housing mortgage projects for the benefit of down­trodden, provision of qualitative education, improved health fa­cilities and other infrastructure development”.