A religious group under the eagis of Prison Fellowship Nigeria, has said the increasing rates of crime in Nasarawa State was alarming, urging parents and guardians to strictly monitor their children and wards as they go about their daily activities. Pastor Sam-Praise Udeh the Coordinator, Lafia Care Group disclosed this to Journalists at weekend during the graduation ceremony of 42 inmates who were lectured for two months on The Prisoner’s Journey and The Sycamore Tree Project at the Medium Security Custodian Centre of the Nigerian Correctional Service in Lafia, the state capital. Udeh who expressed worry about the security threats in the country including armed robbery, kidnapping and banditry, expressed confidence that crime would be drastically reduced in the society if parents and guardians were giving the needed orientation and monitoring the activities of their children on a daily basis. According to him “We are here today for the graduation ceremony of 42 inmates comprising Thirty-five males and Seven females who were trained on two academic courses; The Prisoner’s Journey and The Sycamore Tree Project. “They were given their certificates and each of them got a brand new bible from the PFN. The two programmes are aimed at providing spiritual renaissance in the lives of the inmates and reuniting them with God.” Speaking on the increasing rates of crime in the state, Udeh said, “I feel that as parents, we can work towards decongesting our correctional facilities by training our children in the way of God. Because when we train them in the right way, they will not engage themselves in crime. Rather, they will do meaningful things that will help the society to be developed. On her remarked the Correctional Centre’s Deputy Controller, Admin, Mary Mereh, thanked the PFN for the both programmes and pledged the commitment of the Service to the welfare of the inmates through public-private partnerships to make life more meaningful for them, while urging the graduating inmates to practice what they were taught during the programmes.