CHIBUIKE CHUKWU The day of inauguration is perhaps the most exciting and expected day for the winner of any election. It is the day that marks the beginning of perhaps long years of tortious struggling or quest for political power and such days are always used to make merry and forget about whatever inadequacies that could have preceded the process leading to the declaration of a winner of the election. Understandably, that day is marked by illusions and perceptions on the task ahead, thus the winner may have little or no time to reflect on the processes that brought him to power. But that was not the case with former President Umaru Musa Ya’Adua. He was seen as a man who was passionate with the desire to bring changes in the Nigerian political space. Thus, during his first speech as the President, he not only embraced the future tasks but he reflected on the processes that brought him to power with intent on hitting the ground running with electoral reforms. While delivering his inaugural address moments after being sworn in, he admittedly noted the flawed process that threw him up as the President. He didn’t end there as he also said such a flawed process had given the room for electoral reforms. The late President said right at Eagles Square:….“The April elections had flaws and shortcomings but it is significant that for the first time in our history, we had a civilian to civilian transfer of power. “It is now a task for us to kick start electoral reforms in order to perfect our electoral process….” POLL His speech fully articulated and captured what actually happened. The speech was significant for two major reasons: number one, Late Ya’Adua demonstrated statesmanship and threw himself up as a sincere and upright leader that could be trusted. Secondly, and perhaps most importantly, he doused the tension that was gradually brewing in the country by openly admitting irregularities in the process through which he emerged as the President. His admission no doubt appealed to the opposition parties who reportedly saw in him a man that meant well for the system. Even the EU observers for the 2007 election, led by Max van den Berg, confirmed the flaws in that election. In their interim report, they said: “Given the lack of transparency and evidence of fraud, particularly in the result collation process, there can be no confidence in the results of these elections. They said further then: “Sustainable development cannot be built on fraud and disregard for acceptable electoral practices,” he said at the presentation of the report. One unique thing then was that Ya’Adua and his media team didn’t write off the report of the election. This is very unique as the then President understood where his power began and stopped. He understood that he was not an umpire but a candidate and should rightly not be involved in responding to the EU Mission since he never conducted the flawed election. Understandably, it was Maurice Iwu, the then electoral boss that responded to the EU mission The above became imperative given the show of shame of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his aide, Dele Alake, who jumped to write off the EU assessment of the 2023 general election. Among other flaws, the EU said the election lacked the basic standard required for it to be called credible. Chief Observer, EU 2023 Election Observation Mission in Nigeria, Barry Andrews, while addressing a press briefing in Abuja on June 27, noted that “the election exposed enduring systemic weaknesses and therefore signaled a need for further legal and operational reforms to enhance transparency, inclusiveness, and accountability. “Shortcomings in law and electoral administration hindered the conduct of well-run and inclusive elections and damaged trust in INEC. “A lack of transparency and operational failures reduced trust in the process and challenged the right to vote.” According to Andrews, the shortcomings in the law and electoral administration hindered the conduct of well-run and inclusive elections and damaged trust in INEC. It also offered 23 recommendations for consideration by the Nigerian government that would improve future elections. The presidency, however, in the statement titled ‘We reject European Union’s conclusions on 2023 general elections,’ alleged bias and an intention to “impeach the integrity of the 2023 elections” which it described as the “best organised general elections in Nigeria since 1999. The presidency, through Mr. Dele Alake, Tinubu’s Special Adviser on Special Duties, Communications and Strategy, faulted the data-gathering technique employed in the report. He said: “We strongly reject, in its entirety, any notion and idea from any organisation, group and individual remotely suggesting that the 2023 election was fraudulent. “While addressing journalists in Abuja on the so-called final report, Andrews noted that EU-EOM monitored the pre-election and post-election processes in Nigeria from January 11 to April 11, 2023, as an INEC accredited election monitoring group. “Within this period, EU-EOM observed the elections through 11 Abuja-based analysts, and 40 election observers spread across 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. “With the level of personnel deployed, which was barely an average of one person per state, we wonder how EU-EOM independently monitored elections in over 176,000 polling units across Nigeria,” Alake queried. The presidency further insisted that the 2023 general elections, “most especially the presidential election, won by President Bola Tinubu/All Progressives Congress, were credible, peaceful, free, fair and the best organised general elections in Nigeria since 1999. “There is no substantial evidence provided by the European Union or any foreign and local organisation that is viable enough to impeach the integrity of the 2023 election outcomes.” While describing the findings as “unfounded,” the presidency said: “We can now categorically let Nigerians and the entire world know that we were not unaware of the machinations of the EU. “We are convinced that what EU-EOM called the final report on our recent elections is a product of a poorly done desk job that relied heavily on a few instances of skirmishes in less than 1000 polling units out of over 176,000 where Nigerians voted on election day.” Much as the duty of Alake is to defend his principal, it behooves them to admit that the election was fraught with irregularities. This is the position of renowned Child and Gender Rights Advocate, a front line media personality & critic, Lemmy Ughegbe, during an interview. Ughegbe regretted that the President and his men would continue to dance naked in the marketplace by their responses to the EU report. “I am surprise that they are responding to this. I think Tinubu and Alake, as well as his media handlers should know when to respond to issues. “It is obvious that the election was not right and they should have emulated Ya’Adua by admitting that the election was not what was expected. “INEC Chairman promised to conduct a credible election on the basis of which so much money was released to him but what happened later? “National Assembly (NASS) elections were conducted the same time the presidential election was conducted; they uploaded the NASS election freely but when they wanted to upload the presidential results, there was a glitch. Obviously things are not adding up there. “It is worrisome that the presidency is responding to this. If they had allowed the report, without jumping to respond, by this time it would have been dying down but they are putting this in the minds of Nigerians by their responses and it is sad,” he said. It is obviously not in the place of the presidency to respond to the EU Mission on the result of the election because of one major reason. Tinubu didn’t conduct the election, neither did he declare the winner, so the onus is on INEC and its head, Professor Mahmoud Yakubu, to respond. According to a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State but resident in Lagos who spoke to our correspondent on anonymity, the presidency’s continual response would give them up as accomplice in whatever flaws that trailed the last election. “I’m not sure they are doing the right thing by responding. We shouldn’t be a party to INEC and we should be neutral because we didn’t conduct an election. “Alake’s responses will mean that Tinubu had a hand in the election and that will not be good. We know the election was marred by irregularities but at least we have a president and they should busy themselves with governance,” he said. Alake noted that the 2023 election was credible, peaceful, free, and fair, and the best organised general elections in Nigeria since 1999, a situation that obviously did not reflect the reality on ground. All thanks to the advent of social media, was disenfranchising Nigerians with intimidations the hallmark of a credible election? Was the election credible when former Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State supervised one of the worst electoral heists in Nigeria in Rivers State through noticeable rewritten of results, leaving traces that form the bulk of evidence at the ongoing election petition tribunal? Still all thanks to social media, was the election free and fair when people even of Yoruba ethnic nationality were turned back at polling units in Lagos on the mere assumption that they look like Igbos? Was the election free and fair when some political thugs were on social media threatening people from some sections of the country not to come out and exercise their franchise in Lagos, Ogun and other South West states if they valued their lives? The report from the EU Mission is a mere confirmation of what Nigerians know, as the 2023 election could go on as one of, if not the worst, elections that have been conducted in Nigeria. So commentators have urged the Tinubu-led media team to save their shame by openly admitting the flawed 2023 election that threw up the President. The President has been urged to be statesmanlike, just like late President Ya’Adua and admit that the electoral umpire erred in the process that brought him to power. Regrettably, playing the ostrich at this time of national healing begs for a lot of questions as even a lot of unbiased members of the ruling party have admitted obvious flaws in the last election.