The government of Osun State has embarked on the rehabilitation of public water works located across the state. The rehabilitation of public water works across the state was in addition to the 332 boreholes being sunk inwards as an emergency intervention on the water supply to the residents of the state. According to a statement issued by the media aide to Osun State Governor, Olawale Rasheed, the state government is already rehabilitating water works in major towns of the state while the 332 boreholes are emergency intervention projects to address acute water shortage in the State. The statement noted that rehabilitation of water works at Ede, Iwo, Osogbo, Ekoende and others are already ongoing. Governor Adeleke adopted two approaches namely the short-term interventions which are the boreholes and the medium, and long-term interventions which include the rehabilitation of water works. Both are ongoing simultaneously. Across the 332 political wards in Osun, our people are accessing water supplies which according to global standards is expected to serve two million people. On commissioners’ nominees, Olawale stressed that Governor Adeleke is deeply pro-women and quite gender-sensitive. It is too early to judge the administration on gender and affirmative action as less than 10 percent of statutory appointments have been made. On Ipade Imole, the public is reassured that the public accountability platform will hold. Preparation has reached an advanced stage. Representatives of all critical stakeholders will be invited. Very soon, invitations will go out for this quarterly event. POLL On recent developments at Osogbo, the Government appreciates his Royal Majesty, the Ataoja of Osogbo; the Grand Chief Imam of Osogbo Land; the leadership of Osogbo Progressive Union and eminent sons and daughters of the capital city who visited and tendered apologies for what happened at the Osogbo Eid prayer ground. Governor Adeleke reaffirms his resolve to continue to address developmental questions affecting the capital city and other towns and villages in the state. The government also emphasizes its open-door policy and its receptiveness to ideas and Innovations to take the state to greater heights.