Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) is a procedure in which a single sperm cell is injected directly into the cytoplasm of an egg during an in vitro fertilisation (IVF) method known as intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). This technique is used in order to prepare the gametes for the obtention of embryos that may be transferred to a maternal uterus. With this method, the acrosome reaction is skipped. There are several differences between classic IVF and ICSI. However, the steps to be followed before and after insemination are the same. In terms of insemination, ICSI needs only one sperm cell per oocyte, while IVF needs 50,000–100,000 sperm. This is because the acrosome reaction has to take place and thousands of sperm cells have to be involved in IVF. Once fertilized, the egg is transformed into a pre-embryo and it has to be transferred to the uterus to continue its development. The first human pregnancy generated by ICSI was carried out in 1991 by Gianpiero Palermo and his team. For around half of couples who are having problems conceiving, the cause of infertility is sperm-related. ICSI is the most common and successful treatment for male infertility. Recommending ICSI Before a man’s sperm can fertilise a woman’s egg, the head of the sperm must attach to the outside of the egg. Once attached, the sperm pushes through the outer layer to the inside of the egg (cytoplasm), where fertilisation takes place. Sometimes the sperm cannot penetrate the outer layer, for a variety of reasons. The egg’s outer layer may be thick or hard to penetrate or the sperm may be unable to swim. In these cases, a procedure called intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) can be done along with in vitro fertilisation (IVF) to help fertilise the egg. During ICSI, single sperm is injected directly into the cytoplasm of the egg. POLL The ICSI procedure can help you achieve IVF pregnancy success even when male infertility problems are an issue. Your doctor may recommend ICSI if you have a very low sperm count or your sperm are abnormally shaped (poor morphology) or they don’t move normally (poor motility). Similarly, ICSI is recommended if you have had IVF previously and none, or very few of the eggs fertilized or you need sperm to be collected surgically from the testicles or epididymis (a narrow tube inside the scrotum where sperm are stored and matured). For example, if you have had a vasectomy, or you have a blockage that prevents sperm from reaching the ejaculate, caused by disease, injury, or a genetic condition, or because you have an extremely low sperm count This is also the case if you are using frozen sperm in your treatment which isn’t of the highest quality, especially if it was stored because your fertility was under threat, or following a surgical sperm retrieval. You also need ICSI if you have embryo testing for a genetic condition, and sperm sticking to the outside of the eggs would interfere with the results. ICSI And Vasectomy Reversal If your partner has had a vasectomy, the ICSI procedure may help you conceive. This may be especially helpful if your partner tried to have a vasectomy reversal that was unsuccessful, or if he doesn’t want to have the vasectomy reversed. During a vasectomy reversal or in a quick office procedure, a surgeon is often able to remove your partner’s sperm from his testes. These sperm can be frozen for later use with IVF and ICSI.ICSI is a major advance. It is quite amazing that doctors and scientists have made such amazing breakthroughs with assisted reproductive technology and fertility treatments. It is fascinating that we now have the ability to fertilise an egg with just one sperm, helping many infertile couples get pregnant. Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI), an extension to conventional in vitro fertilisation (IVF) treatment, can be applied in cases where there is low sperm number, motility, or morphology, or a combination of these parameters. ICSI can also be used in cases where sperm have been retrieved surgically from the epididymis or testicular tissue and in cases where the polyspermy rate from IVF has been unexpectedly and unacceptably high. Although the injection of motile and morphologically normal sperm is the most common route (following immotilisation), immotile sperm can also be used where no motile sperm is seen in a sperm sample but where viability of the sperm can be confirmed. ICSI is offered to couples with previously failed fertilisation in IVF cycles, with good results. However, the outcome of ICSI may depend on its indications. Case series studies have found that ICSI is better for treating severe male factor infertility than for treating previously failed fertilisation in an IVF cycle when the male has otherwise normal sperm parameters. Ensure you visit your fertility doctor if you need further help.