The suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari is still under the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Service, despite being granted bail on Thursday by a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. The presiding judge, Justice James Omotosho had granted Kyari, a former head of the Nigeria Police Response Team (IRT), bail in the tune of a million, but the respite wasn’t good enough for the embattled police officer as a sister court has refused to grant him bail. Kyari and two of his siblings were charged before Justice Omotosho, after being accused of failing to declare their assets to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The NDLEA had filed the 24-count charge marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/408/2022, against Kyari and his two siblings – Mohammed Baba Kyari and Ali Kyari. However, in a ruling on Thursday, Justice Omotosho granted conditional bail to Kyari with two sureties in like sum. Justice Omotosho added that the sureties must have property worth N25m within the court’s jurisdiction, among other conditions. The judge held that he was minded to grant Kyari bail because he did not escape when he had the chance to do so during an attack on Kuje Prison on July 5, 2022. According to the court, the majority of inmates at the Correctional escaped during the attack but Kyari and some others did not escape. POLL Kyari’s refusal to escape, Justice Omotosho said, proves that he is willing to face the allegations against him and not jump bail. The judge also noted that the allegations against Kyari are bailable. However, the judge held that even when Kyari meets the conditions, the endorsement of his release warrant is subject to developments in a sister case in which he is being tried with four others on alleged involvement in dealing illicit drugs. Justice Emeka Nwite of the Federal High Court Abuja, who is handling the charge had refused to grant bail to Kyari and his co-defendants. Kyari is being prosecuted before Justice Nwite on cocaine-related charges alongside four members of his former police unit, the Intelligence Response Unit (IRT). The four other police officers are Sunday Ubua, an assistant commissioner of police; Bawa James, an assistant superintendent of police; Simon Agirgba, an inspector, and John Nuhu, also an inspector. Two civilians, Chibunna Umeibe and Emeka Ezenwanne, were also arrested over the charges at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu, Enugu State, have been jailed by the court after they pleaded guilty.