ABUJA – Government Secondary School Karu students won the 2023 Milo Secondary School Basketball Competition Ad after defeating 34 other schools in the earlier rounds. The triumph puts the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) above eight other states, as GSS Karu students finished first and second in the Boys and Girls Basketball Secondary School championships, respectively. Hashimu Adamu, the Director of Sports, Education Secretariat, who presented the children to the Permanent Secretary, stated that the pupils excelled in the competition, with 15-year-old Joshua Augustine emerging as the overall winner. He said the students performed exceptionally well in the national finals despite participating in the championship as the best loser, “they changed the tide and emerged first and second in the boys and girls championships and now qualify to represent Nigeria in the World School Competition in China, later in the year.” While responding, the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr Olusade Adesola, said the students’ victory gives credence to the fact that the FCTA doesn’t just groom students in academics alone, but in other fields to enable them to excel in life. Adesola also emphasized the need to catch students young and pointed out that sports contribute significantly to student development. According to him: “This victory gives credence to the fact that here in the FCT, we don’t just teach students, but groom them to excel in various fields so they can become championships and icons in their fields of endeavour. “As we all know, sport contributes significantly to student development. The saying that all work and no play has changed because it is sports is no longer “play” but a reward system that comes with fame and monetary reward. That is why we must start early. POLL “It is instructive that of the 35 schools that participated, students of Government Secondary School Karu, came tops and this tells you that the school is one to beat in sporting competitions.” The Permanent Secretary also assured the students of the administration’s support with a pledge to make resources available for them to prepare for the global tournament in China. The boys were rewarded with a cash prize of a N1 million, a trophy, medals and training shoes for each player, and packs of Milo beverages, while the girls got a cash prize of N750,000, trophy, medals and training shoes for each player, packs of Milo beverages. The highlight of the event was the decoration of the Permanent Secretary with the Medal of Champions on behalf of the administration.