ABUJA  –  The Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) sitting in Abuja, on Monday, admitted in evidence, the final report of the European Union Election Observer Mission, which faulted the conduct and outcome of the 2023 presidential election that pro­duced President Bola Ahmed Tinubu and others. Presidential candidate of the Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 25 presidential election, former Vice President Atiku Abuba­kar, tendered the document before the court. Despite objections raised by Presi­dent Bola Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Chairman of PEPC, Justice Haruna Tsammani, admitted the doc­uments as exhibit. The report tendered through INEC’s sole witness and Direc­tor of Information Technology (IT), Dr. Lawrence Bayode, said only 31 percent of the presiden­tial election result was upload­ed into INEC’s result viewing portal. Before the admission of the report, Atiku had through his lead counsel, Chief Chris Uche (SAN), applied that cross exam­ination of the INEC’s witness must start with Tinubu and the APC in view of their common interests against the petitioner. Tinubu and APC through their lead counsel, Wole Olani­pekun (SAN) and Prince Lateef Olasunkanmi Fagbemi (SAN), respectfully, opposed Atiku’s application. In a bid to address the issue, the five-man PEPC panel had to enter into their chambers to look into relevant laws on the mode of cross examination in such an instant case. Returning, the PEPC ruled in favour of Atiku and ordered Tinubu and APC to first cross examine the INEC witness which they complied with. POLL Similarly, an application by Atiku that the INEC witness be made to read some portions of the European Union’s final report on the findings on the 2023 presidential election was also upheld in favour of the pe­titioners. The PEPC also dismissed an­other objection by Tinubu and the APC against Atiku’s bid to cross examine the witness for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, in his evidence in chief, Dr. Bayode admitted that INEC had no electronic collation system for election results, hence, the presidential election result was not electron­ically collated. The INEC witness categori­cally admitted that the collation of the presidential election re­sults was done manually by the presiding officers of the elector­al body. When cross examined by Atiku’s lead counsel, Chief Uche, the witness admitted that not all the presidential election results were uploaded into the INEC’s results viewing center as at March 1, 2023, when Tinubu was declared and returned as the winner of the February 25 presidential election. While the witness told the court that there was a technical glitch that affected the upload­ing of the presidential election results, the witness, however, under cross examination ad­mitted that such glitch was not reported to Amazon Web Ser­vices (AWS) by the INEC. Under cross examination by Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), lead counsel to President Tinu­bu, the witness told the court that Form EC8A formed the basis of the election results and that data and network service were required for the upload of the images of the results cap­tured by the Biomodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) machine. He further testified that im­ages captured on BVAS, wheth­er transmitted electronically or manually will not affect the integrity of the election, espe­cially when results entered into form EC8As are announced to the hearing and knowledge of party agents. The INEC director, while an­swering another question from Olanipekun said the February 25 presidential election results announced in favour of Tinubu was free, fair, transparent and in substantial compliance with the provisions of the law. Also under cross examina­tion by Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), lead counsel to the APC, the witness admitted that glitches were experienced on the elec­tion day but said that the glitch­es did not affect the final results and scores of candidates at the election. With one witness and four documents tendered, INEC closed its defence in the petition filed by the former vice presi­dent against the declaration of Tinubu as winner of the Febru­ary 25 presidential election. Meanwhile, President Tinu­bu has been ordered to open the defence of his victory in the presidential election today by the presiding Justice of the Pres­idential Election Petition Court, Justice Haruna Tsammani. Recall that the European Union Election Observer Mis­sion had in the report claimed that the presidential election did not show credibility, fairness and transparency in the ways and manners it was conducted by INEC. INEC Fails To Open Defence, Secures Adjournment Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Monday failed to open its defence against the petition filed by the Labour Party (LP) and its presidential candidate in the 2023 election, Peter Obi, challenging the declaration of President Bola Tinubu as win­ner of the February 25 presiden­tial election. At a resumed sitting of the Justice Haruna Tsammani led five-man panel of the Presi­dential Election Petition Court (PEPC), counsel to INEC, Abu­bakar Mahmoud (SAN), told the court that he was unable to produce his three witnesses in court. In line with the scheduled activities of the PEPC, INEC is entitled to three days within which to call its witnesses. Addressing the court, the INEC lawyer lamented that none of the three witnesses was in court to testify due to some do­mestic reasons. Mahmoud pleaded with the PEPC to bear with him just as he applied for an adjournment to enable him open the commis­sion’s his defence. Reacting, lead counsel to Pe­ter Obi and the Labour Party, Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), expressed shock and surprise with the con­duct of the electoral body. Uzoukwu said the INEC lawyer ought to have taken him into confidence before the com­mencement of the proceedings. However, he did not oppose the application for an adjourn­ment. On his part, Wole Olani­pekun (SAN), who represented President Bola Tinubu and La­teef Fagbemi (SAN), counsel for the All Progressives Congress (APC) did not raise objection against the adjournment. Consequently, chairman of PEPC, Justice Tsammani, fixed July 4 for the INEC to open its defence.