LAGOS  – The Commissioner of Police Delta State Police Command, CP Wale Abass has called on the criminals in the state to stop their nefarious activities and imbibe in legitimate means of livelihood or have themselves to blame. CP Abass vowed that as long as the criminals in the state re­mained adamant about repen­tance, his operatives would continue to hunt, arrest and prosecute them. The Delta State Police boss read the riot act on Wednes­day in Asaba, the Delta State capital during a press briefing where he paraded a number of suspected criminals and show­cased arms and ammunition recovered from them between the month of June to date. While assuring members of the public of the security of their lives and property, the CP appealed to them for useful information that would enable operatives to nip crime in the bud. “While assuring Delta res­idents of adequate security, I wish to use this medium to solicit their continuous under­standing and support, especial­ly in the area of information. “Residents are also urged to monitor their environment and report any suspicious per­sons or movement to the Police through any of the following numbers CONTROL ROOM NUMBERS:1. 8036684974, 2. 08125958005; 3. 09053872287 4. 09155570007 (PPRO’S OF­FICE).” He gave the summary of arms, ammunition and vehi­cles recovered from June to date as 5 AK-47 rifles, 5 Pump Action guns; 24 locally made guns recovered, 489 ammuni­tion, 469 cartridges, and 8 stolen vehicles. In another development, the CP said that sequel to a complaint received on July 3, 2023, at about 1700 hours from a car dealer (name withheld) in Abuja, whose vehicle was stolen from his car stand by the suspect who disguised as intending buyer and abscond­ed with the said vehicle during a test drive on June 30, 2023, in Abuja. POLL Serious manhunt for the suspect is ongoing.” CP Abass further dis­closed that on June 30, 2023, the DPO Ekpan Police station received a complaint that two young ladies (name withheld) have not been seen since they went to a church named fire gospel mission located at No. 1 Tare Alegbo Street, Effurun, Ovwie LGA for a church pro­gramme. “The DPO swung into action and arrested the suspect who claimed to be a pastor name Marvelous Ebangwe ‘m’ age 42. Investigation revealed that the suspect specializes in traf­ficking young girls to African countries. The suspect stated that the victims are presently in Senegal. The investigation is ongoing,” he said. He said that on July 4, 2023, at about 0800 hours, operatives attached to Safer Highway, while on stop and search duty along Summit Road, Asaba, received a distress call from a female victim (name withheld) that some suspected fraudster collected her phone and ATM card along the expressway by Kia motors and dropped her off along DLA road but fortunate­ly, their vehicle entered a ditch while trying to escape. Also, he said that on June 26 at about 10.20 p.m., Police operatives attached to Ufoma division while on night patrol at Ekrejebor in Ughelli North LGA, acting on a tip-off, inter­cepted two young men. He said that when they were searched, one English pistol was recovered.