LAGOS  – The PwC Media Excellence Awards 2023 are now accepting nominations, with the business introducing two new categories. According to the company’s media consultant, the 2023 edi­tion is the eighth in the series of awards. The company’s two new categories, according to the re­lease, are Special Investigative Reporting and Sustainability Reporting. According to the statement, entries would close on Monday, July 31, 2023, while the award gala night to announce the win­ners would be held on Friday, October 6, 2023. PwC Nigeria Country Senior Partner Uyi Akpata commented on the media prize, saying that over the previous decade, its dual media programs had deliv­ered numerous major benefits, including improving the qual­ity and increasing the volume of powerful, rigorous business stories published annually. Akpata said that announcing this year’s call for submissions demonstrated its commitment to sustaining these outcomes and supporting Nigerian jour­nalists to continue to produce ex­cellence in business journalism. He added: “Similarly, we’re delighted to introduce two new categories to encourage and empower journalists to deepen the reporting of sustainability issues and reward investigative business stories that shape our business, economy, and fiscal policy landscape.” The announcement revealed that the PwC Media Excellence Awards 2023 will be accepting entries in the following catego­ries: tax and fiscal policy report­ing, finance and capital markets reporting, and SMEs reporting. POLL Other types of reporting in­clude commercial and economic reporting, special investigative reporting, and sustainability reporting. The statement added that the entries to the awards are for stories published between July 1, 2022, and June 30, 2023, across various media, including televi­sion, radio, print and online. Winners in each category will receive a cash prize of N500,000.00, while second and third-place winners receive N150,000 and N50,000, respec­tively. Last year, Tunde Ajaja of Punch won the Tax & Fiscal Policy category for his entry ‘Legal battle over VAT collec­tion stirs debates on equity, fis­cal federalism I & II,’ while Isaac Anyaogu of Business Day won the Finance & Capital Markets category for his entry ‘Nigeria’s green bond is driving a quiet boom’.