AKURE – Currently, the political situation in Ondo State is tempestuous because the state governor, Ara­kunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredo­lu is sick and on leave. That the governor is sick isn’t new, but the dimension political gladiators are trading on the governor’s health is wor­risome. Rumour mongers make the situation worse as they spread fake news about the death of the governor. In the last two months, rumour mill had set the state on edge, giving lovers of the governor heartache in­termittently. No doubt, the health condi­tion of the governor, according to the opposition, has forced him to allegedly shirk his re­sponsibilities and covertly dele­gated same to his son, Babajide. This decision has contin­ued to generate serious contro­versies in the political circle, whereby they queried why he ignored his deputy, Lucky Aiye­datiwa, and passed the mantle of power to his son. Aiyedatiwa has been rel­egated to the level that some appointees in Akeredolu’s ad­ministration are more powerful and relevant than him besides the governor’s first family. Sources revealed that even when power is transmitted to him, he’s not in control of the state. It is a common secret talks among politicians, particular­ly members of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state that the deputy governor was allegedly caught on camera celebrating the death rumour of the governor. POLL But it was said that the dep­uty governor had challenged his accusers to produce the purported video when Ak­eredolu confronted him with the allegation. But his accusers are yet to produce the video evidence till date. Subsequently, another re­port hit the media alleging that the deputy governor was in­volved in battery. They claimed he manhandled his wife. This was also described as part of the ploy to remove the deputy governor from office using the Violence Against Per­sons (Prohibition), VAPP Law. VAPP Law is a law that takes care of rights of everyone in a household more than any exist­ing laws in the state. If the allegation can be es­tablished, the deputy governor would probably be the first highly placed personality to be mowed down by the law that’s so averse to inhumanity. But political pundits in the state have dismissed the alle­gations as a ploy by those who wanted Aiyedatiwa out of their way to the seat of power. One of them told our corre­spondent that it’s a mere ploy to call a dog a bad name in order to hang it. This week, it was a rife ru­mour in the state again that the governor’s health had hit the worst level. This forced many people calling in from outside the state mostly to find out if the news was actually true or not. Governor Akeredolu had in a fortnight ago transmitted power to his deputy on grounds that he was embarking on a sick leave. Though, before he transmit­ted the power, there had been hue and cry from the political circle wondering why the gov­ernor failed to transmit power to his deputy even when he couldn’t attend to official mat­ters. Governor Akeredolu, though unannounced, jetted out of the country to Germany where he has been receiving medical attention. His wife, who had been attacked by some persons for allegedly not giving her hus­band adequate attention, went to meet him in the hospital to take care of him. But a certain cabal, simply identified as Owo Mafia, was said to have hijacked power and takes control of the state in collaboration with the gov­ernor’s son. But sources disclosed that the major preoccupation of the group now is to remove the deputy governor from office through the state House of As­sembly and replace him with a woman. It can’t be ascertained if Governor Akeredolu is aware of the plot to get his deputy impeached on frivolous allega­tions. Akeredolu and his wife, Betty, were said to have been instrumental to Aiyedatiwa’s appointment as his running mate and deputy governor after his election into office for the second term. But the once-upon-a-time conviviality between the depu­ty governor and the first family has hit the rock after the sixth columnists have sold the dum­my to the governor that his deputy wanted to succeed him before the end of his tenure. In the search for the woman to replace the deputy governor with, the cabal is looking in­ward to the most appropriate among members of the cabinet who can play the role. Two among prominent women in the cabinet were ig­nored because they are consid­ered to be too politically savvy and would probably grow wings if given such opportunity. The first is Mrs. Bunmi Ademosu, Special Adviser to the governor on Intergovern­mental and Multilateral, who was sometimes accused by the governor’s wife of sneaking into the Government House with local herbs solution to ad­minister to the governor. Princess Oladunni Odu, the Secretary to the State Govern­ment (SSG), would have been their favourite for the game, but they were afraid that it would amount to railroading her to achieve her ambition of suc­ceeding Akeredolu in 2025. The Commissioner for Information, Mrs. Bamidele Ademola-Olateju was ruled out of the calculation because her appointment was alleged by politicians to be one of the great mistakes committed by the governor. Princess (Dr.) Bunmi Osa­dahun, the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social De­velopment, would have been the best bet because she’s in the good book of the wife of the governor, but she’s not an indigene of the state, though married to an Akoko man. Pundits said her appoint­ment would create uproar in the state if such a mistake is committed. Therefore, sources revealed that the cabal is looking beyond the state and political circle to get a woman to take over after Aiyedatiwa is impeached. It was revealed that Aiye­datiwa’s successor may be brought in from the private sec­tor, particularly the banking or financial sector, if the plot sees the light of day. However, sources disclosed that Aiyedatiwa is also moving round to thwart the plans of the cabal. A source revealed that some political master strategists within and outside the state are working night and day to ensure the plotters are brought to their knees. Political pundits, who spoke with our correspondent, dis­missed the plot as a dead-on-ar­rival patient on grounds that the governor was not party to the plot. They queried where the plotters would get the kind of money that would make the lawmakers, most of who are rookies, to carry out such a sen­sitive assignment that is strong enough to put their political ca­reer on the line. One of them referred to the failed attempt to impeach Ak­eredolu’s deputy, Agboola Ajayi, in his first term even when the governor was disposed to the plot. They, therefore, could not see the plotters going far in the game against the deputy gov­ernor. Nevertheless, the deputy governor, who is currently ‘running’ the state in acting ca­pacity, has implored the people of the state to pray for quick re­covery of the governor so that he can resume office as soon as possible.