The University of Lagos online registration for the Post-UTME Screening Exercise for Admission into all courses/programmes for the 2023/2024 academic year will commence from Monday, 10th to Friday and ends on 28th July 2023. Eligibility A statement from the institution signed by Ọladẹjọ Azeez, Esq., Registrar and Secretary to Council, instructed that only candidates who made the University of Lagos their first choice in the 2023/2024 UTME and scored 200 and above are eligible for screening. “In addition, candidates must possess five (5) credit passes at one sitting in relevant O/level subjects including English Language and Mathematics. ‘Only candidates who must have uploaded their O/Level results on JAMB Central Admissions Processing System (CAPS) on or before 13th August 2023 will be considered for admission. “Candidates, who will not be sixteen (16) years of age by 31st October 2023 are not eligible and need not apply. “Candidates who do not participate in the Post-UTME Screening will not be considered for admission. “Former students of the University whose admissions were withdrawn based on poor academic performance or absence status could re-apply on condition that the new admission shall be for a new programme/course different from the former programme/course. POLL The statement adds that any student expelled from the University cannot be offered fresh admission. The university ad iced all eligible candidates to visit the University of Lagos website www.unilag.edu.ng and then take the following steps: Click on Admissions, Click on Post-UTME Application, log in with UTME number as username and surname in lowercase as password, Generate and print payment advice, Proceed to any commercial bank to make the payment or pay online and return to the University portal to complete the screening formPrint Post-UTME Examination Pass. It added that Post-UTME online aptitude test will hold from Monday, 31st July to Friday, 4th August, 2023, and urged candidates to adhere strictly to the guidelines and obtain necessary clarifications.