A policewoman and her two children have been reportedly set ablaze in Anambra State by a woman identified as Nnaemaka Nwosu. The incident occurred on Sunday at Nnokwa community in Idemili South Local Government Area of the state. The suspect, Nwosu, who is said to hail from Amawbia was said to have been divorced by her husband and, being homeless and in dire need of accommodation, she sought the help of the policewoman who agreed to accommodate her. According to a source who spoke on the conditionof anonymity, trouble started when the suspect had an altercation with the policewoman, resulting in the fight and her subsequently hitting the policewoman with a pestle rendering her unconscious. The source said, “After that, the suspect tied the policewoman and her children together with rope, right inside their room, set them ablaze, together with the building; and they (the policewoman and her children) all got burnt. “The suspect was first apprehended by operatives of the local vigilante and some of the villagers who were attracted by the fire, and who eventually captured her as she was trying to escape the vicinity.” The suspect, who initially claimed that it was a gas cylinder that exploded when the woman and her children were boiling hot water,later confessed to the crime and explained how she carried out the atrocious act. DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, the Anambra State Police spokesman, confirmed the incident when contacted. POLL He added that the suspect has been arrested and the case transferred to State Criminal Investigation Department in Awka for further investigations. He also said the corpses of the policewoman and her children have been deposited at the mortuary. “Preliminary information revealed that the policewoman accommodated the suspect while she was searching for a house.The two women had a disagreement which resulted in a fight before the suspect hit the woman police on her head with a pestle. “While she became unconscious she tied her with her two kids and set them ablaze. The bodies of the victims have been recovered and deposited in the morgue. Further development shall be communicated,” Ikenga added.