Cyber scammers have found more ways of exploiting unsuspecting victims through the COVID-19 pandemic and Russia-Ukrainian war episodes just as the US is believed to have lost as much as $5 trillion on scams relating to the global pandemic alone, Daily Independent has learned. This detail was disclosed at a training on Financial Crimes Reporting put together for journalists in Ilorin by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. As gathered from a presentation by one of the resource persons at the training, Alex Ocheme, a cyber crime bursting operative of the commission, $8 trillion is involved in cybercrime annually. “It’s the size of a national economy after US and China,” explained Ocheme, trying to illustrious the volume of money lost to cyber fraud globally. According to him, too, criminality finds ready victims with the use of well-known events to create scams. He explained how COVID-19-related project financing was hijacked by scammers simply by penetrating the secure IT infrastructure of corporations in the US. “US lost $5 trillion to COVID-19 scams as we speak,” the operative said. POLL Also on the Russo-Ukrainian conflict, the cyber-crime fighter said that there have been incidents where scammers pretend to be involved in the movement of barley and grains in Russia and have since had people scammed. As a result of the ongoing conflict, grain supply and prices have been affected globally making for more demand. Scammers exploit episodes to scam unsuspecting victims, the operative said. At the training, the commission, through another one of its resource persons, challenged journalists to be more investigative. Explaining the complementary role that the media plays in financial crime bursting, Dele Oyewale, the award-winning journalist now working with EFCC, said that the dearth of investigative reporting makes most financial crimes go unreported. “Journalism should be that of penetration, exploration intensification and exhaustive inquiries,” Oyewale said. Other aspects of the training featured a review on the new money laundering prohibition act by Peter Also, also of the commission. While making a recap of the purpose for the training, Wilson Uwujaren, Head, Media and Publicity, EFCC, enjoined journalists to get to know more about the commission’s activities. He also explained that the commission intends to continue such interface with journalists on yearly basis to further enhance better financial crime reporting. Earlier, the acting chairman, of EFCC, Abdulkarim Chukkol noted that there is a need to enlist the media’s help in fighting Economic and financial crimes. Speaking through the Ilorin Zonal Commander of the EFCC, Michael Nzekwe, the crime remains a threat to individual and corporate progress. ” It is not only by being a victim of these crimes that we suffer losses. “We also suffer limitations when our neighbours, colleagues, institutions and nation fall prey to them. ” This means that we should not wait until we suffer any loss before we move against corrupt practices,” he said.