OGHARA – Rear Admiral Baratuaipri Iyalla has taken over as the new Flag Officer Commanding (FOC), Nigerian Navy Logistics Command, Oghara where he pledged to deepen priority of staff welfare and Navy equipments for optimal performance. Rear Admiral Iyalla took over the mantle of leadership of the Command from the former FOC, Rear Admiral Olumuyiwa Olotu in a colourful ceremony in Oghara, Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta. The ceremony among others, witnessed parade and eventual lowering of the out gone Flag Officer Commanding (FOC’s) distinguishing flag to signify the end of Rear Admiral Olotu’s 17 months of eventful tenure as head of the Command. Speaking shortly after the official handing over ceremony, Rear Admiral Iyalla disclosed that he would adopt two approaches going forward. He said that the approach would focused on the welfare of his men and the equipment noting that the former would take precedence. According to Rear Admiral Iyalla, “Without the men, machines will not function irrespective of how perfect their conditions are, so the welfare of the men will be taken very seriously.” The new Flag Officer Commanding(FOC)who was a former Chief Staff Officer (CSO) of the Logistics Command further disclosed that the Command would ensure that the Navy platforms were in perfect conditions for the men to perform optimally. Rear Admiral Iyalla added, “the entire functioning of the Nigerian Navy depends on the Logistics Command. It is the duty of the Command to ensure the machines remain functional and in top conditions.” POLL The Nigerian Naval Logistics Command boss added that based on the responsibility, the Command must ensure that Navy equipments were in top-notch condition at all times. He assured that the Command would work assiduously to ensure that the Nigerian Navy got values for the responsibility bestowed it. The FOC said that curbing crude oil theft was one of the responsibilities the Nigerian Navy was saddled with adding that it, however, needed functional platforms and men to achieve the responsibility. Rear Admiral Iyalla spoke further, “We are going to hit the ground running. Our approach will be twofold, one has to do with the men and the other, the machines. We will ensure that the welfare of the men are given priority. Without the men, no matter how perfect condition the machines are, they will not function.” He further added, “the entire functioning of the Nigerian Navy depends on the Logistics Command. It has a peculiar role in ensuring that the Navy moves, the men lives and they can fight because we are a fighting force. We will ensure that the machines which included ships, aircrafts, boats and weapons and others that are required for us to execute our missions are in top-notch conditions.” Rear Admiral Iyalla expressed his appreciation to the Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Rear Admiral Emmanuel Ogalla for appointing him as the FOC adding that it was a great responsibility. Earlier, Rear Admiral Olotu, the outgone FOC of the Command thanked the CNS for appointing Iyalla as his successor in the Logistics Command. Rear Admiral Olotu who is now Commandant, National Defence College, advised the new FOC to hit the ground running, noting that the Command had a huge responsibility to the Nigerian Navy in securing our very existence in the country. Accordng to Rear Admiral Olotu, “the FOC should hit the ground running by continuing with the programmes tailored toward ensuring that Nigerian Navy has the platforms it needed for it’s constitutional responsibilities which are enormous. The out gone Flag Officer commanding added, “the FOC, Commanders and other staff should continue to work assiduously towards ensuring that the Nigerian Navy Fleet is available at all times to conduct operations at sea.” While urging the staff to cooperate with the new FOC, Rear Admiral Olotu advised his successor to take the welfare of his staff very seriously noting that without them, the machines would be useless. Rear Admiral Olotu then expressed his appreciation to HRM Noble Oyibo Eshemitan; FCA, Orefe 111, Ovie of Oghara Kingdom and his subjects for their hospitality, he appealed that such hands of fellowship should be extended to his successor. In attendance were: Rear Admiral Eugenio Ferreira, Commander, Operation Delta Safe representatives of the Ovie of Oghara kingdom, Navy personnel, ratings and among others.