LOKOJA – The Campaign Office of the So­cial Democratic Party (SDP) in Lokoja, Kogi State capital, has been allegedly torched and van­dalised by persons believed to be political thugs. Dr. Arome Okeme, the state Secretary of the party, who dis­closed on Sunday, at the briefing, lamented the wanton destruction of the property in the campaign office located in the Paparanda area of the Lokoja metropolis. He stated that on Sunday, 9th July, 2023 at about 8 a.m., al­leged thugs launched an attack on Murit Ala Ajaka/Abenemi campaign office in Lokoja, de­stroying and burning party flags, campaign banners, and other valuables. He called on the Federal and State governments and security agencies to fish out the perpetra­tors to face the full wrath of the law as a deterrent to others. Meanwhile, the Kogi State Government on Monday con­demned the vandalisation of the Social Democratic Party Campaign Office in Lokoja by yet-to-be-apprehended hoodlums. The condemnation was con­tained in a release signed by the Commissioner for Information and Communications, Kingsley Fanwo, and made available to newsmen in Lokoja. The statement noted that the attention of the government was drawn to the alleged vandaliza­tion of the Campaign Office of the Social Democratic Party in Lokoja. If true, we condemn the act in its entirety as being barbaric, undemocratic, and unacceptable to the people and Government of Kogi State. According to the Commis­sioner, the Kogi State Govern­ment will continue to support the freedom of anyone and everyone to aspire to positions in line with the ethos of democratic values, saying attacking the Campaign Office of any political party was criminal and would not be con­doned. POLL “We call on security agencies in the state to investigate and apprehend perpetrators of the alleged attack with the aim of bringing them to justice and to send a strong warning to hood­lums that the Kogi Governorship Election will be decided by the ballots, not the bullets. “The Kogi State Government wishes to warn criminals and hoodlums to stay clear of the Kogi Governorship Poll as the State Government will deal with criminals as criminals. Parties should also desist from making uninformed, malicious and incit­ing statements that are capable of disturbing the peace of the state. “As a government, we will support law enforcement agen­cies to ensure free, fair and credi­ble poll on November 11, 2023. We have put machinery in motion to ensure the safety of our people before, during, and after the elec­tion. Parties are also enjoined to go about their campaign in an orderly and peaceful manner.”