Victor’s life was brief; actually fleeting and in less than 30 years he was gone. This story just has to begin from the end because it is sad and saddening. Yet, in that short spell that he was allowed on this planet Earth, he shone like a shoot­ing star, a meteor streaking across the dark night, providing illumination, providing glorious and heavenly beau­ty, warming hearts buffeted by vicissi­tudes of life, lifting up faces which life’s hardships had cast down to once more look up at the magnificent sky …to oh and ah at that fleeting streak of light, a visitor from another world – brilliant, gorgeous, brilliant, a sheer blaze of glory. Blaze of glory? Oh, that that was the title of a song Kenny Rogers released in 1981 – Victor Iweanya that I mourn today wasn’t even born by then – he may never even have heard that song except as a child when he would have listened to his father’s choice of music. A part of the lyrics hints of Victor: “Let’s go out in a blaze of glory, All good things must end, Like two heroes in a story, Let’s go out like we came in, In a blaze of glory”. I know Kenny Rogers sang about two lovers who were about to fall out of love. Yet, this song is pertinent here for as the world’s attention was tuned to Cannes Young Lions Creative Festival in France on Thursday 22 June, 2023, Victor Onye­ka Iweanya, already dead by 12 days by then and with six days to his burial in his Onitsha home town on Wednesday June 28, was given a standing ovation. And the tall and well-built Adonis, with his smiling face and well-toned muscles, had fallen by then though he did not endanger himself in any way. He was just playing football at the University of Lagos football pitch. Here, I couldn’t help but remember the times Onochie Anibeze, Sonola Olumhense, Uzor Mazim Uzoatu and Nduka Irabor were the leading football stars on that pitch when journalists used to gather there and do their soccer stuff on Sundays. Whoever thought of death and dying then? And on that pitch? A place where the pata-pata of footfalls proved we were young and indestructible and our lives were well ahead of us – to make of them whatever we wanted. Victor, a goalkeeper simply collapsed on that University of Lagos football pitch…and that was it! But, ah, a blaze of glory was heaped on his memory; there was an ovation for him in France, but oh, dear God, he wasn’t there to re­ceive it. He actually wanted to be there. He had prepared to attend that glittering event. Like an exuberant young man of 29, full of confidence, sure of his steps, all his friends knew he was traveling to France. He had even bought his ticket. People say that “man proposes but God disposes”. A Jewish friend I met in Bos­ton put it in a way I will never forget: “Man plans, God laughs”. Victor’s cre­ative partner, Rebecca Arogbo mount­ed the stage in Cannes, that Thursday but all she could do was to cry softly as thousands of participants, judges and on-lookers there decided to give Victor a minute of resounding ovation instead of a minute of silence. Victor earned that ovation. Born 19 March 1994 to Mr. Victor Amechi Iweanya of Onitsha, Anambra State and Mrs. Anastasia Nwabuisi Iweanya, Victor showed early that he was a child of promise but one with a face bright­ened by a warm smile as he showed his younger siblings, Veronica Chika Iweanya and Stephan Chukwuwike Iweanya the way to here and there with­in the narrow boundaries of childhood. At Cornerstone Primary School, Iko­tun, Egbe, Lagos, he excelled brilliantly, passing his common entrance exam­inations in Primary Three and gained admission to the prestigious Christ the King’s College, Abuja where he com­pleted his junior and senior secondary school education, while developing his passions in football, entrepreneurship and gaining life-long friends he cher­ished. Victor was the youngest in all his classes and passed his WAEC and JAMB examinations outstandingly at age 15 and studied Mechanical Engi­neering at Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State as the youngest in his class. He represented the 2014 Elite Class of Mechanical Engineering students and served as Vice President of the Atten­dance Unit of the Covenant University Chapel. As his famous smile stood him out, he showcased his football talents as he manned the football goal posts – just like his father did. Yes, his father and I attended St. Anthony’s College, Ubu­lu-Uku, So I can testify that his father, Victor Snr, was a goalkeeper and Food Prefect. So, I’m not surprised that sports and responsibility and leadership qual­ities were in Victor Jr’s DNA. During his university studies, he interned at the prestigious TOTAL Oil Company at 18 and soon his can-do-spirit began to materialize when he partook in organising, marketing and hosting the first and most successful Fashionova competition in Nigeria, that headlined Nigerian stars like Phy­no. He returned to Covenant Universi­ty to complete his final year, earning a Second-Class Upper Honours in 2014 at age 20 and was best overall parade com­mander at his NYSC passing out parade. The energetic Victor joined Intense Nigeria for a brief stint as a Web De­veloper, then underwent an impressive entrepreneurship path for the next five years, founding and growing multiple businesses and start-ups; Solivio Digi­tal Solutions, Betloy, Tipena, Seduire, Avry, to name a few, from age 21 to 26. His exemplary can-do attitude and pos­itively driven mindset saw these busi­nesses flourish beyond the borders of Nigeria inspiring hardworking staff, meeting business partners now turned friends, donating portions of proceeds to charities and providing excellent services to all who knew, and engaged with, him. POLL In 2018, Victor or Onyeka (as his fa­ther fondly called him in that his high-pitched voice, ever cheerful, a tone that told the listener that the owner never disdained unnecessary worries) re­turned to school, to pursue Master’s in Business Administration (MBA) at the University of Lagos, specialization in Marketing. He was Vice-President of his MBA Class and goalkeeper, too. With the MBA in his pocket, at 26, he joined iProspect as a Performance Mar­keting Manager, working with clients like Multichoice DSTV, Interswitch, Peak Milk, and Nigerian Breweries. In a year, he rose to lead the Digital Team at Intense Nigeria, crafting marketing campaigns across 10 African countries. His attention to detail and creatively instinctive mind captured the hearts of PHD, a global communications and marketing agency, which he joined as the Digital Strategy Lead. In just eight months at PHD, he won staff of the month for May 2023 and represented his Managing Director at a strategic session for Red Bull in Kenya and won Gold during Young Lions Me­dia Competition, leading PHD Nigeria to her first ever outing at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativ­ity. He was set to represent Nigeria and indeed West Africa at the 2023 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativ­ity billed to hold in France between 19th – 23rd June 2023. We are back to where the story be­gan. Victor Onyeka Iweanya Jr, the young man who took on life, surmount­ing obstacles as though he was born to run, could not keep that the Cannes Fes­tival, France date. The rest is postscript. Ah, Victor was full of life. He and friends birthed Astral FC, a community football club. The multi-talented Victor had a flair for boxing and was fond of the great Anthony Joshua. Sir Vic, as he was fondly called by loved ones was an irreplaceable kind soul. At 29, many may still be struggling to find their feet and purpose in life. In this, he was a hero. George Elliot, the author of Middlemarch novel tells us that hero­ism no longer comes from warfare con­quests or superhuman feats, but from the little everyday deeds we do very well, because many people, actually the great majority are doing them rather shabbi­ly. Shabbiness had no place in Victor’s life. Everything was well-proportioned and his life was purposeful. He wel­comed life with open arms, embraced it like a lover, faced its challenges like a war horse, gave love and kind regards to acquaintances, extended a helping hand to those beneath him in life’s ladder. All the while, he had something for every­one – a smiling face! And a kind heart. Yes, and a helping hand. Victor’s life would be difficult to ex­plain. It is the stuff of legend, the sort David Crosby and Phil Collins had in mind when they released their 1993 hit pop song, “Hero”: It was one of those great stories that you can’t put down at night, The hero knew what he had to do and he wasn’t afraid to fight, The villain goes to jail, while the hero goes free, I wish it were that simple for me, And he never wondered what was right or wrong, He just knew, he just knew”. Yes, Victor Onyeka Iweanya Jr just knew what he had to do and he did it. He lived life to the fullest. He was a Victor, indeed. I have seen his CV and his latest appointment letter; you won’t believe their contents! And he was just 29! Vic­tor’s life inspires us all to live in the love in which he freely gave. He is survived by his dad who is forever proud of him, his mum who loves him immensely, his sister and brother who will always look up to him. Rest in Peace, Victor Onyeka­chi Iweanya Jr, in the little time the Al­mighty allowed you here, you soared with eagle’s wings. And I pray: Sweet Prince, may a flight of Angels sing you to your rest and may the Almighty smile upon you and kindly let his perpetual light shine upon you. And while your angelic smile will now truly become Angelic, may the Almighty console the family members you left behind.