The second edition of the Insurance Meets Tech (IMT) conference is set to take place on September 28 and 29, 2023, at the Civic Centre Victoria Island Lagos, to address prevailing concerns in Nigeria’s insurance industry and on the continent. Riding on the theme “Unlocking Policy and Tech Bottlenecks Hindering Disruptive Insurance Penetration”, IMT 2.0 will converge prominent players in government, finance, health, tech, and telecom sectors, as well as the prime sub-sectors players in insurance and insurtech, to brainstorm, untangle, and evolve viable solutions to the challenges of insurance penetration in Nigeria and across Africa. The two-day conference will feature policymakers, regulators, keynote speakers, and sector leaders in panel discussions, exhibitions, specialised masterclasses, and product and service demos, providing a platform for stakeholders to share ideas, insights, and experiences on how to leverage technology to drive insurance penetration and improve the insurance industry’s efficiency and effectiveness, such as its use of data analytics to improve underwriting and claims management processes; cyber insurance; and the role of web aggregators in the industry’s value chain. The conference will culminate in a gala and awards evening to recognise excellence and outstanding contributions to the industry. With the COVID-19 pandemic and enabling government policies accelerating the adoption of digital technologies, IMT 2.0 is expected to be a catalyst for the digital transformation of the insurance industry in Nigeria and across Africa. According to the convener of the conference, Odion Aleobua, ‘IMT 2.0 will be a game-changer for the insurance industry in Nigeria and across Africa. This second edition will build on the successes of the first and provide stakeholders with more opportunities to network, collaborate, and explore innovative solutions to the challenges facing the industry. “Since the inaugural edition of the conference in September 2022, the Nigerian insurance and insurtech sectors have made visible strides. The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) affirmed that Nigeria’s insurance industry recorded a 36.3per cent quarter-on-quarter growth and a 17.8per cent year-on-year rise in gross premium income at N726.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022, compared to the previous year. “Data provided by Statista in May 2023 revealed that the value of gross life insurance premiums written in Nigeria exceeded €600 million for the first time. In 2022, life insurance premiums amounted to €677.3 million, up from €545.2 million in the previous year. The growth margins can be attributed to various factors, including increased awareness of insurance products, the expansion of distribution channels, and insurance companies’ gradual adoption of technology.”