A non-governmental organisation, the Bayelsa Rescue Movement (BRM), has backed the governorship ambition of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Timipre Sylva, ahead of the polls scheduled for November 11. The BRM in a statement on Sunday signed by its Opu-Nembe Kingdom chapter chairman, Dr A. J. Ameri, co-coordinator, Chief Y. D. Theo-Iruo, and the secretary, Chief K.M. Degi, pledged its support for Sylva, saying it would rally its members and the people of the area to vote for the APC. The group applauded Sylva for being instrumental in the establishment of the Federal University of Agriculture, Bassambiri in the Nembe Local Government Area of the state. It also thanked former president Muhammadu Buhari and former minister of education, Adamu Adamu for the approval of the university. BRM equally commended the effort of the President, Bola Tinubu for allowing the “candlelight pitched in our kingdom by his predecessor.” It vowed to mobilise the people to reciprocate the love Sylva had shown for the people by voting him in as governor. The group said, “We, as well, express our deep appreciation to the Federal Government for appointing our own son of the soil, a renowned Professor of Agriculture, Professor Reginald Inodu Keremah as the pioneer Vice Chancellor through the instrumentality of Chief Sylva. Posterity will forever remember you.” It, therefore, urged the general public to disregard news targeted at discrediting Sylva, noting that it was the handiwork of disgruntled elements. POLL The statement added, “In the same vein, we wish to assure Chief Timipre Marlin Sylva that Opu-Nembe (Bassambiri) people are solidly behind his gubernatorial ambition, as well as to reciprocate the unequaled love he has demonstrated for the Opu-Nembe Kingdom. “The group, therefore, urges the general public to disregard whatever uncomplimentary remarks and frivolous allegations are being peddled against him by some disgruntled elements in the community. “The Opu-Nembe chapter of the Bayelsa Rescue Movement, wishes to vow in strong terms to do our possible best in making sure, Chief Timipre Marlin Sylva is elected Governor of Bayelsa State come November, 2023.”