LAFIA – A nongovernmental organization NGO under the auspices of the Centre for International Integrity Peace and Development (CIIPAD), on Monday urged Nigerians to take responsibility in pursuit of peace in order to address insecurity in the country. The President of the organisation Dr. Stephen Ime, made the call at the inauguration of the Nasarawa State chapter of CIIPAD held in Lafia. He pointed out the need for all stakeholders to be united and focused on promoting peace and development of Nigeria. According to him, government and citizens all have roles to play in ensuring unity and peace. Ime identified injustice as one of the militating factors against peace in the country, which the government should strive to address by all means. He said CIIPAD was founded in 2010 to assist the government through advocacy in the peace process in the Niger Delta region of the country. He said the organisation was taking the advocacy drive to all parts of the country, with a focus on the main actors behind insecurity. “We talk to agitators, kidnappers, bandits, farmers and herders on the need to have a rethink and pursue peace,” he said. POLL Ime, therefore, called on members of the public to join the organisation in championing the course of peace and development of the country. The president charged the newly inaugurated executive of the organisation in the state to be true ambassadors of peace in all ramifications. In her remarks, the National Coordinator of CIIPAD, Dr Okhuevbie Omolara, said the organisation was championing the course of peace given that all citizens would have been affected by one crises at some point and there was a need for healing. “The dream is to ensure that irrespective of our background – religious, ethnic, culture and other leanings, we see ourselves as ONE. “We seek to collapse whatever biases that exist and collaborate and advocate for peace wherever we find ourselves,” she said. Omolara, however, noted that Nigerians have the responsibility to live peacefully and promote peace for the country to develop.