Like the popular posi­tion taking by majority of football stakehold­ers in the country, the abridged season adopted by the Interim Management Commit­tee (IMC) for the Nigeria Pre­mier League (NPL) last season came as a child of necessity. The format adopted by the IMC may not understandably be the norm in world football but given the circumstance at the time, it was the best that could have been adopted if the Nigerian topflight would align with the rest of the leagues for continental games. According to IMC member, Davidson Owunmi, while in a chat, it was a child of necessity. “The abridge league was a child of necessity. A lot of events that we had last year from the NFF elections to the dissolution of the league board took a lot of time off the nor­mal programme of the league, and the necessity for us to align our league with the rest in the continent and the world. “You finish the league in September or October, and the Champions League is already on. It does not leave room for players to transfer and for play­ers to even have time to go for trials and look for new clubs. “It has a way of disrupt­ing club activities and so, we thought we could align our calendar with the rest of the world,” he explained. Before the IMC was consti­tuted in October of 2022 by the president of the Nigeria Foot­ball Federation (NFF), Ibrahim Gusau, there was a lot of un­certainties hanging over the league following the disband­ment of the now defunct League Management Company (LMC) which literally put domestic football on hold with no date in sight for the commencement of the then new season. It was such a chaotic situa­tion that not a few Nigerians be­lieved that the new body led by Hon. Gbenga Elegbeleye would be able to restore faith in the league given that the hitherto Nigeria Processional Football League (NPFL) has failed in so many years to live up to ex­pectation in terms of seamless organisation with emphasis on the welfare of players, stem­ming the tide of hooliganism at match venues, curbing the win-at-home syndrome and halting insecurity that had be­came a huge menace at so many venues. POLL The negative trend neverthe­less ensured that so many Nige­rians deserted league games in the country and left results at the mercy of home teams and the referees. However, the Elegbeleye-led IMC actually took the gauntlet and appraised the task before them with equanimity and ap­proached same with the aim of changing the narratives. This is the submission of Di­meji Lawal, the general man­ager of Shooting Stars Sports Club (3SC). “They came at a time things were not going on well with the league and they never showed any sign of fear. “They (IMC) really tried their best and we can see that so many people came to appreciate them for this,” he said. The IMC had the onerous task of challenging so many seeming hydra-headed mon­sters in the NPL. For exam­ple,the Nigerian topflight is known to suffer from cash crunch following tightening bu­reaucratic approaches to funds from various state governments which tended to stifle the activ­ities of teams in the areas of logistics and acquisition of new players as well as meeting the basic requirements of players. Realising this, the IMC set out to cushion this effect, at least to an extent, when it an­nounced a takeoff grant of N200 million to the 20 topflight clubs, which translates to N10 million to each club. That sin­gular feat by the LMC, in associ­ation with their sponsors, GTI Group, marked a new chapter in the league as it was unprec­edented. It will be recalled that in a bid to give the league a new lease of life, the IMC entered into a $5 million sponsorship deal with GTI Group and Pro­pel Sports Africa. That was a huge relief for a financial cri­sis-ridden league that has been gasping for breathe as a result of inadequacies. Also the IMC took cursory look at the officiating in the league and concluded that there was more to the activities of the whistle men than what meets the eyes. one of the biggest challenges of the league was refereeing. “The referees complained of not being paid for three years, and I asked why keep working without remunerations? “Obviously, the clubs are the ones financing them. We want­ed a system that will work, there were lots of problems with refereeing. So, we decided to fix that by providing remu­neration a day before the match day, and provide accommoda­tion for referees. “When GTI started paying, that week we had four away wins. We believe in this part­nership,” Elegbeleye said, reit­erating the fact that the winner of the league would get N100 million, with the disburse­ment of the sum tied to directly helping to upgrade the eventu­al winner in terms of players’ recruitment, facilities upgrade and any other areas that would see that the game is deepened in the culture and activities of the winners. To the stakeholders, that was a huge deviation from the past where the winner gets paltry sum and even how it was used is left to the obviously raven­ous administrators of the team to decide, with various inter­ests from the eventual winner poaching on the sum without recourse to the welfare and ad­vancement of the team. Ebi Egbe, the chief executive officer of Monimichelle Group, which has been responsible for a lot of hybrid football pitches in Nigeria, praised the LMC for impacting the league with clear-cut ideas which has seen a lot of Nigerians coming to once again believe in the league. “We have just seen a league season that is quite different. A season where clubs sweated for every point and played for something tangible. The league winners pocketing N100 million is quite commendable,” Egbe said. He said further: “All these could not have been possible without clear ideas on how to deviate from the past and I think we should all believe that the IMC has done well for Nige­rians to once again believe in the league,” he said. But perhaps the biggest chal­lenge the IMC had initially was how to go about the season in order to bring it at par with others in Africa having wasted a lot of time before starting. However, such thoughts gave birth to the abridged season which came under intense crit­icism from some sections of the stakeholders, particularly the club chairmen (club owners), who held several meetings to counter it. However, after several inter­ventions from the then Min­ister of Youth and Sports De­velopment, Sunday Dare, and the NFF President, Ibrahim Gusau, both the IMC and club owners reached a truce and the league ran almost flawlessly in an abridged format, leading to the emergence of the quintet of Sunshine Stars, Lobi Stars, Rivers United, Enyimba Inter­national, Bendel Insurance and Remo Stars for the playoff to determine the winners of the 2022/2023 season. It was a festivals of sort at the Mobolaji Johnson Arena in Lagos as the six clubs played a round-robbing game where the hitherto eight times winners, Enyimba, won their ninth title. Through the efforts of the IMC, there was very minimal reduction in violence at match venues as a pocket of such was dealt with instantly. Example is the case of what happened in the match between Bayelsa United and Doma United in Yenagoa where match officials were rough-handled by the home fans. The IMC acted swiftly on the assault of an Assistant Referee at the Samson Siasia Stadium in Yenegoa by ordering deduc­tion of three points and three goals from Bayelsa United FC. This punishment was the outcome of the review of the of­ficial match report of the NPFL match-day 5 fixture between Bayelsa United and Doma FC. For failure to provide ade­quate security for match offi­cials during and after the match, contrary to Rule B8:21, Bayelsa United was fined ₦1million and another ₦500,000 for fail­ure to ensure the restriction of access by unauthorised persons to all restricted areas. It was similar situation at one or two violent-prone cen­tres last season but according to Mutiu Adepoju, it was large­ly a very good season and that IMC should be commended. “It was a very good season and I give them pass mark be­cause they have done well with­in the limited time they had to prepare. “We had situations where teams go out of their homes to win matches and came back without attacks like in the past and I think the clubs also should be commended because they seem to have realized that football is not a must-win situa­tion all the time,” he said. But speaking, Kadiri Ikhana praised the IMC but demand­ed that more should be done to improve on their achievements, saying it is not yet Uhuru. “The IMC has done well to deserve praises. We have seen some improvements but this is the time to work harder. “We want to see a situation where all these threats to free game is completely wiped away and more improvements in the welfare of players,” he said. Meanwhile, the IMC has announced that the new sea­son would start in the second week of August in order to further align it with their Eu­ropean counterparts. This has also received commendations from stakeholders who have continually called for it to be sustained.