UMUAHIA – Governor Alex Otti of Abia State on Sunday declared that his intention to seek the office of the governor is to rebuild the state and install the necessary developmental projects that will enhance the people’s welfare and well-being. Otti who spoke at a special thanksgiving reception of the Deputy Speaker of Abia State House of Assembly and member representing Umuahia East State Constituency, Rt. Hon. Augustine Meregini, said he came to reconstruct and not to destroy. Meregini’s thanksgiving service/reception by his constituents was held at the Ibeama Community School, Ndume-Ibeku, Umuahia North LGA. The governor at the event lamented that many government property are still in the hands of some individuals, vowing that his government has set the necessary machineries in motion to recover them. Otti, who explained that his current policies are foundational, and aimed at resetting Abia State, opined that rebuilding is a difficult process that needs sustained efforts, assuring that his administration is prepared to do the needful to develop the state. “The people of Umuahia, I want to assure you that this city that looks like a glorified village will soon be rebuilt, to acquire a capital city status it deserves”. The state chief executive commended Meregini for his decision to return thanks to God and assured that he (Meregini) will serve his people to the best of his ability even as the Deputy Speaker of the state assembly. In his speech, the Speaker, Abia House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Emmanuel Emeruwa appealed to Abia people to be patient with the new administration, describing the administration of Alex Otti as people oriented one. POLL Earlier, in his speech, the host and the Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly and member representing Umuahia East State Constituency, Rt. Hon. Augustine Meregini had said that the event was fixed to return glory to God, who, according to him, granted victory to him at the just concluded poll. He thanked Governor Otti for his support, even as he used the occasion to inform his constituents that his life has always been guided by a relentless desire to serve the public, assuring them of his readiness to serve them diligently by helping the governor to rebuild Abia State. The event attracted many dignitaries, including the wife of the governor, Lady Priscilla Otti, members of the State House of Assembly, Secretary to the State Government, members of the Labour Party among others.