ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Par­ty’s (PDP) governors on Tues­day decried the deteriorating security situation in the coun­try especially the wanton de­struction of lives and property in Zamfara, Plateau and other states. The governors under the aegis of PDP Governors’ Fo­rum also urged the Federal government, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies to be neutral in the conduct of the off-season elec­tions in Bayelsa, Kogi and Imo states. The governors, in their communiqué after their meeting that lasted about five hours, also said, while field­ing questions from newsmen that the issue of substantive chairman for the PDP is an issue of the party and not the governors. The Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, Gov. Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, while reading the commu­niqué said, “The meeting re­solved to work together and unite the Forum. The aim of the Forum is to provide a plat­form for peer review of issues, policies, programmes and achievements (legacy projects) of member-governors across the PDP states. “The meeting advised the In­dependent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the secu­rity agencies, and the Federal Government to be neutral in the conduct of the off-season elections in Bayelsa, Kogi and Imo states. “The meeting noted the de­teriorating security situation in the country especially the wanton destruction of lives and property in Plateau and Zamfara states, among other states. “The meeting consequent­ly advised the Federal Govern­ment and security agencies to rise to the situation and bring the situation under control. “In the interim, the Forum would cooperate with the Fed­eral Government on issues concerning the welfare of Ni­gerians and good governance while striving to maintain the independence and autonomy of the Forum through offering constructive criticisms where necessary.” POLL Twelve out of the 13 gover­nors on the platform of the par­ty attended the meeting, except the governor of Rivers State. The governors that attended the meeting are: Gov. Bala Mo­hammed, Bauchi State (Chair­man); Gov. Bassey Umo Eno, Akwa Ibom State; Gov. Ahma­du Umaru Fintiri, Adamawa State; Gov. Douye Diri, Bayelsa State; Gov. Sheriff Oborevwori, Delta State, and Gov. Peter Mbah, Enugu State. Others are: Gov. Caleb Mut­fwang, Plateau State; Gov. Ade­mola Adeleke, Osun State; Gov. Oluseyi Abiodun Makinde, Oyo State; Gov. Godwin Obase­ki, Edo State; Gov. Kefas Agbu, Taraba State, and Gov. Dauda Lawal, Zamfara State.