P/HARCOURT – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been enjoined to seek solution to the yawning economic crisis in Nigeria by channeling gas flaring in the country to a viable foreign earnings. Gas flaring has been a serious topic of discussion in the oil and gas industry globally and several successive governments in past had promised different dates to end gas flaring in the Niger Delta region to no fruition. Comrade Emmanuel Essang, an oil and gas expert in Port Harcourt, Rivers state on Sunday called on President Tinubu to adopt the same boldness of removing fuel subsidy to end gas flaring and set up more petrochemical plants and gas turbines to convert the unused gas to the economic benefit of the country. Essang noted that gas in Obolo nation, an area that cuts across Akwa Ibom and Rivers states is a bye product of numerous industrial processes including oil and gas recovery. “It is a major environmental concern facing the globe and the Obolo nation in particular. Today, Gas flaring generates a significant amount of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere which contributes to of global warming. “As we all know gas flaring is a gas combustion device used in place such as petroleum refineries, chemical plants and natural gas processing plants, oil and gas extraction sites having oil and gas wells, offshore oil and gas rigs and landfills”. He recollected that gas flaring has been illegal since 2005 after the court ruling to end the menace in the Niger Delta in the case filed by Iweherkan community against Shell Petroleum and Development Company, SPDC, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC and the Attorney General of the federation. “The toxic fumes released causes many environmental and health problems, leading to global warming”. POLL Essang, who has spent over 10 years in the oil and gas industry, reiterated that gas flaring is the second most destructive environmental pollutant in the Niger Delta Region and Obolo Nation in Particular, after oil spillage. “It exposes the Obolo nation to the risk of cancer, asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, neurological and reproductive health challenges and in some cases deformities in infants”, he said. He said the combustion from flared gas raises the soil temperature causing decline in crop production and Acid rains among other effects leading to poor yield, adding that gas flaring has no positive economic viability as it tend to cause more harm than good as seen above. “Recent Gas flared data reveals that Nigeria remains one of the top seven nations flaring gas since 2012 accounting for about 65% of gas flared globally”. Emmanuel Essang noted that Nigeria has lost about 85.3 Billion Standard Cubic Meter of Natural Gas to flaring in more than ten years and considering the current rate of Natural Gas at $0.95 / ccf, Nigeria has lost about $81,035,000,000. “Alternatively, Gas flared can be a very viable source of income when channeled to other uses such as generating of electricity through the use of both Micro and large turbines, stream driven turbines and reciprocating internal combustion Engines. Flared gas can also be utilized in the congregation of heat and electricity. “Natural gas generated can be injected into aged wells to restore dwindling natural formation pressure and maintain production output.” “This self-sustained cycle is quite economical as waste generated is minimal and overall output is boosted. Natural Gas is the main raw material employed in petrochemical production process. Rather than flare gas. It can be channeled into hydro fuels for cars, manufacturing of rubber, glass, steel and paint. “Liquefied and storing associated gas is a safer and economic alternative to gas flaring following particular process, liquefied natural gas can be stored for use both on Industrial and domestic scale. Compressed natural Gas can be used to power vehicles which work on natural gas engines”. He recalled that the immediate past President Muhammadu Buhari in the United Nations climatic change conference (COP26), said Nigeria will cut gas flaring in 2060. “2060 is quite a long time and the Economic losses and Environmental damages that would have been done between now and then can only be imagined”. Essang, who is aiming to become the next President General of the Obolo Youth Coalition, OYC, promised that one of his focal points will be to work with the law makers representing Obolo nations in the National Assembly both in Akwa Ibom and Rivers state to pass a bill establishing a Petrochemical plant in Obolo land which will convert gas flared into production of rubber, glasses and steels which will serve as a means of job creation. “We will persuade President Tinubu to ensure that a bill is sent to the National Assembly so for the establishment of gas turbines in Obolo Nation to generate uninterrupted electricity supply to the entire Obolo Nation and beyond.