LAGOS – Moshood Salvador, a former member of the House of Representatives and former Lagos State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised the Federal Government to consider generating money from policing, stressing that the decision to withdraw police attached to Very Important Persons (VIPs) may not be a good idea, rather the government can think of generating revenue from that. Salvador in an interview with Daily Independent said, ”Police are now talking of withdrawing police attached to VIPs. It is not the right thing to do. We’re talking of insecurity and you’re considering withdrawing services from people that are paying your organisation for the services. “When we’re talking about unemployment, why can’t you recruit 2 million youths to take their position? Why are you not recruiting more so that you can have more police? You can strategise because policing can also be a good source of revenue. “They can make revenue from VIPs, embassies and even expatriates. We have expatriates living in my estate and they provide police to protect them. It’ll be additional money for them and they’ll be happy and their families will be happy. On President Tinubu’s one month in office, he said, “We have 12 months in a year, we also have four years in a term. There are also eight years of the full term of President Bola Tinubu. “He has only spent one month out of the 96 months, and people are already complaining. It is just like a newborn baby, a newborn regime, a newborn administration. “The administration has started well. If you talk of security, he has done well. He has sacked the security chiefs and appointed new ones. Now we’ll wait and see what the new security chiefs will do. It is not the President alone. “We have to also look at those that he has put there and be monitoring every one of them. The chief of Naval Staff has reshuffled the structure. It shows that they are ready for the change. So, we will look at what the police, Nigeria Army, and Air Force have done.