KOLA OWOLABI From our last edition we said were to discuss from now onwards opportunities that the new administration in place in Nigeria today have thrown up for the benefit of entrepreneurs. What I am talking about are not opportunities for political patronage or contract awards. I am talking about opportunities for entrepreneurs to start and grow viable and thriving businesses that will stand the test of time. My idea of opportunities is premised on two points. The first point is this. What one can truly call a business opportunity is a money making venture that has an established demand gap. What is demand gap? It is a space in the market that is open for a new product or service. It is either the capacity of the suppliers or producers interested in that market is well below what the market needs. For example, there has been a big demand gap for schools in Nigeria for a long time. Due to the high population growth rate of Nigeria, the number of schools set up on a yearly basis has not been able to catch up with the number of children born on a daily basis and those ready to start school. What you see is a huge demand gap for schools. The second is the unique selling point of your proposed business. Do you have a business idea with a unique attribute or value proposition that others who are already in the same business don’t have? Does your product fulfill a need in the life of buyers that similar products and services have not been able to meet? Lacasera was the first or one of the first fruit drinks in Nigeria to be introduced in pet bottles because it was marketed in traffic points to people on the move. People needed a drink with container they could take away unlike the glass bottles of Coca cola and other drinks we were all used to and which have to be returned after consumption. Today, the popular glass bottles are even being phased out. So for our use here we shall be looking at business opportunities that have established demand gap, that is space in the market for several new entrants and which will still be available for you in the next 10 to 20 years. Please let us be careful as we use the information that we shall be providing because it is not for those out for get rich-quick schemes. The opportunities are for serious minded entrepreneurs who are ready to give what it takes for a humble start, after doing the required spade work of planning and pursuing implementation and growing the business beyond the limit of their dreams. Please get set to start making money in Nigeria of today. I am not saying you should go and queue up at the door of one honourable minister or local government chairman. I am talking of opportunities that the market is hungry for and eagerly awaiting, opportunities that will help you penetrate the market as easy as a hot knife is driven through butter. The market is waiting for them. Just be willing to be genuine and sincere about giving customers value for their money and you too will be tired of making money from them after some time. The energy sector is the number one sector in Nigeria in terms of prevalence of opportunities for money making under the new dispensation in Nigeria. The reason is simple. The existing installed capacity of public power plants in Nigeria is in the neighbourhood of about 5,000 megawatts. We need a minimum of 40,000 megawatts to have a little stability (that is what South Africa has presently and the country has even started having power challenges). That is about 300% demand gap. The irony of it is that the gap cannot even be bridged in the next five years due to the length of time it takes to bring an average power plant from scratch to operation. POLL So many opportunities exist in the power sector in Nigeria that can boost our entire GDP by 100% within the next 5 years. We shall start discussing the individual opportunities in our next edition. Kola Owolabi: – (FIMC) Fellow of the Institute of Management Consultants 08023203198 Kola Owolabi is the Principal Consultant and CEO of David Richard Associates, a company he founded in 1998. He is a Business Plan preparation expert and has been very active in the Business Development landscape in Nigeria in the past 23 years”. He was a leading consultant in many prominent business development projects in Nigeria, i.e., World Bank Growth and Employment Project (GEM) and YOUWIN Connect (Grading of Business Plans of Applicants). His company is doing a training with FREE tuition titled “How to prepare Business Plan yourself irrespective of your educational background. To receive more information please text “SEND MORE INFO “to 08023203198