IBADAN – The senator representing Oyo South at the National Assembly, Sharafadeen Alli, has assured people of his con­stituents and the people of the state as a whole to expect qual­ity representation from him at the 10th National Assembly. He said this at his inaugu­ration party in Ibadan which attracted prominent Nigeri­ans, political gladiators and All Progressives Congress (APC) members in Oyo. The dignitaries converged on the Recreation Club in Ibadan at the weekend to cel­ebrate with Senator Alli and his family members. Alli is a former Secretary to Oyo State Government, former Chairman of Ibadan North Local Government, for­mer Chairman, O’dua Invest­ment Company Limited and Maye-Balogun of Ibadanland. He was inaugurated on June 13 as the lawmaker representing Oyo South Sen­atorial District in the 10th National Assembly having won the senatorial election of February 25. Among the dignitaries were two former deputy gov­ernors in Oyo State, Chief Iyiola Oladokun and Chief Moses Adeyemo as well as the APC governorship candidate in the 2023 general election, Senator Teslim Folarin. Also in attendance were Alhaji Mojeed Olaoya, Oyo South Senatorial Chairman of APC, Alhaji Abu Gbada­mosi, Chief Francis Babalo­la, Dr Isiaka Kolawole, Prince Niran Adeyoju and Chief Omilabu Ghandi. Among some of the tra­ditional chiefs present were High Chief Amidu Ajibade, Ekerin-Olubadan of Ibadan­land, Oloye Lekan Alabi, Maye-Olubadan of Ibadan­land and Chief Abiola Aru­logun, Bada-Balogun of Ibadanland. POLL Others are Alhaji Ademola Alli and wife, Oyeyemi, Alha­ji Abiola Alli, the President, Omo Ajorosun Club, Mr Tunji Olanipekun and Chief Ademola Babalola, the State Chairman of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). Alli in his remarks, said that the inauguration party was the first ever held by an elected senator in the state, saying that the Ibarapa zone would hold on July 9 at Ig­boora. He said that he would not relent in ensuring that the people of the district enjoy democratic dividends, while unleashing unprecedented programmes. Alli thanked all the prom­inent personalities from across the state who were present at the event for their love, promising not to let them down. The lawmaker thanked former Governor Rashidi Ladoja, Oladokun, Adeyemo, Folarin, Olaoya and hosts of other party chieftains as well as supporters for their unflinching contributions to his electoral victory. He prayed that all their support, hope, aspiration and prayers for Folarin would come to fruition. “Without you, our leaders, supporters, traders, artisans, elders, youths and other pro­fessionals, we won’t be here today. We thank you and will continue to do our best for you all,” he said. Earlier, a prayer session was held at the same venue for Alli’s parents, families, po­litical leaders and associates. It would be recalled that the lawmaker had before the election sunk several bore­holes and installed several solar street lights across the senatorial district.