LAGOS – The Nigeria Customs Ser­vice (NCS) Federal Oper­ations Unit (FOU), Zone ‘A’, has said it arrested a total of 60 suspected smugglers between January and June 2023. The unit also said it intercept­ed and seized 580 smuggled goods valued at N4,022,960,075 during the period under review. Hussein K. Ejibunu, Acting Controller of the Unit disclosed to journalists during a briefing in Lagos on Wednesday. Ejibunu, a Deputy Comptroller of Customs (DC), said the unit also recovered a total of N400,599,515.66 as revenue through the issuance of Demand Notices (DN). Prominent among the seizures, according to the Customs boss, is rice, which amounts to 36,742 bags X 50kg foreign parboiled rice, equivalent to 62 trailer-load. He said that some of them were ferried through bush paths by smugglers who used motorcycles and rickety vehicles as means of conveyance. Other seizures are 14,015 (7,728) parcels of Indian hemp; 1,064 bales of used clothing, 450 x 106 kg drums of carbide, 2 x 20 containers of unprocessed wood; 1,448 pieces of foreign rugs, 30 units of used motorcycles; 44 units of used ve­hicles (Tokunbo), 218,575 litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), 860 cartons of foreign poultry prod­ucts and 833 pieces of used tyres. Speaking further, DC Ejibunu said, “While this briefing dwells on our anti-smuggling activities which aim to protect our economy and prevent revenue loss, it is also aimed at discouraging unlawful activities especially those that con­travene the Customs extant laws. POLL “Within the first six months of the year, our activities resulted in a high volume and value of seizures with some suspects arrested. We also succeeded in preventing the entry of dangerous or harmful substances like illicit drugs into society. “Our strategic intervention also achieved recovery of rev­enue through the issuance of demand notices to complete un­derpaid duties into the Federal Government coffers that were being evaded by some importers and their agents. “For the period under review, we made 580 seizures with a du­ty-paid value of N4,022,960,075. We also arrested 60 suspects and recovered a total of N400,599,515.66 as revenue through the issuance of demand notices. “We wish to express our pro­found gratitude to sister security agencies for their unflinching synergy in the course of our op­erations; special mention to the Department of State Security Services, Oyo State Command, for the arrest of a notorious suspect that was on the wanted list for an attack on a Customs patrol team escorting exhibit. “Interestingly, this suspect was arrested and handed over to the Unit yesterday. “Through the federal high courts, 11 suspects were convict­ed for committing offences of improper importation, assault of Customs officers, being in posses­sion of foreign parboiled rice, and for being in possession of Pango­lin scales meant for export. “While some other smuggling and related cases instituted in the courts are at various stages of prosecution and would be followed up diligently. “Let me reiterate that for the second half of 2023, our onslaught against smugglers will be fiercer with a renewed determination to uncover them using intelli­gence-backed enforcement. “We shall get recalcitrant trad­ers and their agents arrested and prosecuted in addition to seizing their wares. “At this point, members of the trading community are advised to further embrace compliance and shun any act that would place them on the wrong side of the law. “We advise them to keep them­selves abreast of the import and export prohibition lists because claims of ignorance will not suf­fice as an excuse whenever they are caught,” he said.