ABUJA – The Regent School in Nigeria has been adjudged as an outstanding school by a team of British Schools Overseas (BSO) inspectors, commissioned by the UK Department for Education (DfE) in England to inspect and accredit British international schools outside of the United Kingdom. The recognition by the UK Department for Education (DfE), BSO involved an inspection report which shows that their performance against all the BSO standards is at least satisfactory. The recognition also attests to the standards required for continuing registration as a school in England. Following a successful BSO inspection, schools will be allocated a unique reference number on the UK’s national school reference system, Edubase. The schools are judged against eight 8 standards and are rated on the following continuum, grade 1: outstanding, grade 2: Good, grade 3: Satisfactory and grade 4: Inadequate. The Regent School was however adjudged outstanding in all categories after a rigorous inspection, which is the highest judgement that a school can attain. It is the first and only school in Nigeria and West Africa to achieve outstanding school status, judged by British Schools Overseas inspectors. The school was rated outstanding for offering excellent quality of teaching and learning, innovative curriculum, visionary leadership and governance, standardized assessment, excellent child protection and safeguarding practices and top-end educational facilities. At an event organised to celebrate the achievement in the school, the headmaster, Mr Joe Labuschagne, said that the remarkable accomplishment was as a result of the team work of his staff as well as four years of planning and preparation. According to him, achieving a BSO outstanding rating was by no means an easy walk. The proprietress, Mrs Amsa AbdulRazaq in her remarks, said, “We are extremely delighted that our objective of being a top-class school has been achieved with a resounding confirmation by the UK Government through the Department for Education (DfE).”