ABEOKUTA – Lady Captain of Abeokuta Gulf Club, Adetunji Alaba, has bemoaned the lack of government and corporate sponsorship in promoting golf at the grassroots level, especially during Lady tournaments. The Lady Captain attributed discouragement in gold sport especially by the female gender to the lack of sponsorship especially from corporate organisations. Adetunji made the appeal at the weekend during the 2023 Ladies Sign Out and In Golf Kitty competition held at the Abeokuta Golf Club, during the weekend, in the State capital. The Ladies Golf Kitty which attracted over 200 golf players from different states of the federation was put together to usher in the new lady captain of Abeokuta golf club. Adetunji said there is a need to encourage more women to participate in the game of golf. According to her, part of the programmes to encourage female participation in the game of golf is to include the absorption of more girls into the ladies’ section of the club. She added that the government should not focus only on football but on all other sports, especially Golf. POLL She said, “Instead of the government focusing their attention on football alone, why don’t we look for other chances, other places where we can bring younger people on board? We have young people that are fully talented, but they get no sponsor. “People go outside to represent Nigeria every day, we have international competitions lined up, and just because we don’t have sponsors, a lot of people could not go.” The new captain added that her passion for the game to represent the country made her determined and focused on the game. She confirmed that she will be representing Ogun state at the next National Sports Festival slated to be held in the gateway state in 2024. She added that she will also represent the country at International competitions including the Ghana Ladies Open. Also speaking, the First Vice President, of the Ladies Golf Association of Nigeria, Mrs Evelyn Oyome expressed concern that other African countries had been making waves in the game on the continent. She said there was a need for more sponsorships and support from the government for the country to sustain her giant of Africa status in the area of sports. Mr Evelyn who expressed satisfaction with the impressive participation of female golfers in the golf kitty said efforts should be intensified to ensure that females discovered at any competition were nurtured towards bringing Laurel to the country. In his remark, the captain of Abeokuta golf club, Mr. Ladi Adegbite who noted that the growth of golf as a country is slow said the club had embarked on various drives to encourage more participation in the game. Meanwhile, Halimat Agbeniyi emerged as the overall winner of the 2023 AGC Ladies Sign in and Out Golf Kitty with 42 points, while Biodun Hazzan of Ikeja Golf Club won the longest Ladies drive and Lateefat Muhammed of Sagamu Golf Club won the nearest to the pin shot. Folake Omoniyi won the Ladies’ member 29 Handicap with 37 points, while Biodun Hassan won the Guest Ladies 17 Handicap with 38 points.