“The painful aspect of it all is that the earlier warning signals given by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) were dismissed with a wave of the hand by many citizens as well as their state governments. All because we have refused to learn from the hands of history, the ugly decimal keeps recurring, and worsening by the day. How terribly sad!” – Ayo Oyoze Baje (‘Flood Prevention is the Beginning of Wisdom’ Nov.7, 2022). Before some of our political leaders – including state governors and legislators – begin to shed crocodile tears over the loss of priceless, irreplaceable lives and valuable property of the victims of flood disaster, even after some past governors have reportedly mismanaged the Ecological Fund, we should remind ourselves of the series of timely warnings offered by the relevant agencies. These include the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMet), the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) and of course, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). Let us first and foremost understand their statutory functions. According to Wikipedia, NiMet came into existence by an Act of the National Assembly – NiMet (Establishment) ACT 2003, as enacted on 21st May 2003,. As for the NIHSA, it is an agency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that was established in 2010 under the Federal Ministry of Water Resources. The well thought out vision is “to create a dynamic and advanced hydrological service with capabilities of facilitating and supporting the harnessing, controlling, preserving, development and management of Nigeria’s valuable water resources in a sustainable manner”. On its part, the NEMA was established via Act 12 as amended by Act 50 of 1999. The agency focuses on disaster management in all parts of the country. In the light of the above-stated functions, and given the huge sums of public fund earmarked for them to carry out their duties, every blessed year, it is most disheartening that hundreds of lives and property have been laid waste by the furious floods from 2008, through 2012, 2018 till 2023. So, with NEMA alerting Nigerians on July 3, 2023 on the likely flooding in 14 states and 31 communities, from July 4 – 8 across the country is there any likelihood that such warnings would be taken with the seriousness they deserve? Yours truly has his doubts and the reasons are made available with empirical evidences. According to the statement signed by Ibrahim Farinloye, territorial coordinator, NEMA, Territorial Office it revealed the above predictions. Farinloye also thanked the Flood Early Warning System (FEWS),Central Hub of the Federal Ministry of Environment Abuja for sharing the information. POLL NEMA has therefore, urged relevant stakeholders within the states concerned to take precautionary measures. That would serve to forestall the loss of lives and property. Amongst the states and communities listed are, Plateau: (Langtang and Shendam); Kano State: (Sumaila, Tudun Wada); Sokoto State: (Shagari, Goronyo and Silame); Delta: (Okwe). Others include Kaduna State: (Kachia); Akwa Ibom:( (Upenekang ); Adamawa: (Mubi, Demsa, Song, Mayo-Belwa, Jimeta) ; Katsina State:( Katsina, Jibia, Kaita and Bindawa). He also added Kebbi State: (Wara, Yelwa and Gwandu); Zamfara: (Shinkafi and Gummi). Not left out are Borno: (Briyel) ; Jigawa: (Gwaram); Kwara: (Jebba); Niger: (Mashegu and Kontagora). A scary environmental disaster is looming, is it not? Of course, the expected floods cumulatively amount to a clear and present danger. Such is the seriousness of the climate change-related issue that several buildings located in Trademore and some other Abuja communities are slated to be demolished. But what lessons should we glean from similar past incidents and more importantly, what definitive actions should we all-leaders and the led majority-be taking as proactive and precautionary measures? Let it be noted that the seasonal menace of flood has metamorphosed into a global challenge. As yours truly keeps reminding the readers, the tragedy shoots its head from China through India to Indonesia, Malaysia, European countries and the United States. But what matters most and makes the difference is the sustained public enlightenment and preventive mechanisms quickly deployed to stem the rising tides of floods. It has therefore, become imperative for enlightened Nigerians including the media, NGOs and concerned citizens to assist the government in driving home the messages of sustained environmental sanitation. That should be right from our homes and residences. These should include the clearing of refuse in time; not dumping such into gutters and canals. We should all stop felling of trees, stop building houses close to canals, rivers, lagoons and harbours, and adhere strictly to town planning authorities’ approval on building plans. It would be in our overall interest to spread early warning messages from NiMet, NIHSA and NMA to states, LGAs. With Nigeria’s population expected to rise to 250 million by 2050, the awareness created by the film ‘Nowhere to Run’ by the Yar’ Ardua Foundation should be extended right to the grassroots. Their activities such as tree felling, over-cultivation and bush burning, come out of extreme poverty which needs to be addressed. There is also the need to emphasize on the causative factors of flooding. These include climate change that could lead to massive rainfall, overflowing of the rivers and snowmelt Others include faulty drainage systems, collapsed dams, deforestation, the emission of greenhouse gases, and the ineffective infrastructure design that exacerbate flooding especially during heavy rainfalls. It is necessary for house owners close to flood-prone areas to elevate facilities such as air conditioners, furnace and water heater. Installation of “check valves” especially in sewer traps would prevent the buildup of flood water back-ups. In fact, dams should be well managed to locate and review the Emergency Action Plan (EAP) approved for their construction. Similarly, to avoid water seepage, seal walls should be provided in basements with waterproofing compounds. Also, important inventory, sensitive papers and possessions should be removed far from the basement On the part of the state governments there should be accountability with the huge ecological funds earmarked for the purpose of environmental sanitation and flood prevention. The Ministry of Finance should ensure that funds are released to the agencies such as NiMet, NHISA and NEMA in record time. They should deploy into acquiring the needed equipment and staff training as well as welfare. The members of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) engaged with sorting out flood-related disasters must also be well funded and equipped for the onerous tasks to the nation. With all these carried out, many more lives and property would be saved. But all hands must be on deck to stem the rising tides of the seasonal floods. Prevention, as the wise ones say, will always be better than cure.