Man Utd and Liverpool are both interested in signing Atletico Madrid midfielder Marcos Llorente, who would be available for €60million, according to reports in Spain. Liverpool have already signed two midfielders this summer, bringing in Alexis Mac Allister from Brighton and Dominik Szoboszlai from RB Leipzig. Jurgen Klopp is still interested in signing another midfield player but will have to offload one or two of his current crop, with Thiago and club captain Jordan Henderson attracting interest from Saudi Arabia. Llorente would be an ideal addition. His versatility and work rate suit Klopp’s system down to the ground and anyone who plays under Diego Simeone will be very astute tactically. The Reds are not the only Premier League side keen on signing the Spanish international, though. According to Fichajes, Liverpool and Man Utd are both interested. The report starts off by saying the two English giants ‘have been interested in acquiring his services for next season’. ‘Both teams handle large amounts of money’ and are hoping to ‘convince’ Simeone to ‘accept the departure’ of Llorente, with €60m (£51.3million) ‘put on the table’. This amount would ‘help’ Atletico ease some of their financial worries and invest in some new players for Simeone’s squad. POLL The interest from Liverpool and Man Utd comes despite Llorente’s declining performances, with ‘an early goodbye’ now on the cards as the 28-year-old’s contract expires in 2026. Meanwhile, Sergej Milinkovic-Savic – who has been linked with a move to every Big Seven club in the Premier League – has received a lucrative offer to play in Saudi Arabia. Most notably a long-time Arsenal and Man Utd target, the Serbian midfielder’s Lazio contract expires next summer, and the Serie A club are hoping to receive €40m for him. Every single summer we see Milinkovic-Savic’s name pop up, yet he has never been that close to moving to England. And now, in his prime years, the 28-year-old could pack in European football to join the Saudi revolution. Multiple reports say he has received an offer to join Cristiano Ronaldo and Karim Benzema in the middle east. It is Al Hilal who are pushing for his signature after signing Ruben Neves and Kalidou Koulibaly. Milinkovic-Savic’s move to Saudi Arabia looks as good as done even though reports only emerged on Monday morning. Lazio are willing to accept a €40m (£34m) bid from Al Hilal and a salary worth around €20m (£17m) per year has been offered to the player. Ben Jacobs says the Serbian has been offered a contract ‘longer than the traditional three-year ones being offered this summer’, which makes the proposal all the more appealing. So, after all this time, Milinkovic-Savic will not end up in the Premier League. Imagine. My. Shock.