EJIKEME OMENAZU Beulah World Initiative (BWI), a faith-based, non-profit, non-governmental organisation, whose major objective is to bridge the socio-economic gap between the privileged and less privileged members of the society, has been putting smiles on the faces of the less privileged. The organisation which provides basic health care for the low income groups in rural and suburban areas; mostly supported by friends and family; they should not be limited to the aid from friends alone but from every kind hearted Nigerian. The BWI, recently gave out food items and cash to widows, elders and other vulnerable members of the society. The group, it would be recalled, carries out its medical outreach to rural areas once every month. Some of the places it visited included villages in Ogun State, such as Jibowu community, Ilogbo, Itele, Iju, Arobieye and Obere, among others, giving out free medical treatment, reading glasses, groceries, clothing items and deworming children. In Lagos, BWI has touched the lives of the less privileged in Egbeda, Ikotun, Idimu, Liasu and its suburbs. The organisation held a Campus Medical Outreach in Canaanland, Ota, Ogun State recently, where it attended to over 200 participants which included widows, elders, children dishing out over 80 eye glasses and attending to the people’s medical needs. POLL The Beulah World Initiative’s Coordinator, Ms Chichi Ononiwu, who spoke to Sunday Independent, stated: “God, has been the foundation behind what we do, and whatever we have achieved so far. “I see my role as a divine assignment. Quoting the scripture, she said, ‘He who calls you is faithful, who also will do it.” 1 Thessalonians 5:24. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Funmilayo Faleye, said, “This is my first time attending the programme. I am a widow. My husband died 25 years ago. “I have been managing on my own until I could not afford to pay rent. With the support of the Beulah World Initiative, I was able to stabilise myself with the cash donation given to me.” Mrs Yemi Gideon, another beneficiary of the free medical outreach praised the organisation for helping her out of health predicament. “I have my blood pressure checked. I was able to see the doctor who diagnosed my ailment and gave me drugs,” she stated. Mrs Ajibola Ayobami praised BWI for reaching out to her with free medical treatment and groceries, adding, “It helps to keep our body and soul together. “I pray that God should continue to bless the organisation. As they are helping us, God will help them.” Mrs Agboja Comfort said, “My eyes’ challenges brought me here. After the eye doctor attended to me, she gave me this, (brandishing the eye glasses giving to her). The Beulah organisation needs the support of all.” On the impact made by the BWI, the Welfare Coordinator, Barrister (Dcns) Odaro-Osanyade said, “Today, it is Campus Community Outreach. Last month, we were at Liasu Community, in Ikotun.” “Beulah has made a tremendous impact in the lives of the indigent people spiritually, financially, health wise and morally. “Many of these people have never gone to the hospital to check their medical status because they are financially handicapped.” Dr Olaiya Olaseinde, the doctor-in-charge, corroborating, said, “Beulah’s impact in the lives of the rural community cannot be overemphasised. A lot of them receive free drugs, clothing, groceries and also know their medical status.” Prior to the medical sessions, the Assistant Resident Pastor, Faith Tabernacle, Pastor John Izebere, encouraged the participants to embrace the grace and mercies of God. He stated that without the help of God, life becomes depressing, advising them to receive the presence of God into their lives so as to lighten their burdens and find solutions to their various challenges. He prayed for all participants and committed their lives and families to God for divine interventions.