What is Addison’s disease? Addison’s disease, also called adrenal insufficiency, is a condi­tion that can cause people to lose weight and feel tired and weak. Addison’s disease occurs when the body’s adrenal glands do not work normally, that is ad­renocortical insufficiency due to the destruction or dysfunction of the entire adrenal cortex. In Addi­son’s disease, the adrenal glands make too little cortisol and, often, too little of another hormone, al­dosterone. The adrenal glands are small organs that are located on top of each kidney. Normally, the adrenal glands make sub­stances called hormones. These hormones do many things in the body, such as help keep blood sugar levels and blood pressure normal. In people with Addison’s disease, the adrenal glands do not work properly and do not make enough hormones. This causes symptoms. Some people have symptoms like those of Addison’s disease, but their symptoms have a dif­ferent cause. Normally, adrenal glands make hormones after they receive signals from the brain. Some people have problems in the brain that cause these signals to be abnormal. Then, the adre­nal glands do not make enough hormones. Around two to three times more women than men get this disease, because autoimmunity is more common in women. The peak age of the start of Addison’s disease is between 30 and 50, but it can happen at any age. John F. Kennedy and Jane Austin both had Addison’s Dis­ease. While John F. Kennedy survived the disease, Jane Austin died from it. Causes of Addison’s disease Damage to the adrenal glands in Addison’s disease is usually caused by autoimmune disease—when your immune system attacks your body’s own cells and organs. In developed countries, autoimmune disease causes 8 or 9 of every 10 cases of Addison’s disease. Certain infec­tions like tuberculosis can also cause Addison’s disease. POLL What are the symptoms of Addison’s disease? Most people with Addison’s disease have the following symp­toms: . Feeling tired or weak . Weight loss and loss of ap­petite Other common symptoms can include: . Darkening of the skin, espe­cially on the face, neck, and back of the hands . Nausea and vomiting . Feeling light-headed or dizzy when standing or sitting up . Muscle and joint pain . Craving salty foods . Losing hair from the armpits and pubic area (in women) Sometimes, a person’s symp­toms can become severe and life-threatening, called “adrenal crisis.” Symptoms of adrenal crisis can include: . Fever and weakness . Nausea, vomiting, and stom­ach pain . Confusion . Passing out, or going into shock Adrenal crisis usually occurs when a person’s body is under stress, such as from an infection or injury. Is there a test for Addison’s disease? — Yes. Your healthcare provider might order different tests to check for Addison’s dis­ease. These involve checking your cortisol levels. Cortisol is an important hormone that the adrenal glands normally make. In people with Addison’s disease, the glands don’t make enough of it. Tests can include: . Blood tests that measure cor­tisol – Sometimes your healthcare provider will give you a hormone shot, then measure your cortisol level 30 or 60 minutes later. . A saliva test that measures cortisol How is Addison’s disease treated? — Addison›s disease is treated with hormone medicines to replace the hormones that are missing in the body. People usu­ally need 2 different medicines, which must be taken every day for the rest of their life. It is important to let your healthcare provider know if you have any side effects from the medicines or develop any new symptoms. Your healthcare provider might also prescribe emergency medicine that you should keep with you at all times in case you have adrenal crisis. This medicine comes in the form of a shot. If you think you are having adrenal crisis, use the medicine and then call for an ambulance. Your healthcare provider might recommend that you also use this emergency medicine if you: . Have a major injury, for ex­ample if you break a bone or lose a lot of blood . Pass out . Vomit up your daily medi­cine      ¡Vomit up your daily medi­cine