MAKURDI – Healthcare Administrators Association of Nigeria (NAAN) has called on the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Senator George Akume; the Benue State Governor, Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia and his Deputy, Barr Sam Ode to support the appointment of Emmanuel Apkakwu, a Fellow of the Healthcare Administrators of Nigeria as Minister of the Federal Republic. The group which urged the leadership in the state and at the national to prevail on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to hand over the ministerial slot of Benue South senatorial district to Apkakwu observed that he would be an asset to the Tinubu administration. HAAN which is throwing its weight behind Apkakwu for the position is making the call at the heels of an earlier call by the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) for the appointment of Apkakwu as Minister. HAAN made the call at a press conference held in Makurdi on Thursday to appeal to President Tinubu to appoint Apkakwu as a Minister from Benue South senatorial district. In the address read by the Chairman of HAAN, Albert Ankyo advised President Tinubu that in making his appointments, he should not settle for mediocre but to go for the best options. According to him, “Under the intense competition for limited positions to be filled as well as the limited human capacity to personally know everybody positioning himself or being positioned for an appointment, the possibility of picking some undeserving people into his team, particularly, the cabinet cannot be ruled out. “That is why, gentlemen of the press, we have called you here today, to share our thoughts with you on a prospective candidate from Benue state for ministerial appointment that we can project, through the media, who can deliver a new and better Nigeria for the President, for Nigerians and for Benue State. “You must have heard names of several politicians being touted as the likely ministerial appointees from Benue state. All of them may be qualified in their own way; some may have worked very hard or invested resources in the victory of the President and his party; some may be suitable quota candidates, while others may be recommended by some well-connected personalities. POLL “However, only one of them will be picked and it is our considered opinion that such a person must be one whose profile and pedigree fit into the template of individuals usually appointed or recommended by Mr. President to get the job done.” Reeling out Apkakwu’s profile, Ankyo explained that “At this juncture, gentlemen of the press, we make bold to inform you that we have found a big fish in the person of Mr. Emmanuel Oloja Akpakwu, a technocrat of no mean repute. “We endorse him and do hereby recommend him for appointment by President Bola Ahmed Tinubu as a minister in his cabinet. We are towing the path of numerous other individuals and organizations in Benue state and across Nigeria who have already endorsed and recommended Mr. Akpakwu for the position. “Mr. Akpakwu has deployed his exceptional leadership and entrepreneurial skills and acumen towards the development of the economy and his community. He is a mentor and source of inspiration to numerous young Nigerians, including students, whom he has guided to pursue their studies and entrepreneurial dreams. “These have earned him the trust and respect of Nigerian students and youths. It may interest you to know that the national leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has already issued a public statement endorsing Mr. Akpakwu for ministerial appointment on account of the bond he has forged with students and youths across the country over the years. “Purely based on merit, we call on President Tinubu to consider the sterling leadership qualities and outstanding accomplishments of this unassuming young achiever for inclusion in his cabinet. We are confident he will be an invaluable asset to his administration. “We call on the Secretary to Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Senator Dr. George Akume, Executive Governor of Benue State, His Excellency, Rev. Fr. Dr. Hyacinth Alia, and the Deputy Governor, His Excellency, Hon. Barrister Sam Ode, mni, to support and promote the candidacy of Mr. Akpakwu for the state’s ministerial slot. We can assure them and Benue people that Akpakwu will be a worthy ambassador of the state in the Federal Executive Council”, he stated.