P/HARCOURT – Siminalayi Fubara, Governor of Riv­ers State has charged clerics in the state to caution herdsmen against harassing residents of communities, killing farmers, and damaging crops in Rivers State. Fubara gave this charge when he received at Government House in Port Harcourt the leadership of the Muslim Community who paid a visit last week. The Governor explained that the purpose of his administration is to remain firm in protecting the lives and property of everyone, which has made it possible for them to celebrate in a peaceful atmosphere and there­fore, must not truncate the course of creating a better Rivers State for all residents. He pointed out that his administra­tion cannot be protecting their busi­nesses while some errant members of their fold are destroying the business­es and livelihoods of others, warning that if it persists, the government will be compelled to wield the full force of the law against perpetrators and bring them to justice. “The Local Government areas are complaining, so I expect results in a couple of weeks by calling these peo­ple who practice open grazing to order in Ikwerre, Etche, Ahoada East, Ahoa­da West and parts of Emohua Local Government Areas. They shouldn’t be harassing the people and should stop killing them in their farms.” Sir Fubara assured of keeping the channel of communication between it and the Muslim community open because they are critical stakeholders in governance who should enjoy the benefit of the prevailing peace to do their business and worship without molestation. In his address, the leader of the delegation, and Vice President Gen­eral of Rivers State Council of Islamic Affairs, Alhaji Nasir Awhelebe Uhor, vowed that the Muslim community will not be involved in using religion to destabilize the State while also pledging support for the policy and programmes of the government of Gov. Siminalayi Fubara. Meanwhile, Governor Fubara’s letter to the state House of Assembly requesting for the approval of a sup­plementary budget of N220 billion, was read at plenary on Friday by the Speaker of the Assembly, Martins Amaewhule. POLL According to the letter, the Gover­nor is seeking approval of the N220 billion to execute the proposed Port Harcourt Ring Road Project. Leader of the house, Hon. Edison Ehie, in his contribution had argued that the supplementary budget was necessary because the 2023 appropri­ation law failed to capture the fund for the ring road project He added that the amount appro­priated in the 2023 budget was inad­equate to fund the ring road project hence the need for the supplementary budget. Reiterating that the project was well intended and would fast track de­velopment in Rivers State, the N220bil­lion request when approved will bring the entire 2023 budget of the State to N744billion.