The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has grown to become the ma­jor cornerstone of the country’s econ­omy with its enhancement of safety in the aviation industry and other sectors, stakeholder in the aviation industry and other service beneficia­ries have said. NiMet, which turned 20 years late last month, professionals said its es­tablishment has aided aviation safety with accurate weather predictions, while other sectors like manufactur­ing, telecommunications, real estate, maritime and agriculture have gained from its predictions on weather. Mr. Peter Okechukwu, aviation professional, said that NiMet in the last few years had moved from a lackluster agency to a proactive one. According to him, the agen­cy with its weather predictions had helped to improve safe flight in Nigeria and beyond, adding that over the years, the agency had improved on its equipment. He also said that the ap­pointments and retainership of key professionals by the management of the agency had helped to ensure stability in the system and challenged the current management to continue in the good stead. Apart from Nigeria, Oke­chukwu also said that NiMet had made huge impacts in the regional countries, which fur­ther increased the rating of Ni­geria in the comity of nations. “One sector in which NiMet’s services have been visible is air transportation and airline operations where NiMet has been providing weather updates for air travel­lers and air operations. “I frequent Abuja on ac­count of projects that I handle. I must say that my confidence in air travel in Nigeria has in­creased in recent years because of the safety level now. I also know that NiMet has done a lot to contribute to this,” he said. POLL He explained that with the acquisition of state-of-the-art facilities, foreign pilots now rely more on weather reports released by NiMet. He recalled that a British Airways pilot was quoted in a national daily recently as saying that the airline now relied on NiMet’s weather reports for their flight oper­ation in Nigeria because the reports have become accurate and reliable. Also, Mr. Francis Eromo­sele, one of the beneficiaries of NiMet services in the agri­cultural sector, explained that NiMet had not only carved a niche for itself in improved ser­vice delivery for the real estate sector, but has also developed products and services that have helped the Federal Govern­ment achieve sustainable food security for the nation. One of such, Eromosele said, is the Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP) in which the agency presents to the public the annual rainfall pattern. This, he said, had helped farmers and stakeholders plan their cropping season. Eromosele believes that the agency had done creditably well and expressed the need for the Federal Government to encourage it to achieve more goals, especially with the issue of climate change taking over the global discussion. He said: “The Seasonal Cli­mate Prediction from NiMet has been helpful to me and some farmers that agree to use it. The 2022 forecast was perfect, particularly at the onset and the end of the season. Cases of the dry spell were reported in some areas like Gwiwa, Yank washi, Kiri Kasama and Guri, among others. “The Seasonal Climate Pre­diction has been very import­ant to us. The one provided for us last year helped us and increased our yield. I have been using the SCP for the past two years now and those years without applying the SCP will never be compared to the last two years I started using the product.” Recall that Prof. Mansur Matazu, the Director-General, NiMet, in a recent interview said that the agency had at­tained 95 percent accuracy in weather prediction, which is above the 60 percent threshold recommended by the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO). Mansur had attributed this to the continuous upgrade of equipment, training and re­training of staff and develop­ing a culture of excellence in service delivery, among others. Earlier in the year in a press briefing, Matazu also disclosed that NiMet’s weather advisory saved the Central Bank of Ni­geria (CBN) N120 billion be­cause the apex bank adhered to its weather advisory. NiMet came into existence by an Establishment Act of Parliament on May 16, 2003 and got the presidential assent on June 19, 2003. In 2022, the NiMet establish­ment Act 2003 was repealed and replaced by the NiMet establishment act 2022 and signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari on Au­gust 31, 2022. The new Establishment Act grants the agency the sole au­thority to grant approvals and licences for the establishment of meteorological stations and other related matters.