President Umaro Embaló of Guinea Bissa has commended the president Bola Tinubu over the policy initiative his administration has established in the past one month in office. Acccording to the the Special Adviser on Special Duties, Communications and Strategy, Dele Alake, he told State House correspondents that president Embaló made this known during his visit to President Tinubu on Saturday at his Ikoyi residence in Lagos. “President Embalo commended the laudable policy initiatives of President Tinubu in the last one month and added that everyone in the international community has been commending the giant strides of the Nigerian leader. “He came to pay his solidarity and bond with a brother African head of State, in the first instance, and in particular as a brother Head of State in West Africa,” said the Presidential spokesman. Alake described the engagement as a “commendable sign of things to come in the entire West African region”. He said the show of support stems from President Tinubu’s “giant steps in the last one month” which, he said, has created a suitable atmosphere and need for Nigeria to take its rightful place in African affairs. “Everybody is looking up to Nigeria, especially in Africa and the ECOWAS region and President Tinubu is ready to take up the gauntlet,” Alake added. On the entourage of the visiting Bissau Guinean leader were his Special Adviser Caramo Camara; Chief of Staff, Califa Soares; Diplomatic Advisor, Alfredo Cabral and Image Operator, Bonifacio Correia. POLL Those who joined President Tinubu to receive the Guinea-Bissau President included Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu; Chief of Staff, Femi Gbajabiamila and Special Adviser, Special Duties, Communications and Strategy to the President; Mr. Dele Alake. President Embaló was earlier received at the Presidential Wing of Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, by Governor Sanwo-Olu.T The visit is part of President Tinubu’s engagements since arriving in Nigeria from his one-week trips to Paris and London last Tuesday.