ABUJA  – Ohanaeze Ndigbo World­wide, the apex socio-cul­tural body of Ndigbo, and political leaders from the South-East on Monday de­clared that the rising inse­curity in the geopolitical zone cannot be divorced from the general insecurity in the country and remains a Nigeria’s problem. Rising from a high-pow­ered meeting of Igbo lead­ers in Abuja, the leaders resolved, as a matter of urgency, to meet Presi­dent Bola Ahmed Tinubu towards a comprehensive resolution of the issues stoking crisis in the zone so as to restore peace in the region. Taking turns to address journalists after a four-hour meeting, President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief (Dr.) Emmanuel Iwuanyan­wu and Governor Hope Uzodimma, Chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum, said the insecurity situation in the zone is huge and beyond the capacity of the governors and leaders to address. They reasoned that since security is in the exclusive list, the Federal Govern­ment must step in and de­ploy necessary resources to restore peace in the zone, adding that the leaders will soon dispatch a high-pow­ered team to meet with the president. Among leaders that graced the meeting include Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru, governor of Ebonyi State; Senator Victor Umeh; APC, PDP and LP leaders from the zone; former Minister Chris Ngige; Senator Wa­bara; women leader, Kema Chikwe; Senator Izunaso and host of others. Chief Iwuanyanwu said that Ohanaeze has given the governors and mem­bers of the National Assem­bly full mandate to secure the support of the presi­dent towards resolution of the security situation in the South-East, without which, he said, the development strides of the zone will con­tinue to suffer. “We have deliberated as Ndigbo. Ohanaeze, gover­nors and all leaders of the zone, in the Senate, House of Representatives, tradi­tional rulers, we deliberat­ed. The problem of the re­gion is Nigeria’s problem. It is beyond the capacity of the governors, Ohanaeze and leaders to resolve”, stressed Chief Iwuanyanwu. On his part, Governor Uzodimma of Imo, who ex­tolled the leadership of the Ohanaeze in rallying sup­port towards resolution of problems facing the South- East said the governors and leaders are working with Ohanaeze to find lasting solutions to the problems confronting the zone. POLL While noting the support so far advanced by the Fed­eral Government towards resolution of insecurity in the five South-East states, he maintained that more is required to bring the mat­ter to a final resolution. “We have identified in­security as a problem of the South-East which is in the front burner. Over the years, the Federal Govern­ment has supported but we think the government can do more. Among other res­olutions, we resolved today to make representation to Mr. President towards bringing the insecurity in the South-East to an end. “Any moment from now we will arrange to meet with the president. We are acknowledging also that Nigeria is a federation. While the governors in the South-East subnational lev­el can try their best, there are certain things that we cannot do very well without the Federal Government. Security is in the exclu­sive list. Only the Federal Government can deploy as appropriate. So that’s some of the things when we meet with the president we will discuss.”