Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise (MSME) owners in Nigeria have been advised to adopt cloud services to drive efficiency, agility, and innovation in their businesses. This was the position held by IT experts at the recent webinar series organized by Rack Centre , titled “Promoting Cloud Neutrality: Cloud adoption as a cost-effective and efficient direction for MSMEs”. Kelechukwu Nsofor , Senior Sales Manager, Rack Centre, , who moderated the session, in his opening remarks, explained that the discussion around cloud adoption by businesses in Nigeria had become necessary in view of the transformation being witnessed in the digital space. Leading the conversation, Senior Account Cloud Engineer, Oracle, Ismaila Salami, analyzed the transition in the digital space over the last two decades. He disclosed that 50 per cent of in-house applications deployed in organizations are still on-premises. He added that there is a need for medium enterprises, in particular, to adopt the cloud for their infrastructure, especially at a time when data is getting more proliferated. Highlighting the benefits of cloud services, Ismaila noted that business owners stand to gain a lot by building their infrastructure on the cloud as it offers flexibility, choices, and big accomplishments with less effort while navigating uncertainty and building security. Allaying the concerns of MSMEs on vendor locking, he stated that the cloud providers now have the flexibility to migrate within different platforms without any data breach using either a multi-cloud strategy or leveraging open standards. Speaking during the panel session, Assistant General Manager Cyber Cloud, Laurel Onumonu stated that a large percentage of digitized SMEs do not require cloud computing services, noting that the nature of the business or capacity determines whether cloud services would be required. Onumonu charged the cloud service providers to take up the responsibility of mobilizing and encouraging middle-scale enterprises for cloud adoption, identified low level of awareness, capital flight, high pricing, absence of government support, and poor technical expertise as some of the issues affecting MSMEs in managing the cloud-based ecosystem.