ABUJA – The Senate Minority caucus on Wednesday opposed objections to the list of minority principal officers, by the leadership of some opposition political parties. The Minority Caucus in a press conference at the National Assembly in Abuja, said that the emergence of their principal officers was in line with their rules. The Senate had on Tuesday announced the names of principal officers both for the ruling and the opposition parties. President of the Senate, Godswill Akpabio, announced a consensus list of principal officers with Opeyemi Bamidele (APC Ekiti Central, Southwest emerging as Senate Leader; Dave Umahi (APC Ebonyi South, Southeast, Deputy Senate Leader; Ali Ndume (APC Borno South, Northeast, Chief Whip and Lola Ashiru (APC Kwara South, Northcentral, Deputy Chief Whip. For the opposition, Simon Devou Nwadkwon (PDP Plateau North, North Central emerged Minority Leader; Oyewumi Olarele, PDP Osun West, South West, Deputy Minority Leader; Darlington Nwokocha, LP Abia Central, South East, Deputy Minority Whip and Rufai Hanga, ANPP Kano Central, North West, Deputy Minority Whip. Their emergence has caused a lot of controversy since political parties always nominate those who will be principal officers. But speaking after the minority caucus meeting on Wednesday, the leader of the minority, Simon Devou Nwadkwon, said the emergence of the principal officers was not faulty. “Our emergence was not faulty. We follow the Senate rules,” Nwadkwon said, adding that the lawmakers have the right to elect their leaders. POLL According to the leader,”The Senate order 27:1 states clearly that the Senate or the minority caucus shall be elected by the members. So, what happened was not an error,” adding that they will build a virile and constructive opposition caucus in the 10th Senate for the benefit of Nigeria and Nigerians. “The 10th Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is unique in several ways. First, it reckons as the most diverse Senate in the history of Nigeria’s political development composed of Senators from seven political parties including the APC with 59 Members and the opposition parties of PDP, Labour Party, NNPP, APGA. SDP, YPP produced 50 Members of the Senate. Continuing he said,”In terms of rules of procedure for the nomination of Minority Leadership of the Senate. Section 60 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) empowers the Senate to make rules to regulate its procedures. “Premised on the constitutional mandate, and by the authority of the Nigerian Senate, the Senate Standing Orders 2022 (As amended) issued as the rule book to guide the conduct of legislative businesses including the appointment of principal officers by the Senate. “Consequently, The Senate Standing Orders (2022) in Chapter Six (6), pages 21 to 22, Senate Rules Nos 27, 28, 29, and 30 provided for the Minority Leadership positions including the Minority Leader, Minority Whip, Deputy Minority Leader, and Deputy Minority Whip “Who shall be Senators, nominated from the Minority Parties in the Senate.” “The critical emphasis here is that the Officers must be (1) Serving Senators of the Federal of Nigeria, who are (2) Members of the Minorities Parties in the Senate and the word nominate in the Oxford language dictionary means to “Propose”. When a proposal is made, it is usually to an authority that has the confirming powers, in this case, the President of the Senate. Accordingly, the President of the Senate received the proposal, announced it, and publicly gavelled the Minority Leadership nominees into confirmation in line with the Senate Standing Orders. “It is also important to inform Nigerians at this point that, in line with relevant laws, practices, procedures and conventions, and traditions, the Principal Officers of a Legislative Assembly are not balloted. It is not a competitive election moderated by INEC or any other umpire, but a matter that is rooted in age-long and well-established legislative practices and procedures. Despite the fact that whenever issues of political leadership are raised, you cannot discountenance the emergence of contentious voices, especially in a situation involving 6 political parties. This is expected because that in itself is the beauty and natural character of democracy whereby we disagree without being disagreeable,” Nwadkwon said, adding that it is democracy at its best and parliamentary politics at its finest for democratic consolidation in Nigeria. “However, rather than dwell on issues of parliamentary politics we should now focus on putting machinery in place to unite all opposition parties and outline our Opposition Leadership Agenda to the Nigerian people that will ensure virile opposition assertiveness in the Senate to keep the ruling majority on their toes.” Nwadkwon said, “parliament plays a critical role in representation and oversight for the attainment of good governance and sustainable development added that while they will play their oversight exercises over the activities of the Executive arm of government including other roles like the making of the national budget in line with the provisions of the constitution to ensure efficiency, they will ensure accountability and value for money on government expenditures, policies, programmes, and projects. “To effectively guarantee these key elements of a democratic parliament where opposition is tolerated and respected; we shall utilize the concept of “Specialized Parliamentary Caucuses” (SPCs) to lead a virile opposition in parliament in the 10th Senate. “The SPCs is a unique network of members who are passionate and committed to promoting good governance in specific thematic areas, a strong and assertive National Assembly for public interest and national Development; an Effective Oversight system; robust scrutinization of government proposals; Enhanced transparency in budget and budgetary process; Legislative Action on Security (LAS), Legislative Action on Infrastructure (LAI); Legislative Action on Youth Employment, Development and Job Creation (LAYEDEC) and Legislative Action on Health, Education, and Economy (LAHEE), Legislative Action on Gender representation (LAGR); Legislative Action Against Corruption (LAAC) and Legislative Action on Transparency in the utilization of Subsidy Savings (LAT-UAS) amongst other critical legislative action initiatives. “To achieve these, the leadership will prioritize the human capital development of opposition members through strategic partnerships and collaborations. Our SPCs focusing on the above-highlighted key thematic areas will further develop models and toolkits that will help opposition members periodically track Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) consistent with the opposition parties’ leadership vision of leading a virile and assertive Senate that will work in the interest of the Nigerian people in all areas of law-making, oversight, appropriation, confirmation of appointments, representation, loan approvals, and constituency services. “Under our leadership, the opposition parties will establish a formal secretariat with dedicated professional staff to ensure proper coordination and provide relevant legislative support to opposition Members to excel in their mandate as representatives of their constituents. The Opposition Leadership SPCs said it will work to help the government to shift from line budgeting to citizens’ needs without adequate evaluation or bottom- up needs assessment to programme Based Budgeting (CNTPBB) in terms of implementation, which will enable our constituents to benefit more from the national budget. “Helps to improve Government efficiency in resource allocation by linking ‘citizens need to program performance to budget allocation’ through the budgetary process. “Work with foreign, regional, and national parliamentary organizations; such as International Parliamentary Union (IPU), Global Parliamentary Association against Corruption; European Union Parliament; Commonwealth Parliamentary Association; National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies, Westminster Foundation for Democracy; Sustainable Development Goals Network; PLAC; YIAGA Africa; Centre for Democracy Development; International Republic Institute (IRI), African Parliamentary Advocacy and Reform Group (APARG) and National Democratic Institute to strengthen opposition activities in parliament to deliver good governance and national cohesion for Nigeria’s democratic survival. “Strategically support Senators, and grace their constituency programs to build solidarity and support base as a deliberate measure. Initiate legislative actions through bills, motions, debates, and other legislative instruments to ensure a very assertive 10th Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria; “Vigorously pursue economic, infrastructural, and youth employment legislative actions including support for government policy proposals that aligns with the opposition legislative interest preference and focus. “Establish a bipartisan outlet on issues of national interest supported by our Party’s vision and manifesto. Establish and organize the annual Parliamentary Opposition Party’s Summit to strategize, review and develop a roadmap for our role as opposition in the Senate. Ensure prominent visibility and vibrancy of opposition lawmakers in parliament. Create thriving synergy amongst stakeholders, party leadership, and the Nigerian People. Pursue and Lobby (where necessary) for the rights and privileges of opposition lawmakers. Provide inclusive, teamwork, transparent, and honest leadership in service of Nigeria, our great party, and my colleagues. 13) Protect and guarantee the welfare of our Members.”