AKURE – One of the suspected abductors of the Imam of Uso, Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State has been arrested by the Police. Parading the suspect and some alleged accomplices on Tuesday at the Command Headquarters, Alagbaka, Akure, the suspect, Muina Mohammed, male, the Spokesperson to the Command, Funmilayo Odunlami-Omisanya, a Superintendent of Police (SP), disclosed that the suspect was arrested after the Intelligence Unit of the Command swung into action. According to her, the victim, Alhaji Alli Bodunde was kidnapped on his farm by some assailants. Speaking with newsmen during the parade, Alhaji Bodunde said he was on his farm packing some pineapples he harvested into the boot of his car around 11:00 am when suddenly two armed Fulani men appeared from the bush close to his car. They then abducted him and abandoned his car on the farm. According to him, his abductors had information about him as they reeled out his dossier to him. But they were unable to collect his phone because they couldn’t see it where he kept it. He disclosed that they made him trek for over six hours searching for where to hide. POLL Alhaji Bodunde disclosed that the abductors insisted that he should speak to them in pidgin English and must not speak Yoruba. He said each time he mistakenly spoke Yoruba, he was beaten by his abductors. When they arrived at a place, they put his back to a tree and tied his hands to his back. His legs were also tied. Negotiation with his family by the kidnappers started around 5:00 pm when the leader of the gang joined them at the hideout. Bodunde disclosed that his abductors demanded N10 million ransom for his release, but eventually, his family paid N2 million before they led him back to his farm and released him around 7:00 pm the following day. When police detectives began investigations into the abduction, they tracked the telephone number used for the negotiation with the family and 40-year-old Isah Bello was arrested. When he was arrested, it was discovered that his daughter, Aishat, 19, who collected his old SIM gave it to Muina which he used for the negotiation. Aishat and Muina were subsequently arrested and taken to the Command headquarters for interrogation. In her statement, Aishat said she only knew the suspect at Ogbese Market where she also hawks raw milk. She disclosed that Muina asked her for a SIM card and she had to beg her father to lend her his old SIM card with the promise to return it. But when Muina finished using the SIM card, he lied to Aishat that the SIM card was missing. But she insisted on collecting the SIM card because her father was asking for it. Eventually, Muina returned the SIM card to her and she gave it to her father. Despite the fact that the Imam said it was Muina that was the ring leader of his abductors, he denied all the allegations. He denied collecting a SIM card from Aishat and that he had never seen his victim before. The Public Relations Officer of the Command has assured that the remaining two members of the syndicate would be apprehended as detectives are already on their trail.