.Ask Kogites to shun mischievous politicians playing victims, sponsoring crime .Call on DSS, others to fish out and arrest politicians behind anti-security propaganda LAGOS – Lawyers, leaders of Civil Society Organisations and professionals across all sectors of the economy have called on Kogi State indigenes at home and in the Diaspora to help security agencies to make the state uninhabitable for criminals masquerading as politicians in the state, especially as the November 11 governorship election draws closer. They called on the good people of Kogi State to resist those they described as criminal political merchants trying to blackmail security agencies in the interest of their “unpopular ambitions.” Representatives of more than 50 CSOs and scores of lawyers, under the broad platform of Lawyers and Activists for Good Governance, made this position known at a press conference in Abuja on Wednesday. Barr. Mohammed Abdulrazaq Sani, a lawyer from Igalamela LGA, Kogi State, and Co-Convener of Lawyers and Activists for Good Governance, who addressed the press on behalf of others, said, “Personally, I am from Kogi State like a few of those on this high table. Therefore, we know exactly what is happening in that state beyond the propaganda engaged in by some unscrupulous elements in the state fond of trading in blackmail and crocodile tears. “An average Kogite who understands the state’s terrain very well would testify that Kogi State in the last seven years plus has witnessed the uprooting of violent criminals like kidnappers, terrorists, armed robbers and others from the state since the inception of the current administration in the state.” The activists, however, warned that some mischievous political figures in the state were working towards bringing back the dark days of instability by supporting criminal elements to cause chaos. POLL The same sponsors of criminal activities, they said, would, thereafter, quickly rush to the public to point accusing fingers at security agencies or the state government. “These characters would rather that criminals and terrorists be left to run amok unchallenged while law-abiding Kogi State residents and indigenes who have been enjoying peace and security for over seven years live in fear and panic,” the lawyers and activists said. They called on security agencies not to relent in their efforts to rid the state of criminal elements, saying their backers must be arrested and prosecuted for the peace and stability of Kogi State. The activists’ statement reads, “This Press Conference is necessitated by our concern over the activities of some desperate politicians in Kogi State who are in the practice of orchestrating violence and at the same time playing the victim in order to deceive unsuspecting members of the public by pointing fingers in the wrong direction. “Personally, I am from Kogi State like a few of those on this high table. Therefore, we know exactly what is happening in that state beyond the propaganda engaged in by some unscrupulous elements in the state fond of trading in blackmail and crocodile tears. “Of recent, we have seen an upsurge in the activities of some of these desperate politicians boldly sponsoring antidemocratic forces to consistently blackmail the security agencies who are carrying out their legitimate constitutional duties of protecting lives and properties and tagging them as being overzealous in keeping criminals out of the streets of Kogi State. “These characters would rather that criminals and terrorists be left to run amok unchallenged while law-abiding Kogi State residents and indigenes who have been enjoying peace and security for over seven years should live in fear and panic. “These sponsors of disharmony specialize in playing one ethnic group in Kogi State against the others in their wicked and evil agenda to make sure that crisis erupts in the state which they reckon could work in their favour to clinch political offices, especially as the state’s governorship election is approaching. “They have been engaging in criminal propaganda on social and regular media to create mass disaffection against the incumbent government in the state. An average Kogite who understands the state’s terrain very well would testify that Kogi State in the last seven years plus has witnessed the uprooting of violent criminals like kidnappers, terrorists, armed robbers and others from the state since the inception of the current administration in the state. “But there are mischievous political figures in the state who wish to bring back those dark days of instability by supporting criminal elements to cause chaos in the state and thereafter quickly rush to the public to point accusing fingers at security agencies or the state government. “This is in a failed bid to cover their poorly disguised criminal tracks, especially when security agencies go after their criminal protégés. “These are the same political goons who move around the state to erect structures of ethnic acrimony and suspicion for political advantage. “They don’t mean well for the state and Kogites are enjoined to resist anyone or group desperately trying to fan the embers of disunity and mutual acrimony in the state. They are atrocious characters with wicked and evil agenda to benefit from the crises they are provoking. “We urge the security agencies not to relent in their efforts to rid the state of not only the criminal political merchants but also to ensure that their backers are arrested and prosecuted for the peace and stability of Kogi State. “No purveyors of organized crimes and criminalities should be allowed to roam free no matter how highly placed. Kogites must shine their eyes well and not allow expired politicians with zero political relevance to hoodwink us into a sophisticated trap of political waterloo for the sake of their insatiable and pitiable ambition.” The Lawyers and Activists for Good Governance, the parent body of the Concerned Lawyers And Activists Coalition, is an organization with the primary focus on advocating for justice and peace. It consists of over 50 Civil Society Organizations made of activists, lawyers and other professionals.