YENAGOA  – A stalwart of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State, Preye Aganaba, has con­demned the stagnant growth of the state under the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), saying the state must join the ruling APC at the centre to experience speedy development. Aganaba, who stated this in Yenagoa, at the weekend, alleged that the state Governor, Douye Diri, was confused and had shown an absolute lack of ideology to position Bayelsa on the path of growth and devel­opment. He said the APC governor­ship candidate in the November 11 election, Timipre Sylva, was the only hope of the state to align with the centre and urged the people to take advantage of the opportunity. The former governorship aspirant said that Sylva pos­sessed the capacity, experience and network to win the forth­coming polls and speed up the development of the state. Aganaba commended the immediate-past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources for attracting a federal tertiary institution to Nembe. He dismissed the rumoured crisis in the state APC over ministerial appointments and described it as the handiwork of naysayers. He said, “Bayelsans know that they were richer between 1999 and 2015 when both the state and the centre were in the same party than between 2015 and 2019. That was why the people decided to align with the centre by voting for David Lyon, unfortunately, their will was altered by the decision of the Supreme Court. “Bayelsans desire to be part of the centre. We have an oppor­tunity in this election to align with the centre. It is in our in­terest to do so in this forthcom­ing election by bringing APC to power in the state”. POLL Aganaba, who was the state coordinator of the Tinubu/ Shettima Independent Cam­paign Council (ICC), hailed President Bola Tinubu for re­moving the fuel subsidy, which he described as an albatross hindering the development of the country. The APC chieftain urged the people to remain calm and patiently wait for the positive effects of the ongoing reforms and policies of the President. He described the cases at the tribunal against Tinubu as a sheer waste of time, adding that they would only end in social media hype as the plain­tiffs lacked the evidence to prove their cases. Aganaba said Tinubu with his recent appointment of the service chiefs had demonstrat­ed equity, fairness and balanc­ing, observing that the service chiefs were appointed from different zones in the country. He also said the president knows people with the capaci­ty to help him deliver on his re­newed hope agenda and would include them in his cabinet. Niger Delta Oil & Gas Com­munity Development Commit­tees commend President Tinun­bu, pass a vote of confidence on NDDC MD The Board of Trustees and Management of Communi­ty Development Committees (CDC) of Niger Delta Oil and Gas Producing Areas have com­mended President Ahmed Bola Tinubu for retaining Dr. Samuel Ogbuku as the Managing Direc­tor of the Niger Delta Develop­ment Commission (NDDC). In the same vein, the Board also passed a vote of confidence on Dr. Ogbuku for the quality leadership he is giving at the Commission