The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and senators elected on the platform of the party on Monday failed to arrive at a compromise over minority leadership. The meeting was attended by 19 senators, while six send excuses because of the Sallah celebrations. Eleven (11) of the senators failed to attend the meeting. It was, however, gathered that the senators, who failed to attend the meeting are the ones loyal to a former governor in the South-South. The party, in its resolution after the meeting by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, said it resolved to communicate to the President of the Senate, Godswill Akpabio, on the ongoing consultation in the Minority Caucus to the effect that the nominations into the Minority leadership positions in the Senate has not been concluded and that upon conclusion, the nominated list will be formally conveyed to him appropriately for necessary action. The PDP resolution reads: “The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) today, Monday, July 3, 2023 met with members of the PDP Caucus in the Senate. “At the meeting, the importance of a virile and stable opposition in the Senate and indeed the National Assembly was emphasized and the Caucus assured that it will play that important role in the defense of democracy, the interest and wellbeing of Nigerians. “The meeting condemned in its entirety the alleged subterranean moves by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to meddle with the affairs of the Minority with regards to the emergence of the Minority Leadership which is an exclusive reserve of the Minority Caucus as expressly stipulated by Constitutional provisions and Standing Rules of the Senate. “The PDP and the Senators continue with consultations on the emergence of the Minority Leadership in the Senate and are resolved to collectively present a unified leadership after due and conclusive considerations. Accordingly, the PDP will continue to provide the necessary leadership in this regard. POLL “Consequently, the meeting resolved that the PDP NWC communicates to the Senate President, His Excellency, Distinguished Senator Godswill Akpabio, on the ongoing consultation in the Minority Caucus to the effect that the nominations into the Minority leadership positions in the Senate has not been concluded and that upon conclusion, the nominated list will be formally conveyed to him appropriately for necessary action. “The PDP NWC commends the members of the PDP Caucus in the Senate for their unity, steadfastness, loyalty to the Party and commitment towards the sustenance and deepening of democracy in our country.”