LAGOS – Sanlam General Insurance Ni­geria Limited, is thrilled to an­nounce the launch of *1056#; a USSD Code of Confidence that allows customers access speedy resolution of third-party insur­ance claims in cases of road emergencies. This cutting-edge solution is the first of its kind in Nigeria. According to the company, this Code (*1056#) is Sanlam’s way of providing a seamless and customer-centric solution to a number of challenges cus­tomers encounter while seek­ing report claims in case of any eventuality. With this new fea­ture, Sanlam aims to enhance the claims experience for its valued customers by eliminat­ing needless paperwork and unnecessary delays. Customers can now use the simple and user-friendly *1056# USSD code on their mo­bile phones to initiate instant third-party claims. The process is quick and hassle-free, ensuring that customers receive prompt assistance and support during unexpected events and accidents involving third parties. Speaking on the development, Bode Opadokun, the Managing Director/CEO, Sanlam Gener­al Insurance Nigeria Limited, expressed excitement and af­firmed thus, “We are delighted to introduce this Code of Confi­dence, which revolutionizes the way our customers can access third-party claims. At Sanlam, we understand the importance of convenience and speed in the claims process. With this inno­vative service, we aim to provide our customers with a seamless and efficient experience at any time of need.” According to a statement signed by Ajibola Liyide, the Marketing and Corporate Com­munications Manager, Sanlam General Insurance Nigeria Limited, he stated, “The Code of Confidence service was designed to offer customers a hitch-free claims experience. “By dialing *1056# on their mobile phones, customers gain access to a simple prompt that guides them through the claims process. The user-friendly inter­face allows customers to provide essential details and initiate their claims swiftly and conveniently, ensuring they receive timely as­sistance. This can be done from any MTN line.” Sanlam’s Code of Confidence is available to all Sanlam Nigeria motor policyholders, making it accessible to a wide range of cus­tomers across the country. The service is part of Sanlam’s ongo­ing efforts to leverage technolo­gy and innovation to enhance the customer experience and provide timely support when it matters most. Sanlam is a pan-African brand with a rich history and heritage founded in 1918 as a life insurance company. The brand has grown to become Africa’s largest non-banking financial services group, with a strong presence in 33 countries on the African continent, and a niche presence in India, Malaysia, the United Kingdom and Australia. Indeed, Sanlam operates in eight out of the 10 largest economies in Africa, with over 154,000 employ­ees globally, delivering superior value to customers, shareholders and the broader society.