ISAAC ASABOR The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, (NAFDAC), is established by Decree 15 of 1993 as amended by Decree 19 of 1999, and now the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control Act Cap N1 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. It is mandated to regulate and control the manufacture, importation, exportation, distribution, advertisement, sale, and use of food, drugs, cosmetics, chemicals, detergents, medical devices, and packaged water (Known as regulated products). Simply put, the agency has the mandate of protecting Nigerians from consuming unsafe products. In fulfilling the foregoing responsibilities, particularly as it relates to protecting Nigerians from consuming unsafe products, the agency has, from time to time, been providing information and opportunities for effective and meaningful public involvement to enable the fulfillment of legislative mandate, programmes delivery, and launch of new initiatives and building public trust. The agency has been at the forefront of issuing alerts or public warnings on food safety issues. It is responsible for communicating risks associated with the food chain in an open and transparent manner based on scientific advice. At this juncture, it can be said that it is on the strength of its legal mandate that NAFDAC on July 26, 2019, alerted the general public and in particular consumers of animal hides, popularly known as ‘Ponmo’ in local parlance on the activities of some unscrupulous businessmen and traders who are selling industrial animal hides as food. POLL The consumer agency recalled that as far back as 2015, following intelligence reports that through its investigation and enforcement directorate that it successfully dealt with isolated cases of dangerous diversion of animal hides meant for industrial use into the food chain for consumption as a local delicacy popularly called ‘Ponmo’, and noted that the practice poses grave danger to public health. The agency then revealed through its investigations that some companies operating in the country legally imported hides from other countries such as Lebanon and Turkey, while a majority of the product was smuggled into the country through the porous borders. It stated that “These imported animal hides are meant for industrial use by leather industries for the manufacture of items such as shoes, bags, and belts. The hides, therefore, are pretreated with industrial chemicals which are not of food grade and will be toxic and injurious to human health. Health hazards inherent in the consumption of such animal hides include the risk of Liver, Kidney, and Heart damage, increased risk of plastic anemia, Central nervous system toxicity, and Cancer. “Livestock farmers are also to note that industrial animal hides can also not be used to manufacture animal feed, as the associated chemicals will be stored in the tissues of these animals and will eventually end up in humans when consumed with the attendant deleterious effects mentioned above. The general public is hereby, encouraged to be very vigilant and exercise discretion when purchasing animal hides ‘Ponmo’ and indeed other food items. NAFDAC is fully alive to her responsibilities of assuring the safety, wholesomeness, and quality of processed foods offered for sale to the public. In this regard, the Agency, has increased the tempo of targeted and aggressive routine (unannounced) inspections to monitor activities of animal hide merchants to ensure that only food-grade animal hide (Ponmo) is sold as food articles in our markets”. It is not an exaggeration to say that the Statement issued by the Director-General of the Agency at the time, Mojisola Adeyeye, more than three years ago, by any standard of assessment, was ineffective as most respondents engaged by Daily Independent in a media parley to ascertain the level of awareness of the consuming public over the issue attested to the fact that they were ignorant of the information issued by the agency. In the same vein, in February 2022, NAFDAC again raised alarm over the circulation of contaminated Ponmo in Lagos after seizing 120 tons of “Ponmo” described to be a toxic product. Adeyeye, at the time, made the disclosure while announcing the seizure of a large quantity of the product from seven importers in Lagos. She warned members of the public, particularly consumers of Ponmo against the activities of the unscrupulous businessmen and traders, who were selling industrial animal hides and skin for human consumption. In a statement issued by the Resident Media Consultant to NAFDAC in that year, Sayo Akintola, the agency revealed that the hides were treated with industrial chemicals not fit for food grade and will be injurious to human health. She stressed that the danger of consuming the toxic ponmo includes the risk of liver, kidney, and heart damage, increased risk of plastic anemia, central nervous system toxicity, and cancer, among others, just as the agency had warned for the umpteenth time. Still, in the same vein, the federal government recently raised alarm over a deadly virus outbreak resulting from the consumption of ponmo, saying it is dangerous for now. Given the foregoing backdrop, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development recently alerted Nigerians on the outbreak of Anthrax in some neighbouring countries within the West African sub-region. A statement signed by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Dr Ernest Afolabi Umakhihe, said the outbreak was first recorded in northern Ghana bordering Burkina Faso and Togo putting the whole sub-region at risk. “The disease which has claimed some lives is a bacterial disease that affects both animals and man, that is a zoonotic disease. Anthrax spores are naturally found in the soil and commonly affect domestic and wild animals.” However, despite the prohibition of the product popularly considered to be delicious, consumers have continued to consume the delicacy. As gathered by Daily Independent across foodstuff markets in Lagos, it seems both sellers and buyers of the delicacy have remained adamant as consumption and open display of the commodity continues in many markets and restaurants unabated without being afraid that the symptoms, when infected upon its consumption, include flu, cough, fever, and muscle aches and if not diagnosed and treated early, can lead to pneumonia, severe lung problems, difficulty in breathing, shock, and ultimately death. According to Ken Imariagbe, a lover of the delicacy, “Though consumption of Ponmo may not be of nutritional value to the elites but does for people at the lower rung of the society, and it is also affordable. Without a doubt, Ponmo blends with certain soups, and it is for this reason that it has no doubt gained a wider appeal to not a few consumers. As for me, nobody can stop me from consuming Ponmo as it is the only way to go for now since cow meat, fish and chicken are unaffordable.” Arguing from a different perspective, Olu Megbon said: “Banning ponmo to resuscitate the leather industry is like cutting off the nose to spite the face, which interpretatively means putting oneself at a disadvantage position in order to do harm to an adversary”. Asked about the motivation behind his opinion, he said: “I know some diabetic patients who eat ponmo on health grounds. If you ban it, what happens? Is the Federal Government implying that without the ban, the leather industry can’t be revived? Ponmo has its nutritional value and some women sell ponmo so if you ban it, how will they survive? Will the Federal Government provide alternative means for the ponmo sellers to survive? For crying out loud, the Federal government should not ban ponmo”. Edmund Ikwero, in her view on the issue, said: “It is laughable that the Federal Government’s strategy to revive the leather industry is to ban ponmo consumption. “Their role should have been to put not just policies in place but activities to discourage the consumption of ponmo. “They should be looking at ways of bringing down the cost of food, especially meat and fish. The majority of people resorted to ponmo because they could not afford meat and fish. Instead of subsidising petrol, let the Federal Government subsidise things that can boost food production. Given the foregoing responses to the ban, it is expedient to say, that the ban has not gone down well with not a few consumers, particularly those that are literarily addicted to the delicacy.