Governor of Borno State, Babagana Umara Zulum, has charged a high-pow­ered committee to speed up ongoing reconstruction of Maiduguri Monday Mar­ket towards resumption of traders for business activ­ities. Governor Zulum gave the task on Sunday in Maidugu­ri during an unscheduled visit to assess progress of work at the market. The Maiduguri Monday Market, a bustling centre of trade and commerce, was severely impacted by a fire disaster on the 26th of Feb­ruary, 2023. The wild fire razed the market completely with property worth billions of Naira destroyed. Zulum, in response, took measures including the re­lease of N2 billion in Febru­ary, to a committee he con­stituted. The governor doled one billion Naira for allocation to victims of the fire disaster as palliative while construction work began immediately. Some prominent citizens and friends of Borno State made donations, which the governor said, was going into a special account. Zulum had visited the market a number of times to supervise reconstruction works. At his latest visit during the weekend, the governor emphasized the importance of completing the project as quickly as possible in or­der to minimize economic suffering already faced by traders and residents who rely on the market for their daily needs. POLL Timely completion of the Monday Market reconstruc­tion would not only restore economic activities but also boost the morale of resi­dents, the governor said. Also during his week­end visit, Governor Zulum directed the high-powered committee to strictly work with the original mas­ter-plan of the market in the cause of their work. Zulum noted that com­pliance with the original master-plan would be part of measures to prevent or mitigate against fire disas­ters in future. Meanwhile, Governor Zulum has expressed sat­isfaction with ongoing re­construction works at the Maiduguri Monday Mar­ket. Zulum said he was confi­dent of a speedy completion. He assured traders and residents that when complet­ed, the reconstructed market should have improved facil­ities for a vibrant economic environment