LAGOS – As stakeholders in the November 11, 2023, Imo State governorship strategise, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chieftain, Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, has warned that the recent mass exodus of some Imo State leaders of the party to the All Progressives Congress (APC) is a confirmation that the party members have some scores to settle among themselves. He maintained that if the issues are not resolved fast, the party may lose the governorship election to either the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) or the Labour Party (LP). Kalu, the National Coordinator of Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO), who spoke to Sunday Independent on Saturday on the state of his party in Imo State, noted that the party’s governorship candidate, Chief Samuel Anyanwu, who is the party’s current National Secretary, is someone to reckon with, highly respected and experienced politician and leader. Kalu added: “However, there must have been a glitch in the party’s state structure that led to the defection of those leaders to APC. “I kept telling PDP that it is very difficult to succeed in elections under a divided house. I recall that during the election that brought Prof. Charles Soludo into office as the governor of Anambra State, I cautioned PDP on the likely situation that would play out. “In the end, my assertion did not fail as adduced and it was internal wrangling that denied PDP victory in the said poll. “So, definitely, PDP is at a crossroads in the forthcoming Imo State governorship election, except it immediately commits to plans to holistically resolve all prevailing and incubating crises, grievances and disputes plaguing the party. “We must come to realise that those seven stakeholders that just left the party have their loyalists in their respective local government chapters and grassroots and have likely taken them along to their new party. POLL “This tells you how depreciating the expected votes PDP could have gotten in the poll are drastically manifesting. It is all about the key stakeholders of the party taking the crisis resolution campaign down to the grassroots to enable their supporters to see how cemented, united and stronger the party has become in the face of squabbles. Chief Kalu stressed that the Imo governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma, is a good politician who knows the pros and cons of winning elections by working to win the heart of those new PDP defectors to his own party. He added: “I am sure he did not coerce nor intimidate them to join APC, rather fascinating approaches, appeals and diplomacy were carefully made to win them out of their previous party. “Politically, above are the ingredients of heating the ground running and I strongly advise PDP to gird their loins and face the day with whatever arsenals within the confines of the law to ensure she emerges in the contest. “Division makes a house disunited and rancorous, while oneness and harmony takes a house to victory. “Coming to Labour Party, it stands a better chance of gallantly having a field day, but it must urgently retire home to mend its broken walls.”