LAGOS – The Kogi State Government has issued a statement condemning the alleged vandalisation of the campaign office of the Social Democratic Party in Lokoja even as it has swiftly directed the security agencies to commence an investigation into the matter, arrest and consequently prosecute culprits. In a swift official reaction to the news of the alleged vandalism, Kingsley Femi Fanwo, the state Commissioner for Information and Communications the Kogi State Government condemned the act, if found true; describing it as barbaric, undemocratic and unacceptable. The full statement reads: “Our attention has been drawn to an alleged vandalization of the Campaign Office of the Social Democratic Party in Lokoja. If true, we condemn the act in its entirety as being barbaric, undemocratic and unacceptable to the people and Government of Kogi State. This is even as the government warned criminals to steer clear of the state. “The Kogi State Government will continue to support the freedom of anyone and everyone to aspire to positions in line with the ethos of democratic values. Attacking the Campaign Office of any political party is criminal and would not be condoned. “We call on security agencies in the state to investigate and apprehend perpetrators of the alleged attack with the aim of bringing them to justice and to send a strong warning to hoodlums that the Kogi Governorship Election will be decided by the ballots, not the bullets. “The Kogi State Government wishes to warn criminals and hoodlums to stay clear of the Kogi governorship poll as the state government will deal with criminals as criminals. POLL ” Parties should also desist from making uninformed, malicious and inciting statements that are capable of disturbing the peace of the state. “As a government, we will support law enforcement agencies to ensure a free, fair and credible poll on November 11, 2023. We have put machinery in motion to ensure the safety of our people before, during and after the election. Parties are also enjoined to go about their campaign in an orderly and peaceful manner.” 