It was recently reported that it’s the fans of the Super Eagles of Nigeria that would decide the fate of Coach Jose Peseiro, one of the worst coaches ever employed by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) since 1945. This stance taken by the Ni­geria football federation is tantamount to insulting Nigeria as a nation and also taking Nigerians for a ride. If I may ask, who are the fans of the Super Eagles today since the Ea­gles delved into the woods thirty years back? Or is it the fans that have equal­ly migrated into other football conti­nents seeking greener pastures, where football is better played, coached and understood? This is the reason our football administrators would have given Nigerians a better environment to enable the country to continue with the fortunes of 1980-1994 with much in­novation because superlative football gives pleasure, brings about the unity of purpose and adds value to life and to the economy of any nation, vis a vis its cultural heritage. The authority of Nigerian football these days do not know what exactly football is, hence, they can afford to govern the game from their bed­rooms thinking it can operate as a “beer parlour”, where all manners of people gather, drink and argue irrelevantly, discuss for or against the game. I think this was what the federation is pointing out to fans, who will tell them whether to re­tain or relieve the incompetent Por­tuguese-born coach, who was hired from Venezuela by the past adminis­tration of President Amaju Pinnick even though, his contract has not been renewed. If I may ask again, did the federa­tion seek clearance from the so-called Eagles’ fans before hiring Peseiro from wherever he was contracted from? This FA under Ibrahim Gusau is just absurd and has nothing to offer Nigeri­an football. We watched helplessly how Coach Gernot Rohr failed our football under Amaju and his technical board, headed by Coach Austin Eguavoen, who finally buried our chances of winning the Nations Cup CAF tour­ney in Cameroon. This was just recent amongst all the woes from their cata­logue of shameful expeditions in the neighbouring country of Cameroon. The NFF’s woeful output started on the platform of whether to sack Rohr or not when it became a ding-dong af­fair between it and the sports ministry. While the sports ministry favoured the locals, the federation preferred a for­eign coach; that was how it plunged the fortune of the Eagles into the deep blue sea. However, at that darkest moment of the Eagles, Rohr was unceremoni­ously sacked for Eguavoen, who could not deliver the nation’s football to the Promised Land. Today, the Gusau-led federation is engulfed in another round of petty discussion of wheth­er or not to SACK Peseiro. This NFF doesn’t learn from history. Methinks, there’s something fundamentally wrong with the leadership of the fed­eration since the name NFF came into being. It has been a total deviation from the whole philosophy of the defunct Nigeria Football Association (NFA) which gave Nigeria many positive results; hence, the NFA was better an acronym, which of course, had pilot­ed Nigerian football to better places in CAF and FIFA than what we are seeing these days in NFF. I say this with the authority of facts and figures, there­fore, I owe nobody an apology for my postulation. So, if it’s now ripe for the NFF to do away with coach Peseiro, why factor in the issue of fans whose appetites have gone sour for the national team? The fans the federation is referring to are what baffles me as I write this col­umn. Could this be the Surulere FANS of yesteryears, who swooped on the Eagles to run away from the National Stadium, Surulere, to Abuja over lack­lustre performances? POLL Maybe they’re talking about the most unpopular fans of the Abuja Sta­dium? I don’t understand which fans the federation is harping on to enable it to take a decision on what to do with incompetent Peseiro. The Gusau-led football federation is already on anoth­er mission of failure towards the Na­tions Cup CAF tourney in Ivory Coast come 2024 as it’s already evident in this scheming! There’s no doubt that wonderful football coaches abound across the world who could help in rebuilding the national teams of Nigeria but in­decision, corruption, nepotism, trib­alism, sectionalism and other factors of bribery have negated all plans of bringing one tested and trusted expa­triate to redefine fortunes of the coun­try’s football. None of these administrators is willing to eschew bribery and corrup­tion for the development of the game. They are only interested in what goes into their pockets and mouths from the football allocation; and could damn whatever consequences that may result from their woeful outings. The worse Nigeria-teeming football bedfellows do is to wail, shout and cry over spilt milk; and the least we as citizens can do is to accept their crocodile tears and apologies for fail­ing the country. That’s how the local coaches and their incompetent foreign manager’s countertops move side by side with the federation henchmen to intimidate the country often and then wriggle out of their shame against Nigeria and her populace. I weep for Nigeria because if we continue in this usual political meth­od of running the Sports Ministry and the Nigeria Football Federation, Nigeria will continue to lag behind, not just that but will continue to waste her hard-earned currency which will eventually end in the pockets and bank accounts of these men, whose interest does not reflect in their desig­nations to serve the country. Both the past and present NFF leadership were just there to pick up appointments and designations titles to suit their lifestyle and not for the interest of Nigeria. The country has only excelled re­cently in sports through individual efforts by Nigerians, who went solo to develop themselves to bring hon­our to their respective families and extension to their fathers’ land, Nige­ria; ordinary, if they were to be gov­ernment-sponsored, and based in the country, their stories will not be the same. If you check these athletes, they are all concentrated in Europe and the USA doing their individual sports as professionals for honour and glory. It’s time Nigeria wakes up from her slumber, refraining from putting the wrong people in parastatals where they do not merit as every appoint­ment should be given to merited per­sons not based on “PADDY – PADDY” ideology. This political syndrome in Nigeria has helped immensely to de­stroy our football even to other lesser sports. Having said this, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, should not make the same mistakes of his predecessors by not appointing the best of persons into the Ministry of Sports; as doing this needful will reflect positively on the NFF. Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria.