Manchester United have reportedly seen a €35m (£30m) offer for Atalanta BC forward Rasmus Hojlund turned down.The 20-year-old was in impressive form for his Italian club during the 2022-23 campaign, featuring on 34 occasions in all competitions, scoring 10 goals and registering four assists in the process. Hojlund’s form has led to a host of speculation surrounding his future, with Man United thought to lead the interest in the Denmark international. According to Corriere dello Sport, the 20-time English champions recently placed an offer of €35m (£30m) on the table for Hojlund, but it was quickly turned down by the Italian side. The report claims that Atalanta want at least €45m (£38.6m) for the Dane, which is a huge drop on the valuation that had allegedly been placed on him last month. In June, it was claimed that the Serie A team wanted a fee in the region of €100m (£86m) for the striker, who has scored six goals in five caps for his country. Hojlund only made the move to Atalanta from Sturm Graz last summer, and he has another four years left to run on his contract with the Italian club. Tottenham Hotspur’s Harry Kane had initially been thought to be Man United’s leading forward target this summer, but the England captain is unlikely to be able to join a domestic rival. Meanwhile, moves for Napoli’s Victor Osimhen and Eintracht Frankfurt’s Randal Kolo Muani are expected to be too expensive this summer. POLL Hojlund, who started his professional career with Copenhagen before moving to Sturm Graz, has also been linked with Chelsea, but Man United are thought to be the favourites for his signature. The forward found the back of the net on nine occasions and registered four assists in 32 Serie A appearances during the 2022-23 campaign. Last month, Hojlund addressed the speculation surrounding his future, hinting that he would be interested in moving to Old Trafford during the summer market. Man United are on the verge of making their first signing of the summer, with Mason Mount set to arrive in a £60m deal from Chelsea. The Red Devils are also planning to move for at least one goalkeeper, with a new number one potentially arriving, as David de Gea’s contract at the club has now expired.