I am inspired, Inspired to write books. And I have written one already titled ‘Riding on His Wings’. I thank my Maker that the first book I will write is scriptural. The hard copy is currently on sale whilst the e-copy is in the works. It will hit the market through Amazon. What is the message in ‘Riding on His Wings’? Riding on His wings has to do with what you should do to ride on God’s wings. And what does it mean to ride on God’s wings? Riding on His wings is being in tune with God. Riding on His wings is doing God’s will and enjoying His favour, enjoying His grace. Riding on His wings is hiding in the hollow of His hands and enjoying safety. It is freedom from sicknesses and diseases, from afflictions and infirmities, in all ramifications. If you ride on His wings, you will be home and dry. When I say I am inspired, I mean every word of it. This is why Riding on His Wings is an enlarged version of my Bible college thesis. The topic was chosen by inspiration of the Holy Spirit. My Bible College training was in 2001 – 22 years ago. Riding on His wings was published in 2022. As Christians, we have a mandate to spread the Good News, to take the Gospel to all parts of the world, to spread the Word globally. I have always prayed that God should make me a mass evangelist. When I was writing Riding on His Wings, it never occurred to me that I was laying the foundation for mass evangelism. It was after the work was done that I realized the import of the journey I have embarked on. In fact, more revelations started cropping up. I came to the realization that I trained as a mass communicator – first degree Mass Communication, second, a Masters, International Relations and Strategic Studies. I have started asking myself “Why shouldn’t I use this skill that I have acquired through training to enlarge His Kingdom?” Still on inspiration, a friend and brother in Christ, Adekola Owolabi, whom I encountered during my 11-year stint with BusinessDay, as head of Industry and Agriculture desk, has a role to play in the writing trajectory that I have chosen. One day, he brought one of his books to me for review. I made a passing remark that I wished I could write books like him. His response opened my eyes to something I owned and didn’t know. “You write books everyday on this your desk, ´ he said. He was right. I write a column weekly on enterprise issues. And I have written a good number of evergreen stories over the years – in Vanguard, BusinessDay, New Telegraph, Daily Independent, Daily Times and enterprisenow.ng. All I need do is to put them together, probably in volumes. Thanks to Kola Owolabi as well as the likes of Kayode Samuel who wrote ‘Political Transition in Nigeria: 1993-2003’ and Gabriel Akinadewo’, who wrote ‘Here Comes The Commander In Chief ’. Both books, master-pieces, are collections of commentaries in their columns in newspapers where they worked. The two are professional colleagues. At this point, let me draw from Jack Canfield’s ‘The Success Principles’. Canfield believes each of us is born with a life of purpose that identifying, acknowledging and honouring this purpose is perhaps the most important action successful people can take. Successful people, he says, take time to understand what they are here to do – and then they pursue that with passion and enthusiasm. Canfield discovered long ago what he was put on this earth to do. He determined his true purpose in life – his right livelihood. He discovered how to inject “passion and determination into every activity” he undertook. For him, without a purpose, in life, it is easy to get sidetracked on your life’s journey, it is easy to wander and drift, accomplishing little. POLL He recounts: “But with a purpose, everything in life seem to fall into place. To be “on purpose” means you are doing what you are good at and accomplishing what is important to you. For him, “when you are truly on purpose, the people, resources and opportunities you need naturally gravitate toward you; the world benefits too, because when you act in alignment with your true life purpose, all of your actions automatically serve others”. My earlier years’ experience falls in line with Canfield’s postulations here. I believe I am doing what I am good at and accomplishing what is important to me. Yemi Farounbi, my geography teacher in secondary school, was an inspiration. In class, this young graduate from the University of Ife was a firebrand teacher, delivering his lessons adlib. No notes. At the sports ground, his football commentary was superb. This, added to the ones on radio rendered by Ishola Folorunsho and Fabio Lanipekun, were tonics that made one gravitate towards the media space. So also were the writings of Gbolabo Ogunsanwo, Peter Pan, Alade Odunewu, Sad Sam ( who was my publisher after I graduated from Unilag’s journalism school) just to mention a few. I must mention here too that that passion and enthusiasm for writing made me to move from the Political Science Department (after one year sojourn) to Mass Communication Department in Unilag.