…Processed 45,626.39MT Worth N3.022bn Of Export Goods, Seizes 2x40ft Containers Of Goods Worth N10.48m LAGOS – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Port and Terminal Multipurpose Services Limited (PTML) led by Comptroller Saidu Abba Yusuf, has explained how it achieved a  record-breaking feat of vehicle clearance within three hours from its control. The command also said it collected N100,981,098,501.31 as total revenue from January to June 2023. Muhammad Yakubu, a Chief Superintendent of Customs (CSC), Public Relation Officer PTML Command, disclosed in a statement made available to Daily Independent. He said that on export, the command processed items with a total tonnage of 45,626.39MT worth a total Free On Board (FOB)  value of N3,022,370,343.38. Yakubu further disclosed that in the period under review, the Command intercepted and seized 2x40ft containers with Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N10,487,800.00 with mark and numbers, ACLU9664782 and ACLU9715690. He said the seized containers were conveying 2,598 pieces of used motor tyres, 18 pieces of used washing machines, fridges, used mattresses and other used household items. POLL Efforts are on to track down, arrest and prosecute the importers. For the two seizures. Meanwhile, Comptroller Yusuf described the timely clearance of imported vehicles through PTML as a product of holistic compliance involving NCS officers and all port users. He urged operatives of the command to sustain and improve upon the tempo of achievement. According to the CAC, customs officers serving in PTML under his watch, have renewed their commitment to always implement government policies relating to trade facilitation, ease of doing business and strict observance of World Customs Organization (WCO) time release study (TRS). The Customs boss said the Time Release Study is a strategic and internationally recognized tool to measure the actual time required for the release and/or clearance of goods, from the time of arrival until the physical release of cargo, with a view to finding bottlenecks in the trade flow process and taking necessary measures to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the procedures. The quick vehicular cargo release feat is a fallout of compliance, punctuality and efficiency in operations without compromising national security and collection of revenue. Comptroller Yusuf said, “I am pleased to acknowledge that increased levels of compliance on the part of NCS officers, sister government agencies, terminal operators, importers and agents have made us the fastest for exciting imported vehicles from customs control. ” This should be seen as a major point of discouragement for those who attempt to smuggle cars into the country that face the risk of outright seizure and forfeiture. PTML has shown the fastest record in achieving this within three hours where there is flawless compliance. “We are going to continue to sustain and improve upon this feat by promoting ease of doing business and trade facilitation. With the strategies we have put in place, I can assure that our revenue collection for the second half of 2023 will surpass the N100.9 billion collected in the first six months of this year,” the CAC said. Comptroller Yusuf also sought for continuous cooperation with all stakeholders and advised traders using PTML to maximize the enhanced trade dispute mechanism structures he has put in place for seamless customs operation. He reiterated that delay in the processing of any entry is a delay in trade and revenue urging that compliant traders should see the benefits in staying on the path of law abiding attributes. The CAC implored all importers and their agents using PTML to come forward to initiate and effect clearing of their cargoes taking advantage of the template of operational efficiency he has put in place.