KATSINA  – President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been urged not to reward corruption or recycle failure in his administration, as the former Governor of Katsina State, Rt Hon Aminu Bello Masari deserves no min­isterial appointment. A Whistle Blower and Hu­man Rights Activist, Comrade Abdulmumini Shehu Sani made this call while address­ing a World Press Conference titled “Why Masari should be probed by the EFCC, ICPC, the National Assembly and Katsi­na State Government” held in Katsina on Wednesday. Sani said “I address you to­day with a heavy heart as I join millions of Katsina indigenes to lament over the huge loss of finances and other valuable re­sources by Katsina state in the last eight years under Aminu Bello Masari administration. “Most disturbing of his leg­acies are corruption, squader mania, mismanagement and failure in all key sectors and areas,” the activist main­tained, saying, “Masari, rath­er than stand at the floor of the Senate to be screened for another opportunity to amass more, should be tried for cor­ruption, mismanagement and the billions of money that got missing from the public trea­sury during his reign be ac­counted for.” He said the Tinubu’s ad­ministration deserves to work with persons of proven integ­rity who will add to its credibil­ity, rather than those who will tarnish its image. “Even in politics, Rt Hon Aminu Bello Masari has no electoral value, particularly af­ter his eight years as Governor exposed his many deficiencies in leadership, governance and politics,” he said. Comrade Abdulmumini Shehu Sani maintained that, dozens of supporting docu­ments have placed it on record that, Masari merely used the water resources sector as a cash cow during his reign in office. “Ajiwa Water Supply scheme was the main conduit pipe through which at least N9.1 billion was released to Consultants and Contractors that have neither the experi­ence nor expertise in water sector.” POLL The Whistle Blower ex­plained that, instead of pro­curing new equipment, the former Governor dusted and repaint old and worn-out pow­er generators, water clarifiers and high lift pumps and went ahead to paint the premises of some water treatment fa­cilities. “Today, 99 percent of Katsi­na and Batagarawa towns are without water supply as res­idents purchase water from water vendors,” he posited. In other sectors such as LG, Agric, Sure-P and Paris Club Refunds, Sani maintained that, the story is the same, as an alleged over N54.4 billion is yet to be accounted for, adding that, the state government is heavily indebted to the tune of over N135 billion which includes loans of over N100 billion, pensions and sever­ance liabilities worth over N20 billion and another over N15 billion owed contractors.” In a swift response to the allegations, Alhaji Nature Masari, the former Chief of Staff to Governor, described the Whistle Blower as an un­serious person, saying “don’t take Sani serious because he has the habit of attacking the activities of the former Gover­nor for years.” “It’s our belief that, Sani is being sponsored to put dust to the proposed appointment of Aminu Bello Masari as a minister.” However, Masari did not deny the allegations, conclud­ing that, everything is in the record for everyone to see in Katsina State, as the former governor handed all the devel­opmental records to the pres­ent administration of Dikko Umar Radda.