“Finally, wemustbepoliticallyhonestwithourselves. The Buhari administration, in its last days, could not have gone the whole way because APC has an election to win.” Garba Shehu, Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity. Never has the lasting epitaph of a national leader been written in such self-destructive terms, as Garba Shehu did in the words he uttered to explain why Buhari wilfully sabotaged the Nigerian economy for eight years in office. Ordinarily, everythingShehusaidwouldhavebeen dumped in the nearest garbage can and forgotten as unfit for human consumption. But, the implications of his confession, have revealed another aspect of Buhari’s character, which is so flawed as to have ruined the Nigerian economy for decades to come. Characteristically, embedded in Shehu’s statement is a colossal lie. Shehu would have everybody worldwide to believe that his former boss had a decision to make about fuel subsidy only “in its last days”. Nothing could be further from the truth. Buhari campaigned against fuel subsidy from 2014 until Election Day in 2015. POLL He specifically called it “a scam” and promised to end it if elected. He was elected and the first promise to Nigerians he broke was the vow to end subsidy. The most important question is why? To answer that question, which explains why the Nigerian economy has been demolished in the last eight years, we need to turn our attention to another grand larceny which went on for eight years of Buhari administration without a single person being apprehended – despite security report available to President Buhari. Leadership Deficit “Leadership is always somewhat mysterious. Leadership can be summed up in two words: intelligence and integrity; or, to use two synonyms: competence and character.” John Brademas, US Congressman. Vanguard Book Of Quotations, VBQ, p 125. You might need some intelligence as well as tutoring in Economics to understand why subsidy can be harmful to a national economy. But, you don’t need anybody to teach you that unchecked crude oil theft is not in the national interest. Yet, Buhari announced, during his first term, to the whole world that, from reports at his disposal, “some of Jonathan’s Ministers were stealing one million barrels of crude a day”. But, as we all know, crude oil theft on massive scale continued until Buhari’s last day in office; still nobody has been arrested or prosecuted. Again, the question is why? The two acts of economic sabotage have the same origin – Buhari’s leadership deficits; particularly intellect and integrity. Admittedly, most of us who promoted Buhari, in the beginning, were aware of his educational deficiencies; which we need not repeat here. But, we were deceived about his integrity. We campaigned for one Buhari; and another showed up in Abuja. The leader we promoted promised to be fair to all Nigerians. The Buhari, who assumed office made nepotism, the enthronement of a cabal, the core of governance of his administration. Kleptocracy replaced democracy; the cabal took control of crude oil subsidy and crude theft. How Kleptocracy Battered The Nigerian Economy “Leadership is the ability to define issues without aggravating the problems.” Warren Bennis. VBQ, p 125. Soon after Buhari got into office, the Petroleum sector was targeted by the cabal for total control. The Ministry of Petroleum Resources was held by Buhari – who was a figurehead. The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC(L), was a Northerner and trusted member, all the key units were Northernised. All the trillions available to be made through retention of fuel subsidy and crude theft would drop into the pockets of the cabal. Buhari immediately lost interest in stopping fuel subsidy or crude theft because he quickly realised that the impact of stopping subsidy and catching oil thieves would be disastrous for those feeding on Nigeria’s sickness. In case the point is not clear to the reader, let me restate it in plain language – while bringing another charge in the long list of the unpatriotic actions of the Buhari government. Officially, there were two exchange rates. In reality, there were several exchange rates depending on how close you were to Aso Rock. Poor Godwin Emefiele’s Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, was turned into the private ATM of government – in total disregard for constitutional provisions protecting the national interest against such invasions as the bank experienced under Buhari. Consequently, the Federal Government became the rogue foreign exchange operator. The Aboki, by contrast, was very honest. Garba Shehu, in his absurd defence of Buhari’s sabotage, failed to explain why Buhari did not remove fuel subsidy or move to harmonise exchange rates immediately after securing second term in 2019 and another election was four years away. Garbacouldnot, becauseBuhari, likemostself-centred leaders, did not pause to consider the repercussions of his actions. He was not bright enough to know that you cannot substitute allowing oil theft to and continuing fuel subsidy – both of which benefit only a tiny minority – with mindless borrowing, which penalises the vast majority, without subtly committing treason. Buhari, in his eight years in office, by prioritising debt over revenue collection, consistently worked against the national economic interest. The results are there for everyone, who can still think straight, to see – over N77 trillion debt burden. A Small Economics Lesson For Buhari “A stitch in time saves nine” is a universal adage. In my travels worldwide, about 53 nations in all, there is at least one version of the advice urging people to take remedial action as soon as a break occurs. A small hole in a pocket, if not mended quickly can result in losing a bunch of keys; a broken pillar under a bridge might eventually bring down the bridge. In very few aspects of our lives is the proverb more applicable than in economic affairs. Bad economic situations seldom correct themselves; and they tend to get worse if allowed to persist after they have been identified. Even if Buhari lacked the courage during the first term, to end subsidy, he should have acted after 2019. By now, the country would have been on the way to recovery and Tinubu would not have inherited trillions of naira of debt and an economy far closer to the brink of catastrophe. Buhari might think he did Tinubu and the APC favours, which we now know is not even true; but, he has placed the new President in mortal danger as well. We know Buhari doesn’t read. Perhaps he watches other television channels other than NTA and can remembereventswhichoccurredabouttwoyearsago. A Sri Lanka President was elected with a landslide majority. Four months after, the economy took a drastic turn for the worse. After two weeks of mass protests, the President was forced to flee to exile. Garba Shehu and Buhari would be best advised to keep quiet now. Tinubu is only one month old in office. They should wait until the impact of N730/litre fuel is felt; to see how the masses will react. I am probably wasting my time advising them. “Washing a donkey’s head is a waste of water.” (VBQ p 270).