Amid controversies trailing the con­duct of the 2023 general election, the presidency, on Sunday, wrote off the final report of the European Union on the elections conducted by the Inde­pendent National Electoral Commis­sion (INEC), describing it as biased. Special Adviser to President Bola Tinubu on Special Duties, Communi­cations and Strategy, Dele Alake, rose to the defence of the government, accusing the European Union of churning out negative indices, there­by assaulting the credibility of the electoral process, and sovereignty of the country. Alake said sometimes in May, they alerted the nation, through a statement, of a plan by a continental multi-lateral institution to discredit the 2023 general elections conducted by the INEC. Recall that the European Union Election Observer Mis­sion to Nigeria in its final as­sessment and report concern­ing the 2023 general elections, criticised the Independent Na­tional Electoral Commission (INEC) over the election. It said the election lacked transparency, was not inclu­sive, and fell short of bench­marks and standards INEC set for itself, eroding gains made over time in the nation’s democratic process. The mission declared that “public confidence and trust in INEC were severely damaged during the presidential poll and was not restored in state level elections”, forcing leading civil society organisations to call for an independent audit of the en­tire process. But Alake said the main tar­get of the foreign observers was the presidential election, clear­ly and fairly won by the then candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “While we did not mention the name of the organisation in the said statement, we made it abundantly clear to Nigerians how this foreign institution had been unrelenting in its assault on the credibility of the elec­toral process, the sovereignty of our country and on our ability as a people to organise ourselves. POLL “We find it preposterous and unconscionable that in this day and age, any foreign or­ganisation of whatever hue can continue to insist on its own yardstick and assessment as the only way to determine the credibility and transparency of our elections,” Alake lashed out through his statement. He went further to state that now that the organisation has submitted what it claimed to be its final report on the elec­tions, we can now categorical­ly let Nigerians and the entire world know that we were not unaware of the machinations of the European Union to sustain its, largely, unfounded bias and claims on the election outcomes. “For emphasis, we want to reiterate that the 2023 general elections, most especially the presidential election, won by President Bola Tinubu/All Progressives Congress, were credible, peaceful, free, fair and the best organised general elections in Nigeria since 1999. “There is no substantial evidence provided by the Eu­ropean Union or any foreign and local organisation that is viable enough to impeach the integrity of the 2023 election outcomes. “It is worth restating that the limitation of EU final assess­ment and conclusions on our elections was made very bare in the text of the press confer­ence addressed by the Head of its Electoral Observation Mis­sion, Barry Andrews. While addressing journalists in Abu­ja on the so-called final report, Andrews noted that EU-EOM monitored the pre-election and post-election processes in Nige­ria from January 11 to April 11, 2023 as an INEC accredited elec­tion monitoring group. “Within this period, EU-EOM observed the elections through 11 Abuja-based ana­lysts, and 40 election observers spread across 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. With the level of personnel deployed, which was barely an average of one person per state, we wonder how EU-EOM inde­pendently monitored election in over 176,000 polling units across Nigeria,” the presiden­tial spokesman noted. Alake also noted that they would like to know and even ask EU, how it reached the con­clusions in the submitted final report with the very limited coverage of the elections by their observers who, without doubt, relied more on rumours, hearsay, cocktails of prejudiced and uninformed social media commentaries and opposition talking heads. According to the spokes­man, what EU-EOM called final report on our recent elections is a product of a poorly done desk job that relied heavily on few instances of skirmishes in less than 1000 polling units out of over 176,000 where Nigerians voted on election day. He said they have many rea­sons to believe the jaundiced report, based on the views of fewer than 50 observers, was to merely sustain the same pre­mature denunciatory stance contained in EU’s preliminary report released in March. “We strongly reject, in its entirety, any notion and idea from any organisation, group and individual remotely sug­gesting that the 2023 election was fraudulent. “Our earlier position that the technology-aided 2023 gen­eral elections were the most transparent and best organ­ised elections since the return of civil rule in Nigeria has been validated by all non-partisan foreign and local observers such are the African Union, ECOWAS, Commonwealth Observer Mission and the Ni­gerian Bar Association. “Unlike EU-EOM that de­ployed fewer than 50 observers, the Nigerian Bar Association that sent out over 1000 observ­ers spread across the entire country for same election gave a more holistic and accurate assessment of the elections in their own report. “NBA, an organisation of eminent lawyers and an important voice within the civic space, reported that 91.8 percent of Nigerians rated the conduct of the national and state elections as credible and satisfactory. Any election that over 90% of the citizens consid­ered transparent should be cel­ebrated anywhere in the world. “It is heart-warming that INEC, through its National Commissioner for Informa­tion and Voter Education, Mr. Festus Okoye, has come out to defend the integrity of the elec­tion it conducted by rejecting the false narratives in the EU report. “It is also gratifying that the electoral umpire, as an insti­tution that is open to learning and continuous improve­ments, has also committed to taking on board more ideas, in­novation and reforms that will further enhance the integrity and credibility of our electoral process. “As a country, we have put the elections behind us. Pres­ident Tinubu is facing the ar­duous task of nation-building, while those who have reasons to challenge the process contin­ue to do so through the courts. In just one month in office, Ni­gerians appear satisfied with the decisive leadership of Pres­ident Tinubu and the manner he is redirecting the country to the path of fiscal sustainability and socio-economic reforms. We urge the EU and other for­eign interests to be objective in all their assessments of the internal affairs of our country and allow Nigeria to breathe,” he stated.