LAGOS  – Yakubu Dati, the immediate past Commissioner for Land and Survey in Plateau State, has explained why Simon Lalong agreed to be the Director-Gen­eral, Campaign Council to Pres­ident Bola Tinubu, during the campaign despite the myriads of attacks that trailed his accep­tance. Dati, in a statement made available to journalists in Lagos, said that the former governor of Plateau State agreed to take up the position because of his dem­ocratic belief, adding that the for­mer governor does not believe in primordial divides. He recalled that there were fe­rocious attacks on the persons of Lalong immediately he agreed to take the position of DG Campaign Organisation for the Presidential Ticket of Tinubu-Shettima of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which many antagonists labelled as anti-Christian ticket. The former Plateau State com­missioner lamented that Lalong was assaulted with vicious cam­paigns of calumny second only to the ones unleashed on the presidential candidate and his running mate. He further pointed out that the opposition political parties relocated to his home base, to discredit and punish him for the role he played in selling the Tinu­bu candidacy to them and entire Nigerians. Dati, however, expressed shock that now that the election had been won and lost, some of the APC members who kicked against the joint ticket and worked against the interest of the party are now in the forefront of lobbying for positions. He alleged that the opposition party, in connivance with some members of the party, had em­barked on a well-orchestrated media campaign to demonise Lalong for selfish political gains. But, he stated that their agen­da, which he claimed was to set booby traps for the President and punish Lalong for delivering the election for Tinubu, had been exposed. POLL Dati emphasised that just like Tinubu where the factional lead­ership of Afenifere and a former President from the South-West, led the onslaught to discredit him, history was repeating itself in the case of Lalong. He alleged that the current campaign against Lalong was being led by two former minis­ters, Pauline Tallen and Dasuki Nakande, some National As­sembly members and Joshua Dariye, a former governor, who he declared Lalong staked his political career for and success­fully negotiated his release from prison. He added: “President Bola Tinubu is known to be a reward­er of loyalty and he is known to acknowledge those that stick with him through thick and thin.