A staunch supporter of the 2023 presidential candidate of the People’s democratic party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has dismissed the insinuation in some quarters that the support base of the former Vice President in the Niger Delta has abandoned him to his fate. The chieftain of the PDP, in Rivers State, Dr. Farah Dagogo, expressed the optimism that on the strength of what transpired at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, justice will be served and the party’s Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar will reclaim his mandate as the true winner of the February 25 Presidential election. Dr. Dagogo, the immediate past Federal Lawmaker who represented Degema/ Bonny Federal Constituency, Rivers State, in the House of Representatives, equally dismissed reports that Atiku’s core supporters in the Niger Delta, especially Rivers State, have neglected the former Vice President since the outcome of the elections, describing it as “preposterous, unfounded and false”. The former Federal lawmaker, who made this known, Tuesday, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital when he had an interface with a Niger Delta Atiku support group, assured that Atiku’s support base has remained strong and ‘ rather than deplete as being falsely postulated has increased exponentially instead. He said the PDP and Atiku have fully utilized the avenue of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal to adequately make their cases with watershed proof of evidence. “Our party, the PDP, and our Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar were able to prove beyond all reasonable doubts with factual and watershed evidence of how we were denied victory at the Presidential Polls. We are a law-abiding people and we have tabled and fully highlighted our observations, reservations, and other shortcomings from the electoral process that were unleashed to undermine our victory. I am optimistic and I believe you share the same optimism that the Tribunal will do justice to our mandate. ” Let me also use this opportunity to douse any insinuation that Atiku’s core supporters in Rivers State and by extension the Niger Delta, have deserted the Turaki Adamawa. It is preposterous, unfounded and false. “The truth is that the core support group of Atiku Abubakar, rather than deplete as being wrongly postulated, has increased exponentially. We are all committed, principled, and devoted to following this process to a logical conclusion which we strongly believe will be crowned by reclaiming Atiku’s mandate, ” he added.