LAGOS  – The recent building collapse witnessed in some parts of the country, had again, elicited the urgent need to address the untoward development holistically The incessant building collapse being witnessed across the country especially in the Centre of Excellence, Lagos State has continued to draw flaks from professionals and concerned stakeholders in the built environment. On February 12, 2022, a three storey building under construction, collapsed at Yaba claiming four lives. The building was said to have partially collapsed sometime in 2021, but construction work was said to have continued despite the owner being served a ‘Stop Work Order’ by the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA). It is quite disheartening and disturbing that most developers in the state have continued to treat with abject levity and outright defiance of orders from the regulatory agency concerning structures that are defective or not fit for habitation. The last collapse that happened at First Avenue on Banana Island, was the sixth since the unfortunate incident of a 21 storey building that collapsed on November 1, 2021 at Gerrard Road, Ikoyi which claimed over 45 lives. The recent collapse on Banana Island, has been described by some professionals and concerned stakeholders who spoke to Daily Independent as ‘one incident too many’. Mr. Chucks Omeife, a former President of the Nigerian Institute of Building(NIOB), said it was gradually becoming a recurring decimal and a national embarrassment. POLL His words: I am tired of talking every now and then on the issue of building collapse. Let me say without mincing words, that the reason why we are continually witnessing the incessant collapse of building in the state, cannot be mentioned without examining the weight of sanctions being meted on defaulters. To be honest with you, the sanctions being meted on owners of collapsed buildings in the state to say the least, ‘is a slap on the wrist’. He wondered why developer would only have the land on which the collapse happened forfeited to the state government and an insignificant amount doled out as fine. He was quick to add, that this can never serve as deterrent. A Chartered Engineer, Mr. Patrick Adewale said that the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu should rejig the total architecture called LASBCA. According to him, the agency has in the last few months, failed to perform ‘with utmost responsibility, its core mandate of properly regulating the construction process. He said that a situation where officials of the agency would serve a developer a ‘Stop Work Order’ and such an individual would still go ahead with construction, smacks of impunity. Adewale pointed out that the owner of the collapsed building at Yaba, who has since been arrested and handed over to RRS as claimed by a former Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris’ Salako), was said to have been served a ‘Stop Work Order’ twice but still went ahead with the construction of the three storey building which eventually came down. His words: Some Developers have devised means of circumventing orders of personnel of LASBCA hence what we witnessed and perhaps, may likely continue to witness concerning incessant collapse of buildings is that Mr. Governor should beam his searchlights on the activities of the agency. I recommended a total overhaul of that architecture called LASBCA if we are serious in our quest to tackle the menace of incessant building collapse being witnessed in the state. The President of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS), QS. Olayemi Shonubi said that it was high time that owners of collapsed structures involving the loss of lives should be made to face the death penalty ‘to serve as a deterrent for future occurrence. According to him, it is highly embarrassing to professionals in the built environment for buildings ‘to continue to collapse like pack of cards’ and no severe or stiff penalties ate put in place to check these ugly incidents. In his own submission, the Immediate Past President of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), Mr. Emmanuel Wike pointed out that the issue of building collapse across the country has continued to befuddle professionals in the construction industry. He said that it was regrettable that for over two decades now, the problem HSS continued to escalate instead of abating. He was quick to add, that a National Summit should be convened be convened by presidents of the seven professional bodies in the built environment ‘with a view to finding a lasting solution to this worrisome development. Wike advocated severe sanctions to owners of collapsed buildings in order to mitigate future occurrence. By so doing, he said, perhaps, sanity might return to the construct industry. Mr. Afolabi Adedeji, a Facility Maintenance Engineer, said that building collapse in Lagos State should be treated ‘with all the seriousness it deserves. According to him, the Governor should complement the efforts of the personnel of LASBCA by setting up a Special Task Force (STF) to monitor the activities of the officials of the agency with a view to identifying the bad eggs amongst them who may be easily compromised. His words: It is not unusual to find bad eggs in such a sensitive agency, more so, as these officials daily come in contact with very powerful and influential individuals who are ready to bribe their way in order to circumvent the due process unmindful of the consequences thereafter’. Adedeji opined, that in addition to forfeiting the land on which the structure collapses, government should go a step further by prosecuting to a logical end developers that are found culpable in order to serve as deterrent to others. He appealed to Lagosians to assist government in monitoring on-going development in the state as officials of LASBCA seem to be overwhelmed with various construction sites springing up in the state.