LAGOS  – With the effects of the recent removal of pe­troleum sub­sidy still biting very hard on citizens, a cross section of Nigerians has called on President Bola Tinubu to institute a high powered investigation into the sub­sidy scam with a view to prosecuting all those who have looted the nation’s economy through the scheme. The citizens who spoke to Sunday Independent maintained that it is not enough for the government to be crying that the sub­sidy scheme was a scam, but it should go further to investigate those be­hind the scam and those found culpable should be prosecuted and whatever amount they looted recov­ered from them. Those who spoke on the issue maintained that the subsidy scammers not only looted the treasury and monies that should accrue to the government but also contributed to the untold hardship Nigerians have been thrown into over the years. Crime Worth Investigating Barrister Alaowei Ebikonbowei Cleric, Chair­man, Board of Trustees (BoT), Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corrup­tion Crusade (CHURAC), one of those who spoke on the issue, urged President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to borrow a leaf from former Goodluck Jonathan, who reportedly investigated the subsidy issue, although he ended up not prosecuting the culprits. Cleric, ex-Special As­sistant (Political) to the former Delta State gover­nor, Ifeanyi Okowa, stated: “The culprits should not just be investigated like what Jonathan did, they should also be prosecuted in accordance with the laws. “Mr. President should take the bull by the horn to probe this unchecked fraud going on. We have been scammed for a very long time by these fraud­sters in the Nigerian Na­tional Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL).” Chief Dr. Emeka Charles Kalu, Director General, Global Initiatives For Good Governance (GIFGG), in his detailed response, stat­ed, “In the face of the ills suffered during fuel sub­sidy regime, Nigeria is yet to recover from the grave economic downturn such system plunged her into. POLL “The 1986 Sturctural Adjustment Programme (SAP) under the watch of the former Military Presi­dent, Gen. Ibrahim Babag­inda (rtd) brought about re­forms in foreign exchange system, trade policies that led to the devaluation of Nigeria currency. “This programme paved the way for the govern­ment to access loans from the International Mone­tary Funds (IMF), which in order to sustain the loans, the Naira was drastically devalued against the dol­lar. “This situation engi­neered what Nigeria are passing through today in terms of foreign exchange system and drops in the balance of payment and other economic activities with other countries in the world. “The regime actually gained operational sta­tus in 1992 when the then Babangida government raised the price of a litre of fuel and resorted to mapping out huge chunk of funds to support what were deemed to be key parts of the economy or national infrastructures. “The trend continued until when the domestic refineries got spoilt and could not be repaired and improved upon by the government. leading to Nigeria taking to impor­tation of fuel via Offshore Processing and Swap Ar­rangement. “We mine and drill oil from the coast of the Niger Delta and ship to countries that have re­fined petroleum products on swapping basis through NNPC’s selected dealers. “Billions of dollars that could have built brand new refineries with larger re­fining capacity were said to have been spent on sub­sidy, yet Nigerians were in pains of sourcing fuel to buy and feed their motor tanks and generator sets, what a waste of economy! “In 2022, intelligent re­ports from Reuters pub­lished on January 20, , 2023 had it that NNPC spent over $9.7billion on petrol subsidy. “A figure and large sum of money capable of feed­ing countries in sub-Af­rican regions for good 20 years was spent without proper accountability. “From padded running costs to hike in prices and other dubious and clandes­tine activities that greet­ed the regime and these anomalies were allowed to continue under the desks of the past government be­fore the newly constituted government of Ahmed Bola Tinubu. “Nigeria had been bor­rowing outrageously from foreign land, while her cit­izens in the guise of sub­sidy regime, were busy si­phoning the public funds in the name of importing fuel for local consumption. “As the administration of Bola Tinubu has given the subsidy regime a red card, though, having adverse ef­fects on the citizens for the mean time, it is pertinent that an independent inves­tigation panel be quickly set up by the government to probe the management of the subsidy funds and report to Mr. President for appropriate actions. “Those suspected to be part of the looting with immediate effect should be taken to court for tri­als, and when found guilty, should be made to face the music. “You will agree with me that once this drive for probes and recovery is being initiated and prop­erly handled, a basket full of stolen funds would be unmasked, retrieved and taken back to the national treasury. “But, there must be transparency, sincerity, clarity of purpose and commitment on the part of the government, if it is to record excellence. “Nigeria cannot contin­ue to condone corruption, prebendalism and other forms of grafts whose per­vasive effects had pulled down the nation’s economy. “Taking records back to the Fourth Republic, NNPC officials, subsidy dealers, major marketers and other stakeholders in the oil sector are to be in­vestigated to unveil their cabals who had been suck­ing the treasury dry in the pretext of importing fin­ished petroleum products into the country. “This, when properly handled using forensic investigation by engaging professional audit firm such as Price Water House Coopers, would aid to ex­pose the culprits and the position of the law would be let loose on them with­out delay. “It is time we begin to think sound and stop aid­ing and abetting crimes and corruption. Today, Nigeria is crawling eco­nomically simply because of stealing of public funds and unaccountability. “Our refineries lost ef­fectiveness and operation­al power not because they automatically collapsed but due to dearth of tech­nical maintenance on the equipment. “We must work to sup­port the infant adminis­tration of Ahmed Tinubu having seen the good steps with which it started gov­ernance so as to strip the nation of these bad eggs called corruption. “Here is our country and we cannot have our cake and eat it, signifying that we cannot continue to en­joy the good parts and fall to deal with the bad ones. The earlier we fight and expunge corruption from our fabrics, the speedier this country will prosper.” Dr. Rexkennedy Salt­love, a political activist and public affairs analyst, in his response went bib­lical, Quoting Ecclesiastes 8:11, he said: “Because the sentence against an evil act is not executed quickly, the hearts of the sons of men are fully set to do evil.” Sending A Strong Message Dr Saltlove, President/ Executive Director, Citi­zens Rights and Empow­erment Advocacy Initia­tive (CREMA Initiative, continued: “Asking what should be done to fuel subsidy scam perpetra­tors, by this very govern­ment that promised to ‘To continue where Buhari stopped’ through PBAT, could amount dissipation of mental energy.” According to him, “Bu­hari’s APC administration was the biggest scam heist ever in Nigeria, because that was a man singing ‘I will fight corruption’ when he was seeking power and when he got the power, only for him to run the most cor­rupt government in Nige­rian history as a nation by every index. “However, someone like me and few others who sincerely want the best for this nation will talk so that it can be on record so that one day, it will fall on the hand of a people’s leader, who will chose to imple­ment what we said. “The punishment for fuel subsidy scam is some­thing the government must do with intent to assure her citizens they are serious about plugging the holes of corruption that has belea­guered this nation and left it at the mercy of under de­velopment and criminal el­ements ripping this nation of every vestige of honour. “Government has the resources to investigate what constitutes fuel subsi­dy scam, who are involved, how much was involved, economic impact, and use those metrics to prosecute those at the centre of it. “The degree of punish­ment should be commen­surate with the economic impact on the lives of citi­zens and the nation. “Those who are involved in fuel subsidy scam, once found guilty, should be thrown behind bars for not less than 20 years, like Fa­rouq Lawan was, or given life sentences. “Their companies should be blacklisted from doing business locally and internationally and their assets confiscated. “This will send a very strong message to the cit­izens and posterity that we are a serious nation ready to self-regulate and do things that will send a very strong warning to all and sundry to desist from crime as it does not pay.” Adding his voice, Dr. Victor Mathew, a cleric, security expert and Exec­utive Director, Kingdom Advocacy Network (KAN), maintained that it is very unfortunate that the fuel subsidy regime had been left for a very long time, thereby enriching very few people to the detriment of the populace. He said: “In law, crim­inal offences, no matter when it was committed, can be investigated. So, I will implore this govern­ment to probe and pros­ecute all those who have corruptly benefitted from the fuel subsidy scam. “Some people were once taken to court over the subsidy scam. This government should also deal with those who have illegally benefited from the scam, especially in the last government. “Under that govern­ment, the country pur­portedly paid trillions of Naira as subsidy with unbelievable exaggerated domestic consumption fig­ures bandied by NNPC, but disputed by the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS). “My challenge with the Tinubu government in fighting corruption is, if he has the moral right to fight, knowing his anteced­ents bordering on corrup­tion, I strongly recommend that the Group Managing Director of NNPC should be sacked to pave way for a transparent scrutiny. “Fuel subsidy exists be­cause our refineries are not working. Why should a crude oil producing country not be able to re­fine her products? That is unacceptable. “Lastly, I rate the Buhari government as a disaster because recently former spokesman, Garba Shehu, said the government did not remove subsidies be­cause it did not want APC to lose elections. That is pure wickedness. “We cannot be borrow­ing as a nation and the masses are always asked to make sacrifices when some people should be made to refund stolen funds.”