Emmanuel Ogidi, former vice national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), South-South, has spoken about the emergence of the minority leaders at the National Assembly. In this interview he also expresses confidence in the ability of the PDP principal officers to perform, stressing that those members who emerged as minority leaders are party men and will respect members of the National Working Committee (NWC), even though they were not selected by the party. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: A group emerged at the Senate and said that nobody will do the bidding of Atiku Abubakar and that Aminu Tambuwal would not be allowed to lead. You said that your party has a way or resolving matter, why have you not resolved the matter of the emergence of the minority senate leader or the minority leader at the House of Representatives. Are we going to have a situation where PDP senators and House of Representatives will start working towards the ruling APC? Sometimes it is difficult to deal with human beings. Sometimes human beings show ingratitude. You used to say party is supreme and unfortunately today, individual interest have affected the supremacy of the party. Today you see a lot of unfortunate incidents. We expect what is happening but the truth of the matter is that, just look at it, we have 36 senators, almost one third of the number in the chamber. APC try to break our ranks, and this is possible because of the man in Rivers State, Wike who sold out and he keeps selling out. It is unfortunate, but he will pay the price in due time. Because what you sow in this life is what you will reap. He has tried consistently to destroy the party. He cannot kill PDP. I believe that God is with us. We have a weakness in PDP. We don’t know how to be in position, that is why APC which specializes in opposition. I think that we are still learning to be opposition. Thank God that we still have our members who are principal officers. I don’t think that they will disrespect the National Working Committee (NWC). Recall when Elumelu became the minority leader, yes he was suspended but he did his bid. It turned out to be a good one, and now Chinda has come in. The truth of the matter is that they all have responsibilities and this time around it won’t be like the last time because the minority leader is not just leading the PDP, he is leading all other parties. Nigerians are watching them and we are also watching them I heard you talk about the APC national chairman say that the majority leaders were not their choice candidates. The truth is that the power of the party has been weakened by the executive consistently. Right now even APC cannot recall anybody, once their president is in charge. I will not call him my president because we are court. I believe that we will get it right. We are not happy but we will get it right. If the NWC of PDP didn’t have a say in the emergence of the minority leaders, how much influence do you think that it will have as an opposition party because it seems that the PDP is weakened even further such that even as opposition, it doesn’t have a voice, your members are taking decisions outside the NWC, do you think that you are still on ground? Yes, we are still together. They will listen to the party because they still need the party at all times. They will still come back. They will need the party and the party has a big stick. Yes, it is weakened now. We are still in court. All our attention is focused in the court. It is a distraction for us now if you ask me. The big picture that we are after is in the court We heard that Senator Nwadkwon was selected because he doesn’t have controversies, doesn’t have any alliances, and no loyalties to the presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku abubakar or the APC. What is your take on his emergence as the Senate minority leader? I am not worried. He is a party man. The interesting thing today is that when you look at it the APC principal officers, they are all those that we trained in the PDP. Akpabio that is the Senate President was in PDP. They know our weakness and strength because they were with us. I think that they know us and we also know them. Like I said earlier whatever you sow in this life you are going to reap it. The party is supreme. Whether anybody likes it or not. They are party men and I am sure that they will listen to us. Some people are saying that from the look of things it looks like PDP does not have a strong hold in the National Assembly. What has the PDP been able to even marshal out as a collective ideology from the legislators in the parliament as regards your ethos. We have not seen a lot of that. Another group is also saying even from the Labour Party too. Is it that people who are on the camp of Atiku Abubakar could not have emerged as minority leaders, is it that the likes of Aminu Tambuwal could not have emerged, so why has PDP not been able to punish its erring members? POLL We are not weak. Remember that I told you that we are looking at the big picture. Right now 90 percent of our attention is in court. In our last selective meeting that we had, two weeks ago, these issues were brought up but we said that we were going to set up a reconciliation committee, and those that are found to be culpable would be punished. We will take action at the appropriate time. This is not the right time. We have a big matter in our hands. We cannot leave the big issue in front of us and waste time looking at smaller maters. At the appropriate time we would deal with them and I can assure you that even these people recognize him (Atiku) as the leader of the party. If Atiku Abubakar is the leader of the party, what influence did he wield in the emergence of these minority leaders? Let me explain to you, that the human beings as I told you earlier have their way of behavior and not many of them are bothered about their integrity. They had a meeting with the NWC and immediately they entered their chambers they did something different. We will deal with that later. We cannot handle the two issues at the same time. People should leave us for now to concentrate on the big picture. What will you recommend to the 10th National Assembly as a legislative agenda, like the issues the National Assembly should consider as priority? The welfare of Nigerians. Their job as legislators what in specific terms would you like them to do? They should make laws that will benefit Nigerians. Don’t you have any specific laws that you would like to see? I would like to leave that for now. If I tell you the truth when I look at the leadership, there are so much to talk about. You mentioned earlier that the APC can use the information that they have since they were former members of PDP, and now it looks like the PDP is sitting comfortably as an opposition party and are now been headed by other parties like Labour Party and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). What is next for the PDP? They can taste it but they cannot have it. They cannot lead. If they strategize properly anything can happen…. I agree with you but we cannot get to that stage. What are the few things to look at for? The insecurity in the country is frightening. I have a small farm. I planted cassava 20 hectares I cannot break even because of insecurity. It is so sad that in today’s world cows move from Sokoto to Delta by road destroying farms.