According to a report by Football Insider, Tom Heaton is the subject of interest from Everton. The Toffees are keen on signing the 37-year-old, who stands at 6ft 2 in, in the summer transfer window. And they have approached Manchester United to discuss a possible deal for the veteran goalkeeper. Tom Heaton is a graduate of the Manchester United Academy. But he never got the opportunity to make his mark for the Red Devils in his first stint at Old Trafford. And after embarking on several loan spells, he left Manchester United in July 2010 to join Cardiff City. But the veteran Englishman rose to prominence during his six-year spell with Burnley. The 37-year-old also served Burnley as the club captain for several years before having a short stint with Aston Villa. And Heaton returned to Manchester United two years ago to be David de Gea’s deputy. But the experienced goalkeeper, who stands at 6ft 2 in, has managed only three appearances for Manchester United. Heaton’s current contract with Manchester United expires in a year. And he might depart from Old Trafford this summer amid emerging interest from several clubs. Everton might offer the English shot-stopper an escape route out of Manchester United as he looks to end his long career on a high. The Toffees are in a spot of bother over Jordan Pickford’s long-term future. Interestingly, Pickford has emerged as a target for Manchester United this summer, although the Red Devils are prioritising a move for Andre Onana. But Heaton will likely serve Everton as the second-choice goalkeeper. So it might not make sense for the Englishman to leave Manchester United for Everton. Instead, joining a club like Luton Town, who will look to make him the first-choice goalkeeper, will be sensible. But Manchester United might not entertain any offers for Heaton in the summer transfer window. With David de Gea’s future uncertain after the expiration of his contract, Manchester United might keep Heaton to act as the deputy goalkeeper next season. But it will be interesting to see if Everton or Luton Town can convince the 37-year-old to push for a summer move.