Lagos-based filmmaker and climate justice advocate, Yeside Aminat Olasimbo says there is an urgent need for huge concentration on renewable energy sources in Nigeria. In a statement on Thursday, she said with the removal of petroleum subsidy and its biting ripple effect on the pockets of Nigerians, there is a need to diversify the country’s energy sources through the integration of renewable energy sources. She said massive investment in renewable energy by the Federal Government of Nigeria, which is one of the countries articulating climate action plans and net zero emission by 2050, will reduce the impacts of climate change including flooding, drought, displacements, poverty and hunger, among others. Olasimbo said, “Nigeria, as the most populous country in Africa, and a major global oil producer, faces a critical energy challenge. Despite its abundant fossil fuel resources, the nation struggles with inadequate power supply. To address these issues and pave the way for a sustainable future, Nigeria must embrace renewable energy solutions. “We need to diversify our energy by integrating renewable sources such as solar, wind, hydro, and biomass. By reducing dependency on fossil fuel resources, Nigeria can enhance energy security and protect itself from the volatility of global energy markets” In line with her efforts to draw attention to the climate challenges affecting Nigeria she reiterated the need to invest more in solar energy. According to her, solar energy, in particular, holds immense potential given Nigeria’s abundant sunlight. “Investing in large-scale solar farms and decentralized solar systems can help bridge the energy gap, ensuring reliable and accessible electricity for both urban and rural areas,” she said. The environmental activist said the deployment of clean energy technologies would not only mitigate the environmental footprint but also promote sustainable development and improve public health. POLL Olasimbo urged the Federal Government to facilitate swift transition to renewable energy as it presents an enormous opportunity for job creation and economic growth. “There is an urgent need for renewable energy in Nigeria. By embracing clean and sustainable energy sources, we can diversify its energy, expand power generation capacity, mitigate environmental impact, stimulate economic growth, and provide energy access to all its citizens. “The government, in collaboration with non-government organisations and small medium enterprises in Nigeria can facilitate our transition to a clean green Nation free of fossil fuel for the future of my unborn kids. With a concerted effort and a forward-thinking approach, Nigeria can pave the way for a brighter, more sustainable energy future,” Olasimbo said. The deployment of renewable and clean energy sources is in line with Goal 13 of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.