LAGOS  – Analysts have said that the rejection of the re­cently appointed Prin­cipal Officers of the 10th National Assembly by the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, is an ominous sign and a pointer that things are not well within the nation’s ruling party. It would be recalled that Ada­mu, a former Senator and one-time state governor, shocked the nation when in an outburst, he stated that the party was not aware of the Principal Officers appointed by the leadership of the National Assembly. One of the analysts, Barris­ter Emeka Iheonu, a Lagos-based lawyer, stated that the rejection by the APC National Chairman of the names of Principal Offi­cers announced by the Senate President showed that there is disunity within the party mem­bers or the party leadership. According to him, “The dis­unity in the APC party leader­ship will bring friction in the running of the Tinubu admin­istration due to several in-fight­ings.” Dr Bolaji O. Akinyemi, Con­vener, The Apostolic Roundta­ble, in his response, stated: “The brewing tension between the leadership of the ruling APC and National Assembly leadership aftermath the announcement of principal officers for the Senate and House of Representatives is one that portends danger. “The hue and cry by the Chairman of the APC, Abdul­lahi Adamu, who claimed the names announced were at vari­ance with what was agreed in a meeting over the weekend, again proves the point that APC is a party of strange bedfellows. “It appears the ‘Banana Peels’ are returning to the National As­sembly (NASS) and this is a sign of what is to come.” He continued: “Politics is a game of interests, and we have seen several interests play out, post party primaries and post-election. POLL “The horse trading between the Wike camp and Tinubu camp may have favoured Wike in the recent appointments in the Green Chambers. “The divide and rule strategy may prove to be the bane of the Tinubu administration while it lasts, it is not too late for the Pres­ident to reverse this trend. “A strong opposition and di­versified National Assembly is what will help drive our fledg­ling democracy and good gover­nance.” Barrister Alaowei Ebikon­bowei Cleric, an activist and Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (CHURAC), maintained that political parties should insulate themselves from governance. Cleric stated: “Granted that they sponsored candidates for the various elective positions, it is proper that parties restrain their interference on the issues of governance because the peo­ple are elected to serve Nigeri­ans. “These undue interferenc­es usually derail the elected persons from focusing on their primary purpose of governance. “How the National Assembly composed its principal officers shouldn’t be a concern to the APC or any other political party. “The lawmakers should be allowed to exercise their legisla­tive autonomy for the purpose of serving the general interest of Nigerians. “These same interferences by the APC on its political office holders had made the 9th Nation­al Assembly to be subservient to the then executive arm, hence Nigerians tagged them rubber stamped National Assembly. Is that what the APC wants to re­peat? “The party should rather con­cern itself on how those elected on its platform can perform well in governance so that Nigerians can vote for them in subsequent elections.” Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh, National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF), in his response, stated: “The National Chairman of APC is wrong to have said that he rejected or ob­jected to the names of the prin­cipal officers announced by the President of the Senate. “Sen. Abdulahi Adamu’s action could also be seen as the normal antics of APC to mes­merise the masses into believ­ing that this National Assembly is not a rubber stamp as this has been APC’s long tradition of in­trigues and deceit to the public that there is in-fighting in the party where non exist, instead preparing an onslaught against the poor masses. “After many years in the Na­tional Assembly, Adamu does not know that a party has little or no influence on the National Assembly? “He is too big to have conde­scended to this type of objection. This development has exposed the danger of this administra­tion.” Amb. Dr. Kalu Ofon Emmanu­el, the Lagos State Chairman of the International Human Rights Protection Service, Florida, USA, on his own, stated: “I will believe that the APC National Chairman has his own candidates contrary to what the Senate President an­nounced. “Akpabio is not operating outside the content of the party’s policy possibly. He appointed his own loyalists like any other per­son in his right frame of mind could do. “Whatever it portends for the running of government un­der the Tinubu administration, APC has the capacity to handle it within their jurisdiction.” Contributing, Dr. Rexkenne­dy Saltlove, a political activist and public affairs analyst, said: “It is clear that Tinubu’s govern­ment influenced the nomination of the Principal Officers of the 10th National Assembly without his party’s contribution. “This ensures that his loy­alists and ‘Yes’ men are packed around him to run the govern­ment. This is a fascist type of leadership. Even before the Sen­ate president emerged, he was rumoured to be the favoured per­son to Tinubu. Thus, he was not subjected to the party’s screening and election.”