Former President, Olusegun Obasanjo has faulted the alleged huge salaries being enjoyed by the members of the National Assembly. He spoke in Ado-Ekiti during the Colloquium held in commemoration of the  60th Anniversary of a foremost Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Afe Babalola at the bar. Speaking on the remuneration of the members of the members of the Nigerian parliament  Obasanjo  alleged that the legislators did not allow the insitution constitutionally saddled with the responsibility to determine it but decided to fix it themselves. He argued that nobody would appreciate democracy until it impacts positively on the lives of the ordinary man. “By the Nigerian Constitution, the revenue mobilization and fiscal commission was supposed to fix the salaries and emoluments of the members of the National Assembly but they set the constitution aside and decided to fix their salaries. Even,if is constitutional, it is not moral but it is neither constitutional nor moral ” he said. Obasanjo stated that the democracy of a nation is very important, noting that it is a journey and not a destination. He explained that democracy can only be strengthened if the players respect and ensure the implementation of the constitution to the latter. “Democracy doesn’t mean anything to anybody who is hungry, anybody whose life is in danger or whose property is being destroyed,” Obasanjo posited. POLL According to him, democracy and good governance must lead to the welfare and well-being of the people, particularly the common people. “In the American constitution, every person is born equal not every citizen, and they enjoy the constitutional right. But with us, the constitution is breached. “We have no democracy that delivers the dividends of democracy. And if your democracy does not deliver, anything goes. “Most of the people who are supposed to manage the constitution are the ones who undermine the constitution. Your democracy must deliver the dividends of democracy. “I believe that constitutionalism, democracy must be for the welfare and wellbeing of the people. Leadership at all levels requires certain things character, understanding knowledge, sacrifice and if these are not there, we are deceiving ourselves. “All these must lead to the welfare, prosperity, security of the people and if we cannot manage it doesn’t matter what we talk about the constitution, democracy.” Obasanjo described the legal icon as a titan at the bar, astute litigator, bar leader both nationally and internationally; adding that Babalola is a rare breed who combines comeliness with brilliance as he rose to become a Senior Advocate of Nigeria. In his remarks, the Ekiti State Governor  Bioduun Oyebanji who joined other eminent Nigerians, including former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, former Commonwealth Secretary, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, among others to celebrate the 60th anniversary of Babalola’s call to bar, thanked the ABUAD Founder for providing platforms for many Nigerians who were once hopeless to realise their dreams. Oyebanji who reminisced on Afe Babalola’s prominent roles in the struggle and eventual creation of Ekiti State, said the actualization of the creation of the state was what provided an opportunity for him and all previous governors to become Governors in the State at different times. Oyebanji who set aside his prepared speech also regalled the audience with the story of how he utilized Babalola’s facilities at his Emmanuel Chamber, in Ibadan, Oyo State Capital for his master’s degree programme at the University of Ibadan in the early nineties. The Governor added that he was always getting his papers typed and photocopied at the chamber through a friend who was a lawyer at the chamber at that time, adding that when he asked what would be Babalola’s reaction if he got to know an outsider was using his facilities, his friend replied him that he (Babalola) would be happy to hear that his resources was being used to assist someone in need of it. He also narrated how he was happily carrying Aare Afe Babalola’s books during the presentation on Ekiti State creation at the panel set up by the then military government as well as the legal luminary’s demonstrated humility and brilliance during the presentation and the meetings that preceded the main presentation. Speaking further, the Governor who described Afe Babalola as his father, said the ANUAD Founder remains a rare gem and a gift to Ekiti, Nigeria and mankind. “Daddy I congratulate you, thank you so much for what you are for humanity, thank you so much for providing a platform for those that are hopeless to have hope, thank you, Daddy. I can stand here today as Governor of Ekiti State because of people like you. “When I picked up a lecturing job at the University of Ado Ekiti and then started the struggle for the creation of State, I joined the committee as a member and I later became the secretary of the committee. I was the youngest and I was shocked at Daddy’s level of humility and commitment to that cause. ” One picture that always runs through my mind is the day we were going for a panel at Akure to defend our request for the creation of Ekiti state, a night before the presentation, Daddy drove in from Ibadan, we were at Ewi’s palace and Daddy insisted that we do a mock presentation and took comments from everybody. “When we got to Akure the following day, Daddy’s performance was unforgettable and that singular act of patriotism and commitment to your people have us Ekiti State. “If we don’t have this State, I and all others that have been governors of this state will not have a platform to stand in”  the Governor asserted. So, on behalf of myself and all the Governors before me, I say thank you sir.