LAGOS  – The Private Infrastructure Development Group (PIDG) introduced its 2030 strategy at a business reception in London – affirming its leadership position as a mover and multiplier of infrastructure finance in sub-Saharan Africa and south and south-east Asia. Climate and nature, together with sustainable development, are the core focus of the new strategy and will inform all of PIDG’s infrastructure financing and development activities. Working even more systematically in partnership with the private sector, development finance institutions, and providers of catalytic capital will be key to successful delivery. PIDG’s new strategic framework aims to attract $1.6 billion in funding, deliver $9 billion in commitments, and mobilise $25 billion in additional finance over 10 years. The accelerated movement of finance will be aimed at moving markets and stimulating flows worth many multiples of their original value. Over the last 20 years, PIDG has successfully delivered 211 infrastructure projects, providing 222 million people with access to new or improved infrastructure. It has mobilised $40bn of investment in PIDG projects, of which $25bn were commitments from the private sector. PIDG is funded by the governments of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Australia, Sweden, Germany and the IFC. PIDG’s new strategy is designed to build the momentum it has created while responding to the macrotrends that are reshaping the infrastructure market in Emerging Markets and Developing Countries (EMDCs). These include strong economic headwinds, the acceleration of the climate crisis, and a changing geopolitical context. Working against this backdrop, PIDG is raising its ambition on the scale of project development it undertakes and introducing new local currency guarantee solutions. It aims to improve climate resilience and economic opportunities for 100 million people by 2030, accelerate the flows of public and private finance deployed for climate action and sustainable development – including attracting $1.6 billion in funding, to deliver over $9 billion in new commitments in projects that mobilise over $25 billion in additional finance. PIDG is one group with multiple solutions that run across the entire project lifecycle – including early-stage project development, equity, and credit solutions that bridge gaps in local capital markets. POLL With the new strategy, PIDG will bring together its capabilities in service of increasing the pipeline of projects built to internationally investable standards and unlock domestic institutional capital for infrastructure investment. The new strategy will also be deploying commercial and institutional capital in developing and emerging markets through its blended finance structures.