The strategic relationship of Caleb University was boosted recently when the institution’s Mass Communication Department hosted Mrs. Victoria Ndidiamaka Uwadoka, Corporate Communications, Public Affairs and Sustainability Lead for Nestlé Nigeria, who spoke on ‘Personal Branding: Prerequisite for Success in the Communication and Media Industry’, at the June 2023 edition of the Town-and-Gown Media Clinic. Detailing the sustainability, diversity, and core values of Caleb University, the deputy vice-chancellor, Prof. Adedeji Daramola, who represented the vice chancellor, Prof Nosa Owens Ibie, remarked that the interaction was primarily fashioned to beam the searchlights on all it required for Caleb students to be successful global players in media practice. The university believed that the interaction would induce creativity, spark innovation, promote collaboration, linkages and research, as well as transform lives on a broad perspective; as the university considers it priceless to have a personality like Mrs Uwadoka from the Town, who could visit the Gown; look at issues with ‘outside eyes’ and have the university look at things in a different way. The event, which drew students that filled up the Multipurpose Hall, also had principal officers of the institution in attendance. These included Prof Olalekan Asikhia, Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Research, Innovation, Strategy and Administration (RISA); Mr Mayokun Olumeru, the Registrar; Mr. Abimbola Olulesi, Director, Brands and Dr Solomon Olaleye, Ag. HoD, Mass and other Top university officials. Banking on over 14 years of partnership and synergy with the industry, as well as the larger responsibility to create a campus that continuously strives for sustainable development in a global community, the institution reckoned that the event was intended to prepare students for successful career life after graduation. The idea was well echoed by the guest lecturer who admonished students to see personal branding as a lifetime process, rather than a short accidental event. “Personal branding is a lifetime process. It is continuous, it is intentional and deliberate. As students, your ultimate focus should be to make yourself a global brand, such that when your name is mentioned, it evokes a certain identity. Similar examples could be drawn from Funke Akindele (Jenifer), Hilda Bassey and many others” POLL The guest speaker, a certified public relations and marketing communications professional, is a professional with over 20 years’ experience spanning multiple industries from logistics to food and beverages; who holds a BA (Hons) in Modern Languages emphasised that “you need to be creative, inventive and original in all you do. Do not be busy on the internet by merely forwarding, sharing and retweeting the work or jokes created by others. You should use your time and imagination to create content that would ultimately sell you.” The Nestle Nigeria Corporate Communication and PR Lead is also a seasoned professional with significant accomplishments in corporate communications, media relationship management, stakeholder engagement, marketing communications and sustainability; who was formerly Public Relations and Events Manager for Microsoft Nigeria before joining Microsoft West and Central Africa as Marketing Communications Manager for the francophone region. Passionate about the communications profession and about building synergies, she leverages her skills and experiences to bring individuals and communities together with opportunities. She is also adept at managing through disruptions, and at helping organizations leverage communications and relationship management strategies to drive sustainable business and social impact. Victoria Uwadoka is the Chairman of the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) Technical Committee of Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Experts, Chairman Lagos PR Industry Gala and Awards Planning Committee. She hosted the African Communications Week (ACW) with the theme, ‘Telling the Africa Story: The Communicators’ Responsibility”, held in May 2023 in commemoration of Africa Day and Africa Communications Week 2023 where she stated that “As African communicators, we have a responsibility to represent and reflect the realities, challenges, and opportunities of our continent. As we engage, it is my hope that we all embrace our responsibility as communicators and make a positive impact on Africa.