All the messages, sermon and preaching of the anointing men of God be you pastors or prophets etc are meant for people to deviate from their unrighteous ways of life and trend the righteous path. Therefore, it is very pertinent for these servants of God to persistently ensure that people are corrected and told the truth. The Bible say in the book of James 5 verse 19 – 20 “My brothers, if one of you should wander from the truth and someone should bring him back remember this, whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way will save him from death and cover over multitude of sins”. Jesus came to bring sinners from back to righteous path and he implored his followers to do the same without being partial. In the light of the above, I want to beam the searchlight onto the men. The reason is that the world recognizes the importance of men as fathers hence a day was set aside to celebrate them. Therefore, there is need for us to talk to ourselves because the government of the day is in hand of the men. A man is the captain of the ship and if the ship should sink, the captain takes the responsibility of the mishap. What the captain required was to command with the authority to prevent the mishap. A man that is nothing to himself would not have authority to command or a man that is always thinking or searching for something everywhere would have no authority in his mouth. What does persistent thinking does causes for people. It causes hypertension and scattered mind. Anybody that wants to be rich does not think too much. He thinks little and ensures that his thought comes to reality. But a person who is to be poor would always be in doubt if his thought would become a reality. So the thinking of a rich man is different to that of poor man. Therefore, anyone that wants to succeed must be thinking about success all the time. Imagine several years ago, an undergraduate was organizing seminars and workshops for people in both public and private sectors using materials of his lecturers and became successful. But if he was skeptical about the success of the programmes, he would not have been successful. Therefore, people do not have authority in their homes if they think too much. He would be in doubt if his wife would grant him his request. But a man who does not think too much would make his request with authority and the wife would oblige him. It does not imply that men should not think about their jobs and families, but not to be in doubt about their thinking which is of a wretched man. Such man does not have authority in his body. Another thing that makes man not to have authority is inability to uphold dignity and respect for him as a man. Man should reject whatever is to be rejected at the right time. He should starve himself because he wants to reject insult. If a man should eat food that came with insult, he does not have authority. If a woman should bring forth food in improper manner with biased mind the Bible say it should be rejected Proverb 23 verse 6 – 8 “Do not eat the food of the stingy man, do not crave his delicacies, for he is kind of man who is always thinking about the cost. Eat and drink, he says to you but his heart is not with you…” It does not mean the man should quarrel with the woman but utter one or two statements “Is this food for me? She might be raking and shouting but do not eat the food. If the man eats the food he has eaten an abomination. But if the woman is good she would come to her husband and beg. She would do the proper thing even if she used her money to prepare the food; she would realize that her husband has authority. A man without authority would eat the food claiming that he owns the money used and would not want his money to be wasted. Also when your wife is bringing forth food with frowned face do not eat the food or she winks her face do not eat the food but be calm. Do not fight but insist not to eat the food. By the action of the man, the wife would realize that her husband is a man of authority she would learn to behave properly and wisely. She would let her friends know that her husband is man of authority and does not tolerate nonsense from any woman. A man of authority would command his rich and noble wife and regardless for her money. A lot of women have stumbled and fall because of their pride that they are rich. They forget that it was the creator of their husbands that made them rich while they were with their husband. Therefore I implore wives that are blessed to be careful and avoid unnecessary pride to come over them because they would suffer if they leave their husbands. Be absolutely submissive to your husbands. A man of dignity must uphold his dignity and respect himself. Women are very fragile. If you do not how to handle them then your prayers would encounter obstacles 1 Peter 3 verse 7 say “ Husbands, in the same way be considerate as you live with your wives, and treat them with respect as the weaker partner and as heirs with you of the gracious gift of life, so that nothing will hinder your prayers”. Men should not be callous to their wives. Do not beat your wives because you own her and authority.