….Petition Will Be Laid Before House For Legislative Action- Hon. Ugochinyere Members of the House of Representatives have promised to address the land allocation issue, that has caused Apo Traders untold hardship. The Apo Traders had on Monday petitioned the House of Representatives over the land allocation. Addressing the lawmakers led by Hon. Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, at the Apo Mechanic Village, the Chairman, Apo Traders Association, Chimezie Ifeh said while they have signed the agreement of the land allocation, successive Ministers failed to play their part in the agreement. Presenting the petition to the lawmakers, Ifeh narrated the treatment meted out to them since 1990, when Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) first gave them a permanent place for business with allocation paper. He also narrated how during End Sars protest, they lost two lives and properties worth a billion naira, “because we are trading on the road corridor. We have spent over a hundred million on this project and all the present and past directors have advised us on what to do and we have done them, still, the former minister refused to sign the lease agreement.” According to the petition by the traders, who deal on auto spare parts, auto engineers, mechanics, artisans and other forms of auto-related business within Apo, “many years ago Apo Traders started her business in Garki Village during the era of IBB and Garki Village was the place Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) first give to us for our business place, later we were moved to Durumi now National Assembly Quarter, from there we were also moved close to Apo roundabout. POLL “In 1990 the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) gave us a permanent place for our business with allocation paper and we were directed how to build our shop, according to AMAC plan. To the glory of God, many of our members built their shop and started their business and we were all doing very well in our business, but in 2006, the Minister of FCT, Nasir El-Rufai gave us 48 hours to vacate our shops and before the 48 hours, he ordered Development Control to demolish our shops. Many of our members died as a result of shock. From that time, we started trading on the road corridor,” the petition reads. The petition further said that in 2010, the Association wrote letter to the then Hon. Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Sen. Bala Mohammed, who approved and directed them to look for a place that will accommodate them. According to the petition, they were called by an Assistant Director, Mr. Wale Aderitan, that they have secured a place for them, adding, “the Assistant Director called for a meeting between us and the FCDA. At the meeting, they told us that all the expenses that will be made on the said land will be taken care of by us and we agreed to take care of all the expenses on the land and they introduced a surveyor for us, Earth Moving Services Nig Ltd. He change us 10.5 million naira and we paid him the money and we have the receipt. “After some months, we found out that the FCDA did not do anything on our site. We decide to write a protest letter to FCDA and later we wrote to National Assembly under public petition that was 2012 and 2013 and they invited both parties that is FCDA and us, the Apo Traders Association. Mr. Wale spoke for FCDA and they promised National Assembly that they will give us all the documents of the land within 3 months of that date. We started the follow up, to the glory of God on the March 2015 Sen. Bala Mohammed gave us the letter of intent in a colourful event in Apo. The lease agreement was drafted by FCDA legal department and we pay for the Job.” In the petition, the traders further narrated how in 2018, the former Director legal, called them for a meeting, where they were told that if they want him to sign the lease agreement within two weeks, he will prepare a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between them and change the title of the land to the name he will bring, “we replied him that he should put it in writing but he refuse.” Appealing to the lawmakers for help, the traders said, “we want to use this opportunity to plead with you your excellency to come to our aid and help us because so many of our members have died and many properties have been destroyed without compensation or reallocation.” Responding, Hon. Ugochinyere, assured the traders that the petition will be addressed by the House of Representatives on Tuesday or Wednesday, adding, “The petition will be laid before the House for legislative action.” Speaking on behalf of the seven lawmakers, who represent the 43 lawmakers from the South East at the occasion, Hon. Obi Aguocha, thanked the traders for not taking the law into their hands as a result of the issue. He also assured the traders that the petition will be read on the floor of the House, as the Speaker, Tajudeen Abbas will give the petition the deserved audience. He told the traders that they have vibrant lawmakers that will protect their interest and that of Nigerians at large. He said: “Call us anytime before you take any action. We will continue to sue for peace. It is through peace we can achieve development in this place. We will read your petition in the House tomorrow or next.