As businesses grow many de­cisions come to bear from marketing to funding, ex­pansion, investments, oper­ations, logistics, staffing, technology adoption, and so on, all to enhance the business productivity. Without a doubt, just like individuals make poor choices and bad decisions businesses do, too. Business leaders and entrepre­neurs make bad decisions not be­cause they are not clever or experi­enced, but because they are humans. Certainly, humans are never per­fect decision-makers at all, a bad de­cision can occur once in a while or repeatedly and such is the case with business leaders, entrepreneurs, top management, and/or owner-manag­ers of businesses around as well. As important as decision-making is in business operations, the good news is that business failures have been identified largely to be due to poor decision-making by the opera­tors, owners, or business managers. Why is this good news? In my opinion, understanding the major cause of past business failures could help restrain many entrepreneurs or businesses from repeating this error clearly. Since poor decision-making has been identified as a major con­cern for business sustainability, there­fore, making a good choice most time is important for any business, though this can be argued. In business, no matter the struc­ture in place, decision-making is key and is one of the main indicators of a high-performing business or one of the indicators of how healthy a business is. Remember, not having a deci­sion-making process is in itself a decision on its own. I have observed keenly that a large number of the businesses be it large or small in Nigeria, particularly the ones in the industrialized States and areas, relish taking shortcuts as a normal practice and they hardly ever have an articulated decision-making process within their businesses. POLL It is rather worse in small-scale businesses where decision-making could be the sole responsibility of the operators or business owners. In fact, in small-scale businesses, the most common cause of poor deci­sion is that the operators are so domi­nant with excessive managerial con­trol that they see decision-making as their sole right without any recourse to the ideas or opinions of employees or others. This is the big issue really. Furthermore, no initiative or contributions from employees and subordinates are ever considered, key decision making is never partic­ipatory and this sometimes leads to business concerns. A decision-making responsibility before, during, and after any imple­mentation of a task in a business should not be the entire decision of the business owners. Playing the obvious role of the sole expert in all departments, units, and concerns of the business operations by the owners is never sustainable, but damaging, this action has been captured as one of the major causes of the incidence of widespread busi­ness failures amongst small -scale businesses in the country. A good decision can enable a busi­ness to thrive and survive long-term, while a poor decision can lead a busi­ness into failure. A common behaviour of leaving things to chances when decisive ac­tion ought to be taken are also deci­sions, but a poor one at that, which can bring huge consequences on the business. This worrying development amongst small-scale business oper­ators has cost many their fortune, particularly with the advent of the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19), which has been impacting the econ­omy and businesses negatively. It should be a time for deci­sion-making for businesses and not a time to operate aloof. The coronavirus pandemic has changed the world and also signaled a new era for businesses, therefore, there is a need for business operators to take strategic decisions, most notably in the manufacturing, retail, and service sectors due to tech­nology disruptions. Yet business operators in these mentioned sectors disregard this all-important activity. The failure of any business or venture in making good and quality decisions could be a result of many factors, such as inexperience, lack of time, stress, overwork, and pressure from stakeholders among others. All these can lead to poor deci­sion-making and the eventual fail­ure of any business. The quality of decisions in any business directly impacts its performance and overall business outcomes. Small business operators should understand that it is healthy for staff to disagree over decisions if the views defer. It only helps to make a proper and effective decision for the business at the end of the day. Leaders should purposefully cre­ate a culture where debate and dis­agreement are welcome. Remember, decision-making is the action or process of thinking through possible options and uncertain out­comes, and selecting the best option concerning the business. This decision-making could both­er on marketing, financing, customer satisfaction, investment, and technol­ogy usage in the business. It is often shocking that once known and thriving businesses can suddenly go under and cease to op­erate as a result of what most times seem to be poor decision-making and mismanagement. In the case of big and widely known multinational businesses like Kodak, Nokia, Motion Blackber­ry, and Motorola, the managements ignored the shift in technology and failed to be decisive in their decision making particularly on innovations until it was too late despite the van­tage position. Though, Nigeria has a tough op­erating environment and harsh eco­nomic factors, however many of the small businesses and start-ups in the real estate, retail, manufacturing, cor­ner shops, and service sectors among others have lost their relevancies due to poor or lack of prompt deci­sion-making. For instance, just on Ogudu road via Ojota in Lagos State businesses that were once the toast of teeming residences and custom­ers such as Cherries superstore, Ter­minal 3 restaurant, CCD stores, and The Mr. Biggs eatery Ogudu branch have all now remained permanently closed, failed, sold off or shut down to what seems to be poor decision mak­ing from the management. This is the fate of so many of the medium-small scale businesses in Lagos State and indeed Nigeria; they disappear after few years of opera­tions and never grow to become in­tergenerational businesses. One of the worst things to do in business is to ignore customers’ preferences, revolutionary innova­tions and also fail to adapt to changes within the business environment as quickly as possible. The high business mortality rate in Nigeria is mainly due to these rea­sons. Entrepreneurs and operators try to protect what they already have going for them, instead of having a decision-making process that can always suggest innovation and ways of doing things better to meet and sur­pass customers’ expectations. Many businesses still follow this rigid path, particularly in the man­ufacturing, services, and retail busi­nesses, lacking the foresight of the ad­vent of online presence, e-commerce, and technological shift occasioned by COVID-19. In my view, businesses need to have a sound decision-making policy that is in tune with the current real­ities of aggressive social media and internet usage. We have experienced a major cul­tural shift in customers’ behavior with the COVID-19, businesses need a decision-making process to review their activities from time to time. This will help to adapt to the economic and environmental changes accordingly. Multiple studies have suggested that engaging employees in the de­cision-making process can impact businesses positively, make them more committed to business success, have stronger connections with the businesses, increase engagements and also help produce higher quality results. Therefore, building a participato­ry decision-making culture is recom­mended for businesses particularly small-scale businesses at this time. This strategy will more than like­ly improve the competitive position and effectiveness of the management, operators, and business owners. Be­cause making decision is a critical component of effective leadership, hence involving employees in the process will help businesses make better decisions. Let the truth be told inexpensive and reasonable businesses built around clothing, housing, potable water, medical care, education, home essentials, shopping and food items will always have economic demands. Thus, in as much as the adequate and proper decision-making process or policy is in place, that should give the needed competitive advantage and make businesses not to ordinari­ly fail. Good luck!