….Says Governor’s Refusal Demonstrates Executive Lawlessness The Campaign for Democratic and Workers Rights (CDWR) has called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led administration of Lagos State to act on the recommendation of an Appeal Committee established by the University administration to reinstate five (5) victimized leaders of the Academic Staff Union of Universities branch of the Lagos State University (ASUU-LASU). The group has expressed deep concern over the prolonged delay in implementing the recommendation of an Appeal Committee headed by Prof. Dapo Asaju and set up by the incumbent Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, which submitted its report endorsing the recall of the ASUU-LASU leaders a year ago. A statement signed by Rufus Olusesan and Chinedu Bosah, the National Chairperson and National Publicity Secretary of the group stated further that the refusal to recall them is a sign of executive lawlessness on the part of the Governor Sanwo-Olu administration and a betrayal of the vow the Governor made in November 2021 when it set up a 10-man visitation panel into LASU with a view to making the institution “the best in terms of quality research, pedagogical and administrative excellence, as well as industrial harmony.” “We hereby demand the immediate recall of the ASUU-LASU 5 as recommended by the Appeal Committee. It will be recalled that the ASUU-LASU 5, consisting of Dr. Akinloye Isaac Oyewumi (ASUU-LASU chairman), Dr. Adebowale Adeyemi-Suenu (Vice-chairman), Dr. Anthony Dansu (Secretary), Dr. Adeolu Oluwaseyi Oyekan (Assistant Secretary), and Dr. Oluwakemi Aboderin-Shonibare (Treasurer), were dismissed by the Prof. Adebayo Ninalowo-led governing council on September 7th and September 12th, 2017, due to their principled opposition to the anti-worker and anti-student policies of the then Vice Chancellor, Prof. Lanre Fagbohun. While the Lagos State government refuses to allow their return, there are speculations that Prof. Fagbohun, their persecutor, might be reinstated as a professor at the University, further highlighting the duplicity of the Lagos State government in resolving the longstanding industrial disharmony at the institution. Furthermore, CDWR has described the silence from the labor movement regarding the violation of the rights of the ASUU-LASU 5 in LASU as being deafening. CDWR also noted: “Lagos Council of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), led by Comrade Funmi Sessi, has failed to take a stand against the unjust dismissal of these worker leaders. While we recognize the efforts of the Lagos NLC council in advocating for workers’ rights in the state, particularly for casual and factory workers, it is disheartening that the NLC Lagos State Council continues to overlook the case of the ASUU-LASU 5, who are leaders of an affiliate branch of an affiliate of the Congress. POLL “An injury to one is an injury to all. We hereby call on the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) in Lagos and nationally as well as civil society organizations to publicly condemn the Lagos State government for this anti-worker disposition and call on the government to immediately recall the victimized workers. We urge them to organize solidarity actions including petitions, protest,s and demonstrations to back the call for the recall of ASUU-LASU 5.”