LAGOS  – BHM Research and Intelligence (BR&I) agency has launched its maiden edition of the Africa public relations (PR) and communications report (APCR). In a statement this week, the PR company said the report provides insights into the current state of the industry, including the challenges and opportunities available to practitioners and stakeholders on the continent. Employing compelling data analyses and professional experience, the APCR underscores the importance of understanding emerging trends, the unique needs of practitioners, and the necessary actions to elevate PR practice in Africa, BHM said. “The APCR was established as an expansion of the annual Nigeria PR report to capture diverse cultures, professional practices and capacity, and growth opportunities for the PR and communication industry in Africa,” the statement reads. “Verified data, insights, and perspectives from over 500 leading practitioners and experts across 29 countries in north, southern, east, central, and West Africa were gathered through focus group discussions (FGDs), interviews, surveys, and essay contributions. “As the African continent continues to experience economic growth and social development, PR professionals are expected to understand their role in influencing further global recognition of its prospects and driving investments by being embedded in every area of policymaking, advisory, and management.” Ayeni Adekunle, BHM founder and APCR committee chair, said the agency is highly pleased to create “another world-class funnel” for the growth of PR and communications practice, in Africa. “With interesting happenings across various sectors, there is not a better time for PR professionals to proudly wear the badge and understand our role in helping to drive the continent to a place we can all be proud of,” he said. POLL “This is the first step in rallying all practitioners and stakeholders on the continent to understand what is possible and actions to embark upon, but we must first acknowledge that no significant influence can be achieved without key data and information. “We are enthused about the new insights provided in the APCR and how they’ll shape PR and communication practice in Africa as we know it, for the benefit of the continent and its one-billion-strong people.” Moliehi Molekoa, an adviser on the APCR committee and the managing director of Magna Carta, a pan-African reputation management consultancy, said it was time to “immortalise the art of PR in Africa”. She said it was also time to harness the wealth of resources and opportunities at “our disposal, while taking advantage of information, data, and expert insights to unleash our extraordinary professional prowess.” “With Africa’s resounding pursuit of growth and the bestowed recognition upon it, the APCR not only elevates the skill level and practice within the industry, but also propels us into a position of influence, fortifying the continent’s reputation and ultimately ushering prosperity for the African people,” Molekoa said. On his part, Femi Falodun, executive director, BHM, and APCR committee adviser, said Africa is currently witnessing unprecedented global interest in its cultural, social, technological, and economic activities.