Justice James Omotosho of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Tuesday, handed a police lawyer, Ibrahim Mohammed to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for filing a criminal charge against Senator Stella Oduah. Justice Omotosho directed the EFCC to investigate Mr. Mohammed in view of the 8-count criminal charges he filed against the former Minister of Aviation in the name of EFCC without the authority of the anti-graft agency. Senator Oduah was to be arraigned before the court over alleged complicity surrounding her National Youth Service Corps certificate and fraudulently receiving money from the Federal Government. However, when the matter was called, Mrs Oduah was conspicuously absent in court and the Judge sought to know why she was not present in court. Replying, Mohammed who introduced himself as a lawyer with the Police Legal Department, Force Headquarters, Abuja, informed the court that the Oduah was not in court because she has not been served with the charge. Mohammed said Senator Oduah had told the police that she was not feeling well when invited to come for the charge. Justice Omotosho had queried the police lawyer on whether the EFCC was aware of the charges since it was being prosecuted by the Police, but Mohammed parried the answer from the Judge. He admitted that he had left the EFCC in November 2022, at the Benin office for the Force Headquarters on redeployment back to the police. POLL Mohammed told the court that he filed the charges on June 22, 2023, in the name of EFCC. The police lawyer pleaded with the court that the charge was filed in error with the name of the anti-graft agency, but Justice Omotosho, nonetheless ordered that the genuineness of his errors must be established through investigation. Not pleased with the claim of the police lawyer, the court ordered the registrar to bring the head of the police unit at the Federal High Court into the courtroom. When the police head came, the Judge then ordered them to hand him over to EFCC operatives for investigation on the genuineness of the criminal charges. Meanwhile, the matter has been adjourned to July 18, for a report from the EFCC.