LAGOS – OSNON Academy Friday’ announced an exclusive scholarship opportunity for the upcoming 2023/2024 academic year According to the Academy, the scholarship opportunity is dedicated to students from low-income families, and marginalized communities. The Academy stated, “This prestigious scholarship aims to provide the selected exceptional students with a world-class education that has the power to shape their future. Under the theme, “Innovation and Excellence” OSNON Academy is passionately committed to nurturing young minds and unlocking their full potential. As the premier free boarding school in Anambra State, OSNON Academy is devoted to transforming talented young individuals into the leaders of tomorrow. “This scholarship opportunity is specifically tailored for parents, guardians, and school students who aspire to receive an outstanding education that paves their path to success. By applying for this scholarship, students will have the remarkable chance to benefit from OSNON Academy’s innovative and well-rounded learning experiences. Onyinye Anyaegbu, the Chief Executive Officer, Chude and Ego Foundation said,“We firmly believe in providing students from low-income families, marginalized communities, and vulnerable backgrounds with a transformative education that not only equips them with academic knowledge but also instills core values and unlocks their potential.” Anyaegbu added, “Our ultimate goal is to create thought-provoking and valuable members of society who will positively contribute to their communities.” Interested parents and guardians are encouraged to pick up the application forms for their ward(s) at one of our designated locations to seize this incredible opportunity. These forms will be the crucial first standards for a life-changing educational journey. POLL The dedicated team at OSNON Academy is readily available to assist with any questions and provide comprehensive guidance throughout the application process, ensuring a smooth and supportive experience.