….Say Lawal Is Worth $5bn Without Known Business LAGOS – A coalition of civil society organizations (CSOs) for good governance has challenged Governor Dauda Lawal of Zamfara State to give details of his asset declaration at the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB). The group in a press conference on Tuesday addressed on its behalf by Comrade Femi Lawson, noted that it would take legal action if CCB fails to give details of the asset declaration of Lawal. “We have had bogus asset declarations by some of our governors, ostensibly to cover for the graft that will follow their activities as the state helmsman. “Today, we zeroed in on Zamfara for obvious reasons. Why Zamafara? This is because despite the availability of gold and other mineral resources, in large quantities, the people of Zamfara haven’t been able to benefit substantially from these God-given resources. “The security issues and underdevelopment have put the state in a state of comatose. Why is it that terrorism has remained unabated in Zamfara? “Who are the beneficiaries of this mindless bloodletting? These posers we need to interrogate further. It’s an open secret that when Mr. Lawal was sworn in, the news was everywhere that he’s worth $5bn and N1bn in nine banks. $5bn? “This emboldens the conviction in us that the news that he, Gov. Lawal declared assets worth N9trn is true which he only denied when the uproar and public scrutiny was huge and resounding. POLL “The African richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, is worth $15bn with his assets, and Lawal is worth $5bn without any known companies or major breakthroughs in new inventions or technology. “How did he make his money? From the information we gathered, Lawal had declared such a humongous amount to the code of conduct bureau as part of the enabling laws to take over as state governor. “Our challenge now is that it is incumbent on Mr Lawal to lead by example. What we are now asking is for Mr Lawal to tell the world how he made his money and details of his asset declaration, before the Code of Conduct Bureau. “We don’t want to hear the usual refrain after his exit when he’s been called to account that he didn’t enter government as a pauper. The era of humongous wealth without enterprise is gone forever. We want to know how he made his trillions so that other governors who are super-rich will also follow suit. “We are doing this because Nigeria is now in a precarious situation more than ever. The debt issues and economic crises we are in now require that we do our best. On his part, the chairman of Campaign Against Impunity, Shina Loremikan said, “We came together as different CSOs to express concern over the assets declaration of Lawal. The declaration is bogus and cannot be tied to any business venture. “We don’t know his past, we don’t know his businesses. If he says this is his monetary worth as he has declared in dollars and naira, can we trace it to any business venture? Zamfara is very lucrative with illegal mining, diamond, gold etcetera, and we also know that there is a large scale of illegal mining there. Are we not indirectly promoting enemies of the state heading the state? “We want the CCB to let us have access to information that he has disclosed as his worth. So, we can do auditing and find out whether he is a gentleman to the core or otherwise. “We are worried because we have seen it in the past where people involved in shady deals in public offices use it to their advantage and it becomes a problem to the larger society. “We are talking about transparency and diligent investigation and tracking to promote good governance for the benefit of everyone. “We have written to CCB but we haven’t received an official response, but indirectly we heard from sources close to them that declaration is a confidential business between them and the person who has made the declaration. “We are worried because when it came to President Buhari who years ago said that he had some cows, interestingly now that he has left the number of cows have not increased. They did not die, they didn’t reproduce for eight years. We are wondering what sort of farmer he is. No increase, no decrease.”