ABUJA – As President Bola Ahmed Tinubu settles down to the business of governance, a coalition of peace-building organizations, under the auspices of Global Peace and Life Rescue Initiative (GOPRI) has lauded the President for his choice of security chiefs, stressing that those appointed were devoid of sentiments or godfatherism. Recall that President Tinubu had on June 19, 2023, announced appointments of new service chiefs. They include Major General Chris Musa, Chief of Defence Staff, Major Gen. Taoreed Lagbaja, Chief of Army Staff; Rear Admiral Emmanuel Ogalla, Chief of Naval Staff and Air Vice Marshal H.B Abubakar, Chief of Air Staff. The senior military officers have since been all elevated to the most senior rank of their respective services. But reacting to the appointments during an assessment visit to some worst hit communities in Zango Kataf, Kaura and Jema local government areas of Kaduna State, GOPRI expressed belief that the service chiefs were appointed after a careful and extensive profiling of their track records of achievements, instead of regional and ethnic sentiments. In the statement signed by its Executive Director, Amb. Melvin Ejeh who doubled as President of the Coalition and the Secretary, Rev. Father Joseph Mainasara, GOPRI expressed gratitude to the President for what it described as “returning our Armed Forces to a place of pride.” According to the coalition, the President’s action “will spur other officers to work hard rather than depending on god-fathers. The group particularly noted that those who know General Musa and Gen. Lagbaja, know that the President made the best choice among equals in their appointments, adding that “very soon, Nigerians will forget the issues of insecurity.” “We wish to immensely thank President Bola Tinubu for his appointment of General Chris Musa and other service chiefs, who we believe were appointed after a careful and extensive profiling of their track records of achievements, instead of regional and ethnic sentiments. POLL “We thank the president immensely for this singular act of returning our Armed Forces to a place of pride. “This will spur other officers to work hard rather than depending on god-fathers,”the statement read. “We are not here to speak for the service chiefs but for emphasis,those who know General Musa and General Lagbaja know that the President made the best choice among equals in their appointments and very soon, Nigerians will forget the issues of insecurity,”the group said. The group expressed sympathy with the communities over recent mindless attacks carried out on them by bandits and other notorious elements. The coalition told the residents of the affected communities that:”We know you have been suffering for several years in these communities due to mindless attacks by bandits and enemies of peace. However,we are confident that you and other part of Nigeria will soon sleep with your two eyes closed, not because one of your sons is now appointed as a security chief, but because he is a thorough- breed and committed professional, who has been brutal to criminals and enemies of state in all his career. We are sure by the grace of God he and his team will do everything possible to secure Nigeria as a whole.” “We are here today basically in continuation of our humanitarian visit across Southern Kaduna communities to assess the level impacts of the crisis to enable us commence relocation of affected displaced persons to their ancestral homes. Our mission also involve getting an accurate data of all victims during the last attacks in the area to enable us support their food needs and other basic supplies as well”.