As part of an effort to reduce the unemployment rate in the country, Domak Group International said it has perfected a plan to train and empower over 35,000 unemployed Nigerians particularly the youth and students to enable them to channel their potential to a productive venture. The event tagged Domak Entrepreneurship  Summit is aimed at equipping Nigerian students to acquire and own the requisite knowledge, training, exposure, platform, and asset that would give them the capacity to face the challenges of life. The Chairman of the group, Dr. Kingsley Azonobi stated this on Thursday at a press conference in Abuja. He said the summit with the theme ” Impacting Africa Through Entrepreneurship Development ” is scheduled to take place on August 1st and 2nd 2023 at the Velodrome Moshood Abiola National Stadium Abuja with 35,000 participants in attendance. He said there is a need to bridge the poverty and unemployment rates in the country considering the number of graduates Universities, Polytechnics, Monotechnics, Colleges of Educational, and other educational institutions about 1.5 million graduates chun out every year. He said the participants would be exposed to strategic programs in training, empowerment and mentorship that would help them in securing their future. Azonobi explained that the resource persons have been carefully selected both from home and abroad, and charged with the mandate of equipping all participants mentally, socially, and economically to create for them an economic value that will secure their life now and further into adulthood. According to him ” Domak Entrepreneurship Summit (DES), 2023 is an initiative that is created by our company, Domak Group International in partnership with all Nigerian students under the organization of their respective umbrella bodies such as the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), the National Association of Polytechnic Students (NAPS), the National Association of Nigeria Colleges of Education Students (NANCES), and all other student bodies across the country and formally organized and duly recognized by the government. POLL ” Is a project that is aimed at empowering the Nigerian student to enable them secure their future. It is like the foundation upon which every student can advance the course of his life while going through the turbulent period of school life and even afterward when introduced into the labour market. ” This is a Summit which will invariably equip the Nigerian student to acquire and own the requisite knowledge, training, exposure, platform, and asset that would give him the capacity to face life frontally and achieve his dream in life. ” We are expecting attendance participation of over 35,000 students across Nigeria and the diaspora for the two-day events. Presently, registration has kicked off from our registration platforms in the media/social space and I can proudly say that the feelers we are getting are nothing short of excitement and enthusiasm. So it’s a clarion call to all Nigerian students to partake of this life-changing experience and they will be glad they did”. On his own part the Executive Director of DOMAK Entrepreneurship, Dr. Hillary Emoh said the summit would focus on helping young people with the ability to work easily at their own pace, schedule, and location. According to him ” Entrepreneurs need certain traits and skills, business acumen and financial literacy, as well as an entrepreneurial mindset. These goals are Necessary Traits and Skills for Entrepreneurship Development. These include: Creativity: Curiosity: Outgoing nature: Patience: Resilience: Risk tolerance: Goal #2: Develop Business Acumen & Financial Literacy. ” Another area of crucial entrepreneurship education concerns business acumen and financial literacy. Even an individual who possesses the skills we covered above will struggle if they don’t have a firm understanding of how business and finances work” He said 100 participants would be given the sum of N1m each as a start-up with Verified Professional Certificate from CPD UK .  and the opportunity to become an employer of labour as well as owning a piece of land and become a house owner. The press conference was attended by the popular Nigerian Actress and National President of the National Association of Nigerian Students  ( NANS), Usman Umar. They also expressed their readiness and  support for the summit and promised to mobilize more youths to participate and take advantage of the event. According to Tonto Dike ” When the convener of the upcoming event, Domak Entrepreneurship Summit (DES), 2023 Dr. Kingsley Mike Azonobi shared this idea with me some months back about organizing a program of this sort, I was really intrigued and humbled as to how one man can habour this degree of burden in respect of the fulfillment of the wellbeing and prosperity of the Nigerian youth, in this case the students. ” Like he rightly pointed out in his speech, this is not an initiative of government, or an internationally sponsored event, or a politically motivated program, but rather, it’s an effort of a private individual, a Nigerian who is driven by sheer love, sacrifice, and service for his country and humanity. The amazing story behind the creation of this Summit is what inspired me to say, oh, I have to be a part of this, I have to contribute, I have to identify, I have to endorse. ” It is on this premise that I am with utmost delight openly and publicly endorsing the Domak Entrepreneurship Summit (DES), 2023. I offer my unalloyed support to the program and I call on well-meaning Nigerians to do likewise. “I believe in the dream of its convener, and what he intends to achieve for the Nigerian student via this Summit. I am a part of it, I am in the planning and organizing team, and I am also working behind the scene to ensure that we have a hitch-free event”.