….Identifies 10 Ways Of Developing Nigerian Tourism Sector LAGOS – Director General of the Nigerian Tourism Development Authority (NTDA), Chief Folorunsho Coker, has identified 10 major ways of developing the Nigerian Tourism sector. It is on record that Coker transformed the Nigerian Tourism sector since he assumed duty as the man at the helms of affairs at NTDA. Coker was able to put Nigeria in the world map in the comity of nations through his numerous programmes and projects that have led to an appreciable development of the Nigerian Tourism sector. As the DG of NTDA, Coker launched “Tour Nigeria,” a project aimed at promoting domestic tourism in Nigeria. Coker also organized “Food Flavor,” a festival that showcased Nigerian food and culture and promoted the nation as a destination for fun, hospitality and relaxation. The 10 points he highlighted were contained in a position paper recently presented by the renowned tourism expert. According to Coker, for the Nigerian tourism sector to grow, the nation must develop crucial infrastructure, prompt film tourism, the nation’s music industry must be expanded, Nigeria should showcase fashion tourism and boost Culinary Tourism. POLL Other areas identified by the tourism guru are technology integration in tourism, digital marketing and promotion of cultural expression mediums, human capital development and appropriate vocational training, collaboration and partnership on good practice copycatting, as well as sustainable tourism practices in line with the SDG. On developing crucial infrastructure, Coker called for improvement in transportation infrastructure, including airports, roads, and public transportation, to facilitate easier access for tourists. He also advocated the enhancement and expansion of existing accommodation options, such as hotels, resorts, and guest-houses, to cater to the growing number of tourists. On promotion of film tourism, he said that the nation can establish film commissions and incentivise international filmmakers to shoot their movies in Nigeria. “This will showcase Nigerian landscapes, landmarks, and culture, thereby attracting film tourists. “We should organise film festivals and events that celebrate the Nigerian cinema and invite international filmmakers and industry professionals to participate. “Artificial intelligence is already creating the whole value chain. We must deepen a co-existence in film,” he said. Speaking on expanding Nigeria’s music tourism, Coker said that the nation’s music is homeless, adding that we should give the Nigerian music a home like the O2 Arena or Madison Square Gardens. He said; “Let people see our music in our home. Let’s support and promote Nigerian music artists and organise music festivals and concerts showcasing Nigerian music genres such as Afrobeat, Highlife, Juju, and Afro-pop. “Let’s develop music museums and cultural centres to preserve and exhibit Nigeria’s rich musical heritage. Afrobeats is worth $1 trillion annually globally.” While calling for the showcasing of the Nigerian fashion tourism, he wondered why the nation is waiting to be validated by a world industry that he said “copies us.” “We must organise fashion weeks and events highlighting Nigerian fashion designers, showcasing their creativity and cultural influences. We need to establish fashion hubs and incubators to nurture local talent and attract international designers and fashion enthusiasts. “We need joint country marketing campaigns, domestically and internationally, to promote Nigeria’s tourism assets, while focusing on the creative sectors. There should be collaborations with international travel agencies and tour operators to create attractive travel packages that highlight Nigeria’s creative assets,” he said. On boosting Culinary Tourism, he said that there is need to promote Nigerian cuisines by organising food festivals, culinary tours, and cooking workshops to introduce tourists to traditional dishes and Nigerian flavours. Coker stated that the nation should support local restaurants and street food vendors by providing training, certification, and hygiene standards to enhance tourists’ culinary experience. On Technology Integration in Tourism, he stated that the nation has to utilise ArtIntel technology to enhance the overall tourist experience, such as providing personalised recommendations, virtual tours, and interactive guides. AI, he said, should be used for data analysis and predictive modelling to identify tourism trends, target marketing efforts, and improve resource allocation. On Digital Marketing and Promotion of Cultural Expression Mediums, he said that the nation needs joint country marketing campaigns, domestically and internationally, to promote Nigeria’s tourism assets, while focusing on the creative sectors. “There should be collaborations with international travel agencies and tour operators to create attractive travel packages that highlight Nigeria’s creative assets. “Social media platforms and influencers should be leveraged to showcase Nigeria’s unique cultural offerings and appeal to a broader audience,” he said. For human capital development and appropriate vocational training, Coker said that this is not just about increasing non-producing pure academic degrees, the nation should invest in training programmes and educational initiatives to develop skilled professionals in the tourism and creative sectors, including tour guides, hospitality ecosystem staff, filmmakers, musicians, fashion designers, and culinary experts. While speaking on collaboration and partnerships on good practice copycatting, Coker urged the nation to foster collaborations between the government, private sector, and relevant industry stakeholders to jointly promote and develop Nigeria’s tourism industry. Also, we have to seek partnerships with international organisations and institutions to exchange knowledge, expertise, and investments in the creative sectors. “We must establish a dedicated tourism ministry to relocate Nigerian Tourism Development Authority (NTDA) outside of the Ministry of Information. The focus must be on the tourism industry’s development and promotion. This ministry should have the authority and resources to implement and monitor the proposed policies and methods effectively. Government propaganda and destination marketing are not the same. Tourism, Arts, and Culture should be one. One voice. One mission,” he said. For Sustainable Tourism Practices in line with the SDGs, he said that Nigeria can implement sustainable tourism practices to preserve the nation’s natural and cultural heritage, including waste management, conservation efforts, and community engagement. COVID-19 has shown how vulnerable tourism is to global shocks. We must domesticate and shockproof Nigerian tourism. “We can prioritise improving safety and security measures to ensure the safety of tourists. This includes increasing the presence of law enforcement agencies, and implementing surveillance systems, especially at points of transportation, hospitality, and entertainment. It also provides digital safety information and resources for tourists. “We must simplify visa processes and ensure simple, transparent, hassle-free tourist entry. This includes implementing electronic visa systems (payment and issuing), reducing visa fees, having more extended tenure visas, new categories of visas, and offering visa-on-arrival options for selected countries. We should also consider visa-free entry for more nations. “Tourism is the reward for a good home. To attract international tourists, improving Nigeria’s global image is crucial. We should actively engage in diplomatic efforts to improve international perceptions of the country and address any negative stereotypes or misconceptions. “We can invest in research and data collection (Tourism Satellite Account) to understand the needs and preferences of tourists better. This will enable us to tailor our policies and marketing strategies to attract the right target audience. It goes without saying that, don’t measure your performance if you don’t want to know your problems. “We must establish a dedicated tourism ministry to relocate NTDA outside of the Ministry of Information. The focus must be on the tourism industry’s development and promotion. This ministry should have the authority and resources to implement and monitor the proposed policies and methods effectively. Government propaganda and destination marketing are not the same. Tourism, Arts, and Culture should be one. One voice. One mission. “It is imperative to note that the successful implementation of these policies and methods requires strong coordination, adequate and timely funding, and long-term commitment from the government, private sector, and local communities. Streamlining government agencies is essential, to avoid overlapping responsibilities and territoriality, and a silo mentality,” he said.