PwC, the professional services firm, has appointed Sam Abu as the new Regional Senior Partner for the West Market Area and Country. A statement by the company said that the appointment of Abu took effect on Saturday, July 1, 2023. The statement hinted that with this appointment, Abu joins the PwC Africa Leadership Team (ALT) and as a member of the ALT, he would help set and drive the strategy for Nigeria and the West Market Area, with focus on building trust and delivering sustained outcomes for stakeholders in the region. The statement said that Abu who is based in Lagos, Nigeria, brings over 23 years of professional experience at PwC (Nigeria and the UK) to his new role, including many years auditing and advising local and multinational clients across a range of industries. He has held several leadership roles within the firm including most recently as the West Market Area Assurance Leader and the Financial Services Leader for Nigeria. He also served for 6 years on the PwC Africa Governance Board. It said the new appointee would succeed Uyi Akpata who has held the position since July 2014. The company said that Uyi would continue to be with the firm until his retirement on June 30, 2024, after having a long and successful career in the firm that spanned almost four decades, over three of these as a partner. Uyi in his commenting congratulated Abu, saying that his appointment reflected the confidence of the firm in his leadership ability and proven track record. POLL “I am confident that the firm will continue to thrive under his leadership. I look forward to working closely with him over the next year,” he added. In his comment, Abu described his new role as an incredible honour and an enormous responsibility, especially at this important time in the country and the region. “I look forward to exciting times ahead with the PwC community of solvers, building trust and delivering sustained outcomes with our clients and in our society. I am grateful to Uyi for his leadership of the firm over the last decade and I personally thank him for his guidance and mentorship over the years,’ he said.