RAJI ADEBAYO/KA­ZEEM AWOJOODU IBADAN  – Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, has commended the Oyo State governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde, for installing ten new kings in Ibadan, disclosing that the move will further enhance growth and development across Ibadan, strengthen unity and also guarantee the best future for the traditional institution. In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Ad­eremi, Iba Adams restated the need to foster unity in Yorubal­and, saying with the emergence of the new kings, the governor had tactically resolved the lin­gering crisis that had remained unresolved for the past six years in Ibadan. The Yoruba generalissimo also disclosed that the governor had toed the path of peace, rath­er than putting the traditional institution in an avoidable crisis. While congratulating the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, Alli Okun­made II, for his large heart and accommodating spirit, Iba Adams also commended the Olubadan-in-Council for their support in ensuring peace and tranquility in the town. “The governor made histo­ry last Friday by installing 10 new kings in the ancient town of Ibadan. This ended the pro­longed crisis that had literally engulfed the town. “Ibadan, like Lagos is a stra­tegic town in Yorubaland, and whatever happens in Ibadan, affects the entire Yorubaland. “So, Governor Makinde did well by saving us from future crisis in Yorubaland. POLL “For instance, many great men that have successfully made it in life have stakes both in La­gos and Ibadan. “Kabiesi Olubadan is the fa­ther of all in Ibadan. Olubadan is a peaceful personality and he deserves to enjoy a peaceful reign. So, Kabiesi’s large heart remains a worthy attribute that we can all learn from.” Aare Adams maintained that similar cases had occurred in Ile Ife, Egba, Ijebu and other great towns, saying as a community expands, so it progresses with much development “This will also add value to the stool of the Olubadan be­cause wherever the Olubadan goes, the new Obas will follow and even represented the stool as respected monarchs where Olubadan is not available. “I congratulate all the sons and daughters of Ibadan, and I pray that installation of the new kings will usher in more devel­opment and progress in Ibadan and its environs.” Similarly, the Oyo State chap­ter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has lauded the gov­ernor, Engr. Seyi Makinde for ensuring that what was worth doing was done well in adher­ence with due process. While praising the Ol­ubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Mahood Lekan Balogun, for enhancing and enriching the Ibadan traditional institution over the request that birthed the elevation of the monarchs and subsequently installing them in an epochal event, the ruling PDP rallied more sup­port and cooperation for the Olubadan-in-Council as well as His Imperial Majesty, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Mahood Lekan Balogun.