George Agbakahi, South-East leader, Tinubu Support Group and member, All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), in this interview, speaks about President Bola Tinubu’s one month in office, efforts he has put in place to change the narrative of governance in the country, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Can you react to Tnubu’s 30 days in office, 30 appointments and 30 challenges? Tinubu’s emergence as president has changed the trajectory of governance since the inception of democracy in the fourth republic Check out the policies that he has undertaken in the past one month. The issue of the removal of petroleum subsidy, is critical to the socio-economic development of this country. The World Bank even said it. The fuel subsidy removal and the unified exchange rate will save Nigeria a substantial amount of N3.9 billion. N400 billion has already been saved. The World Bank is also predicting that between 2023 and 2025 Nigeria would have saved from N21 to N25 trillion. Nigeria has gotten a President that is ready to work for the masses. He is making very bold decisions. I think that security wise too. You can see what has been going on, he has met with the service chiefs, met with the traditional rulers. He has met with the business communities. He has assured them that it would no longer be business as usual. We know the problems facing this country, especially in terms of the economy. The country needs a president with boldness, one who is resolute to tackle them. The issue of oil subsidy has been there for a very long time. Successive presidents have said it but didn’t have the political will to do it. The issue of a unified exchange rate has been going on and only a very few members of the community have been benefiting from all the policies. It took a president that has the courage to stop exploitative policies. People have been thrown into poverty as a result of the subsidy removal, the difficulty that Nigerians are facing since that announcement was made. Again lack of follow up announcement of palliatives. Looking at the economy, they also talk about education, especially more funding for education. Also the evaluation of the introduction of students’ loans, what are your take on these? The issue of palliative against petroleum subsidy removal has been discussed extensively in government circles. The President’s committee has met with Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), as well as other groups in ways to ameliorate the sufferings of the masses of this country. I think that the Vice President is heading that committee. The President is compassionate. The suffering that we are talking about is something that is transient. What we’re really looking at is a sustainable solution to the issue of energy in the country. You’ll find out that soon the suffering will be ameliorated, and Nigerians will start enjoying, and there’ll be nothing like scarcity of fuel. Dangote has started it with the building of a refinery. I know that with the development you will see that other Nigerians who are highly placed economically will consider building additional refineries. Foreign investors can now come in and participate in the ventures unlike in the past where there were multiple exchange rates. Some people will buy for N468, some will buy for N750 while others will buy for N800. In the long run the policies will bring down inflation in the country. In the area of students, I think that this is the best policy that is people-driven that this President has brought in place. Education is the key to the development of any nation and ours cannot be different. If you see a situation where relatively less privileged parents cannot send their children to school. This is a wise decision that President Tinubu has taken for instituting the student loan. Manufacturers are complaining about the electricity tariff and other issues. How is the government going to grow productivity in the economy? Growth and development of the economy have been discussed extensively by the government. I think the issue of electricity is key. Manufacturing cannot take place in a situation where there are multiple exchange rates. These are the issues that militate against manufacturing. The President spoke extensively about the issue of agricultural hubs. Agriculture in the past has been the mainstay of the economy of this country. With the creation of agricultural hubs as well as commodity hubs whereby subsistence farmers can bring their farm products to the market and sell them and make profit and at the same time the consumers won’t cry in respect of inflation. The President also talked about culture and tourism. Tourism is key to the development of any nation. Nigeria has a lot of tourist attractions. When we get into tourism proper we will get huge foreign exchange earnings and this will help in the economic development of this country. What is your take on the process of leadership in the National Assembly, the Senate Majority Leader, Senate Minority Leader, and the jostling for power at the ministerial level, with every Tom, Dick and Harry saying he wants to be minister just because he helped to paste posters during campaigns for the APC? POLL My thoughts on the issue of the leadership of the Senate and the House of Representatives, you are aware that the Senate has elected a President and a Deputy President, and the House has elected a Speaker and a Deputy Speaker. These are men of integrity that I believe will work in harmony with the executive for the development of this country. I don’t have much to say about the issue of the majority leader of the Senate and the House. The most important to Nigerians are the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Because these are the top echelon of the leadership of the National Assembly. I believe that the Senate and the House have the mechanism that they use to elect who they want to occupy the positions of the majority leader of the Senate and the majority leader of the House of Representatives. Also of the minority leader of the Senate and the minority leader of the House. The President is said to be working very hard and in the first 30 days has made a lot of changes and some appointments, and we would be looking at ministerial appointments. Some people have said that the best thing is to address the Nnamdi Kanu issue which he has kept quiet on. He made some campaign promises during the campaign season. In terms of the South-East where you represent, what are some of the priority areas that you are looking forward to the President to do? It is common knowledge that our President is a seasoned politician. He has politics in his genes. He is a father figure who recognizes the abilities of all the geo-political zones of this country. He has never been discriminatory either in his previous position as governor of Lagos State. All his policies and appointments when he was governor have been devoid of ethnic or religious sentiments. He is a president who knows what he wants. I believe that the South-East region will be represented in the appointments. For example we are delighted that our brother Real Admiral Ogalla has been appointed the chief of naval staff. It is a thing of joy. We also believe that the President will consider the South-East in other appointments. I believe that in politics when elections are over there should be no victor, no vanquished, as long as a winner has emerged. I don’t think that the President will take into consideration the fact that the South-East didn’t vote for him enormously in the election and based on that he will try to punish the region. The President is not like that, he will treat all geo-political regions in the country equally. Beyond appointments, what are your expectations from Mr. President, especially the issue of Nnamdi Kanu? The issue of Nnamdi Kanu is a global issue and the President discussed this issue when he campaigned in Ebonyi State. As a member of the Presidential Campaign Council, from the South-East I was privileged to be in that campaign rally. The President said openly that he would work with Igbo leaders to deal with issues that are affecting Ndigbo, especially the issue of Nnamdi Kanu and the IPOB as well as the issue of Unknown Gunmen. I believe that the President will do that at the right time. In my opinion, I believe at some point, based on the current political development in the country at some point, Nnamdi Kanu may be released even if it is under some conditions. Because if you see what is going on in the South-East, it is very terrible. I can tell you that currently in the South-East, the issues of Unknown Gunmen, sit-at-home order, every Monday have affected commerce tremendously. People in the South-East are living in fear. I believe that the president at the appropriate time will consider all these issues holistically and do the right thing.