Ahead of the potentially biggest and best edition of the Lagos International Badminton Classics holding next month, the Badminton Federation of Nigeria (BFN) has stepped up its marketing action as it will on Wednesday host the giants of various sectors of the Nigerian economy. Council member of the Badminton Confederation Africa (BCA) who also doubles as the BFN president, Francis Orbih, has revealed that no fewer than 20 companies ranging from banking and aviation to insurance, transportation, logistics, photography and food have indicated intention of attending. The marketing meeting aptly tagged ‘Shuttle Symphony’ is holding at the Civic Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos. According to Mr. Orbih, many more organizations are still being engaged as numerous windows are being opened for them for their exploitation. The Lagos State Government has been the major backer of the Lagos International Badminton Classics which draws the biggest names across the world to Lagos. This year, close to 90 international players are being expected as most need the ranking opportunities attendance to their participation to garner points ahead of the Paris 2024 Olympics. The same applies to the Nigerian players who will rake more points leading to better positioning in not just the Paris 2024 Olympics but to hold on to their leading position at the African Games which will also hold next year in Accra Ghana. “Corporate participation is also an investment on the Nigerian players”, remarked Francis Orbih who pleads with companies to assist in Nigerian players’ quest for honours. He also expressed deep gratitude to the Lagos State Government and the other traditional backers of badminton in Nigeria. Those companies include Mutual Benefits Assurance PLC, GIG Group, Zenith Bank, Studio 24, Avis and Dufil Prima POLL He further revealed that the Partnership/Sponsorship packages for would-be Partners have been categorized into four, namely; Title Partner, Platinum Partners, Gold Partners, Silver Partners and Bronze Partners. Orbih called on Corporate organizations and investors to utilize this investment window by investing in the Lagos International Badminton Classics and enjoy huge financial and corporate benefits on their Return on Investment.