. Pass Vote Of Confidence In NDDC MD The Board of Trustees and Management of Community Development Committees (CDC) of Niger Delta Oil and Gas Producing Areas have commended President Bola Tinubu for retaining Dr Samuel Ogbuku as the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and also passed a vote of confidence in Dr Ogbuku for his quality leadership of the Commission. The expression of endorsement is contained in a communique jointly signed by Chief Joseph Ambakederimo, Chairman Board of Trustees, and Augustine Iyamu, Chairman of the Communique Drafting Committee of CDC. The committees assert that the vote of confidence on Ogbuku was in appreciation of his unwavering commitment to the journey of evolution and a pathway to unleashing enormous capacity potential in the years to come. The meeting which took place on 1st of July, 2023 in Warri-Delta State under the auspices of the Chairman Board of Trustees, Joseph Ambakederimo, was designed to x-ray development issues pertaining to the Niger Delta region vis-a-vis the NDDC’s critical role and its attendant rescue mission of the region under the leadership of Dr. Samuel Ogbuku. The group while commending Dr. Ogbuku for his innovative leadership and dedication to duty, urged President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to re-appoint Dr Ogbuku as a substantive Managing Director of the interventionist commission when the board is reconstituted. Other decisions taken at the meeting according to the communique read in part “We the members of the Community Development Committees of Niger Delta Oil and Gas Producing Areas believe deeply in the twelve fundamental principles of the CDC. “We are committed to bringing about a new beginning for the people of the Niger Delta by establishing and defending a democratic system of government built on the foundations of social justice in our beloved country. POLL “The promotion of a peaceful atmosphere for the smooth operation of companies, agencies and other investors in the Niger Delta Area. “The promotion of good relations between the Traditional Rulers and Chiefs of the Niger Delta Area, Government and other agencies responsible for the welfare of Traditional Rulers for the purpose of the provision of adequate care and the uplifting of the Traditional Rulers,” the CDC stated. The CDC identified that the NDDC is the catalyst for the development of the Area, the NDDC should henceforth take the lead to show the pathway for the sustainable development of the area. The committees further stated “The CDC urges the Managing Director of the NDDC to put processes in place for the establishment of Special Economic Zones in the region to cater for Small and Medium Sized Entrepreneurs. “This is a special model that can provide a plug-and-play model to create wealth and for the youthful population to acquire relevant skills. “The CDC observed the deplorable state of the East-West road that is crying for attention having been destroyed by the flood of last year. “The rains is reaching its peak again and we fear a further devastation that will culminate in pains and impact on businesses and loss of valuable man hours. CDC therefore call on the Federal government to quickly mobilise men and material resources to site. “CDC further notes that the Federal Ministry of Works which responsibility the east west road has become should endeavour to complete the road fully dualised from Warri to Calabar. Of equally important is the Warri Benin road that has been abandoned and causing nightmare to travellers and businesses. “The CDC resolved to undertake a consultative working visit to the NDDC in a due date for on the spot assessment and a firsthand vision of the programs of the Managing Director. “The CDC also resolved to hold a grand consultative stakeholders conference with the Traditional institution of the Niger Delta region having recognised the Traditional institution as the bastion of peace and development. Our aspiration for genuine development of the region can only happen if there is sustained peace in the region. “The CDC urges the Managing Director to see the CDC as partners in progress as it requests to be invited to be on the entourage of the teams undertaking project inspection, saying its members cut across all of the oil and gas-producing communities” ; the communique stated.