LAGOS  – Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has joined Presi­dent Bola Tinubu, former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon; Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State; former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth Nations, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, among other eminent Nigerians, to at­tend the funeral of the founder of the First City Monument Bank (FCMB), Otunba Micheal Olasu­bomi Balogun. The funeral service, which was a Holy Communion Service, held at The Cathedral Church Of Our Saviour, Italawajoda, Ijebu-Ode in Ogun State, on Sat­urday, was presided over by the Archbishop of the Ecclesiastical Province of Lagos and Bishop of Remo Diocese, The Most. Revd. Dr. Micheal Olusina Fape and assisted by the Diocesan Bishop of Ijebu, The Rt. Rev. Dr. Peter Rotimi Oludipe. The funeral service was also attended by Special Adviser to President Bola Tinubu on Mon­etary Policy, Wale Edun; former Governors Gbenga Daniel and Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun) and Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa), busi­ness moguls, Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola and Chief Rasak Okoya, President of the African Development Bank, Akinwunmi Adesina and Afenifere Leader, Chief Ayo Opadokun. Former and present public office holders, politicians, cap­tains of industry, bank execu­tives, bishops, priests, tradition­al rulers and leaders, family and friends of the deceased home and abroad, management and staff of FCMB and people of Ijebuland, as well as sons and daughters of Ogun State, also attended the fu­neral service to bid Otunba Ola­subomi Balogun farewell. Speaking at the service, Presi­dent Bola Tinubu, who was repre­sented by Vice President Kashim Shettima, said Otunba Balogun was an extraordinary individual who changed the course of histo­ry in Nigeria and the world. He said: “We give gratitude to Almighty God for bringing Otunba Subomi Balogun to the world. The world is going to remain grateful to him (Ba­logun) even much longer than he lived. So, we are here to cel­ebrate life. “He is an extraordinary indi­vidual who changed the course of history. May his legacy contin­ue to inspire generations to come. We pray that God will grant the family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Governor Sanwo-Olu de­scribed the late Balogun as a renowned technocrat, seasoned administrator and philanthro­pist, who made a mark in the country by contributing to the growth and development of the banking sector in Nigeria. POLL Sanwo-Olu, in a condolence message issued earlier by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, commended Balogun’s contribution to the economy of Nigeria as boardroom guru and employer of labour, especially as the founder of FCMB, among several other companies. Governor Abiodun, in his ad­dress during the funeral service, said the late founder of FCMB is a proud son of Ijebuland and Ogun State, noting that he is a “colossus of our time.”