Liverpool have registered an interest in Zenit Saint Petersburg winger Malcom as they drop their pursuit of Juventus star Federico Chiesa. Jurgen Klopp’s side have added the likes of Alexis Mac Allister and Dominik Szoboszlai to their squad this summer. Liverpool have also been weighing up a move for a winger and have been heavily linked with a move for Chiesa along with Chelsea. However, according to Football Transfers, a move for the Juventus star is no longer on the cards for Klopp’s side. The report claims that Juventus value the 25-year-old around the €60m mark, which would be ‘problematic’ for a side like Liverpool. With the Italian winger seemingly off the cards for Liverpool, they have searched elsewhere for a winger. According to Footmercato, Liverpool ‘appreciate’ Zenit Saint Petersburg winger Malcom who has just had an eye-catching campaign. The Brazilian star scored 23 goals and provided seven assists in the Russian Premier League last season. POLL Malcom has spent the last four seasons in Russia, following a disappointing stint with Barcelona, where he scored just one league goal. He has rebuilt his career since leaving La Liga and could be on the move this summer. He is contracted with Zenit until 2027 although is ‘likely’ to leave the club this summer. PSG held an interest in the Brazilian star in January, although a deal didn’t go through in the end. “There was interest [from PSG], discussions, unfortunately it did not settle. But I will continue to work,” Malcom told Onze Mondial. “We will see what will happen in the future. And if that doesn’t happen, I’ll stay happy at the Zenith. “If the discussions continue? I do not know. My future is my agent’s job. I only focus on football. A Mbappe / Malcom attack? It is clear [that it would be beautiful], but first, I must think of my teammates here, because they are cracks too.” Along with Liverpool and PSG, the winger also has his admirers in Saudi Arabia, although he currently has ‘no offers’ on the table as things stand.