BENIN – A Catholic priest, Very Rev. Fr. Joseph Okojie, on Saturday, blamed bad governance on the “Japa syndrome as the reason many Nigerians are seeking greener pastures outside the country. Okojie, who is the Director of Liturgy/Moderator of Pastoral Affairs of Seminary of All Saints, Uhiele, Edo State made the claim while delivering the 5th Josemaria Escrivas Foundation Lecture titled “Migration and Good Governance: The Quest for an Enduring Solution” held in Ekpoma, Edo, The clergyman identified good governance as a remedy to the current worrisome trend of emigrations, popularly referred to as “Japa”, pointing out that bad governance was a central factor that pushed people to migrate out of the country. He lamented that governments over the years have failed to provide good governance due to corruption and greed of political officeholders, resulting in poverty, insecurity, unemployment, and hopelessness. “Bad governance is a central factor. If bad governance is tackled and effectively curtailed in Nigeria the rate of emigrating Nigerians will be reduced,” Okojie said. He, however, called for adequate funding of education, provision of regular electricity supply, infrastructural development, and training of young Nigerians in modern technological methods of agriculture as ways of encouraging the citizens to stay back in the country. The Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Josemaria Escriva Foundation (JOSEF), Prof. Matthew Izibili, said the foundation’s annual Lecture became imperative to create awareness on issues for the overall well-being of society. “The 5th edition of the lecture was special, as it aimed to address the minds of participants on very existential issues in the society that the role of good governance could never be underemphasized,” said. POLL In his remark, the Chief Responsibility Officer of the foundation, Dr. Jude Obasanmi, said the lecture was an opportunity to discuss issues affecting the community, reflect on the foundation’s activities, as well as a medium to seek support, collaboration and partnership. Obasanmi enumerated some of the foundation’s interventions in 2022/2023 including the training of 110 teachers, the empowerment of youths the campaign against drugs and substance use, among others.