The Senate on Tuesday urged the acting Inspec­tor-General of Police, Kayo­de Egbetokun, to direct personnel to stop forthwith extortion, intimidation and harassment of motorists and commuters on high­ways. This resolution was se­quel to adoption of a motion at plenary on ‘Urgent Need to Halt Extortion, Intimida­tion and Harassment of Mo­torists and Commuters by the Police on Public Roads.’ The motion was spon­sored by Sen. Onyekachi Peter (APC-Ebonyi). In his lead debate, Peter said one of the primary func­tions of the police personnel was to among other things, facilitate the free passage and movement on highways. According to him, Sec­tion 49 sub-section 1 of the Police Act, 2020, empowers the police to conduct stop and search operations. He said sub-section 2 em­powered them to search and detain any person or vehicle where reasonable ground for suspicion existed. Peter added that the po­lice personnel who had the primary duties to facilitate free passage and movement of commuters and motor­ists on public roads had taken undue advantage by resorting to extortion, in­timidation and harassment of motorists. He said the continuous intimidation, harassment and torture that ordinary Nigerians experienced in the hands of those security agents called for action. POLL Sen. Elisa Abbo (APC-Ad­amawa) said the issues of extortion of commuters on public roads were not only limited to personnel of Nige­ria police but other security agencies in uniform. He said there was an ur­gent need for the police to reform itself. He added that this was by coming out with modern se­curity measures via utilisa­tion of modern monitoring security gadgets like Close Circuit Television, cameras to police and to protect Nige­rians on the highways. Sen. David Jimkuta (APC -Taraba) said the operation of some police personnel at the highways was barbaric in nature. He, therefore, called for the composition of panel of enquiry on the recent killing of a commuter by police per­sonnel on the highway, with severe disciplinary mea­sures for the culprit. He urged the Senate not to allow the issue to be swept under the carpet. Sen. Victor Umeh (LP-Anambra) said there was need to focus more on pun­ishment of officers involved in dehumanisation of com­muters on the highways, while suggesting summary dismissal of the officers in­volved. Sen. Enyinnaya Abaribe (APGA- Abia) decried the constant dehumanisation of Nigerians by police per­sonnel at the various check points in the South-East. He said Nigerians in­cluding pregnant women, breastfeeding mothers and the sick, among other vul­nerable persons, were often subjected to come down and walk a distance even in the rain by police personnel. Deputy President of Sen­ate, Barau Jubril, called for investigation on the dehu­manisation of Nigerians on the highways.