ABUJA – AGRA, has unveiled a five-year strategic plan(2023-2027) that seeks to improve and strengthen the resilience and competitiveness of smallholder farmers for food system transformation in Nigeria. The strategy will focus on enhancing climate-smart technologies and practices for sustainable farming, strengthening the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and enhancing the country’s capability to design policies, strategies and flagships for execution and monitoring. Speaking during the strategy launch on Thursday in Abuja, AGRA’s Vice President, Policy and State Capability, Dr. Apollos Nwafor said:”We want to leverage public-private partnerships to bring about policy reforms and build foundations for the predictability of markets and trade of agricultural commodities to boost agri-food SMEs. “In the new strategy, we want to expand from two to five states while also establishing climate-smart villages in Kaduna and Niger States.” He revealed that the implementation of the Strategic Plan would commence in five States of Kaduna, Niger, Nasarawa, Gombe and Oyo, adding that with the provision of more funding support, the programme would be extended to other States. He noted that AGRA, as an organisation, has been working in Nigeria since 2006, adding that in the new strategy, AGRA would be working on climate-smart technologies, improving programmes and policies for good governance to achieve set goals in the agricultural transformation. He noted that if the policies are right in the agricultural sector, being the largest employer of labour, there would be an improvement in the well-being of the citizenry as well as the economic development of the country. Nwafor further revealed that AGRA would support both Federal and State governments to drive agriculture to achieve food security as well as encourage private sector investments in the sector. POLL He projected that the new initiative would see to the growth of over 30,000 small and medium enterprises. In an interview with newsmen, Dr. Kehinde Makinde, Country Manager, AGRA, explained that AGRA would be working with some critical stakeholders such as smallholder farmers to achieve food security in Nigeria. Under the Strategic Plan, he disclosed that 2.5m farmers would be reached. Also speaking, Ada Osakwe, Board Member of AGRA, described the Strategic Plan as being “bold and ambitious,” Osakwe noted that the strategic plan would promote agribusiness and agri- entrepreneurs in the country. She revealed that in the last Strategic Plan, that AGRA earmarked over $35m in the implementation of the Plan. To build the capacity of agro-industries, AGRA said it would engage in policy advocacy, flagship development and public-sector financing to enhance reforms that will entrench public-private partnerships that will impact five million farmers. In addition, it will create inclusive market and trade opportunities for agri-food SMEs that will add value to farmers’ produce as well as introduce them to agri-insurance. For sustainable farming, AGRA will entrench climate-smart technologies to cushion farmers from the effects of climate change by sharing information on irrigation and nutrition. In his address,the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Ernest Umakhihe, commended AGRA for its past programmes in Nigeria which were successful and impactful. Umakhihe said the Federal Government’s current policy on agriculture aligns with AGRA’s strategic plan in their objectives and mandates. He expressed optimism that the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Federal Government and AGRA would bring about transformation in the food systems of Nigeria. Founded in 2006, AGRA formerly known as the Alliance for Green Revolution is an African-led African-based organisation that seeks to catalyse Agriculture Transformation in Africa. AGRA is focused on putting smallholder farmers at the centre of the continent’s growing economy by transforming agriculture from a solitary struggle to survive into farming as a business that thrives. As the sector that employs the majority of Africa’s people, nearly all of them small-scale farmers, AGRA recognises that developing smallholder agriculture into a productive, efficient, and sustainable system is essential to ensuring food security, lifting millions out of poverty, and driving equitable growth across the continent.