By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba) republished in September 2014 Intro: Last week, this column re­published ‘The Fuel Subsidy Dilemma: The Sensible Way Out’. The article discussed the issue of fuel subsidy and ex­amined the arguments for and against its removal. It portrays a clear analysis that could serve to benefit Nigerians if adopted. All republications can be found in the archives using the below link. (See www.betternaijanow. com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) This week’s republication touches on the mishandling of monies in the banking system and the devaluing of the Naira rate of exchange. As far back as 2014, the Late Sir Henry Boyo wrote tirelessly on this issue and on the questionable motives of the now suspended CBN Gover­nor, Godwin Emefiele. Nigerians can only hope that this step to suspend the CBN governor would be the start of many more in the right direction. As you read through the below article taking note of previous events and rates, keep in mind its first republication (2014), a clear indication that Nigeria’s economic situationis yet to improve. “What we have seen is that instead of banks chan­nelling what we call excess liquidity in the sys­tem into the productive or certain targeted sectors of the economy, what they are doing is either placing these monies in treasury bills or even investing them at the CBN Windows” The preceding excerpt is from the CBN Governor, Godwin Eme­fiele’s comments, when he spoke to journalists shortly after the latest meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) in Abu­ja recently. Emefiele, frantically expressed the Committee’s con­sternation that inspite of the resounding reality of the acute needs of the real sector for mod­erately priced funds, the banks were inexplicably, sitting com­fortably over N300bn, idle, excess funds; the MPC’s concern was further heightened by the reality that with an imminent injection of an additional sum of N866bn into the system when AMCON’s debts are redeemed in October, the surplus Naira could exceed N1000bn; worse still, in spite of this bountiful Excess Naira sup­ply, the banks, according to Eme­fiele, still do not show any appar­ent inclination to support the real sector and instigate industrial expansion and job creation. Consequently, it would be fair to ask, if banks do not freely lend to the real sector, then to whom do they lend to make such compar­atively bountiful profits which are largely unattainable in pre­ferred subsectors which have bet­ter capacity to induce inclusive economic growth; for example, recent media reports suggest that while 12 Nigerian banks posted 6 months after tax profits which are about 15 percent of gross rev­enue, industrial giants such as PZ and Guinness posted 12 months after tax profits that are barely 8 percent of their gross revenue! POLL So how come banks are so profitable, even when they ignore “the ample opportunities for pro­ductive and profitable lending to the real sector of the economy” as rightly also observed by the CBN Governor? Indeed, according to Emefiele, “given the apathy to lending to the real sector, banks may be­come more inclined with the im­minent cash injection of N866bn in October to lend their surplus cash, ironically, to a captive Central Bank”, despite the Gov­ernor’s sharp criticism of the product of such borrowing. Now the critical question, obviously is, why banks prefer to lend to the CBN instead of the real sec­tor? In reality, the answer is quite simple and straightforward, no rational investor ignores a risk-free investment that unfailingly yields over 10 percent rate of return, in favour of a more risk prone investment with lower rate of return. Actually, the higher profitability in investing in Gov­ernment’s Treasury bill sales is probably the major factor respon­sible for banks’ apathy to lending to the real sector. One would normally expect the imminent injection of N866bn of fresh funds in October to further increase the level of cash surplus in the system and spur bank lend­ing to the real sector; regrettably, this will not happen as we will ac­tually witness more aggressive sale of Treasury bills by the CBN to mop up the increased excess cash in the hands of the banks instead. We may be pardoned for asking why the same CBN which decries bank’s apathy to lending to the real sector, inexplicably turns out to be the real villain that prevents access to the surplus cash by the productive sector. Ironically, CBN would consider its aggressive borrowing strategy as altruistic as its intention is to reduce the amount of surplus funds and restrain inflation (i.e., too much money chasing fewer goods and services); in truth, uncontrolled inflation is a silent plague that decimates an economy and its citizens over time. Furthermore, the over N1000bn surplus Naira that will become available after the imminent re­demption of AMCON debts will also pitch so much more Naira against rationed dollar supplies in the forex market and this im­balance will according to Eme­fiele also “increase the pressure on the Naira Exchange rate.” In other words, price stability, which is the core mandate of the CBN will become severely threatened when the economy is ‘cursed’ with so much excess liquidity. Evidently, even though predict­ably, CBN’s strategies to control the extent of surplus cash in the system have so far all failed to achieve this objective. For exam­ple, even though the CBN recog­nises that its high monetary pol­icy (control) rate translates into high cost of funds charged by banks for loans to the real sector, the Apex Bank still appears inca­pable of bringing down its policy rate below 12 percent, despite the adverse consequences of the pro­hibitive cost of funds to inclusive economic growth. Furthermore, even when it is clear that CBN’s strategy of increasing the mandatory cash reserve requirement (CRR) of banks has also become largely in­effective in modulating the extent of surplus cash, the Monetary Policy Committee nonetheless, has retained the Cash Reserve re­quirement (CRR) at 75 percent for public sector deposits, while the requirement for private sector deposits remained at 15 percent. In reality, the folly of simply in­creasing the CRR of public sector deposits appears lost on the MPC; evidently, raising the CRR for Public Sector deposits will only be meaningful for containing ex­cess liquidity and prevent liberal consumption, if Ministries and government’s Agencies never spend their monthly revenue al­locations; the inevitable reality is that these allocations will au­tomatically migrate to become private sector deposits, once staff salaries and contractor’s bills are settled by MDAs. Clearly, the CBN cannot be sin­cerely committed to liquidating the scourge of excess liquidity when it seems to shy away from addressing the root cause of eter­nally surplus, and idle cash in the system. Undoubtedly, excess liquidity is caused by the monthly substi­tution of Naira allocations for dollar derived revenue by the CBN; indeed, a little objectivity will confirm that the adoption of dollar certificates as the instru­ment of choice for paying dollar derived revenue will immediate­ly extinguish the decades long unnecessary burden of excess liquidity and the attendant prof­ligacy of placing government de­posits at zero percent and forever mopping up same at double digit interest rates; furthermore, apart from the possibility of appropri­ately restoring cash equilibrium and caging inflation with this strategy, the Naira will practical­ly defend itself and become stron­ger in the forex market without much interference from the CBN. The CBN is aware of this solu­tion which is also amplified in the monetary policy thrust statement of the Vision 20:2020 blue print. In any event, we must wonder why, in spite of its adverse con­sequences to economic growth, the CBN would continue to pay double digit interest rates in or­der to sterilise surplus funds in the banks; it really should not require any persuasion for the CBN to adopt the current best practice of the European Central Bank which charges the domestic money deposit banks a token fee of 0.1 percent to warehouse sur­plus funds rather than pay any interest to the banks; unless of course, the CBN has committed to serving the needs of our op­pressive oligarchs rather than the protection of the welfare of over 70 percent of Nigerians who earn less than $2 a day! SAVE THE NAIRA, SAVE NI­GERIANS!!