KATSINA – The Katsina Izalah Eye Foundation has successfully completed eye surgical operations on 51 eye patients in the state. This is contained in a statement signed by Malam Hassan Mohammed Tukur, the Foundation spokesman and made available to newsmen in Katsina on Wednesday. Alhaji Ibrahim Dabo Bujawa, the chairman of the foundation announced that the exercise was sponsored by a former permanent secretary in the state and a member of Katsina Izalah Eye Foundation, Alhaji Aliyu Garba Kankara. He revealed that the 51 patients were selected from across the 34 local governments of the state. The foundation chairman however expressed happiness with the collaborative effort between the Foundation and the management of Katsina Eye Centre, which has made it feasible to achieve the feat. He prayed Allah to abundantly reward the sponsor of the eye surgical operations, stressing that there was a need for wealthy Muslims to spend resources in the way of Allah for the rewards that abound. Dr Ahmed Tijjani Hamza Kofar Bai, the Medical Director of the Eye centre in his remarks, expressed gratitude to the Izalah Eye Foundation for sustaining the collaboration in restoring the sight of people in the state. Kofar Bai represented by Hajiya Jamilatu Haruna, the Director, Nursing services at the centre, also used the occasion to request the leadership of the Foundation to join hands with the Eye centre in the advocacy programmes to enlighten parents to be aware of the eye problems of their children. POLL Hajiya Jamilatu Haruna further called on wealthy people to emulate the philanthropic gesture of the former permanent secretary to restore the eyesight of the most vulnerable in society. It will be recalled that Alhaji Aliyu Garba Kankara had recently through the Izalah Eye Foundation sponsored the operations of 73 eye patients in the Malumfashi zone. During the exercise in Malumfashi, 96 eye patients received medicated glasses while 219 received various medications at the General Hospital, Malumfashi with patients from Kankara, Kafur and Malumfashi Local Governments in attendance.