KATSINA – The Katsina State Committee set up to undertake a manpower audit and verification exercise has swung into action through an interactive session with Directors of Administration and supplies now holding in brief as heads of Ministries Departments and Agencies-MDAs in the state. In a statement by Hassan Mohammed Tukur, a member of the committee made available to newsmen in Katsina on Friday, the Chairman of the committee, Alhaji Rabi’u Abdu Rumah informed the Directors that the present manpower audit differs from the previous exercises carried out by successive administrations from 1999 to date. As part of the campaign promises of Dr Dikko Umar Radda, he said the issue of public service reforms is to eliminate the politicisation of the civil service in the state. He therefore solicit the cooperation, support and understanding of the Directors to enable the committee to achieve its mandate. Rumah cautioned the Directors against allowing some of their staff to be missed out in the manpower audit and verification exercise as the exercise is not meant to witch-hunt any civil servant as being rumoured around. According to him, the June Salary has been given to the committee as a baseline for the audit and verification of civil servants in the state. “The committee was not set up by Governor Dikko Radda to witch hunt any civil servant but to correct anomalies within the service, frowning at situations where a grade level twelve officer will be appointed to head an agency of government with civil servants on grade level sixteen as unit heads”. “Such situations, demotivates civil servants thereby bringing productivity to it’s lowest level”, he said. POLL The committee chairman however maintained that, Data obtaining forms have been carefully crafted to check facts of bio-data of the civil servants that would provide far reaching recommendations to the present administration to make amends in the service. Rumah informed the Directors that issues bordering on credentials must be properly stated by civil servants, stressing that a civil servant with BEd has no business being employed in other Ministries than that of Education and vice versa. “In compliance to the circular issued by the State Ministry of Budget & Economic Planning, henceforth domiciliation of an employee’s salary is to be based on his current place of posting”. The committee chairman who directed for the Bio-data forms to be distributed to the Directors of Administration and supplies in the Ministries, Departments and Agencies-MDAs, however, added that the screening process will commence on Monday, July 10th, 2023 at the conference Hall of Dr Garba Ja Abdulkadir state Secretariat complex, Katsina.