Lush Hair, in excitement held its first Hangout for Hairstylists in the city recently had Mauve 21 in Ibadan The event was hosted by two prominent faces in the movie and entertainment industry; Aisha Lawal, an ace producer, actor and presenter, her co-host was Ayo Ajewole Wòlíì Agba; a compère, actor and content creator popularly known for his skits on Instagram and Facebook by himself, ‘son’ Dele and a couple of other members of the crew. The event kicked off with the arrival and accreditation of guests. The hosts delighted the guests with an hilarious introduction and singing the popular Yorùbá welcome song “Kaabo, ce dáadáa lo de, a tin retí r¹” to introduce invited guests in the hall. Damilola Agboola, Assistant Brand Manager -Lush Hair stated that just as the event had taken place in Lagos and will be extending to other parts of the country, the goal is to empower hairstylists in Oyo State continuously. Speaking further, Damilola said: “Our plan is not to take your money but to impact customers and hairstylists through initiatives that will be of benefit to all parties.” She added that with Lush Hair’s lightweight quality, various colours and designs created to suit the female hair need at every point in time, Lush Hair is focused on making fashion life easy for women across all works of life. Damilola concluded by showing the existing products in the market as well as emerging ones. POLL The categories of Lush Hair products were Braids, Crochets and Weaves which came in various colours and sizes. The designs of Hair showcased included but not limited to Zari Braids, Tiara curls, Kinky royale, Pearson weaves, Mandy Elna, Vegas, Zen, Sasha, Serena, Rony and Bone straight. The kids were not left out in the game as products such as Nini Fro and Kinky Twist amongst others were also initiated. She also stated that Galaxy Ombre Braids and Galaxy Braid Mix were baking in the oven. All the products that were available at the event were showcased to the audience by the hostesses on ground.