LAGOS  – Stakeholders in the nation’s economy, have implored fiscal and monetary authorities to consider the financing needs of manufacturers, traders, and importers as part of quick actions to curbing the rising inflation rate, amid rising food and gas prices in the country. They lamented that the removal of fuel subsidy and rising energy prices are fueling severe hunger in Nigeria They explained that the development was necessary as soaring prices of food, fuel, and fertilizers have further worsened the crisis while funding for the humanitarian response remains inadequate. They said the increase in prices of food reflects the exchange rate depreciation that has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index as well as the liquidity challenges in the foreign exchange market impacting on the manufacturing output. They advised the Federal Government on the need to put fiscal incentives in place to boost investment in renewable energy in line with the energy mix objective of government,adding that such incentives could be in the areas of tax incentives and the waivers of import duty on renewable energy equipment. They advocated the need for the Federal Government ti show more concern to the three broad non-oil sectors, agriculture, industries, and services which painted a different picture from the strong performance of the non-oil sector that provides some comfort to the diversification objective of the Nigerian economy. They told Daily Independent that the weak growth recorded in the agriculture sector and lacklustre performance of the industrial sector could be linked to the prevailing structural and insecurity challenges besetting the economy. The United Nations had recently stated that rising fuel prices is making fight against severe hunger tough in Nigeria POLL According to the United Nation’s report, rising energy prices caused by the removal of fuel subsidies have intensified the battle against severe hunger in Nigeria, particularly in Northern Nigeria. Mr Matthias Schmale, the UN’s top humanitarian official in Nigeria, in Geneva revealed that 4.3 million people in Nigeria’s Borno, Adamawa, and Yobe states are at risk of severe hunger, as the number of children under five at risk of life malnutrition had doubled in one year to reach 700,000. Mr Schmale said that severe hunger is affecting 4.3 million people in Nigeria’s Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states, adding that he has seen mothers fighting for the lives of their malnourished children in nutrition stabilisation centres. He also disclosed that the number of children under five at risk of life-threatening severe acute malnutrition had doubled in one year to reach 700,000, he said: “I have been to Borno and the other two states several times. I’ve seen mothers fighting for the lives of their malnourished children in nutrition stabilisation centres. “Those of us who are parents must imagine what it’s like when you cannot ensure your children have enough to eat,” he said. He warned that the catastrophic” situation is primarily the result of more than a decade of insecurity linked to non-State armed groups, which prevents people from farming and earning income from the land, citing other side effects including extreme weather impacts including flooding in Nigeria which affected more than 4.4 million people across the country. The report also noted that the soaring prices of food, fuel and fertilisers have exacerbated the crisis, and the response remains severely underfunded, urging that of the $1.3 billion in humanitarian funding needed for the region, only 25 per cent has been secured so far. The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) launched a $2.5 billion Country Strategic Plan (CSP) for Nigeria aiming to combat rising hunger in  the country. The plan focuses on addressing hunger and malnutrition in selected states, particularly in the Northeast and Northwest regions. The plan focuses on addressing hunger and malnutrition in selected states, particularly in the Northeast and Northwest regions. The five-year plan (2023-2027) aligns with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 2) and seeks to achieve food security and improved nutrition in Nigeria by 2030. It also emphasizes the importance of health and well-being, education, gender equality, and climate action. Asiwaju Dr. Michael Olawale-Cole, President of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, LCCI, in a chat with Daily Independent on the Nigeria’s headline inflation rate, said Nigeria has now had several consecutive months of increased inflation, that is largely attributable to rises in food and energy prices, forex scarcity for imports of critical raw materials for manufacturing, and constrained production due to insecurity in some agricultural sites across the country. He noted that the removal of fuel subsidies and rising energy prices are exacerbating severe hunger in the country. Speaking on the way forward, the LCCI President said: “Specifically, for manufacturers, input prices have spiked. Items such as diesel which most firms depend on for powering their factories have continued to rise in price causing an unbearable cost of production which also translates to higher consumer prices. Nigeria’s energy crisis is worsened by the poor supply of electricity and a bumpy road to renewable energy deployment. “There is need for a good mix of both fiscal and monetary policies to tackle the core drivers of the inflation scourge in Nigeria. “There should be targeted financing for critical sectors like agriculture, food processing, aviation fuels, transport, and foreign exchange availability for manufacturing inputs. “It is obvious that the government’s intervention so far has not impacted the inflationary pressures that keep rising till now. Without concrete and quick steps to intervene, the rising tide of the inflation rate may continue into the end of the year. “Government should offer a targeted intervention for the movement of food items from production areas to high-demand areas to cushion inflationary pressures”. “We believe a broad-based harmonisation of fiscal and monetary policies toward addressing the identified structural constraints will significantly help moderate inflationary pressure in the short term,” he said. Adewale Oyerinde, the Director General of Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), told Daily Independent that the major worry is about the inflation scourge constraining production, causing job losses, and courting an imminent recession. Oyerinde, who argued that the inflation rate may ease in the near term driven by constrained consumer demand, harvests maturing in quarter three, and the resumption of wheat exports from Ukraine to Africa, however, said there are fears of falling growth due to constrained production in the past months. “NECA has consistently recommended the need for special interventions in critical sector and especially focusing on subsidizing production to reduce the burden of rising cost of production “We urge the CBN to look beyond hiking rates to taking definite and articulated actions that address the factors driving the inflationary pressures”. He suggested reworking public policies to encourage productive, sustainable reforms to support the Common Agricultural Policy shifted to make direct payments, and farm prices become more closely aligned with world prices, encouraging efficient use. Dr Muda Yusuf, Economist/CEO, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE) in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, suggested that the monetary authority should mobilise short-term credit facilities and guarantees through commercial bank financing to meeting the financing needs of manufacturers, traders, and importers tripling in some cases. Yusuf, who argued that the technical computation of the inflation figures is not in dispute, said: “the reality of the impact of the intense inflationary pressures over the past one year is at variance with the official inflation data. He said: “the key drivers of inflation include high and increasing energy cost; worsening currency depreciation, escalating transportation cost, high import duty on manufacturing inputs, illiquidity in the forex market, bottlenecks in the logistics chain, security concerns and low productivity resulting from structural challenges and weak application of technology. Central bank financing of fiscal deficit is also a major driver of inflation”. “To tackle inflation, all forms of taxes and levies on the importation of petroleum products should be suspended to give a respite on the spiking energy cost. There should also be deeper stakeholder engagements across sectors to develop an enduring strategy on the way forward”, he emphasised . Auwal Rafsanjani – Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), told Daily Independent that there was urgent for the reduction of fiscal deficit financing by the CBN to minimise incidence of high-powered money in the economy. He said: “We urged the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria and Finance Ministry to work on more policies that affect the real sector to prevent a clash in policy implementation. “Government, in partnership with the manufacturers, should select strategic products, particularly those with high inter-industry linkage, for backward integration support and upscale the drive for the resource-based industrialisation agenda” “We should note that fiscal sustainability is driven by both cost and revenue. Therefore, managing the major drivers of cost and revenue is imperative. “As far as possible, the government should push back in sectors or activity areas where the private sector has capacity to deliver desired outcomes. We should see more concessioning and privatisation at all levels of government. This would allow for the infusion of more private capital into the infrastructure space”. Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the naira depreciation has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index. He said: “To tame the current inflationary pressure, he suggested that government should reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate and reduce volatility, address forex liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures, address the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities and address productivity issues in the real sector of the economy”. Cordros Researchers in theirs Weekly Economic and Market Report (30- Jun-2023), stated that the Domestic and Foreign Portfolio Report of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), total transactions on the local bourse increased by 68.9% m/m to NGN322.92 billion in May (April: NGN191.21 billion) – its highest level since May 2022 (NGN607.25 billion). “Decomposing the breakdown provided, we highlight that domestic transactions (88.5% of total transactions) grew by 56.4% m/m to NGN285.75 billion while foreign transactions (11.5% of market transactions) also printed higher at NGN37.16 billion (April: NGN8.47 billion). “ Notably, net foreign transactions (NGN17.86 billion) settled at their highest level since December 2017, likely due to investors’ optimism about reforms from a new administration. “We expect domestic investors to continue to dominate the domestic equities market over the short-to-medium term, even as higher FI yields may constrain buying activities. “At the same time, while foreign investors are likely to adopt a wait-and-see approach in the near term, we expect to see improvement in foreign participation over the medium term.”