Reactions have contin­ued to trail the issues surrounding the scores obtained by Miss Mme­soma Ejikeme at her Unified Tertiary Matriculation Exams (UTME) of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) as rights activist and lawyer, Dr. Monday Ubani, has lent his voice. While in a chat with our correspondent, the former chairman of Nigerian Bar Association Section On Pub­lic Interest And Development Law (NBA-SPIDEL) said it was wrong for the examination body to quickly clamp a three-year ban on the candidate without what he said should be exhaustive investigation into the matter. Dr. Ubani noted that JAMB does not have the vires to ban the candidate unless after conviction following thorough probe into what actually hap­pened. He said: “The mishandling of Mmesioma’s case is one of the gross institutional failures in Nigeria. “JAMB cannot and does not possess the vires to ban Miss Mmesiomma either tempo­rarily or for life without the intervention of the judiciary. “After the sad incidence, JAMB reported that the mat­ter bothers on crime which re­quires the involvement of the security agencies. The lack of wait and the hastiness in pronouncing her guilty rais­es several queries demanding answers. “Has the security agency, the DSS in this case, conclud­ed her investigations? What was their findings? If JAMB denies the website from where she printed her results, whose website was that and who are those behind it? “There are several issues surrounding this matter that should have demanded pains­taking investigation and un­ravelling before JAMB rushes to pronounce the young girl guilty. POLL “While not holding brief for the young girl, I think that JAMB needs to tidy up its act on this issue and come clean on it before pronouncing the girl culpable. “We hope that this matter should be thoroughly handled and if possible let JAMB make available the answer script of the young girl as part of the exhibits to be investigated. “While we await report of full investigation, JAMB can­not ban the young girl unless after conviction by the court in the land,” he said. Ubani noted that the can­didate’s admission of seeing two results bearing her name called for urgent probe into the matter towards unraveling what actually happened. It will be recalled that Mmesoma, while speaking to Channels Television relayed what happened in the whole saga. “I went to the JAMB portal. There, I tried to get my result, then they directed me to an­other site. There, I put in my registration number, and the result came out,” she said. “I didn’t go to any computer cen­tre. It’s the result they gave me that I downloaded.” The candidate also said she saw 362 when she checked her result using the USSD code provided by JAMB. “The one I checked on the USSD code is the 362 that I saw,” she said. According to her, it was af­ter this that she sent an SMS to JAMB through the JAMB student support system, “but they didn’t give a reply.”