ABUJA – A member of the House of Representatives, Honourable Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere Ikeagwuonu, representing Ideato Federal Constituency has accused Imo State Governor and Chairman Progressives Governors’ Forum, Hope Uzodimma of being the brain behind APC Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu’s rejection of National Assembly’s principal officers as announced by Senate President Godswill Akpabio and House Speaker, Honourable Tajudeen Abbas. Recall that the Senate President and Speaker had on Tuesday announced the other principal officers of the two chambers of the National Assembly. They all represent the All Progressives Congress, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Labour Party, and New Nigerian Peoples Party, NNPP. But, the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee, NWC, of the APC, immediately disowned the leadership positions announced by Akpabio and Abbas, saying the party had not officially communicated with both presiding officers. Reacting to the development, Ugochinyere in a statement he personally signed alleged that Governor Uzodimma is working with Abdullahi Adamu to undermine the cross-party joint task efforts and smooth run of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s government. Ugochinyere said “Uzodinma is still pursuing his failed pre-primary agenda to stop the emergence of Tinubu to favour his longtime ally Ahmed Lawan who Uzodinma was alleged to have dreamt of running with as President and Vice. According to him, “the hostile efforts of Uzodinma and Abdullahi Adamu before their party primaries is the same agenda that is playing out with the recent attempt to undermine the choice of principal officers made by lawmakers.” Ugochinyere said, all lawmakers have confidence in 10th National Assembly leadership, and are in support of the principal officers as chosen by Akpabio and Abbas. He alleged that Uzodimma was reluctant to endorse Akpabio and Abbas after the ruling party announced them as consensus candidates. POLL According to him, “Governor Uzodimma was part of the plan to support a Senate presidency candidate other than the choice of the ruling All Progressives Congress, adding that he only caved in and pledged his support when he realised his preferred candidate will lose.” The lawmaker while passing vote of confidence on the recently announced principle officers of the 10th NASS announced by the Speaker and Senate President, said that “nobody can change the decision freely made by members except the members themselves as spelt out under order 7 rule 4 of the standing orders of the House.” He therefore advised President Tinubu and the Department of State Services to “cut Uzodimma to size before its too late and be very careful in dealing with him before he derails the current govt like Imo state where governance and human lives have been turned upside down.” Ugochinyere said, “No doubt, Imo State Governor and Chairman Progressives Governors’ Forum, Hope Uzodimma is the brain behind APC Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu’s rejection of National Assembly’s principal officers as announced by Senate President Godswill Akpabio and House Speaker, Hon. Tajudeen Abbas. “Remember Adamu spoke at a meeting with the Progressive Governors’ Forum PGF, led by Hope Uzodinma of Imo State, met with members of the National Working Committee, NWC. Adamu’s statement obviously was a result of what he was told by Uzodimma. “Uzodimma is a trouble maker who is never satisfied with anything good. We saw how reluctant he was to endorse Akpabio and Abbas after the ruling party announced them as consensus candidates. He claims to be a loyal party man but it took him weeks before he finally announced that he’s supporting his party’s choice. “The lawmakers are in full support of the choice of principle officers as announced by the Speaker and Senate President. The lawmakers chosen represents all region and parties, so the nass leadership were considerate in their choices. “I think the ruling party made a wrong decision in choosing Uzodimma as Chairman Progressive Governor’s Forum. I therefore advise President Tinubu and the Department of State Services to politically cut him to size before he brings the leadership rascality he currently displays in Imo to the national level.”