TONY EZIMAKOR; SAMUEL OGIDAN Senate President Godswill Akpabio and Tajudeen Abbas, Speaker of the House of Representatives, on Tuesday shunned the directive of the leader­ship of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and named senators and House of Representatives’ members in for­mer Governor Nyesom Wike’s camp as minority leaders. The unexpected twist was against the meeting held by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP and the 19 senators elected on the platform of the party on Monday. The party’s leadership and the sen­ators had resolved to continue their dialogue on the issue of minority leadership when the unexpected happened on Tues­day in the Senate and House of Representatives’ chambers. Recall that Abdul Ningi; for­mer governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal; former gov­ernor of Bayelsa State, Seriake Dickson, were among the sena­tors tipped to emerge as Senate Minority Leader. Also recall that there were reports of how Wike and Ati­ku Abubakar’s camps battled to produce the minority leader­ship of the National Assembly. But on Tuesday, on the floor of the Senate during the ple­nary after the Sallah break, Senate President Godswill Akpabio announced names different from the ones tipped to emerge. While Mwadkwon Simon Davou (PDP, Plateau North) was announced as Minority Leader, Oyewumi Kamoru­deen Olarere (PDP, Osun West) was announced as Deputy Minority Leader; Darlington Nwokeocha (Labour Party, Abia Central), Minority Whip and Rufai Hanga (NNPP, Kano Central ), Deputy Minority Whip. POLL The PDP and some of its senators had during their meeting on Monday resolved to communicate the President of the Senate, Akpabio, on the on-going consultation in the minority caucus to the effect that the nominations into the minority leadership positions in the Senate have not been concluded and that upon con­clusion, the nominated list will be formally conveyed to him appropriately for necessary action. Their resolution read: “The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP) today, Monday, July 3, 2023 met with members of the PDP caucus in the Senate. “At the meeting, the im­portance of a virile and stable opposition in the Senate and indeed the National Assembly was emphasised and the cau­cus assured that it will play that important role in the defence of democracy, the interest and wellbeing of Nigerians. “The meeting condemned in its entirety the alleged subterra­nean moves by the All Progres­sives Congress (APC) to meddle into the affairs of the minority with regards to the emergence of the minority leadership which is an exclusive reserve of the minority caucus as express­ly stipulated by constitutional provisions and standing rules of the Senate. “The PDP and the senators continue with consultations on the emergence of the minori­ty leadership in the Senate and are resolved to collectively present a unified leadership after due and conclusive con­siderations. Accordingly, the PDP will continue to provide the necessary leadership in this regard. “Consequently, the meeting resolved that the PDP NWC communicates to the Senate President, His Excellency, Distinguished Senator God­swill Akpabio, on the on-going consultation in the minority caucus to the effect that the nominations into the minority leadership positions in the Sen­ate have not been concluded and that upon conclusion, the nominated list will be formally conveyed to him appropriately for necessary action. “The PDP NWC commends the members of the PDP cau­cus in the Senate for their unity, steadfastness, loyalty to the par­ty and commitment towards the sustenance and deepening of democracy in our country.” But Senate President Ak­pabio ignored the commu­nication and went ahead to announce Wike’s men as mi­nority leaders. Efforts made by Daily Inde­pendent to get the reaction of the leadership of PDP on the emergence of the minority leaders against its resolution proved abortive. Meanwhile, Opeyemi Bam­idele (APC-Ekiti) has emerged as the Leader of the Senate, while Senator David Umahi (APC-Ebonyi), former gover­nor of Ebonyi State, was named Deputy Senate Leader; Senator Ali Ndume (APC-Borno), Sen­ate Majority Whip, and Sena­tor Lola Ashiru (APC-Kwara), Deputy Majority Whip. Recall that on Sunday, some senators it was reported had aligned with Senator Ningi given his unbroken loyalty to the PDP and his averred all-in­clusive disposition during his tenures as Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate and as Majority Leader of the House of Representatives to become Senate Minority Leader. A senator in the minority caucus, who had pleaded an­onymity, confirmed to jour­nalists in Abuja that many of the senators were insisting that though Tambuwal was Speaker of the House of Rep­resentatives, he is a first timer in the Senate and should defer to Senator Ningi. The senator further assert­ed that Tambuwal was spo­ken to by senators and other critical stakeholders to step down, while giving hints that the former governor of Sokoto State may have acceded to the entreaties. The lawmaker said: “Tam­buwal is a seasoned legislator and a team player but on the is­sue of Minority Leader of the Senate, I can confirm that as we speak, most of the senators are aligned with Ningi. There are entreaties to Senator Tambuw­al to step down for Ningi and I believe that he is seeing reasons he should do so.” Another senator in the mi­nority caucus had also told journalists that the caucus was fine-tuning its position to speak with one voice ahead of Tues­day, adding, “We are ironing out all the issues and we will speak with one voice ahead of resumption of plenary on Tuesday.” But that did not happen on Tuesday to the chagrin of the PDP leadership. APC Chair Disowns Principal Officers Announced By Senate, Reps Meanwhile, the All Progres­sives Congress (APC) leader­ship was on Tuesday thrown into confusion as Senator Ab­dullahi Adamu, its National Chairman, disowned the list of principal officers announced by the leadership of both cham­bers of the National Assembly. Addressing a meeting of the party’s National Working Com­mittee (NWC) and the Progres­sive Governors at the party’s national secretariat, Senator Adamu said the list of princi­pal officers announced on the floor of both chambers did not emanate from the party, as is the tradition, declaring to the APC governors that the event he gleaned from social media never held as far as the party is concerned. Adamu said the meeting was called partly to update the governors of the outcome of the recent Senate and House of Representatives leadership election and fill the rest of the positions. He, however, expressed surprise in the two chambers, insisting that the APC leader­ship was yet to endorse any list of candidates to the Senate and House of Representatives leadership to fill the principal offices. “What we called you today over and above what we want to hear from you as National Executive Committee of the party is that you will get an up­date of the National Assembly leadership election. Election of the Senate President and Dep­uty Senate President, and the Speaker and Deputy Speaker have been determined and the holders have resumed their re­sponsibilities. The remaining offices to complete the leader­ship of the two chapters is yet to be done”. While acknowledging that both Senate President Godswill Akpabio and Deputy as well as the Speaker paid him courtesy visits, recently, it appears the issues of the principal offices were not discussed, as he main­tained that the announcement made by Akpabio and Abbas never emanated from the party. He said the meeting will also receive the list of the newly con­stituted caucus of the party as well as the audited account of the party in the last one year, adding that the audited account of the Presidential Campaign Council of the APC has been submitted to INEC as required by law. He urged the Progressive Governors to come forward with advice that will sustain the progress made by the party and reduce friction. “But, I am just hearing as a rumour now from the online media that there have been some announcements in the Senate and House of Repre­sentatives. The national head­quarters of the party of the NWC has not given any such information or communicated about the choice of offices. “And until we formally re­solve and communicate with them in writing which is the norm and practice, it is not our intention to break away from traditions. So whatever announcement is done either by the President of the Sen­ate, Deputy Senate President, Speaker or Deputy Speaker, is not from this secretariat. “We are going to formally inform you that we are going to have a caucus, and for quite a time, there has been no caucus in place. The caucus has been reconstituted according to the constitution of APC. And we will be discussing that with you as governors, you know your states more than we know them. Even if we come from the same state, the leadership is in your hands as governors. “We will hear your advice and then see how we can en­sure that we comply with the provisions of the constitution of the party. “We hope that we will be receiving some reports from the Progressive Governors Forum, NGF chairman, or his representative, to get to know about your feelings and what is going on. “And what is your thinking on what to do to improve the chances of the party and there­fore reduce the problems and bickering that we have been hearing from time to time? Then we will have time by the grace of God permitting, we will have interactions. “Along with the caucus, the National Advisory Council will give you the list that has been prepared and make sure that every state is represented. And we will give you the knowledge of it and advice. You will also be given the benefits of all the detailed accounts from April 2022 to April 2023. The PCC ac­count has been audited and it has been submitted to the INEC by the party.” At the House of Representa­tives, the lawmaker represent­ing Owan Federal constituency of Edo State, Professor Julius Ihonvbere, emerged Majority Leader. Prof. Ihonvbere, who is a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), was announced as the Major­ity Leader, by House Speaker, Tajudeen Abbas. The speaker also announced other principal officers includ­ing Halims Abdullahi (APC – Kogi, Deputy Majority Lead­er); Bello Kumo (APC – Gombe, Chief Whip), and Adewunmi Onanuga (APC – Ogun, Deputy Chief Whip). Abbas also read a letter from the minority caucus, which de­tailed the names of the princi­pal officers. The letter named Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Minority Lead­er), Aliya Madaki (NNPP, Deputy Minority Leader), Ali Isah (PDP, Minority Whip), and George Ebizimawo (Labour Party, Deputy Minority Whip). NASS Principal Officers: We’ll Resolve All Issues—Uzodimma Again, Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) and governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodim­ma, down played the comments made by Adamu, APC National Chairman, distancing the par­ty from the newly constituted principal officers of both cham­bers of the National Assembly. Uzodimma explained that the APC chairman did not dis­own the new NASS leadership, stating that the officers enjoy the support of the party and the APC governors. He noted that somehow there has been communication gap which, he said, the party will resolve using its internal processes. “The chairman never said that they are on their own. The National Assembly leadership belongs to our great party and they are members of our party and they enjoy our support. “If there is any way that there is a communication gap anywhere, we will make it up and we have our internal mechanism of resolving such things. The National Assembly leadership enjoys the support of Progressives Governors’ Forum and that of our party. We don’t have any problem at all”, he said.