BAUCHI – The Concern Benue State All Progressives Congress (APC) Stakeholders comprising prominent members and representatives of the party have passed a vote of confidence on the recently nominated candidate for the ministerial position in Benue State, Dr Emmanuel Akpakwu. The group in a press statement made available to journalists in Bauchi on Monday, stated that, after a thorough evaluation of the nominee’s qualifications, achievements, and commitment to the principles of good governance, they have unanimously endorsed Dr. Akpakwu, Consul of the Philippines in Lagos for the Ministerial appointment of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. According to the leader of the group, Jackson Alfa Oloja, Emmanuel Akpakwu has consistently demonstrated exemplary leadership qualities and a deep understanding of the challenges facing the state. ”As stakeholders deeply invested in the progress and development of Benue State, we believe that Mr.Akpakwu possesses the necessary expertise, experience, and vision to contribute significantly to the growth and prosperity of our beloved Country.” “The nominee’s impeccable track record in private sector, coupled with their strong dedication to the welfare of the people, has earned them our utmost confidence and trust.” “Furthermore, Emmanuel Akpakwu has proven themselves to be a unifying figure, capable of fostering collaboration among various stakeholders and driving inclusive governance.” “These remarkable achievements in relevant areas of expertise, have garnered widespread recognition and accolades, making him a prime candidate for this important ministerial position.” “We call upon all APC members, supporters, and the general public in Benue State to rally behind Emmanuel Akpakwu to provide them with the necessary support and cooperation to succeed in this new role under President Bola Ahmed Tinubuled administration. Let us put aside partisan differences and prioritize the collective welfare and progress of our state and country.” POLL “We express our gratitude to His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Benue state, his amiable Deputy Governor and Speaker of the Benue State House of Assembly while we salute the leadership of the All Progressives Congress for nominating such an exceptional candidate, and we commend their commitment to selecting a man of high caliber and integrity for key positions of public service,” the group said. The Concern Benue APC Stakeholders wholeheartedly endorsed Mr.Emmanuel Akpakwu as the ministerial nominee from Benue State and urge all well-meaning citizens to join us in supporting their confirmation and subsequent contributions towards the development and prosperity of our great state and country.