Juventus have offered Liverpool the opportunity to sign Federico Chiesa this summer – but a move is only feasible in the event that Mohamed Salah leaves Anfield this summer. A year ago, Salah penned a new Reds contract through to 2025 and while there has been tentative interest in his signature from Saudi Arabia this summer – an exit this year appears unlikely. Klopp has already strengthened his squad this summer with the signings of Alexis MacAllister and Dominik Szoboszlai. The Reds were credited with having a strong interest in Juve forward Chiesa two summers ago in the wake of his starring performances at the European Championships for Italy. It was even claimed that an £86million bid had been lodged. A report in Gazzetta dello Sport outlines how agent Chiesa’s Fali Ramadani has been seeking a move to the Premier League for his client. Aston Villa were prepared to make an offer but the forward was not keen on a move to Villa Park. Liverpool and Newcastle are both credited with an interest, but in the case of the Reds – such a move is only feasible with a big attacking player exit, with Salah referenced as a possibility. Newcastle, for their part, are looking to sign Harvey Barnes but may sell Allan Saint-Maximin. Juve’s asking price for Chiesa is likely to be significantly less than it was back in 2021, with a figure of around €50million (£42m) now being touted by Italian media. That is based on several factors, including the club’s own financial situation. The Bianconeri have missed out on Champions League football next season and will instead compete in the Europa Conference League. That followed their failure in Europe’s premier club competition this term, in which they lost five of their six group games. Max Allegri’s side did recover to reach the Europa League semi-finals but the shortfall in revenue hit the club hard and their Serie A points deduction saw them finish seventh in the Italian top-flight, despite having the largest wage bill in the division. POLL In January 2022, Chiesa suffered an anterior cruciate ligament injury, ruling him out for seven months. That has limited him to just six Serie A starts across the past 18 months as he seeks to steer clear of further injuries. Chiesa is under contract at the Old Lady until 2025 and there is said to be no possibility of a contract renewal at this stage. He has bagged 22 goals across 94 appearances for Juve since joining the club in 2020.