Prominent traditional rulers on Monday in Abuja have hinted that monarchs in the country will persuade President Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the need to sign the Peace Corps of Nigeria Bill to make it a statutory body. The traditional rulers, Etsu Nupe, Dr. Yahaya Abubakar, Tor Tiv, Professor James Ayatse, and the Ochi-Idoma of Idomaland, Dr. John Eliagwu expressed optimism that making Peace Corps a government establishment would not only create jobs for the teaming jobless youths but will considerably reduce crime rate in the country. The traditional rulers disclosed this in their separate remarks during the Founder’s Day Celebration on Monday in Abuja put together by the Peace Corps. The three monarchs pleaded with President Tinubu to immediately give a second thought to the issue of transforming the Peace Corps from a non-governmental organization to a government body. At the public function attended by top Federal Government functionaries, Etsu Nupe said that monarchs in the country would deliberate on the Peace Corps matters, and come up with a position paper that would be tabled before President Tinubu. He blamed the past refusal of assent to the PCN Bill on misconception adding that the Corps was not founded to wrestle power from any other security agency but to contribute to youth development and crime reduction through robust intelligence gathering at the grassroot level. He said ” The truth is that without peace, no one in the country would be able to worship his or creator.  The Peace Corps mission was unjustly misconstrued, the monarch said. The Chairman, Niger State Council of Traditional rulers pleaded with the existing security agencies to allow the Peace Corps to come on board, cooperate with it, collaborate with it in the peace initiative that would reduce incidents of insecurity in the country. POLL He lauded the initiative of the founder of the organization, Professor Dickson Ameh Akoh and the resilience that had sustained the body in the past 25 years in the face of stiff opposition. The Tor Tiv and Chairman of Benue State Council of Traditional Rulers said that monarchs stand for the course of the Peace Corps and would mobilize themselves and well meaning Nigerians to give support for the Bill to be assented to. He said with the strong voice of Etsu Nupe in the National Traditional Council, what is humanly possible would be done to get President Tinubu’s assent for the PCN Bill. ” We are the closest people to the grassroots level. We know what peace means and what the Peace Corps can do. We did not see PCN as a threat. There is no room for competition but complementation with each other. In his own remarks, the Ochi-idoma pleaded with Tinubu to give approval for the Establishment Act to further demonstrate his concern to address unemployment among youths. On his own part the National Commandant of the Corps,  Prof. Dickson Akoh  had recalled with regret how the 8th and 9th National Assemblies passed the bill for the Establishment of the Corps as a statutory body but was not assented to by the Presidency. Akoh noted that during the stiff opposition to the existence of the body, he was detained for seven and half years while the Corps won over 30 cases in court. He praised the resilience of officers and volunteers of the Corps for remaining committed to the noble cause of the organization in spite of the numerous challenges.