The statement credited to the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress, Senator Abdullahi Adamu that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu was “in state of extreme incapacity, hospitalized,” has been described as “untrue and disconnected.” Debunking the statement, the state Chairman of APC, Engr. Ade Adetimehin said he was present at the meeting during which the national chairman was misinterpreted to have described the governor’s state of health as critical. A statement by Ondo State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Bamidele Ademola-Olateju made available to newsmen in Akure on Tuesday, revealed that the state chairman of APC has debunked the report. She ascribed the report, which gained prominence in the media on Tuesday, as “mischievous, wicked, and insensitive.” Ademola-Olateju alleged that the report was sponsored by some “desperate politicians,” thereby calling on the public to ignore the report. She stated that the governor was not incapacitated and would soonest return to the office whenever his physician declared him fit. The statement reads inter alia: “The attention of Ondo State government has been drawn to a report, credited to the Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, on the 11th July 2023. The headline, “Akeredolu in state of extreme incapacity, hospitalized”, bore a tinge of the usual mischievous, wicked, and insensitive reportage, sponsored by desperate politicians. “The Chairman of the APC in Ondo State, Engineer Ade Adetimehin, who attended the meeting, has debunked the report as untrue and totally disconnected from the statement of the Chairman at the event. The National Chairman was indeed excited at the reports on the rate of recovery of the Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, CON, and urged all those present at the meeting to pray for his quick return. POLL “It, therefore, smacks of mischief and unabashed abandonment of professional ethics for a reporter to present this gross misrepresentation, a mischievous twist, as news. At no time did the Chairman mention that the Governor was in a state of “extreme incapacity”. He is, evidently, not in any critical state that should warrant this clearly reprehensible conduct as he still sent a post to the Executive Council Committee platform yesterday. “Members of the public are advised to ignore this news as the contents therein exist in the realm of the imagination of workers of iniquity. “Mr. Governor is NOT incapacitated. He will return to his duty as soon as the doctors certify him fully fit to do so.”