PORT HARCOURT – The All Progressives Congress party, APC, in Rivers State has warned the loyalists of the former governor Nyesom Wike to stop impersonating the party, its leadership, stakeholders or members by attempting to use the party’s platform to do political business. “We particularly want to draw public attention to the activities of these individuals who have  been paid handsomely to engage in the serial blackmail and impersonation of the Rivers State chapter of the APC. We advise the general public not to have anything to do with such characters”, the party said. In a statement by its spokesman in the state, Darlington Nwauju, APC warned both those claiming to have an order of a Port Harcourt High Court presided over by Justice D.S. Kio which was procured on the 13th of April 2022 “under the manipulative control of Mr Wike as Governor, or those parading themselves in the name of “stakeholders”, “Amalgamated NGOs” or support groups to desist from deceiving the public about their membership status of our great party as the party has no record of membership of such persons especially the former Chief of staff (Tony Okocha) to former Governor Chibuike Amaechi. “For the avoidance of doubt, the procured Order of a state High Court in suit no PHC/925/CS/2023 issued (better still awarded) on the 13th of April 2023 had a shelf life of 7days and has long expired giving the FACT that the two members of the State Executive of our party entered an Appeal on the said matter in Appeal No.CA/166/2023 and there is no other court in Nigeria as at today, that is entertaining any issue whether touching on the two State Exco members or the entire Executive of the APC in Rivers State. “Again without  bothering to dignify the ignorance of these conflipreneurs, page (2) Paragraph (3) of reliefs in the said procured Order against two of our Executives, directed Claimants/Applicants to get the National APC (NWC) of our party to validate the purported suspension which HAS NOT BEEN DONE  to comply substantially with the letters of the Order that they themselves procured with the aid of their paymasters. The implication of this is that the purported suspension can only take effect with the endorsement of the NWC of APC”. Nwauju said it was hallucinatory for any individual or group to continue to lay claim to an Order of court that has long expired (13th April – 19th April 2023), adding that APC is an organized political party with a Constitution and a body of rules. “We are at a loss why an Exparte Order of a Court in Nigeria can be so mocked as to be converted into the judgement of Court and an instrument of destruction of our party by individuals who never meant well for the APC in Rivers State. We wish to alert Nigerians and lovers of democracy to the ceaseless promotion of democratic brigandage in Rivers State in the name of politics of interest. “For emphasis, this Exparte Order cannot be ad-infinitum and has been properly challenged before a Superior Court, thus, doing anything that will seem to further recognize that this “suspension” can last forever beyond 7days or if renewed on Application by the Court suo motu 14 days, amounts to an affront on the Court of Appeal. POLL “May we therefore warn in the light of these glaring and unimpeachable facts, that ‘any individual or group of persons attempting to impersonate Rivers State APC executives by sponsoring miscreants disguising as our youth wing or as members of the State Chapter of the APC for the purposes of calling for the appointment of Mr Nyesom Wike as Minister of the Federal Republic or any other matter(s) in favour of the immediate past Governor, shall have law enforcement agencies to contend with”.