…Say Misgivings Trail INEC’s Commitment To Credible Polls …LP Alleges Plans By Opposition Parties To Clone BVAS …Activists Warn Commission To Redeem Image Starting up from the much-criticised 2023 general elections, there has been skepticism about the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in conducting the remaining off-season Governorship elections in Nigeria for the year. INEC’s level of preparedness can vary based on various factors such as logistical arrangements, voter education programmes, security provisions, and overall organisational efficiency. For experts also believe that these factors will determine which of the governors going for the off-season election this year will return to office. Reports by ROLAND OGBONNAYA, IGONIKO ODUMA, ATABOR JULIUS, ANOLU VINCENT, TITILOPE JOSEPH and SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE To provide a critical assessment of just concluded Nigeria’s 2023 presidential election, one would need to analyse some factors based on the specific circumstances and events related to that election. It would be best to refer to reputable experts and observers who closely follow Nigerian politics for a comprehensive and up-to-date assessment. However, in general, critical assess­ments of elections can encompass var­ious aspects, including the electoral pro­cess, campaign activities, voter turnout, transparency, credibility, and the overall democratic environment. To discuss any future election in Nigeria without critically assessing the just concluded presidential election is tantamount to putting new wine in a dirty container. In its recent report of the last Feb­ruary/March election, the European Union (EU) Election Observation Mis­sion took the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to the cleaners, confirming that the 2023 gener­al election lacked transparency, was not inclusive, and fell short of benchmarks and standards the commission set for itself. It also said INEC’s action eroded the gains made over time in the nation’s democratic process. The Mission which released its Final Report on the 2023 general elections at a press conference, Tuesday declared that “public confidence and trust in INEC were severely damaged during the presidential poll and was not restored in state-level elections” forcing leading civil society to call for an independent audit of the entire process. POLL Barry Andrew, EOM’s Chief Ob­server who addressed journalists in Abuja noted that across the country, “the pre-poll environment was volatile and challenging, affected by economic cri­ses. Fundamental freedoms of assembly and movement were broadly respected, yet the full enjoyment of the latter was impeded by insecurity in some parts of the country. “Abuse of incumbency by various political office holders distorted the playing field and wide-spread vote buy­ing detracted from appropriate conduct of the elections. Incidents of organised violence shortly before and on election days in several states created an envi­ronment deterring voter participation. The media raised voters’ awareness, fact-checkers stood up against disin­formation and civil society demanded INEC’s accountability. “The overall outcome of the polls at­tests to the continued underrepresenta­tion of marginalised groups in political life. The observation mission also noted gaps and ambiguities in the Electoral Act, especially as it concerns INEC’s accountability and transparency includ­ing a lack of INEC independent struc­tures and capacities to enforce sanctions for electoral offences and breaches of campaign finance rules.” The mission questioned the selection process of those to be appointed to serve as RECs and National Commissioners for an independent body such as INEC. On the positive side, Andrew noted the determination of Nigerians, especially the youth to embrace tenets of democ­racy fully, while candidates and parties who disputed the outcomes of the elec­tion took their myriads of complaints to the courts. While the election is being largely contested in courts, INEC has an off-sea­son governorship election to conduct be­tween November and February 2024 in four states – Imo, Kogi, Bayelsa and Edo. According to Ebube George Ebisike, Roving Ambassador State of the Afri­can Diaspora (SOAD), with the issues surrounding INEC’s performance in the February 2023 Presidential elections, which by vicarious liability or default is still subjudice by virtue of the election petition cases ongoing across the coun­try, there is no doubt that a large portion of the Nigeria citizenry and internation­al observers have expressed that INEC lost its credibility substantively. In Bayelsa State, some of the candi­dates of the political parties participat­ing in the forthcoming November 11 governorship election have been boast­ing about the fact that they would win the polls. Among the major contenders in the state are the second term-seek­ing incumbent Governor, Douye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the immediate-past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva of the APC, and a former Commissioner for Youth, and Environment, Udengs Eradiri of the Labour Party (LP). Since the primary elections were concluded in April, they and their foot soldiers have been upbeat about elector­al victory when the polls are conducted. While Diri believes that he deserves a second term in office because his admin­istration has performed very well in the last three years, Sylva alleges that the governor is clueless, and Eradiri posits that poverty and harsh business climate are some of the characteristics of the present government and that he will ‘re-boot Bayelsa State’. However, the INEC has assured the public of its preparedness to conduct a credible, free and fair governorship election, having taken stock of how it managed the processes of the general elections it conducted in the first quar­ter of this year. Speaking with Saturday INDEPEN­DENT, the Head of Voter Education and Publicity, INEC, Yenagoa Office, Mr. Wilfred Ifogah, said the commission was implementing the activities for the governorship election as outlined in the timetable earlier released by the nation­al headquarters of the electoral umpire. He said, “Although it is an off-cycle election, preparations started early. We have already taken stock of what we have in terms of sensitive and non-sen­sitive materials, ballot boxes and some other materials that we will be using in the RACs. The timetable has been out for this election because the Electoral Act gives 360 days before the election.” Despite the assurances by INEC, mis­givings are trailing the commission’s commitment to conduct a satisfactory governorship election in Bayelsa. But an activist, Alagoa Morris, has challenged INEC to use the off-season governor­ship elections in Bayelsa, Imo and Kogi States to redeem its image and restore public confidence, saying the commis­sion allegedly failed to keep to its prom­ise of conducting free, fair and credible 2023 general elections. Morris, who is the Head of Environ­mental Rights Action/ Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN), Yenagoa Office, said: “Of a truth, if we were in some climes, not only the INEC chair­man but a good number of the top staff of the electoral umpire would have ei­ther resigned voluntarily or sacked by now considering what happened during the last general election, especially the Presidential election of 25th February 2023. “INEC did make strong statements, giving confidence to Nigerians, espe­cially the civil society and international community that election results would be electronically transmitted from the polling units and that there was no going back on that decision. But, this was not the case for the presidential election and this has not only led to an ongoing legal battle at the Election Petition Tribunal but has eroded public confidence in INEC. The only thing I would suggest to INEC is, efforts should be made to redeem its image as far as public trust and confidence are concerned.” It is unassailable for all political ob­servers in Imo State to assert that the greatest preoccupation currently agi­tating the minds of the people is “who governs the state after the November 11 governorship election. Will the incum­bent Governor-Senator Hope Uzodim­ma retain his tenancy in the Douglas House (Government House).” This is even as the crisis trailing the Governorship primaries of the various political parties jostling for the number one seat continues to rage on. The parties with a visible presence in the State include the APC, PDP, LP, Afri­can Democratic Congress (ADC), Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the Young Progressive Party (YPP). Not long ago, the electoral umpire-IN­EC released the list of candidates for the election which, all the more raised more anxiety and trepidation among the populace. Expectedly, the release has raised the political temperature of the people and has provoked intra-par­ty horse-trading among the gladiators pending the official lifting of the ban on campaign for the polls by INEC. Security is gradually being beefed up in the INEC office which situates on Port Harcourt Road Owerri and a cur­sory look at the list of the governorship and deputy governorship candidates showed that none of the participating parties is fielding female candidates for the gubernatorial competition. Howev­er, two parties – the ADP and the APC have female running mates with Oti Viv­ian Ogechi for the former and Ekomaru Chinyere Ihuoma for the latter. There are frenzied moves by all the key players to prevail on their support­ers and members to play the game ac­cording to the rules to ensure a hitch-free poll. Also speaking, a public affairs com­mentator and Associate Professor of Political Science at the Niger Delta Uni­versity (NDU), Philips Okolo, stated that it was important to interrogate INEC’s preparedness for the forthcoming off-cy­cle governorship polls because of “the very controversial general elections it conducted recently nationwide.” “The commission promised heaven and earth (its high levels of prepared­ness) but its performance wasn’t very encouraging largely. This is particularly so, in respect of uploading the presiden­tial election results; early deployment of polling materials/personnel to voting points, polling stations/centres was equally hugely problematic. Generally, elections in Bayelsa, Imo and particular­ly Kogi often are riddled with wide-scale electoral violence,” the don said. The LP governorship candidate, Udengs Eradiri, decried vote-buying and selling and other forms of irregu­larities that had characterised the bal­loting process in the country. He said, “Vote buying is criminal. We are already hearing that some of my colleagues (candidates) are already talking about how they will clone BVAS. We will get INEC to tell us the code of every BVAS that will be taken to every polling unit. Every BVAS is attached to a unit with a code. If there are no codes, INEC should begin to put codes so that people will not create another round of crisis in Bayel­sa or the Niger Delta with the cloning of BVAS over elections. “Some of my colleagues are still liv­ing in the past, that’s why even in their primaries they went and wrote results instead of going through the process. They are still living in the past (saying): ‘How much does he (Eradiri) have? We are going to buy the whole INEC’. Can you imagine the level INEC has been reduced to? That people are already preparing to buy you, INEC? That’s how shameful our institution has become. “As Labour Party and participant in this election, we are sending a message to INEC: they are already planning to buy you, you are now sold cheap that you are now on the altar of buying and selling for an election that should be about the will of the people, issues that affect the survival of the people. They have turned it to buying and selling; they are already gathering money that they will give to the security. That’s the level our electoral process has gone to. I will not reduce myself to that level. “Even if I have all the money in the world, I will not reduce myself to buying and selling a process that will make you have no connection with the people. I have been moving around talking to peo­ple because I want to build that social connection and bond with the people. That’s the only way you will not forget when you get into office.” Femi Aborishade, a legal practi­tioner thinks the overwhelming public perception of the performance of INEC particularly as far as the 25 February 2023 Presidential election is concerned is incapable of being transparent. “INEC failed to abide strictly by the provisions of the Electoral Act and the guidelines it developed to govern the electoral procedure. The lack of trans­parency lingers on till today to the ex­tent that certain documents that some political parties have applied for, which they intended to rely upon at the Elec­tion Tribunal and for which they paid the fees prescribed by INEC were not made available”. He said that INEC has continued to give the excuse of an electronic glitch, which affected the transmission of Pres­idential election results on the 25th of February, but experts have argued that there was no electronic glitch anywhere in the world, including Nigeria, that could affect the transmission of election results on the 25th of February contrary to INEC’s excuses. “The implication is that there is a huge trust deficit. In other words, the problem with INEC, from the stand­point of public perception, is not techni­cal. It is not a lack of resources, human, financial, or material. In that context, only INEC can explain whether or not it is prepared to convince the overwhelm­ing public, domestic and international, that it can be trusted. “For me, I think that the conclusion that can be drawn from INEC’s per­formance so far is that INEC has been programmed to fail where transparen­cy and observing its own self-imposed regulations are concerned,” he added. Ambassador Ebube, for example, said in Imo State, the power of incumbency will play out at its most desperate tempo to retain the status quo. “Firstly the juris­prudential anomaly and circumstances behind the emergence of the Governor there is a very finicky issue in the minds of the voters besides the ubiquitous in­security and prevalent killings recorded since the Governor’s office. “The other is that Imo State has re­corded no palpable FDI inflow since this current administration took the reins of power. This may be the same for oth­er off-season state elections but then if INEC ensures transparency, paradigm shifts of the opposition emerging may just unfold. All that matters is the peo­ple’s will be done.” Goddy Uwazurike, President of the Cultural Credibility Development Initiative (CCDI) states that INEC has not really indicated that there was any failure in the 2023 election. “It is when you identify a flaw that you fix it. INEC insists that it is fully prepared for elec­tions. It is still assuring the electorate of a free and transparent exercise.” He said the only conclusion is that INEC deliberately damaged the credi­bility of the 2023 election. “So long as the electoral body has not told us about the lack of transparency, the voter intimida­tion and why up till now, the average vot­er cannot access the result. What about those who have not received their voter’s card? The shameful part is that INEC has conducted many elections and the states to watch this year are Kogi, Imo and Bayelsa. These states are primed for a do-or-die election,” he said. Wale Ogunade, a legal practitioner believes that INEC has learnt its les­sons from the flaws of the last general elections and with the results of those people that partook in the election as observers they are putting their acts to­gether, dotting the i’s and crossing the t’s. “To that extent, you can be sure that they will put up a better performance for the upcoming elections. Don’t forget anyway that INEC is always overwhelmed with general elections because of the usual size and volume of the logistics deployed, but for the off-season elections particularly in one or two states, you see they deployed all the electoral commissioners, commis­sioners of police and in some times assistant inspector of police to those election areas so as to forestall all sorts of untoward activities. “In terms of preparation, they would have prepared very well because again they will be able to deploy logistics eas­ily and the issue of uploading or not uploading online, the issue of BVAS those things you can be sure that INEC will work on it and of course it will be top-notch this time around.” On the state that may likely enjoy the power of incumbency, Ogunade said there is nothing like that, that the vot­ers are now getting seriously educated and they are aware of their civic rights and they are careless about the power of incumbency. “The only thing that can work for the incumbent is if he works if he delivers. The issue of rigging, the issue of falsi­fying, the issue of taking advantage of people and all sorts of electoral fraud are now gone and it is gone forever and you can be sure of that. “You saw governors in the last gen­eral elections who are unable to win one senatorial district for themselves to go to the Senate, so if that is anything to go by, definitely the issue of incumbency has gone and forever. I just want everybody to do their work very well, INEC should do their work well, the political parties and the candidates should not think of shortcuts of how to rig and manipulate they should just allow the process to go smoothly so that there will not be any stress,” Ogunade added. Adewale Adeoye, Executive Direc­tor, Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER) stated that it is uncertain to know how prepared INEC is. “I think there were strong and weak points for INEC in the last elections. Generally, INEC has improved in a comparative sense. It was the first time we were using BVAS on a large scale. We should expect some challenges. “I think there were challenges in the real-life transmission of results. There were challenges with conducting elec­tions in areas with serious security challenges. There were problems of monitoring corruption in the electoral process. But in terms of preventing bal­lot stuffing, snatching of ballot papers, voter accreditation, and prevention of rigging, INEC has improved tremen­dously. “INEC cannot improve in isolation from the security operatives, the mind­set of the electorate and the political leadership. The parties need to check corruption during the primary, the im­position of high fees for aspirants, the manipulation of the primary, and its domination by money bags must stop. INEC should improve voters’ education. “I think Kogi has come out significant­ly as a state that the Governor is deter­mined to dictate the tune. He was accused of solely picking the APC candidate and there are concerns about the fact that he has an unusual desperation to ensure his party wins in the next election. This is not a bad idea provided he follows laid down principles and that the candidate wins legally and convincingly.” In his view, Lagos-based lawyer, Mr Abdulah Wahab said that the “Indepen­dent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has never prepared for any elec­tion in the country. So, the same will be applicable to the remaining elections in the states where such is required. The commission has its budget for all elections as approved by the federal gov­ernment. By and large, it is easier for the body to conduct a single election as it’s applicable in the states. For instance, it is common knowledge that the state elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states are not coming up on the same date.” This, he said, will enable the commis­sion to have enough human and materi­al resources to conduct the poll. Besides, though the commission, like every other institution who can make mistakes may have made mistakes in some areas in the previous polls, it must have smarted up to prevent the mistakes for a smooth poll for the coming governorship elec­tions in the applicable states. “Without sounding immodest, since the last general elections, nothing much has really changed. The prevailing circumstances may have really made something to change, the reason being that it has not conducted any election. However, it is believed that there are rules and regulations that guide the conduct of every election. It is hoped and believed that rules and regulations should be abided with to enable the body to conduct a smooth and seamless poll in the affected states.” However, with the election fast ap­proaching on November 11, 2023, the electioneering process has begun in earnest, with ominous signs across the state. The major parties have presented their standard bearers to the Indepen­dent National Electoral Commission for confirmation. The parties with a strong showing in this wise include the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and the candi­date, Senator Dino Melaye, All Progres­sive Congress APC, Ahmed Usman Ododo, Social Democratic Party SDP, Alhaji Muritala Yakubu Ajaka. Others are members of the House of Represen­tatives, Leke Abejide of African Demo­cratic Party (ADP) and Usman Jibril, ex-Naval Chief of Accord Party. But of concern is the way the major contend­ing parties are being polarised towards ethnic affiliations. The Executive Director, Conscience for Human Rights and Conflict Resolu­tions, CHRCR, Comrade Abdul Idris Miliki, urged INEC to examine the post-election review and see whether they have done right or not and own up with the aim to improve on their activ­ities. He added that the election man­agement body should build confidence in the people that it can conduct a free and fair election that will be acceptable to the electorate. In his views, Professor Joseph Odoba Achegbulu, of the Department of Pub­lic Administration, Prince Abubakar Audu University Anyigba, based the preparedness of INEC for the conduct of Kogi Governorship election on No­vember 11 2023 on four main domains of Political Parties, Security Agencies, Civil Society Organisations, CSO, the Media and electorate. Professor Achegbulu asked rhetori­cally whether these domains are ready in terms of resources- materials, per­sonnel logistics, voters education, etc. “The answer is no or not very visible yet. This is not to say that the main con­tending political parties – ADC, Accord, APC and SDP are not visiting tradition­al rulers and individuals across political divides deemed to be of political capital to the respective candidates.” In the same vein, a renowned human rights activist and opinion moulder – Chief Joseph Ukandu believes that the embarrassing security challenges in the state will be the albatross of Uzod­imma’s re-election bid. “People are being slaughtered like cows daily while properties are de­stroyed and the government is not do­ing anything about this. The people are not happy and do not think that they will want the governor to come back, let us wait and see.” For Rev. Godspower Njoku of Jesus Power Ministry, “let the wish of God prevail on November 11. All power belongs to God and He gives power to anybody he wishes. Electing should not be a do-or-die affair. Unfortunately, the political class does not understand. The APC claimed to have won all seats in the last House of Assembly election and you begin to ask questions about what is happening.” For many political observers, there must be a level playing ground for all political parties and their respective candidates in the elections, while the electoral umpire and security agencies must ensure they perform their consti­tutional and statutory responsibilities optimally without fear or favour and fairly and equitably. This should be vis­ible to all and sundry. They said the threat of violence is a means of de-enfranchising the elec­torate as it could trigger voter apathy. Popular candidates should emerge through free, fair, competitive and cred­ible elections.