AWKA  – Chairman of the Anambra State Local Government Service Commission, Chief Vin Ifeanyichuk­wu Ezeaka, has said that local governments in the state may henceforth have less than 100 staff after the ongoing digitisa­tion of the entire system. Ezeaka, who stated that the digitisation of the local govern­ment system in the state became very imperative, maintained that the rot and inefficiency in the local governments had become so unbearable and unacceptable such that the state government had to take very drastic deci­sion to check the development through the computerisation of the entire system intended to drastically reduce redundancy. Ezeaka explained that the digitisation of the local govern­ment system would help to cut down on physical labour such that each local government council may not have more than 100 workers when the process is completed. That the advent of the digital era in the local government sys­tem meant that what 10 persons can do, only one person can now do it using the computer. He said workers had been advised to learn some trade so they could be entrepreneurs on their own. In the same vein, he said the commission is conducting pre-re­tirement trainings for local gov­ernment workers in conjunction with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) to educate them on what to do with their lives after retirement. Although the commission chairman also disclosed that a memo for recruitment of work­ers into the local governments had been written to the governor, he said such could only happen when the commission had re­moved all the bad eggs and built a work culture in the local gov­ernment system; so that those to be employed would not come into the system and meet a culture of lateness, absenteeism and all manner of corruptions. The commission’s chairman observed that the local govern­ment as third tier of government, was left unmanned because of lack of elections for many years coupled with the appointment of TC chairmen, which he said led to the complete bastardization of the entire system. POLL To this end, Ezeaka opined that the Local Government Sys­tem in Anambra state had no culture of work ethics and ac­countability. He said they were the issues the commission wants to tackle before employing new workers. He said that there had been impunity in the system and that over the years local government workers stopped what they were supposed to do and started doing what politicians want them to do. Although he stated that the governor Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo had said that he would conduct local govern­ment election and also promised that there would be local gov­ernment reforms, he was of the opinion that the outcome of the reforms would lead to the amend­ment of the Anambra State Local Government Laws. He had no doubts that Gov­ernor Soludo would reform the local government system and equally have it sanitised for bet­ter and quality service delivery.