ABUJA – The Industrial Training Fund (ITF) said it had made a formal submission to the Federal Government for the establishment of Centres for Advanced Skills Training for Em­ployment (CASTE) in the six Geo-political Zones of the country. Sir Joseph Ari, Director General/ Chief Executive Officer of ITF, revealed this on Friday in Abuja at the 3rd Annual Forum for Innovation in African Uni­versities(FIAU) organised by FIAU and Rohde and Schwarz, Munchen in Germany in collaboration with the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) and the National Universities Commission (NUC). He explained that the proposed Centres for Ad­vanced Skills Training for Employment would be used for graduates up­skilling and reskilling and the overall capacity devel­opment of Nigerians in Technical and Vocational Education and Training. Ari, who enumerated various initiatives intro­duced by ITF to reduce the high rate of unemploy­ment in the country, noted that creativity and innova­tions are indispensable in tackling unemployment in Nigeria. He noted that to enhance creativity and innovation, that the ITF had com­menced the conversion of its existing Skills Training Centres (STC) located in Lagos, Kano, Kogi, Abuja and Plateau and the vo­cational wings which are attached to its Area Offic­es to hubs for innovation and entrepreneurship (e-Hubs). He pointed out that insti­tutions of higher learning in Nigeria and other stake­holders could use these facilities as incubation centres and vehicles for innovation and creativity. He said: “Although, not an exhaustive account of innovations that we have embarked upon over the years, it is suggestive of the direction that the ITF is willing to take to en­sure that innovation and creativity are institution­alised and entrenched in our system. POLL “Our experience over the years has shown that more can be achieved with greater collaboration and synergy. “I will therefore, use this opportunity to invite tertiary institutions and other relevant agencies to work with us to drive the growth of our dear coun­try through innovation.” The ITF boss who spoke on the theme, “Strength­ening Africa’s Higher Ed­ucation in a Post-COVID-19 World,” identified high dropout rate; absence of adequate infrastructure for online learning; power supply and energy crisis, rising insecurity; lack of digital educational system and reluctance by teachers and school administrators to embrace new technology as some of the challenges confronting higher insti­tutions in Nigeria, and in Africa in general. He, however, commended President Bola Ahmed Tinu­bu for signing into law the Access to Higher Education Act, 2023 otherwise known as the Student Loan Act. The Act, according to him, would open up ac­cess to loans that would help students to fund their higher education, thereby boosting school enrolment even for the less privileged members of the society that were previously de­nied such opportunities on account of lack of finance. In his welcome remarks, Prof. Pascal Anosike, ex­pressed worry over slow pace of progress in using technologies to drive in­novations in the African universities. Anosike called for more collaborations among the critical stakeholders to strengthen the capacities of African Universities. He also called for more private sector investments in institutions of higher learning through the de­ployment of latest technol­ogies in learning.