Dimeji Lawal, the team manager of Shooting Stars Sports Club (3SC) of Ibadan, has denied that the club has terminated play­ers’ contract through WhatsApp message. He also denied i in a chat that the club informed the play­ers whose contracts ended this season about the non-renewal through WhatsApp. Over the weekend, the social media space went agog with tweets insinuating that certain players were laid off impromptu via WhatsApp. The former Super Eagles winger, denied the unsubstan­tiated news saying their was no iota of truth in the rumour that Oluyole Warriors ended the contracts of some some players through WhatsApp. “It is a sane world, things don’t happen that way,” Dimeji told an online medium. He added, “Everybody has their means of communication, and we all know that WhatsApp is one of the commonly used platforms for passing messages across.” He continued, “Ask the play­ers if we didn’t have a meeting together as a club after the season ended. Ask them if the coach did not inform them that more infor­mation about their future will be conveyed via their platform, which is the WhatsApp group. “I think the media is only looking for issues where there are none, instead of focusing on players in clubs where they are owed salaries, nobody is even talking about player welfare. POLL “Tell me one club in world football that is yet to lay off play­ers after the season ended. So it is not strange that some of our players will be let go as well. “In football, you aspire, you work hard but things may not al­ways go your way. For instance, Arsenal in Europe. They didn’t win anything at the end of the season, despite their efforts and diligence. “If you remember our pre­season games, we played against tough clubs, defeated Rivers Unit­ed and Plateau United, and also took valuable points off Rangers International. “We are not happy with how the season ended, because we had better expectations. And I think last season was an improvement from the previous season where we were battling in relegation waters.” The Oluyole Warriors avoided relegation in the just concluded season, after finishing 6th in Group A, and Dimeji expressed his feelings on the club’s current status and vision. 3SC will now hope to move on from the crisis management issues before them and plan alongside Gbenga Ogunbote who heads the squad for a better 2023- 24 showing.