ABEOKUTA  – The Association of Nigerian Chartered Architects, ANCA, has described the Federal Gov­ernment policy of stopping bud­getary allocations to professional bodies and councils from 2024 as a ‘defective policy’. The Association said the poli­cy will allow for undue influence, avoidable compromises and in­herent potential conflict of inter­est occasioned by an exaggerated drive for revenue generation and struggle for survival against per­formance and core mandate. The Association, in a state­ment signed by the National Sec­retary and President, Arc. ‘Koye Jolaoso and Arc. ‘Noyor Omat­sone, said the choice of funding model should consider the goals, characteristics, and priorities of the regulatory agency. According to it, the model should also consider the envi­ronment in which the regulatory agencies operate. ANCA said though it is not directly affected by the policy, it however does affect members, ar­chitects in general and ordinary Nigerian citizens who are the con­sumers of architectural practice and services. “The Association of Nigerian Chartered Architects (ANCA) has followed with keen interest and concern, the Federal Government Circular, through the Budget Office of the Federation of 26th June, 2023, conveying the decision of the Presidential Committee on Salaries (PCS) to discontinue bud­getary allocation, wherewith the personnel, overheads and capital expenditures of the Professional Bodies and Councils would be self-funded from the Year 2024. “The choice of funding model should consider the goals, char­acteristics, and priorities of the regulatory agency, as well as the regulatory environment in which it operates. “Therefore, where and when a policing agency is not empow­ered and logistically strength­ened, that sector of the society heads for failure, as it has man­ifested in the frequency of col­lapse of buildings during and after constructio POLL “It is apt to note herewith that, Nigeria as a system struggling with uncertainties and instability, a self-funding model at a point of implementation will give rise to undue influences, avoidable com­promises and inherent potential conflict of interest that shall be occasioned and/or exacerbated by the drive for revenue genera­tion and the struggle for survival against the performance of the core mandates for their estab­lishment. “Thus, a properly funded regulatory body will be more stable with a predictable source of income that will in turn, allow for the planning of its activities alongside its allocated resources should be the focus, right step and direction to aptly take.” The Federal Government had through a circular from the bud­get office of the federation dated June 2023 conveyed the decision of the Presidential Committee on Salaries to discontinue budgetary allocation to professional bodies and councils.