ABUJA – The Nigerian Navy has redeployed 56 Rear Admirals and one Commodore in a major shakeup. The Director of Information, Commodore Adedotun Ayo-Vaughan disclosed this in a statement to newsmen in Abuja. According to the statement, former Director of Logistics, Defence Space Administration, Rear Admiral Olusanya Bankole is now the Chief of Communications and Information Technology, Naval Headquarters, Abuja, while Rear Admiral Alexander Bingel formerly Director of Combat Policy and Tactics has been appointed as the Director of Logistics of the Defence Headquarters. The statement further listed others affected by the redeployment including “Rear Admiral Ibrahim Dewu, who was formerly Director of Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate, Naval Headquarters and is now the Chief of Defence Civil Military Cooperation, Defence Headquarters, Rear Admiral Kennedy Ezete formerly Director of Project Monitoring, Defence Headquarters resumes now as the Chief of Administration, Naval Headquarters. “Rear Admiral Livingstone Izu who was Director Manning at Naval Headquarters is the new Chief of Logistics, Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral Musa Madugu formally Deputy Director Special Operation Forces at the Defence Headquarters has been appointed as the Admiral Superintendent Naval Ordinance Depot. “The former Director of Innovation and Concept Development, at Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral Daupreye Matthew, is now the Director of Training, Defence Headquarters while Rear Admiral Zakariya Muhammad, the former Director of Training, Naval Headquarters has been reappointed Chief of Training and Operations. “The shakeup also sees Rear Admiral Emmanuel Nmoyem reappointed as Director Human Rights Desks at the Defence Headquarters while Rear Admiral Ibrahim Shettima formerly Flag Officer Commanding Central Naval Command moves to Defence Headquarters as Director of Plans. “Others include former Director of Plans, Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral Monday Unurhiere appointed the Chief of Defence Administration at the Defence Headquarters while Rear Admiral Hamza Kaoje who was the Director of Equipment Standardization and Harmonization, Defence Headquarters has been appointed Group Managing Director, Navy Holdings Limited among others,” the statement read further. POLL Commodore Omotola Olukoya who was the Commander Central Pay Office resumes as the new Chief of Accounts and Budget, Naval Headquarters. This is believed to be part of the administrative overhaul by the newly appointed Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Emmanuel Ogalla to reposition the Navy for effective performance in a country confronted by protracted security concerns, particularly oil theft usually carried out through the waterways.