AKURE – National Vice-Chairman (Soth West) of All Progressives Congress (APC), Honourable Isaac Kekemeke, has described the statement credited to the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu on Governor Rotimi Akeredolu as unnecessary media sensationalism. He disclosed that Adamu only empathised with the people of Ondo State on the health condition of the governor. In a statement personally signed by Kekemeke, he stated that the issue of Governor Akeredolu came up at the meeting when the issue of the abducted party chairman in Ekiti State was being discussed. He disclosed that Adamu only called for prayer for the ailing Governor to get well quickly, expressing displeasure at how it was sensationalised and became a subject of national discourse. The APC National Vice-Chairman (South West), therefore, appealed to the public to ignore the issue and allow Governor Akeredolu to have peace of mind and recuperate fast. The statement made available to newsmen in Akure, Ondo State capital, on Tuesday, reads inter alia: “I have been inundated with requests for clarification on the purported statement of the National Chairman of our party, the All Progressives Congress, H.E. Senator Abdullahi Adamu on the state of health of the Governor of Ondo state, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu SAN, at the meeting of the National Working Committee with state chairmen of our party held at the party secretariat on Monday, 10th July, 2023. “I had thought that the explanation by the state government should have sufficiently ended any further discussions on the matter. I am surprised, it is still being discussed as a statement of fact. “Governor Akeredolu’s name came up at the meeting when the National Chairman was expressing his sympathy with the State chairmen of the party on the abduction/ kidnap of their colleague, the Ekiti state APC Chairman. He merely extended his solidarity with the people of Ondo state on the foreign medical trip of the Governor and prayed for his quick recovery and recuperation. POLL “It is sad that a genuine empathy and prayer by the National Chairman for a Governor on the platform of his party was sensationalised and has now become a subject of discourse. “I have chosen to put the records straight because I was at the meeting and more that both our party’s National Publicity Secretary and his Deputy were not at the meeting. “The National Chairman did not and could not have made such comment like “Akeredolu in State of Extreme Incapacity,” but only genuinely prayed for the Governor’s quick recovery. “I urge all people with some humanity in their hearts to allow Gov. Akeredolu to complete his recuperation as we should know that nobody is above sickness.”