The Lagos State University (LASU) is home to the news again in its ceaseless season of commemorative jollifications. This time, the National Universities Commission (NUC) has just approved a whole 20 new academic programmes for the highflight state-owned Citadel of Knowledge and African Centre of Academic Excellence. This is according to a release signed by Thomas-Onashile Oluwayemisi, the Coordinator of the Centre for Information and Public Relations (CIPR) of the institution. The list of the newly approved programmes at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels of the University includes B.Sc. Architecture, B.Sc. Building, B.Sc. Estate Management, B.Sc. Environmental Management, B.Sc. Industrial Design, B.Sc. Survey and Geo-Informatics, B.Sc. Quantity Surveying, B.Sc. Urban and Regional Planning, B.A. Fine Arts, B.LIS. Library and Information Science, B.Ed. Special Education, B.Eng. Others are Industrial Engineering & Production, B. Radiography and Radiation Science, BMLS. Medical Laboratory Science, B.A. Linguistics, B.Eng. Civil Engineering, B.Sc. Science Laboratory Technology and B.Sc Taxation at the undergraduate level and Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D) and Doctor of Physiotherapy (DPT) at the postgraduate level. The programmes are to commence effectively from the 2023/2024 Academic Session. It is noteworthy that the twenty programmes approved equal 100% of the programmes submitted by the University for resource verification by the regulatory body, the National Universities Commission (NUC), a feat unprecedented in the University’s history. The approval followed a resource verification exercise carried out in April 2023 by panels of experts from the NUC on the twenty (20) new programmes domiciled in the four newly established faculties and Schools – Faculty of Pharmacy, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences Faculty of Environmental Sciences, and the School of Library, Archival and Information Science. POLL According to the NUC’s letter of approval received by the University on Friday, 7th July 2023, “the programmes will run full-time, effective from the 2023/2024 academic session”. The approval marks the fulfillment of one of the strategic goals of the current administration of the Univeristy under the leadership of Prof. Ibiyemi Ibilola Olatunji-Bello, mni, NPOM, which is to establish and commence new academic programmes in four new faculties and school of the University. Given this cheery development, the Prof Olatunji-Bello-led administration is, no doubt, on a high speed toward the attainment of its six-point agenda, foremost among which is “To ensure that academic and professional programmes are and remain accredited by the relevant bodies”. Reacting to the good news, the VC expressed her deep appreciation to the Governor of Lagos State and Visitor to the University, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for providing the leadership and support to actualise the goal, while congratulating the entire university community on the achievement.  