LAGOS – The Commissioner of Police Delta State Police Command, CP Wale Abass has called on the criminals in the State to stop from their nefarious activities and imbibe in legitimate means of livelihood or have themselves to blame. CP Abass vowed that as long as the criminals in the state remained adamant about repentance, his operatives would continue to hunt, arrest and prosecute them. The Delta State Police boss read the riot act on Wednesday in Asaba, the Delta State capital during a press briefing where he paraded a number of suspected criminals and showcased arms and ammunition recovered from them between the Month of June to date. While assuring members of the public of the security of their lives and property, the CP appealed to them for useful information that would enable operatives to nip crime in the bud. “While assuring Delta residents of adequate security, I wish to use this medium to solicit for their continued understanding and support, especially in the area of information. “Residents are also urged to monitor their environment and report any suspicious persons or movement to the Police through any of the following numbers CONTROL ROOM NUMBERS:1. 8036684974, 2. 08125958005; 3. 090538722874, 09155570007 ( PPRO’S OFFICE).” He gave the summary of arms, ammunition and vehicles recovered from June to date as 5 AK-47 rifles, 5 Pump Action guns; 24 locally made guns recovered, 489 ammunition, 469 cartridges and 8 stolen vehicles. recovered -8 He said: “During the last officers conference, I directed Area commanders, DPOS, and Tactical Commanders to sustain raids of criminal hideouts/blackspots that is ongoing within their areas of responsibilities while admonishing them on the need to remain committed to their primary duties which include protection of lives and property, maintenance of law and order,  and to always lecture their men to be civil when dealing with public because the Command under my watch will deal decisively with any erring officer. Below are some of the various achievements recorded by the Command within the period under review.” POLL He said that following a series of intelligence reports received on the activities of kidnappers/armed robbers in Ekpan Uvwie LGA, Warri and environs, on July 3, 2023 at about 4.00pm, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO),   led a combined team comprising policemen attached to Ekpan police station and personnel of 3 Battalion Nigerian Army on a sting operation and raided their hideout at Agadaga Avenue off Jakpa road, Ekpan, where discreet search was conducted at an uncompleted building during which one  AK-47 rifle with five magazines loaded with 161 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, one  Assault rifle with two magazines loaded with 59 rounds of 5.56mm ammunition,  two English pump-action guns, 110 rounds of live cartridges, one double barrel gun,  one single barrel gun,  one toy gun,  14 cutlasses, bunch of charms wrapped in a cap. He said that a serious manhunt for the criminal syndicate was ongoing. In another development, the CP said that sequel to a complaint received on  July 3, 2023 at about 1700hours from a car dealer (name withheld) in Abuja, whose vehicle was stolen from his car stand by the suspect who disguised as intending buyer and absconded with the said vehicle during a test drive on  June 30, 2023 in Abuja. “Armed with available intelligence, operatives of the CP-Decoy Squad stormed Ughelli town at about 0115hours of  July 3, /2023 and recovered the said Mercedez Benz SUV abandoned in a bush along Oteri road by Doctors Quarters, Ughelli North LGA. Serious manhunt for the suspect is ongoing.” CP Abass further disclosed that on  June 30, 2023, the DPO Ekpan Police station received a complaint that two young ladies (name withheld) have not been seen since they went to a church named fire gospel mission located at No. 1 Tare Alegbo Street, Effurun, Ovwie LGA for a church program. “The DPO swung into action and arrested the suspect who claimed to be a pastor name Marvelous Ebangwe ‘m’ age 42 years. Investigation revealed that the suspect specializes in trafficking young girls to African countries. The suspect stated that the victims are presently in Senegal. The investigation is ongoing.” He said that on  July 4, 2023, at about 0800hours, operatives attached to Safer Highway, while on stop and search duty along Summit Road, Asaba, received a distress call from a female victim (name withheld) that some suspected fraudster collected her phone and ATM card along the expressway by Kia motors and dropped her off along DLA road but fortunately, their vehicle entered a ditch while trying to escape. “The police swiftly mobilized to the scene and arrested the two suspects. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the two suspects are members of a syndicate that lures unsuspecting victims into their vehicle in the guise of looking for direction, then hypnotise them, collect their phones, ATM cards and empty their bank accounts. “Suspects are in custody and investigation is ongoing.” Also, he said that on June 26,  at about 10.20 pm, Police operatives attached to Ufoma division while on night patrol at Ekrejebor in Ughelli North LGA, acting on a tip-off, intercepted two young men. He said that when they were searched, one English pistol was recovered. “The suspects namely; Ejiro Praise ‘m’ age 29yrs and Eshare Ovuovwuro ‘m’ age 21yrs were arrested. Suspects are in custody and investigation ongoing.” Also, on July 3, 2023, at about 1334hours, he said policemen attached to Safer Highway, “while on stop and search duty along Warri-Sapele Road, intercepted a commercial vehicle and conducted search on all the occupants, during which three locally made pistols concealed in a bag were recovered from two of the passengers. “They were immediately taken into custody and the investigation is ongoing. “On  June 16, 2023, at about 1700hours, the DPO Ovwian Aladja division received a report on the murder of one Felicia Catibekpe, female,  aged 45-year,  who was allegedly murdered by her estranged lover, one Augustine Gola Ejowor, a 50-yr-old man of Okolor Inland in UDU LGA, who escaped after the act. “On receipt of this complaint, the DPO detailed operatives to embark on a discreet investigation. “The suspect was eventually arrested on June 21, 2023 when he reported himself at Ovwian Aladja Police station. “Suspect stated that he murdered the woman during the course of a disagreement using a machete. The suspect is in custody and the investigation is ongoing.”  