Premier League side Liverpool are set to reignite their interest in signing Torino defender Perr Schuurs, according to reports in Italy. The Reds have already been busy in the summer transfer market with Alexis Mac Allister joining from Brighton for £35m before swooping for RB Leipzig’s Dominik Szoboszlai for £60m. The Athletic confirmed yesterday that Liverpool are unlikely to sign another new midfielder unless the Merseysiders sell one of their existing stars with ‘no gap to fill’. Liverpool have eight first-team midfielders on their books with Mac Allister, Szoboszlai, Jordan Henderson, Fabinho, Thiago Alcantara, Stefan Bajcetic, Curtis Jones and Harvey Elliott, giving Klopp a selection headache. However, the report does expect Liverpool to move ‘for a young centre-back if the right option becomes available’ with Wolfsburg’s Micky van de Ven recently linked. And now Italian website Tuttsport claim Torino are ‘expecting a relaunch’ from Liverpool for Schuurs before the end of the transfer window. Liverpool previously moved to sign last summer with rumours this year that they could again be ready to sign the Netherlands under-21 international. Torino technical director David Vagnati is holding out for €40m (£34m) despite previous claims he could be available for as low as €18m. POLL Tuttosport add that an offer around Vagnati’s valuation will make them ‘question everything’ with Schuurs unlikely to resist the lure of Liverpool or other clubs who can pay ‘ultra-million salaries’. Speaking in September, Schuurs agent George Gardi claimed that Liverpool, Tottenham and Paris Saint-Germain have previously looked to sign the Dutch defender. “Over the time, clubs of the calibre of Tottenham, Liverpool or PSG had moved to take the player. “The operation, as I told you, was long, but fair and in some passages even pleasant. In addition to Liverpool, Tottenham, PSG and three Italian clubs also wanted Schuurs. “However, having taken a path, we went on to follow it without delay, even with a strong conviction: thanks to Torino, I am sure Schuurs can become a pillar of the Dutch national team. “Now he is part of the tour, but the ambition is to be a protagonist. “At one point it was decisive, because Ajax resisted, but then decided to please the player who had asked for the sale. Without the precise intention expressed by Perr, Vagnati’s idea would have remained as such. “Instead, we managed to give life to an idea that, when it was presented to me, really seemed to me to be on the verge of impossible. “We have exceeded these limits, and now Schuurs is enjoying Torino, as much as I hope that the club and the fans can enjoy ever better performances from Perr.”