LAGOS  – PZ Wilmar, manufacturers of food brand Devon King’s and Mamador, in partnership with the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) a Swiss-based foundation launched at the United Nations in 2002 to tackle the human suffering caused by malnutrition, recently hosted selected media editors and Civil Society organisations on a training workshop on Food fortification at its factory in Lagos. The workshop which had in attendance members of the PZ Wilmar leadership, Civil Society groups, media editors, including representatives of The Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN), provided PZ Wilmar the opportunity to showcase its food fortification process, as an industry leader in Quality Systems and Food Fortification in Nigeria. The workshop also included a tour of the PZ Wilmar factory. Femi Ojumu, while speaking during the event in the PZ Wilmar factory in Lagos, the Head of Manufacturing at PZ Wilmar, stated that the event highlights the organization’s products and processes as a proponent of food fortification practice in Nigeria. “This event highlights our dedication to delivering quality food products to our consumers. It is in line with our commitment to responsible and healthy food production and consumption that puts Nigeria on the map for sustainable development in food manufacturing”, he said. It would be recalled that PZ Wilmar in 2021 received recognition as Industry Leader in Quality Systems and Food Fortification, as both its food brands, Devon King’s and Mamador emerged as the two most fortified food brand in Nigeria, while participating in the inaugural launch of Micro Fortification Index (MFI) in Nigeria, an initiative powered by TechnoServe as part of its effort to tackle malnutrition in Nigeria, with support from Bill and Melinda Gate foundation through the TechnoServe’s Strengthening African Processors of Fortified Foods, SAPFF, project. The workshop activities included presentations on Orientation and Introduction to Food Fortification Process, a tour of the PZ Wilmar Edible Oil Fortification Facilities and interactions with the Quality Control and Production Team. Participants of the workshop commended the organisers and particularly PZ Wilmar for its commitment to tackling malnutrition and increasing social awareness of the Nigerian public on the benefits of food fortification. POLL PZ Wilmar Limited is a subsidiary of PZ Cussons. Its brands include Devon King’s and Mamador, with product portfolios that include, cooking oil, margarine, spread, and seasoning.