LAGOS  – Enugu State governor, Dr. Peter Mbah, has declared that the state is winning the war against sit-a-at-home enforcers and would never take orders from people he described as murderers and enemies of Igbo land. Mbah said there was no way Enugu could become the pre­mier destination for investment, living, and tourism or moving its economy from $4.4 billion to $30 billion when the people were still talking about or taking orders from faceless persons outside the state, insisting “we cannot be defeated by evil and we must not allow that to happen”. The governor urged con­certed efforts by the media and Enugu people against scaremon­gering and fake news, which he described as the latest resort by the sit-at-home promoters, hav­ing lost their capacity to inflict havoc on lives and property as was previously the case due to re-energised security measures applied by the government and security agencies since the ban on Monday sit-at-home in the state. Mbah spoke during his maid­en media chat with Enugu-based newsmen and media executives at the Government House, Enu­gu, at the weekend. He said: “The truth is that we have won the actual war against sit-at-home enforcers and mur­derers out to destroy Enugu State and Igboland. We have unleashed the security resources on them and they have been thoroughly defeated and discomfited. “Because they no longer have the capacity to unleash terror on lives and property of Ndi Enugu, that is why they have now resort­ed to scaremongering, peddling fake news, and all manner of dramas to instil fear in our peo­ple and control their minds and actions. “We practice democracy. We can never allow murderers and terrorists to dictate to us. We must not allow those who do not have the mandate of the people to dictate for us how to live our lives; when to go out; when to close our businesses and when to sit at home. “What we are facing now are media terrorists using the social media to instigate fear and ped­dle fake news. We must not allow them to succeed. It is totally un­acceptable.”