PORT HARCOURT – The All Progressives Congress, APC, Rivers State chapter has debunked the insinuation in some quarters that it had ceded the ministerial slot meant for the state to the former Governor, Nyesom Wike. APC said it was shocked to see in some national dailies that the party had ceded its ministerial slot to a non-member of the APC I’m Rivers State. It noted that the state chapter of the party has never interacted with the Amalgamated Bola Tinubu Campaign Council as it has more than a hundred NGOs and support groups who worked for the APC in Rivers State. “No NGO or individual outside the officially recognized party structure has the authority of the state chapter of the party to award any entitlements to the former Governor who is obviously a card-carrying member of the PDP”, the party said. Addressing a press conference in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, the state publicity secretary of APC, Darlington Nwauju said “We wonder where the group or individual derived its powers to speak for APC. However, for the umpteenth time, we want to say that Mr Tony Okocha is not a member of our great party and we have not received any communication from the national secretariat of our party that he has been granted waivers to join our party. “We want to officially dispel that sponsored rumour targeted to package the political ambition of former Governor Wike. We therefore reject this obvious public ridicule and assault on our sensibilities as a political party”. Nwauju explained that “assuming without conceding that Mr Wike passed through some back channels to fund the Presidential campaigns in Rivers which the state chapter cannot even account for, does his Greek gift now qualifies him to be rewarded with a Ministerial slot for(a) sponsoring 12 different court actions to stop Rivers APC from fielding candidates for the 2023 elections;(b) sealing party offices of his opponents, encouraging his loyalists to invade campaign venues and leaving humongous destruction in the trail, denying parties access to state owned facilities for campaigns, introducing anti-democratic rules beyond the ones set by the INEC? POLL The APC spokesman noted that if every member of the party had died and the party non-existent in the state, which APC would former Governor Wike have dreamt of benefitting from? “We cannot reduce our progressive party platform to an arena where merchantiling on  betrayals, lies and black mail becomes the only currency for political survival. We have no record of any group as Amalgamated Bola Tinubu Campaign Council in our party in Rivers State, we have a total of 76 registered NGOs and support groups that supported APC in Rivers State”. According to him, the burden is on President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to uphold the principle of party loyalty and supremacy for the fact that there is an official party structure in Rivers State.