Manchester United reportedly remain interested in signing Porto striker Mehdi Taremi this summer, who recently rejected a move to Everton. The Iran international caught the attention of several top clubs after performing well in the World Cup last year. Also, he’s been in fine form in Portugal. Indeed, last season, Taremi scored 22 goals in 33 league appearances for Porto. So, he certainly knows where the net is. It’s no secret that Erik ten Hag is keen to add a quality striker to his squad this summer. Marcus Rashford was in sensational form last term – netting 30 goals in all competitions. But, if Man Utd want to become title challengers again, he could do with some support in attack. Now, the Red Devils’ hierarchy have reportedly told Ten Hag that they are ‘confident’ they will sign a centre-forward this summer. Harry Kane was thought to be the Red Devil’s primary target. But, after negotiations proved to be difficult with Tottenham, it seems unlikely he will leave this summer. Although, Bayern Munich remain in the race for him. As a result, Man Utd are now looking at alternatives. For instance, Randal Kolo Muani, Rasmus Hojlund have been discussed. But, an alternative option has emerged on Ten Hag’s radar. POLL According to Portuguese outlet Journal de Noticias (via Sport Witness), Taremi is a serious option for Man Utd as they look to bring in a relatively cheap, quality striker. The report describes Ten Hag as an ‘admirer’ of the Iranian, who will be available for €20m (approx. £17.2m) this summer. While this may sound like a lot for a 30-year-old, it is still significantly less than what Man Utd would have to pay for Kane or Muani, for example. Also, you are almost guaranteed goals with Taremi. So, he could prove to be a valuable signing for the Red Devils, if he can continue his scoring form in the Premier League. As mentioned, Everton have previously attempted to sign Taremi. But, reports suggest the striker ‘wasn’t interested’ in signing for the Toffees, as he wants to play at the highest level possible. Now, Man Utd are set to be competing in the Champions League again next term. So, it’s thought he would be keen on a switch to Old Trafford. With that in mind, it will be interesting to see if Man Utd table a concrete offer for Taremi. But, they will have to make a bid in the region of €20m to convince Porto to sell.