Following the petition by Niyi Okanlawon (Esq) of Babatunde Oni & Co law firm, the solicitors to Mr Dapo Davies over the alleged issuance of double approval on the same parcel of land by some officials of Oyo state Ministry of Lands and Urban Development, the men of Nigeria Police, Zone ll, Osogbo have arrested two persons in connection with the issue. It could be recalled that the firm has earlier written petitions to the Iyaganku Divisional Police Station and Governor Seyi Makinde over the same issue. In the said petitions, Okanlawon accused some top officials of the Ministry of Lands and Urban Development of land racketeering by issuing new approval to another person on land which approval has earlier given to Dapo Davies in 2013. The petitioner then called on Governor Seyi Makinde and Iyaganku Police Division to intervene in order to forestall the breakdown of the law as well as avert flood and other related issues. The petitions explained that issuing another approval to another person on the same land which had already gotten approval in the same Ministry is fraudulent in action and the need for the governor’s intervention to save the hard-earned integrity of the government ably led by Governor Seyi Makinde. In the petitions, Barrister Okanlawon explained that the said portion, which is part of 1434.019 square metres and situate at Ogunpa, Oke Padre, Ibadan, Oyo State, was left alone as a setback in compliance with the statutory provisions of setback of 45.0 metres to the Ogunpa Rivers/streams to avert flood and other related issues. POLL The petition titled, “Re: Double Registration And Double Permit On The Land Measured 1434.019 Square Metres And Situate At Ogunpa, Oke Padre, Ibadan, Oyo State. “Re: Illegal Construction On The Statutory Setback Near Ogunpa River: A Call For Urgent Intervention” and addressed to the Executive Governor. According to the petition, “Our Client is the owner of the land measuring 1434.019 square metres and situate at Ogunpa, Oke Padre, Ibadan, Oyo State. Having perfected ownership of the entire land herein described, our client obtained approval for the building plan from Ibadan North- West Local Planning authority and Ministry of Environment and Water Resources (then Ministry of Environment and Habitat) respectively. The said approvals are herewith attached as Annexure A & B. “In compliance with the statutory provisions on setback, our client left a setback of 45.0 metres to the Ogunpa Rivers/streams to avert flood and other related issues. “In the recent times, and to our client’s amazement, one Alhaji Kamilu Orotoye started construction on the setback left by our client which effect will be calamitous to our client and the surrounding neigbours. “In order to avoid breakdown of law, our client forwarded a letter to the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Lands and Urban Development respectively to enable our client access the source of the problem. “To our client utmost surprise, it was discovered during the meeting with the Ministry of Lands and Urban Development that the Ministry granted approval to the said Alhaji Kamilu Orotoye to build on Our Client’s land and the setback. “Against the backdrop of the above, we humbly appeal to your excellency to intervene in this matter to avoid breakdown of law and Order”, the letter concluded. Same petition was also sent to Iyaganku Divisional Police Station to avoid breakdown of law and order. It was gathered that men of Iyaganku Division arrested some people over the matter and warned them not to carry out any construction on the land until it concluded its investigation and granted them bail. It was further gathered that while waiting for the conclusion of the investigation and the governor’s response to the petition, these people allegedly return to the land to carry out illegal construction. Upon this development, another petition was sent to Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Zone ll, Osogbo, which has now took over the matter from Iyaganku Division. The men of Zone ll swing into action and arrested two persons on Thursday in connection with the matter, and warned general public to stay clear of the said land until it concluded its investigation.