ABUJA  – The Federal Capital Territory Internal Revenue Service (FCT-IRS), in collaboration with the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), has begun training of another 200 Service personnel on Tax Audit and Investigation. This is in line with the Service’s mandate to ensure a steady increase in revenue generation in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) by building capacity of officials. Abdullahi, in a statement made available to newsmen on in Abuja by Mustapha SumailaHead, Corporate Communications, FCT-IRS stated that explained that this training could not have come at a better time than now as all efforts are geared towards harmonisation of all revenues and centralise collection to the FCT-IRS hence the need to have skilled and equipped workforce that would drive the process. He said this year’s training would bring the total to 400 so far on this collaboration, as 200 personnel were trained last year, stressing that the Service under his leadership would continue to partner with relevant professional bodies within and outside the country to enhance the productivity of the workforce. According to him, tax officials need technical and verbal skills to effectively audit and interact with taxpayers especially the High Network Individuals and Politically Exposed Persons to boost compliance. “The responsibility of the Service is key to the success of the FCT Administration therefore; skillful tax men are needed to rapidly grow the tax net especially now that expectations are high on revenue generating agencies. “I urge you to listen attentively and participate fully in this course, when you come out of this training, it is expected you make meaningful contributions and add value to what we are doing, that is the essence of you being here”. Meanwhile, the Director, Human Capital Management and Development FCT-IRS, Mr. Umar Mohammed Jada in his address said the Service would continue to partner with professional bodies like CITN to build the capacity of its personnel, adding that FCT-IRS prioritises training and retraining of all staff in order to constantly improve service delivery and achieve the set goals and objectives of the Service. POLL The training is focusing on Tax Intelligence and Information Gathering, as well as Tax Audit and Investigation.