IBADAN  – The Babaloja-General of Oyo State, Alhaji Sunmaila Aderemi Jimoh has called on the Federal Government to give needed as­sistance to farmers and traders in Nigeria to avert looming food insecurity in Nigeria. Speaking with journalists from the Kingdom of Saudi Ara­bia, where he has gone to perform holy pilgrimage on Friday, Alha­ji Jimoh commended Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde for prioritising agricultural rev­olution and welfare of govern­ment workers in the state, which encourage circulation of money and subsequently help grow econ­omy in the state. Babaloja-General said, “as situation is presently, only feder­al government intervention can avert threatening food insecurity and bring prices of commodities down to reasonable level where common man can boast of two average meals per day. “Traders are facing terrible dilemma in Nigeria now as a re­sult of consumer’s believe that traders are behind the hike in food prices, whereas we traders serve as punching bags being hit by other economic agents, including government, manu­facturers, producers, farmers and consumers. “Coming from the worldwide turmoil and suffering caused by Covid-19, Nigerians landed in terrible starvation inflicted on them by those stockpiling mon­ey for electioneering process, in the midst of these fuel scarcity entered, then federal government added shortage of Naira notes, which ruined and grounded econ­omies at all levels. “The recent removal of petro­leum subsidy which subsequent­ly jacked up the pump price of petrol has forced transporters to increase cost of transportation for goods or passengers, farmers in turn have increased selling price of their produce, living now becomes difficult for consumers due to insufficient resources to cater for even necessities. “Traders, being the closest amongst all economic agents to the people, consumers see us as those who can make or mar their survivability in difficult time, hence they go to the mar­ket place with intention of hav­ing all problems relating to food and daily needs solve with their little income and agitate when the situation is contrary to their expectations, most times it leads to unnecessary aggression and verbal attack on traders “Prioritising adequate and uncompromised security of lives and properties in our var­ious rural areas, farms and for­estry should be the first move towards halting the threatening food insecurity as well as absolute eradication of open grassing and pronouncement of severe punish­ment for the deviants, follow by provision of seeds and materials at affordable prices, good roads, borehole water, medical centres are equally very necessary. POLL “Giving out interest-free loan to farmers and traders is a good way of relieving them of the pres­sure coming from their business environment and society. How­ever, government need to put in place good control measure towards ensuring prompt repay­ment and sincerity of purpose. This can be achieved by engag­ing managers who will help in ensuring funds are not diverted but invest on good and profitable businesses and also supervise the repayment process,” Babalo­ja-General advised Alhaji Jimoh also lamented on high cost of food stuffs, espe­cially tomatoes and peppers since April, 2023, which he said made quite a good number of Muslims celebrated 2023 Eid el Kabir in low-key and serious pains. “This year Eid el Kabir was not well celebrated due to the high cost of food stuff and general hardship in the country. Though there are few privileged ones who live in affluence and able to lavish money during the festival, but what is there total population compare to well over 150 million common man and the poor in our societies that are suffering?”