P/HARCOURT – President of the Movement for the Survival of the Ogo­ni People, MOSOP, Fegalo Nsuke, has called on Presi­dent Bola Ahmed Tinubu to address the “reckless” mismanagement of the Ogoni cleanup funds. MOSOP also urged the president’s rescue for the cleanup programme by probing the mismanagement of over $800million allocated to the cleanup agency in seven years. Nsuke, also called for the dissolu­tion of all governing structures of the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remedi­ation Project (HYPREP) pending the conclusion of investigations into the finances of the agency. Nsuke, while speaking in Ban Ogoi in Tai local government area of Rivers State last week, said HYPREP has been milked to death and Presi­dent Tinubu should not allow him­self to be stained by HYPREP loot. “MOSOP wants to state that in the past 7 years, HYPREP has been severely decimated by looters. “We emphatically state that over $200Million cannot be accounted for in HYPREP. The organisation has been looted to death and it will only be immoral for the government to be silent over such monumental fraud”, he said in a statement in Port Har­court. “MOSOP expects President Tinu­bu to dissolve all governing struc­tures of HYPREP, halt funding for the organisation and order a probe into its finances while a re-organi­sation is pending” , he said. He noted that former President Muhammadu Buhari had initiated an inconclusive probe into the activi­ties of HYPREP and urged President Tinubu to revisit the issue, noting that continual release of funds for HYPREP without accountability is to encourage the reckless misman­agement of the agency. POLL Nsuke raised questions about some N180 billion approved for the agency in just three weeks to the expiration of the tenure of the last administration and held that such approvals raised some red flags. “In three weeks to the expira­tion of President Buhari’s tenure, over N180billion was approved for HYPREP. The timing of the approv­als raised some red flags and reinforc­es our suspicion that such requests from the environment ministry and subsequent approvals could not have been made in good faith. “The only way we the Ogoni peo­ple can begin to have some confi­dence in the cleanup process is that it has to be conducted transparently. People cannot spend over $800 mil­lion and the Ogoni people will not get water nor are people compensated for livelihood losses” he said. The Hydrocarbon Pollution Re­mediation Project, HYPREP, was established in 2016 to implement the UNEP recommendations on the Ogoni environment. The UNEP recommendations amongst others highlighted mas­sive pollution affecting the lands, waters and the health of the peo­ple. In 2017, the Governing Council of HYREP approved an integrated water project for the Ogoni region. This is yet to take off despite being described as an emergency in the UNEP report.