SULAIMAN FASASI The 2023 governorship election may have long ended, producing winners who have since been sworn into office across the country, but the dust generated therefrom has refused to settle, with many of the aggrieved candidates and their parties seeking redress at the various electoral tribunals. The situation is not different in Ogun State, where Oladipupo Adebutu, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the election, wants the tribunal to reverse the declaration of Governor Dapo Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner of the election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Abiodun winner of the March 18 election with a total of 276,298 votes, to defeat Adebutu who garnered 262,383. The declaration is not without dramas, part of the drama is now before the Tribunal. One of the highlights of the election was the violence which almost marred it, especially in Governor Abiodun’s senatorial district and more specifically, Ikenne, his local government, and the neighbouring Sagamu local government. Incidentally, both Abiodun and Adebutu are from the same local government. Observers say the state has not witnessed such high degree of political violence especially on election days in recent history, in what was described as a replica of the 2007 election in the State, as alleged masked thugs reportedly disrupted elections in many areas. The thugs had stormed targeted polling units, especially in Iperu Remo axis of the Local Government, which was one of the worst hit areas, attacking people and destroying electoral materials. For instance, observers say the hoodlums, riding on motorcycles snatched two ballot boxes at Polling Unit 05, Ward 03 in Ayegbami area of the town. Security operatives, particularly police officers at a nearby road intersection responded with gunfire, but the effort could not save the Assistant Polling Officer (APO) of the unit, Alalade Babatunde, who was beaten to pulp. In the ensuing chaos, many intending voters scampered to safety, abandoning the polling station. In another polling unit in at Eleja, Sagamu, thugs set electoral materials on fire, as officials of INEC and voters ran for their dear lives, while Ogijo area of the local government had its own share of the horrible experience, after rampaging thugs intercepted result of the election and the vehicle set ablaze, while its occupants, mostly corps members managed to escape being roasted alive. The Chairman of the local government, Odulate Olashile, was amongst those arrested on the day of the election for electoral violence. POLL Both Adebutu and Abiodun also accuse one another of vote buying during the election. While Adebutu was preparing to go before the election petition tribunal, Abiodun, had through Chief Yemi Sanusi, Ogun State APC chairman, petitioned the Inspector-General of Police, accusing Adebutu of alleged money laundering, bribery, undue influence and vote buying, which he said breached the Electoral Act. The APC chairman had alleged that Adebutu was using Verve ATM credit cards branded in the name of his late mother, ‘Dame Caroline Oladunni Adebutu Endowment Scheme,’ to buy votes in all polling booths. He further alleged that the PDP also “stationed Point of Sales (P.O.S) vendors in every polling booth as an easy means to withdraw the cash from the cards.” Following the petition, the police investigation team, led by Mohammed Babakura, a Deputy Commissioner of Police at the Criminal Investigation Department of the police in Ogun State Command. A report of the investigation submitted to the IGP, and dated May 12, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent, noted that officers of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) arrested five suspects with hundreds of the credit cards on election day. According to the report, one of the suspects, Adejoke Sanni, 50, femail of No. 1, Owoseni Street, Alausa Olanbe junction, Ifo, allegedly had in her possession four agent cards each of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Labour Party, as well as 131 debit cards. The other four suspects – Hammed Ogunbona (45), Waliu Tiamiyu (35), Owolabi Egunsola (50), and Malik Badmus (41)- also card-carrying members of the PDP, were arrested with 52 credit cards and four voters cards, the police investigators said. After taking statements from the suspects, the investigation team said it also spoke with some POS operators, who claimed to have been approached with about 500 verve cards preloaded with N10,000 each, out of which he was able to withdraw from only 35. According to the interim report submitted to the IGP, “it is pertinent to note that the cards were specifically loaded two days to the gubernatorial elections on 18th March 2023 and on the eve of the election. Also considering that these cards were distributed on elections day, it is safe to infer that the purpose of the prepaid cards was for vote buying. “This premise is also corroborated by the POS operators who stated that some of their customers who came to withdraw money using the aforementioned cards stated clearly that the cards were given to them as a reward for voting for PDP. “Drawing from the statements given by the POS operators who are witnesses in this case, several funds withdrawal transactions were carried out before, during and after the 2023 gubernatorial election using the Dame Caroline Oladunni Adebutu Memorial Endowment Scheme prepaid cards containing ten thousand naira each (N10,000.00k). However, not all of the cards could successfully dispense funds. “Also, inferring from the statement of accounts/transaction history gotten from the POS operators, it has been observed that all the fund withdrawals made using the said cards uniquely had a description ‘BANK CARD’ as against what would ordinarily be the account holder’s name. This lends further credence to the fact that a prepaid card is not tied to any personal account.” Continuing, the report said “a careful observation of the statements of account/transaction history of the POS operators, reveals that a lot of funds withdrawals were done on 18th and 19th March, 2023 which had the description ‘BANK CARD’ as stated above and also has the same band number ‘506109’ which is uniquely assigned to Zenith Bank. “Therefore, the facts that these prepaid cards were requested on 27th February, 2023 and delivered on 16th and 17th March, 2023 being the eve of gubernatorial elections, and distributed to ‘voters only’ with traceable fund withdrawals being made from the prepaid cards during and after elections, is a clear indicator that the whole act is a calculated attempt at vote buying.” Reacting, Adebutu’s spokesperson, Afolabi Orekoya denied the allegation of vote buying or voter inducement, stressing his principal’s commitment to seeing the petition he filed before the tribunal to its logical conclusion. According to him, the said cards the police investigated were issued for empowerment of poor people and not for vote-buying, adding that the cards had been in circulation since the final ceremony of the funeral of Adebutu’s mother in January. In what appeared like ‘do me, I do you’, the Ogun PDP through its lawyer, Ehi Uwaifoh & Co, also petitioned the IGP accusing governor Abiodun and the APC of vote buying, snatching and destruction of ballot boxes, thuggery and gun running allegations. In the petition against Abiodun, Sanusi and the party, a copy of which was also obtained by Daily Independent, the PDP alleged that the party and its agents, before the election, embarked on voters’ inducements by distributing N5,000 cash in government official envelopes to the electorate in Ogun State, ‘to induce them to vote for him at the general election.’ “The video of this vote buying, and voters’ inducement was widely circulated in the social media. This was at the height of the Naira design controversy. When the beneficiaries complained that they were being given old notes, the agents of the governor assured them that the governor was coming back to compel the banks to accept them,” he said. The PDP also alleged that the Governor and the APC caused a pre-loaded top-up card of N5,000 and N10, 000 to be distributed to voters on the day of the election, to buy votes in favour of Abiodun. The PDP further alleged that over 500,000 of the cards were printed, adding that “Dapo Abiodun and Yemi Sanusi caused to be distributed across Ogun State, pre-loaded top up gift cards of N5,000 and N10,000 to buy votes to enable Dapo Abiodun to win the governorship election. These Top up gifts cards with PINS and Serial Numbers could either be used to buy airtime by dialing *979*PIN# or could be used to withdraw or transfer cash by dialing *979*SPID*ACCOUNT NUMBER*PIN# “These cards were distributed on Election Day by APC agents who also had Point of Sale (PoS) machines which were used to either buy airtimes and data, collect cash, or cause the amount preloaded in the cards to be sent to voters’ accounts,” the party stressed. Prior to the election, the party further alleged that some thugs of Abiodun, Sanusi and the APC had conspired to induce and exert undue influence on voters to ensure a favourable outcome for the APC, contrary to section 121(5) and 127 (a) of the electoral Act, 2022. According to the petition, 17 of them were arrested at different locations and at different times. On election day, the PDP further alleged that Abiodun, Sanusi and the APC ‘unleashed heavily armed thugs’ on its supporters and voters whom were going to vote against them, adding that some of the victims escaped death by the whisker. “Several known Dapo Abiodun and Yemi Sanusi thigs invaded polling units while heavily armed shooting to scare INEC officials away, snatched and destroyed ballot papers and boxes and areas and polling units where they perceived they were going to lose. Later, many of the ballot papers were found disposed in water drains completely spoilt. “Before the elections, known and stalwarts and agents of the APC were heard boasting that they had INEC in their pocket and that whatever the result of the election, Dapo Abiodun will be declared winner of the election. “This played out when contrary to section 24(2&3), 47(3) and 51(2) of the Electoral Act, Dapo Abiodun was declared the winner.” The IGP, has ordered the probe of Governor Abiodun and Chairman Sanusi over allegation of deploying N5b for vote buying during the March 18 election in the State. Adebutu has been charged to an Abeokuta High Court to answer questions on criminal conspiracy, according to charge seat tagged AB/10c/2023, contrary to section 121 of the Electoral Act, 2022; bribery, contrary to section 121 of the Electoral Act, 2022; and undue influence, contrary to section 127 of the Electoral Act, 2022. Abiodun, though under immunity as a serving governor as enshrined in section 308 of the 1999 constitution (as amended), would also have his days with the Nigeria police for investigation on the allegations against him and his party. The constitution doesn’t bar him from investigation. When contacted on the petition against the Governor and his party, the Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Omolola Odutola said, “The petition came in and it has been minuted before the State CIID to investigate the veracity of it.” As if all these battles are not enough, a chieftain of the PDP and former governorship aspirant, Segun Sowunwi, has written both the new National Security Adviser, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu and the newly appointed Acting IGP, Kayode Egbetokun, accusing governor Abiodun of operating a killer squad in the State. Sowunmi, in the petition, promised to supply the names and contacts of the members of the squad, who he alleged, were sponsored by the Governor. His accusation followed an attack on him during a sitting of the Tribunal at the court premises in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, before he was rescued by some party members. Although the APC has dismissed the attack on Sowunmi as mere attention seeking, offending Sowunmi in this manner is like ‘stealing a hen from a pauper, it is tantamount to stealing from a parrot’, says a Yoruba adage. Governor Dapo Abiodun might have been declared the winner of the election and the dispute therein already before the tribunal, but it is obvious the outcome of that election is not going to fade away any time soon with each party drawing daggers on its opponent’s jugular.