A 25-year-old man was suspected of attacking a kindergarten in China’s Guangdong province on Monday, killing six people and injuring one, police said. Media reported the attack in Lianjiang County was a stabbing. The suspect, with the surname Wu and from Lianjiang, had been detained, police said, adding they were investigating. A man, 25, was arrested following the 7.40am attack, a police statement said. Employees who answered at the Lianjiang police headquarters declined to give more details. A news outlet, Dafeng News, cited an unidentified witness as saying the attacker’s child had been struck earlier by the car of one of the people who was killed at the school. It said one of the people killed was a teacher at the kindergarten. Dafeng News on its website cited video posted online that it said showed a man carrying a knife walking past the kindergarten playground. It said other video showed at least four people in a pool of blood outside the school. While violent crime is rare in China due to strict gun laws and tight security, there have been several incidents of stabbings at pre-schools over the past few years. In August last year, three people were killed and six wounded in a stabbing at a kindergarten in Jiangxi province. In 2021, a man killed two children and wounded 16 at a kindergarten in the southwestern region of Guangxi. POLL The latest news sparked emotive debate on the Weibo social media platform. By 1.50pm it was the top-trending discussion, with 290 million views. Some social media users called for the suspect to face the death penalty. “It’s outrageous to do this to children who have no power at all. How many families will be destroyed by this … I support the death penalty,” one Weibo user said. Another user questioned security at schools, especially after similar previous attacks. “Why do such cases still continue to emerge?” Attacks on children have also thrown a spotlight on mental health, which often goes under the radar due to cultural stigma attached to mental illnesses. In 2017, a 22-year-old man set off an explosive device outside a kindergarten in Jiangsu province, killing himself and a few others while wounding dozens. The man had a neurological disorder and had scrawled words for death on the walls of his home, according to state media. Last month, a series of violent attacks in Hong Kong also raised the issue of mental health. Mental health experts point to the COVID-19 pandemic as a major factor behind an increase in mental health problems. (SOURCE: Reuters, AP)