ENUGU – The Chairman of Nkanu East Local Government Area, Hon. Okechukwu Edeh, has been elected the new Chairman of the Association of Local Government Chairman of Nigeria (ALGON), Enugu State Chapter. Hon. Edeh was unanimously elected on Wednesday in Enugu by all the local government chairmen in the State following the expiration of the tenure of the immediate past ALGON Chairman, Hon. Izuchukwu Onah. Also elected was the Council Chairman of Uzo-Uwani LGA, Hon. Chukwudi Nnadozie, who emerged as the Vice Chairman, while the Council Chairman of Awgu LGA, Hon. Pedro Okwudili Nwankwo, was elected Secretary of the body. While making his acceptance speech, Hon. Edeh appreciated his colleagues for finding him worthy and qualified to lead the Association, promising to run an open-door policy and ensure a healthy relationship with other levels and agencies of government in order to better the lives of the people and attract more dividends of democracy to the 17 LGAs. He thanked the governor of Enugu State, Dr Peter Mbah, for the immense support and commitment he had shown towards partnering with the 17 local government areas, saying they were ready to collaborate with the state government by keying into his programmes and policies for the Enugu State. Hon. Edeh, who further noted that the immediate past ALGON Chairman had done well in the office, reiterated his resolve to drive the industrial, agro-allied, and digital revolution promised by the government of Mbah through technology and agriculture. He urged residents in the state to continue to support the government in its effort to ensure that the government provide all its promises, adding that the only way the government could work for the people is by partnership. POLL The ALGON Chairman, while also commending the governor over his security measures over the past weeks, observed that the state would continue to be the most peaceful state in the Southeast zone. “We will continue to work assiduously with the state government to ensure that our people’s security is guaranteed. If you look at the security steps taken by Governor Mbah over the past weeks, you would see a man who has set out to work for his people and deliver on his laudable promises. It is, therefore, our collective responsibility to support the government at all levels by being law-abiding and cooperating with us in the area of security,” the ALGON Chairman added. On their part, the duo of Hon. Nnadozie and Hon. Pedro appreciated the governor for his support and cooperation, stressing that they would do everything possible for the government to succeed.