…Set For Mid-Year Meeting July 11 LAGOS – Ahead of its Mid-Year-Meeting slated for July 11, the Board of Fellows (BOF) of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has called for equity in budgetary allocation to the health sector, especially the Pharmacy industry. The BOF-PSN made the call during a press conference ahead of its hybrid meeting slated from Tuesday, July 11 to 13 this year, at the Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja Lagos. Making the call was Pharm. Dr. Joel Adagazu, Chairman of BOF, who regretted, “There’s a lopsidedness in dealing with professionals in the health sector. “We seek equity and fairness for pharmacists given their readiness to serve and their desire to join in the rescue mission of the country.” Based on feelers from the Presidency, he noted, it appears that the current administration has an agenda for supporting the pharmaceutical industry to increase local production and reduce dependence on imports. “We congratulate the government for this important decision. We shall work closely with the leadership of the PSN and other interested parties to follow up on this matter,” Adagazu added. Meanwhile, in the past few years, through the MYM, BOF has deliberated on how best to support members and hold conversations on national importance. POLL To achieve more mileage in these regards, the MYM has billed July 11 for a seminar/workshop on entrepreneurship. “This is to consolidate BOF’s determined efforts to support Fellows faced with challenges in their businesses. “The concept of entrepreneurship is becoming more significant in the global investments environment,” says the chairman. On July 12, the 5th in the series of Public Lectures will ride on the theme: “Leveraging Mentorship for Professional Growth and National Development”. According to Adagazu, the theme is in recognition that mentorship, just like entrepreneurship, is a concept that is fast evolving. In his words, “It is an excellent strategy for the development of the younger generation by the older generation. “When properly harnessed, a lot of dividends can be achieved as the older, more experienced Fellows can provide the counselling and motivational stimulus for the growth and development of their younger colleagues.” BOF-PSN, its interest in national development will propel them to bring various resolutions and recommendations they could share with the government as their contribution to the conversations on national development. Accordingly, the chairman insisted that the pharmacy profession has a huge role in drug research and development, drugs and vaccine production, and the collateral responsibilities of clinical practice, drug administration, regulation and safety. “These responsibilities are all germane to Medicines security. The Nigerian pharmaceutical industry contributes significantly to national development. “Government should therefore do everything possible to ensure its survival,” he urged. In its Campaign against Drug and Substance Abuse, the BOF-PSN has resolved to pursue strategies for enhancing our activities in this area with greater vigour if funds permit. Due to the worsening economic climate, their endowments fund projects to promote excellence in pharmacy education and research have also not witnessed much inflow. We, however, look up to the future with great hope. Our Mid-Year Meeting will be on Thursday, 13″ July 2023, and feature the meeting of Fellows wrapped up with a dinner. At the dinner, the BOF-PSN will award some prominent Nigerians for their outstanding contributions to national development and support of pharmacy growth in Nigeria. At the conference, speakers will include a Fellow of the PSN, a renowned scholar, an academician, and a leadership expert. There will also be a great orator, an astute administrator and professor of Business Studies from the Business School of the Netherlands in Lagos, Prof Lere Baale, FPSN. The Chairman of the Public Lecture is a Scientist of repute and President of the Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN), Mr. Manason G. Rubianu.