ANDREW UTULU; TITILOPE JOSEPH LAGOS  – The Lagos State Commis­sioner of Police, CP Idowu Owohunwa, has issued a warning to secondary school students in the state about the dangers of us­ing hard drugs, reminding them that it carries a 15- year prison sentence upon conviction. During a one-day sen­sitisation campaign on Drug Abuse for Secondary School Students in Lagos, organised by the Crime Reporters Association of Nigeria (CRAN) to mark the 2023 International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, CP Owohunwa emphasised the negative consequences of drug abuse to the students. CP Owohunwa, repre­sented by CSP Yinka Eg­beyemi, Commander of the Rapid Response Squad, also cautioned the students against joining cults or en­gaging in any form of un­lawful activities that could lead to their premature demise. He urged them to choose their friends wisely and be mindful of the company they keep, as it would shape their future. Regarding the legal re­percussions of drug abuse in Nigeria, CP Owohunwa explained that the National Drug Law and Enforcement Agency Act provides for a punishment of 15 years, which can extend up to 25 years for drug abuse offenc­es, while drug trafficking is punishable by life impris­onment. He emphasised that minors or teenagers who commit serious offences will be considered juvenile offenders and may be sent to juvenile prison. CP Owohunwa high­lighted that drug abuse is a pervasive problem with far-reaching consequenc­es that go beyond the indi­vidual, affecting families, communities, and national security. POLL He pointed out that studies and statistics have shown a disturbing trend of youth falling victim to il­licit substances such as ro­hypnol, cannabis, codeine, tramadol, and other drugs commonly known by their street names, stressing that drug abuse knows no boundaries and affects ur­ban and rural areas alike. The CP acknowledged that drug syndicates oper­ate across borders, taking advantage of vulnerabili­ties in systems to facilitate the influx of illicit sub­stances into the country. He emphasised that the Nigeria Police is commit­ted to ensuring the safety and security of the nation and cannot turn a blind eye to the growing menace of drug abuse. CP Owohunwa further stated that drug-related of­fences and criminal activi­ties such as robbery, theft, and violence are often fu­eled by the need to sustain drug habits or influenced by the substances them­selves, impairing judgment and rational thinking, which in turn jeopardises community safety.