ABUJA – Officials of the Bank of Amer­ica on Tuesday paid President Bola Ahmed Tinubu a courte­sy visit, where they promised to assist Nigeria address its immediate and longer term challenges. Leader of the delegation and President of International Bank of America, Mr. Bernard Mensah, who made the pledge said such assistance would not only come in the area of financ­ing but contributing with ideas. Reacting, President Tinubu said his administration is on the pathway to success in spite of the challenges facing the country, insisting that Nigeria has no reason to fail the rest of the African continent. He told the visiting Bank of America delegation in his office that his government was committed to instituting reforms that would engender the sustainable growth and de­velopment of the country. “We believe we are on the right track so far. We believe we need all the help we can get,” the president said as he asked the bank’s management for support and partnership that would advance mutual benefits for Nigeria and the financial in­stitution. President Tinubu said governance and development challenges facing the country cannot be addressed without fiscal and institutional reforms. “21st century actions on cli­mate change, finance and inno­vation are intertwined. Having a good platform and believing in innovation will help in un­dertaking reforms and tackling the issues. “This is the largest economy and democracy in Africa and if we cannot do it, nobody will do it for us,” he said. POLL But affirming that no one can do it alone, President Tinu­bu made a case for the bank and other willing financing institutions to help the coun­try, for instance in partnering to ensure Nigerian gas com­pete favourably in the global market, as a viable source of alternative revenue. Earlier, Mensah had ex­pressed excitement about the initial steps taken by the new administration, which, he said, is taking Nigeria back to its rightful place on the global stage. In company with Mr. Men­sah on the visit were Head of Sub-Saharan Africa of the bank, Mrs. Yvonne Ike Fasin­ro, and Head of Investment Banking Sub-Saharan Africa, Mr. Chuba Ezenwa.