The commercial bus we boarded from Oshodi back to Tollgate, a border point between Lagos and Ogun State had a smooth ride until we got to Abule Taylor Bus-stop where the driver like in a macabre dance began to meander the vehicle through the very many gullies and craters dotting the abandoned section of the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. Right from Abule Taylor Bus-stop to Tollgate section of the expressway, covering a distance of about 7 kilometers you will find potholes that has become craters and deep gullies upturning vehicles, especially trucks on its side to spill precious contents. Vehicle passengers on the road endure the worst kind of giddiness that they could ever bargain for, with motorists having a kind of dread for that section of the road preferring to drive against traffic (one-way) daring the worst outcomes which continue to play out daily. The commercial driver conveying us turned to look at me and the other passenger sitting with him at the front partition and he said: “Oga, we get gofment for dis kontry so? See how bad the road dey naw!, e don reach more than two years wey dem abandon dis side of the road”. Shehu Olabode, a Motor mechanic, who resides off the Ajegunle Bus-stop, with his workshop at Ilupeju, said: “This expressway is the most notorious for crashes and casualties in Lagos State. There is no day when lives are not lost, goods not destroyed, trucks and cars not destroyed on it” The stretch of the road between Abule Taylor to Tollgate spanning about 7 kilometers has 126 deep potholes looking more like emerging gullies and craters panel beating vehicles into grotesque shapes when driven on it, Shehu said. A very popular Fuel station operator along the abandoned stretch of the road, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said: “I appeal to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State governor to replicate the Ogun State model by undertaking some palliative work on the road to make it motorable and reduce the number of vehicles driving against traffic, known as ‘one-way”. Some residents from the Lagos State Property Development Company LSPDC Estate, Meiran, staged a peaceful rally last week, asking Motorists to desist from driving against traffic, especially on the road stretch close to their estate, begging the Governor to carry out palliative repair works on the road to reduce the loss of lives and properties experienced from those driving against traffic. POLL Several times men of the Lagos State Taskforce have deployed their men to keep off motorists against lane violation, enforcing the forfeiture of cars apprehended for violation, yet a number of recalcitrant drivers will not comply causing the numerous crashes, carnages and deaths of several innocent road users. Now that the rains are here, the dwellers of towns bestriding the expressway have every reason to be worried about, especially for the worsening state of road, unending traffic bedlams, vehicle breakdowns, longer travelling times and grueling crash incident on the roads. On its part however, Governor Dapo Abiodun, the Ogun State governor in August of 2022 carried out the rehabilitation of the abandoned section of the road in his state to counter the delay by the Federal Government. The Ogun rehabilitation work was divided into five segments. The first segment takes off from the Tollgate end of the expressway to Singer, which is a distance of 7.5kilometers, completed before the commencement of elections this year. According to Ade Akinsanya, the then state Commissioner for Works, Ogun State, the second segment covers Singer to Ifo, the third segment takes off from Ifo to Papalanto, the fourth segment is from Papalanto to Itori, while the last segment will see the rehabilitation work taking off from Itori to the end of the road at the Brewery. The commissioner noted then that the Tollgate to Singer section of the road is the most deplorable, noting that one side of the road has been totally abandoned and can only be plied by heavy-duty trucks. Akinsanya, noted that the state government could not wait for the Federal Government to repair the road due to its deplorable condition. Aside from the worsening state of the abandoned road, users are subjected to sickening traffic bottlenecks on that lane leading to vehicle breakdown, rough driving, crashes, carnage and deaths, compelling the intervention of the Ogun State Government. Since the beginning of 2023, it is estimated that this abandoned section of the road is responsible for more than 56 crashes, an average of eight per month, with the death of not less than 18, killed mostly by Vehicles driving against Traffic away from the very bad state of the abandoned section. Goods in transit worth several millions of Naira are being destroyed daily from fallen trucks, affecting businesses and wrecking the investments of innocent Nigerians. Recounting his experience, Femi Adewole, an Accountant, who lives in Ahmadiyah area of Lagos, said: “It was 5.47am, on a Monday in March, after one of the early rains that fell during the night, I was to go for my International passport capturing in Abeokuta, slated for 8.30am, but trouble started when we got to Ajegunle Bus-stop, before tollgate where we were stuck among hordes of vehicles snuggling bumper to bumper, owing to the large pool of water in the large pot holes scattered on the road. “Passengers on board became exasperated by the deafening cacophony of blaring horns, from insults garbed in vulgar words exchanging carelessly between drivers, endless arguments, some exchange of blows between drivers of bashed vehicles, and worse of all the endless experienced by those in a hurry to get to their destinations. I ended up getting to Abeokuta by 10.30am” Femi said. Regular commuters plying the expressway, especially from Lagos to Sango-Ota, Ifo or Abeokuta and other towns in Ogun state for various businesses recount their daily sufferings in traffic gridlocks, that has become perennial, putting the blame at the door of the government officials and the contractor who they believe are in connivance to delay the completion of the road project. On his part, Friday Akpan, a truck driver, who expressed so much anger, said: “This is my first time of coming back to this highway since a year ago; my employer is aware of my hatred for the road since my truck overturned and spilled its content in Moshalasi Bus stop early last year and I almost lost my life. After my case two of my colleagues suffered the same fate, the latest one happened March this year when his truck overturned at the crater filled with rain water at the old tollgate.” “Oga, we get gofment for dis kontry so? See how bad the road dey naw!, e don reach more than sis months wey we don dey cry about this side of the expressway and notin don happen”. These were the lamentations of Okafor Fredrick, the commercial bus driver whom I boarded his vehicle from Agege on my way to Papa-Lanto in Ogun State enroute Sango-Ota tollgate. Like in a macabre dance, the driver meandered the vehicle through the very many gullies and craters dotting the unconstructed Lagos – Abeokuta expressway, as we approach the toll gate, passengers had to persevere with the giddiness that follows, and the knocking together of shoulders and sometimes heads of fellow passengers as if to wake them up to the breaking of a new day. The state of the road has become the worst nightmare traumatising road users. The current state of the road is far worse now owing to the diversion of traffic to the lane when the other lane was under construction. The stretch of the road between U-TURN in Lagos to singer in Sango Ota, is roughly about 15 kilometers, but, it is dotted with over 168 deep potholes looking more like emerging gullies and craters that will most certainly panel beat any vehicle into a grotesque shape when driven once or twice on it. Shades of complaints and public outcry had been expressed by residents of the communities along this road. In a chat with me, Hon Seye Sotunde, a former council official at the Surelere local Government Area, who built his residence in one of the towns serviced by the road, said, it is quite frustrating that a key economic road like this can be made to deteriorate to this extent. The Lagos – Abeokuta expressway inbound Lagos lane was completed in November 2021 and the completed lane was opened on Thursday 16, December of the year ahead of the yuletide season. As usual there was a gale of excitement expressed by road users after the lane was completed and confidently believed the construction of the second lane was going to commence in quick succession to totally exterminate their tortuous years of commuting the expressway. Alas, it is almost two years down the line, they realised that their expectations were actually a mirage. The various promises to resume work on the Abeokuta inbound lane has been reneged, subjecting those travelling that lane to suffer some of the most unimaginable discomforts and vehicle wreckage conditions you could ever experience. Following the tide of cries and criticisms against the federal government by the general public for abandoning the work, I spoke to Engineer Azeez Rafiu, the Project Supervisor, in May 2022, to give the following clarifications; the view of the Federal government about the unfinished work, what is the government planning to do, what kind of intervention are they planning and when will the construction works resume. Engr. Rafiu said: “The motoring public should appreciate the level of work done so far on that road, especially when you consider the state it was before reconstructed, in respect to the lane you are talking about, construction work has progressed significantly from the Ile- Zik, which is the starting point and has progressed beyond Abule-Egba bridge. “Arrangements have been concluded by the Federal Government to mobilise the contractor back to sight after all the necessary processes with the Ministry of Works of Housing have been completed. I’m assuring you that work will soon resume on that portion of the road.” He added. Engineer Kayode Popoola, the then Controller of Works of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Lagos, in his own response, said: “The project is not abandoned. The funding of this project is through the Sukkuk. Any moment from now, the payment for job done will be effected and the contractor will continue with the project.” Recall, sometime in September 2022, the Federal Government stated that the year is the deadline for the completion of the expressway in order to ameliorate sufferings on the highway.