The immediate past Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Sanai Oyeniran Agunbiade, speaks about the period he served his constituency, how much experience he garnered in the four terms that he served. He also talks about the importance of experience in the legislature. According to him, experience helps in the process of lawmaking and improves the performance of the legislators. In this interview, the lawmaker who represented Ikorodu Constituency 1, talks about the danger of high turnover of legislators. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: How will you describe your stay in the Lagos State House of Assembly? I love legislation and I enjoyed every bit of my stay in the Lagos State House of Assembly. It’s unfortunate that our society is yet to come to terms with the rules of the legislature, the more you stay in the legislature, the better for legislation and the better for the society because you get to know more by being a legislator. But our people still see the legislature as where you just go for one or two terms and go back to your constituency. This is a waste of resources because you are trained and the training should show in your performance, in the type of laws you make and in the quality of laws you make and in your focus. Here, they see it as a turn by turn thing. They’ll say you have been there for so long, so you should leave for others. We went to the State of Illinois in the United States of America and we were told that the Speaker of the House of Representatives there had been there for about 24 terms and a term is not one year. He has become a guru and he could say anything about the legislature. There are some people in some developed countries that have been in the legislature for upward of 24 or 30 years. They’re authorities in the field. So, because they have stayed there long, it’s a motivation for other legislators to also want to do more so that they can continue to go back and it’s the best for their country. But, in Nigeria, once you have spent two terms, it would be very difficult for you to go for a third term. They’ll say ‘are you the only one there?’ That is why we need to give kudos to the people of Agege Local Government for returning the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa, year in year out for six terms now. It’s not easy for one person to be sent on an errand by votes. He needs the confidence of the people and that is why the most-experienced person in the legislature here is Obasa because he was here before all of us. Those of us coming behind are learning and I wish that those who are remaining would be given the opportunity to do more. Those of us that are going, who would not be part of the 10th Assembly. We’ve come, we’ve seen and we’ve made our marks that cannot be erased from the history of the legislature. I only wish members of the 10th Assembly best of luck. I would miss the House of Assembly. You will indeed miss the Lagos State Assembly having spent 16 years there, but is it possible for an ex-lawmaker to still participate in some activities in the House? The Assembly is a public place, it’s a house of Assembly for Lagosians. You’re free to come in anytime. I would still be coming to watch the plenary, I’ll be coming to participate in the public hearing as long as I’m in the state. I’ll only stop participating in proceedings on the floor of the House, but I’ll still be participating in making laws for the state because I’ll put my ears on the ground for notices of public hearing. Coming to Lagos State House of Assembly gave me an opportunity to meet with other legislators across the country by my being the Chairman of South West Legislative Reform Committee (SLRC), and I met with other majority leaders of the States Houses of Assembly in the South West. Through that we were able to make all the rules in the States Houses of Assembly in the South West to become one document by harmonizing all the rules of the States Houses of Assembly in the South West. I thank God that I was the Chairman of the Committee that supervised that process. Due to the SLRC, we formed the Nigerian Majority Leaders Forum and I was opportune to be the Chairman of the Forum. I’ll be handing over very soon. The Lagos State House of Assembly made its mark also via the Chairman of the forum. All of these have improved my knowledge of the legislature. I wish the Lagos State House of Assembly and members of the 10th Assembly best of luck. You were there for 16 years, what would you have done better, because you mentioned that the people of Agege have confidence in the Speaker by returning him for six terms, what would you have done to have that kind of confidence from your people? If I have another opportunity, I would only intensify my passion and I would be more active in what I did in the Assembly. On confidence, that is relative and every community has its own peculiarities. When you are in a community and you serve diligently, it does not stop some people from contesting against you. They’ve contested against you on some occasions and you defeated them, they would be anxious to be there. They don’t know how herculean the job of a legislator is. As many times as you go, you would be having armies of defeated candidates, if they are many, they would form a formidable opposition against you. They would say you ought to have left that. They will also query if you are the only knowledgeable person. Some people still see elective offices as jobs for the boys, they see it as employment, believing that the more years you spend the more denial you give to other people, but it’s not so. No community or system changes the best hands, but that does not apply in politics. Unlike the executive, where the constitution provides a specific tenure, you can’t spend more than two consecutive terms as a Governor or local government chairman. They left that of the legislature loose because the drafters of the constitution know that the more you stay there the best for the legislature. Many people look at the remuneration, they look at gains for individuals and not the gains for the society. In my community, I’m the first person ever to spend more than two terms, most people only spent one term and they’re removed. So, they don’t understand why I had to spend more than one term. So, the peculiarity of the constituency matters. You also look at the diversity and the orientation of the leaders and how tolerant they are to people serving for more than one term. I thank God that I am not serving another term in the Assembly. I’m still the longest serving political office holder in my constituency. I give glory to God for that, I thank the members of my constituency for the number of terms they gave me to serve, it cannot be there forever. It had to end one day and I thank God for the way it has ended. I thank God that I came here alive and I am leaving alive.