LAGOS – Nigeria’s total pen­sion Asset under Manag e m e n t (AuM) is expected to hit N4 trillion by 2024 as estimated industry growth is put at 15.9 per cent over the next three years, Agus­to & Co latest industry re­port has said According to the re­port, the industry growth is expected to be driven by increased investments from pension fund admin­istrators and institutional clients, following the uni­fication of exchange rates which will ultimately re­sult in the repatriation of funds formerly invested in international money mar­kets and reignite foreign interest in naira-denomi­nated assets. The firm also indicated that the growth is likely to be fueled by an increase in the size of segregated port­folios, infrastructure funds and REITs, amongst others. The firm bemoaned the underperformance of the Nigerian asset manage­ment industry, which has continued to rank behind peers despite the nation’s huge population of 220 mil­lion people and the high foreign exchange remit­tance inflows from Nigeri­ans living in the diaspora put at $20.9 billion or N9.3 trillion as at 2022. It stated that the sector is currently constrained by a large informal sector (estimated at 65 per cent of GDP), a high poverty rate of 40 per cent and limited investment opportunities offered by the Nigerian capital market. The report noted that the challenging operating environment in Nigeria has led to an erosion of real incomes and purchasing power, prompting a surge in investors’ inclination to­wards dollar-denominated assets. “The escalation of the year-over-year inflation rate from 15.6 per cent in January 2022 to 21.37 per cent in December 2022, and It is indicative of an unfa­vorable macroeconomic climate. “The parallel market exchange rate stood at N750/$ as at 31 December 2022, indicating a 63 per cent arbitrage from the official market rate and a 32 per cent depreciation from N570/$ recorded in the corresponding period of the prior year.” POLL In addition, Naira-de­nominated investments have lost their lustre in light of current market conditions, and inves­tors are instead looking to high-yield alternatives and FCY-denominated in­vestments. The firm said investors have shown a growing inclination towards pri­vately managed portfolios rather than the often more restrictive and conserva­tive collective investment schemes, as they seek to gain relatively higher yields from investments. In addition, many as­set managers have fo­cused more on fostering the growth of segregated portfolios through their investment advisory ser­vices, while also improv­ing product distribution and enhancing customer experience. Also, segregated portfo­lios have continued to ac­count for a large portion of the Industry’s AuM due to the large volume of funds invested by high-net-worth individuals (HNIs) and corporations seeking exposure to specific invest­ment vehicles (in many cases regional Eurobond issuances). These specific invest­ment options, according to the firm, typically offer rel­atively higher returns and provide a currency hedge, which may not be widely accessible with collective investment schemes.