EJIKEME OMENAZU; JOY ANIGBOGU; OLO­RUNDARE ENIMOLA LAGOS – Living in Nigeria since the unceremonious withdrawal of fuel sub­sidy by the Federal Gov­ernment under Bola Ahmed Tinubu has gradually become nightmare for many citizens. In the weeks following the removal announcement, trans­portation costs jumped by over 300% after Fuel prices jumped from N192 per litre before the announcement to about N600-N750 per litre, leading to a spike in the cost of other goods and services. The pronouncement made afterwards by the NNPC sta­bilising the price of petrol be­tween N488-N500 per litre only assuaged the cost of transpor­tation marginally. Today, the Federal Govern­ment’s action is biting hard on Nigerians, especially the com­muting public and commercial Transport operators. Transport-Linked Hardship Alhaji Abbas Mulero, Man­aging Director, Pacesetters Mo­tors Nigeria Limited, Idimu, who operates interstate com­mercial transport services, affirms that things has taken a nose dive in the road transporta­tion Industry since the subsidy removal. According to him, “There is a general reduction in the num­ber of passengers travelling these days, unlike in the past when before midday, over 80% of our fleet would have been loaded with passengers heading to their various destinations. POLL “These days, however, out of the 18 vehicles in our fleet, only about 10-12 of them gets filled with passengers for a trip on a daily basis. “Added to this, is the enor­mous cost of fueling which has tripled the previous cost thereby reducing the level of revenue, and with the other vehicles not working at all, our income projections has being disrupted, leaving us to struggle with offsetting bills and other statutory obligations such as loan repayments, salaries and others.” Mulero lamented. Nkenna Abigail, who sells electronic equipment at the Arena Market in Oshodi, said, “The cost of transportation from Gbagada to Oshodi in La­gos state has risen from N200 to N400, an increase of 100 per cent, after an initial increase to N500 immediately after the subsidy removal.” Also, residents pay about N600 for a trip to Ojodu-Berg­er in Lagos from Mowe, Ogun state, a journey which would ordinarily cost N300. In Ekiti state, according to Adeyemi Olotu, a final year student of the Federal Univer­sity of Oye-Ekiti, “A trip from Oye-Ekiti to Isan-Ekiti now costs N700 against a previous price of N300 and to Ado-Ekiti the State capital it went from N400-N800.” During the recently conclud­ed Eid-El-Kabir festival, a trip to Ibadan that costs between N1500-2000 jumped to N5000- 7000 per trip, Lateef Buraimoh, a commercial driver, said. A large number of commut­ers in Lagos have resorted to patronising the BRT means of transportation whose fares have remained relatively stable, because they operate on diesel. Oluwashefunmi Daniel, who manages a hotel on the Lekki Peninsula but lives in his own apartment at Abule Egba, a suburb of the Lagos mainland, said he had decided to move to a room apartment around the hotel area to beat down the cost of fueling his car to and fro the hotel every day. Equally a number of people working on the Island but living in the suburbs have resorted to sleeping in their offices during the working days, leaving for their homes at the weekend. The popular and affordable Uber rides has since gone out of the average commuter’s ca­pacity. Fawcett Akinmorin, an Ac­countant who lives in Gbaga­da, working for an Insurance in Apapa, said, “Uber ride from my place to Apapa that use be­tween N2500-3500 now charges between N5000 to N7000 per drop. “While Bolt is charging be­tween N4,300 to N8,600 from Lekki Conservation Road to Obalende.” Some Lagosians have also claimed that Sienna used for commercial purposes are charging between N1,500 to N2000 from Oshodi to Lekki, from N500 previously charged. Meanwhile, danfo (yellow) buses that are active on the road are charging up to N500 per drop from Oshodi to Abule Egba from N300 per drop before the subsidy removal, N800 from Cele to Berger and N700 from Yaba to Obalende. Adetayo Olaniyi of the De­partment of Transport Man­agement Technology, Federal University of Technology, Ak­ure, Ondo State, in his research finding, said fuel is a major factor among many others in­fluencing transport costs and transport rates in Nigeria. “It plays a significant role in the production of goods and ser­vices in all sectors of the econo­my, which is why countries find it necessary to subsidize and ensure citizens have access to fuel which is of national impor­tance. Fuel in Nigeria is an in­elastic product both at demand and supply sides, which means that it is very difficult for con­sumers to find alternatives to the use of it in their daily lives. “For a developing country like Nigeria, fuel subsidy is considered as a major tool to enhance citizens welfare most especially the middle and low income earners, meanwhile, the disbursement of fuel subsi­dy must be properly monitored to guide against corruption as shown in the past administra­tions. Femi Olasiyun, a stockbro­ker, said: “Any slight increase in the pump price of fuel without palliative measures in place in­flicts economic hardship on the citizens and usually generates resistance and protest from the organised labour, civil society coalition and the masses in general.” Loss Of Purchasing Power Reports have it that inflation rate has jumped to over 22 per­cent for food items in particular. The Inflation has caused a gen­eral and progressive increase in prices and a fall in the purchas­ing power of consumers. Our reporter visited some markets in Oshodi, Ikeja, and Ikotun to find out how the citi­zens are coping with the high in­flation and rising cost of living. The prices of food items from these markets reveal as follows: a bag of 50kg of rice (long grain) sells for N36,500, while it sold for N34,000 in May this year. The short grain of the same size sells for N32,000 now while it sold for N29,000 in May. A bag of garri sells for N17,500 but sold for 16,000 the same period last month. A carton of Indomie noo­dles sells for N4,200 but sold for N3,900 the same period last month. It is also the same story for the beverages section, where a pack of 12 bottles of Coca Cola drink that used to sell for N2,000 now sells for N2,200. While 400 Kg of Milo sells for N2,400, Peak milk of the same size sells for N3,400 whereas both products sold for N2,100 and N3,000 respectively in the same period last month. The business owners and customers who spoke with our reporter lamented the hike in the prices of food items and how life has become increasingly dif­ficult for them. A customer, who simply gave her name as Wunmi painted a gloomy picture of the situation and said that she spends over 150 percent extra on what she used to spend on food items, yet the quantity of her purchases has reduced by over 50 percent. Wumi said that her family hardly feeds three times in a day. She said that the cost of rice, garri, yam, bread and beans which are the commonest food in the home have gone out of the reach of ordinary people. “I spend more than double of the amount of money I used to spend. Remember when we used to buy a bag of rice for N15,000. Even last month a bag of rice sold for N29,000, now it is over N32,000,” she said. A seller in Ikotun market, Mr. Okenu Samuel, said: “If you are doing business with N3 million, it will probably buy only 60 percent of the quantity of products that you used to sell. “What that means is that you need additional capital to run your business. Where are you going to get that with the high cost of funds? “Government must do some­thing urgently because the situ­ation is getting out of hand. “The government should not allow our economy to go under, because this is what it is gradu­ally getting to. Very soon people will be compelled to close shop,” he said. Calls For Palliatives Analysts have maintained that there is unbearable hard­ship in the land since the high cost of fuel has adversely affect­ed every human activity in the country. Comrade Kunle Wizeman Ajayi, activist and former Chairman of the African Ac­tion Congress (AAC) in Lagos State, while reacting to the ef­fects of the subsidy removal, stated: “It has been hell and one cannot really cope anymore. “I will not advise the Federal Government as they are all out to enforce total deregulation of all the commanding heights of the economy. “The lies that they are re­moving subsidies shows that they are hell bent on lying their ways to empower only a few trillionaires, while 133 million people remain very poor. “I will advise Nigerians to rise and resist the current hard­ships and pains imposed from the top!” In the same vein, Hon. Charles Anike, National Presi­dent, Eastern Union (EU), said: “The very unfortunate an­nouncement of fuel subsidy re­moval has worsened the untold hardship being experienced by Nigerians since the inception of the All Progressives Congress (APC) regimes. “The fuel subsidy has been another kind of special pur­pose vehicle (SPV) used by suc­cessive Nigerian governments, created to constantly defraud and sabotage the economy and as a means to always provide food for the ‘boys’ (oil mafias). “The scam was to be dis­mantled by the Goodluck Jonathan government in 2012, but was fought and forced to sustain it by these criminal elements who now constitute the ruling APC. “Haven’t successfully fought and sustained the fuel subsidy scam as an opposition then, the same liars and propagandists, after eight years of enjoying the blood money, decided to arbitrarily end it in a way and manner that ordinary citizens are badly hurt and are now suf­fering more suffocation.” In his response, Dr. Victor Mathew, the Executive Director, Kingdom Advocacy Network (KAN) said: “In terms of coping with fuel subsidy removal, God is helping us. “There is no doubt that the removal has triggered inflation and compounded hardship in the country. I am not among those who are hailing the Pres­ident for the removal because subsidies only exist because the government has refused to fix our refineries. “The President was instru­mental to Buhari’s emergence. What did he do in eight years to fix our refineries? “Government is just pushing hapless Nigerians into penury because of lack of vision or deliberately refusing to fix the refineries in order to keep en­joying the proceeds of the sub­sidy scam. “The announcement of the removal by the president on inauguration was not appro­priate at all without preparing the minds of Nigerians and en­gaging stakeholders as well as providing palliatives. “Up till now, nothing is on ground to ameliorate the hard­ship which clearly shows the government came into power unprepared. “The government should as a matter of urgency roll out pal­liatives to cushion the effects of the removal. The government must and should fast track their respons­es through bringing refineries to begin to work, encourage and create an enabling environment for Compressed Natural (CNG), invest in mass transit transport, encourage modular refineries and roll out both monetary and fiscal measures to move many people out of poverty.” As for Gracious Akitoye, a Media Executive, the decision of the Federal Government had become necessary. He said: “I sincerely believe it is a good decision at the right time and in the right direction. “The new administration should be commended for tak­ing the bold step of removing the subsidy. “Truth is, it has not been easy coping with it, but change is inevitable and to grow and de­velop our economy, we should be ready to pay some sacrifice with some changes.”