…..As Tinubu Seeks Screening, Confirmation Of Service Chiefs In line with the rule of the upper chamber, Godswill Akpabio, the President of the Senate on Tuesday constituted the Selection Committee and eight other Special panels. This is even as Akpabio read a letter from President Bola Tinubu, seeking the Senate screening and confirmation of the appointment of the new Chief of Defence staff and the service chiefs. Akpabio, who announced the names of chairmen and vice chairmen of special committees of the Red Chamber, named himself as Chairman of the Selection Committee while his Deputy, Barau Jibrin, would be the deputy. The President of the Senate announced himself as the chairman of the Selection Committee that would constitute the 69 standing committees of the Red Chamber. He said all the eight newly elected principal officers from both the majority and the minority caucuses of the Senate would serve as members of the panel. The committees are Media, Rules and Business, Senate Service, Appropriations, National Security and Intelligence, Legislative Compliance, and Public Accounts, respectively. Other members of the Selection Committee are the Senate Leader, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele (APC Ekiti Central), Ali Ndume (APC Borno South), David Umahi (APC Ebonyi South) Lola Ashiru (APC Kwara South), Olalere Oyewumi (PDP Osun West), Darlington Nwaokocha (LP Abia Central) and Rufai Hanga (NNPP Kano Central). POLL Akpabio also confirmed the speculations in the media by announcing Senator Olamilekan Adeola (APC Ogun West) as the chairman of the Committee on Appropriations and Ali Ndume (APC Borno South as the vice chairman. The Committee on Media has Senator Yemi Adaramodu from Ekiti South Senatorial District as the Chairman while Senator Shuaib Afolabi Salisu from Ogun Central Senatorial District is the vice chairman. Also, Senator Sunday Karimi from the Kogi West Senatorial District was named as the chairman of the Senate Services Committee while Senator William Jonah will serve as his vice. The Committee on Rules and Business has Senator Titus Zam (Benue North West) as the chairman and Senator Opeyemi Bamidele as the vice chairman. Senator Ahmed Wadada is the new chairman of the Senate Public Accounts Committee, SPAC and Onyeka Peter was announced as the vice chairman. Akpabio also mentioned Senator Shehu Umar as the chairman of the Committee on National Security and Intelligence while Senator Asuquo Ekpenyong would serve as his deputy. Committee Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions have Senators Okey Ezea as chairman and Ibrahim Khalid as the vice chairman respectively. Also, the Committee on Legislative Compliance has Senator Buba Umar as the chairman while Senator Asuquo Ekpeyong would serve as the vice chairman. Meanwhile, the request of President Tinubu to confirm the appointments of the new Service Chiefs by the Senate was contained in a letter addressed to the Senate President, Akpabio and read during plenary on Tuesday. The new Service Chiefs are Maj. Gen. Christopher Musa – Chief of Defence Staff, Maj. Gen. Tahoreed Lagbaja – Chief of Army Staff, Rear Admiral Emmanuel Ogalla – Chief of Naval Staff, Air Vice Marshal Halidu Abubakar – Chief of Air Staff, Kayode Egbetokun – Acting Inspector General of Police and Maj Gen. E. P. A Undiandeye – Chief of Defence Intelligence. President Tinubu had on Monday, June 19 approved the immediate retirement of all Service Chiefs, the Inspector-General of Police, Advisers, and the Comptroller-General of Customs Service and subsequently appointed new Service Chiefs. They replaced General Lucky Irabor -Chief of Defence Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru -Chief of Army Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo -Chief of Naval Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao -Chief of Air Staff, Usman Alkali Baba -Inspector General of Police. The new appointments, according to Tinubu were in compliance with Section 18(1) of the Armed Forces Act. Cap A20 Laws the Federation of Nigeria 2004. The planned screening and approval of the Service Chiefs by the Senate at Committee of the Whole, as explained by Senate President arose from the fact that standing Committees on Defence, Army, Navy and Air Force are yet to be constituted. He added that the screening will be done expeditiously in line with requests made to that effect by the President and the need for re-engineering the nation’s security architecture.