GOMBE – Gombe State Police Command says it has succeeded in neutralizing a notorious armed robbery suspect in Gombe after a fierce exchange of fire with a 10-man robbery gang who have been terrorizing some parts of the State capital. The Police said the criminal met his Waterloo during the gun duel that resulted in the arrest of three of the gang members while six are on the run with bullet wounds. Assistant Superintendent of Police, Mahid Muazu Abubakar, the Command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), gave the name of the arrested suspects as Adamu Usman alias Bali, 22 years old of Barunde Quarters, Mustapha Abdullahi alias Jammaye, 22 years old of malam inna Quarters and Abdullahi Hussaini alias Danbasi, a 21-year-old of Anguwa Uku. He also gave the name of the robbery suspect that was killed as ‘Abaru’ of Kumbiya-Kumbiya quarters. Mahid explained further that the notorious gang had invaded the residence of one Alhaji Gidado Muhammad Sani at Arawa Quarters, Shooting sporadically and robbing the household of their valuable properties thereby injuring the Security guard on his head, left hand and back on 24/06/2023. According to him, after the distress call received by the Police, the CP, Oqua Etim, mobilized the tactical team of Operation 999 to the scene where the robbers engaged the Police in the gun duel that claimed the life of ‘Albaru’. Parts of the exhibits robbed from the victim were recovered and efforts are in place to arrest the fleeing suspects, the Command’s PPRO said. The Police also reported the recovery of four stolen bulls at an uncompleted building in Nassarawo quarters, Gombe by officers of the Command. POLL Mahid explained that a case of the theft of two bulls was reported at Gona divisional headquarters on 27/06/2023 at about 2230 hrs by one Jibrin of Gidim village that unknown persons entered his compound and made away with his two bulls valued at #700,000. On receipt of the information, detectives of the Division mobilised to the scene and the bulls were traced to an uncompleted building at Nassarawo quarters where four bulls suspected to be stolen were seen and the complainant identified two bulls as his. In the process, a locally made pistol with two live cartridges were also recovered as exhibits. The investigation is ongoing to arrest the fleeing suspects. The command then reiterated the resolve and commitment of its officers and men to the public in responding to cases of urgent attention while appreciating the support and cooperation from the good people of the State urging them to do more in reporting crimes and criminals.