The maiden edition of the multi-million Naira  Naija Super 8 football competition will kick-off today at the Mobolaji Johnson Arena, Onikan, Lagos, with the opening match between Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) champions, Enyimba International and league runner-up, Remo Stars of Ikenne, at 4:30pm. Other clubs participating in the tournament are newly promoted Sporting Lagos and Katsina United, Rivers United, Lobi Stars, Akwa United and Yobe Desert Stars. Each club at the tournament will earn N3 million per match at the group stage. Semi-finalists will earn an additional N3 million, the runners-up will earn N9 million, while the winners will go home with N25 million. All the matches will be broadcast live on SuperSport  Football (DStv ch 205 & GOtv ch 61). According to the organisers, Flykite Productions, the 10-day tournament will feature 15 matches and live music performances by Afrobeats artistes. Commenting on entertainment activities lined up for the tournament, the Chief Executive Officer of Flykite Productions, Jenkins Alumona, said Naija Super 8 finals will be a carnival of music and football. “The Play-off at the Eket Township Stadium has given us snippets of what to expect at the Lagos finals. We are in for 10 days of spectacular football displays from Naija Super 8 teams. “We are also making this tournament a carnival of football and music for the fans. An Afrobeats artiste has been scheduled to perform live on each matchday. At the same time, fans will also be able to refresh themselves at different refreshments stands around the stadium, courtesy of our sponsors, Pepsi and Hero Lager,” Alumona said. Set to perform at the opening match is the popular Zazuu crooner, Portable. Other artistes scheduled to perform at the tournament include 9ice, Daddy Showkey, Lil Kesh, Pheelz, Bella Shmurda, Peruzzi, and Crayon. POLL Naija Super 8 is organised in partnership with MultiChoice Nigeria and sponsors, MTN, Hero Lager, DStv, GOtv, SuperSport, Moniepoint, Pepsi and Custodian Assurance.