The National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS), may still suffer a twist as recent survey has proved that Nigeria is far from meeting the financial inclusion threshold by 2023. The assertion was made by Mr Olorundare Sunday Thomas, Commissioner for Insurance (CFI), in Lagos recently. Citing the Global Partnership for Inclusion (2011), the CFI noted that all working age adult have effective access to credit, savings, payments and insurance from formal providers. According to Mr Thomas, effective access involves; Convenient & responsible service delivery, at a cost affordable to the consumer and sustainable for the provider (Demand & Supply Side) with the Result that the financial excluded becomes included. “It is worthy to state that financial Inclusion has assumed a critical development policy priority in Nigeria with The National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS) which was aimed at reducing the exclusion gap to 20per cent at the end of 2020. The reality of present times is that data provided by EFInA from its two-yearly Survey on Access to Financial Services in Nigeria revealed that although some progress has been made, as those financially excluded has reduced from 52.2per cent (45.5m) in 2008 to 362per cent (38m) in 2020. This simply means we may not reach the NFIS target until 2030.” It appears that NFIS, FinTech, InsureTech and Current Financial Services have their shortcomings to the group of people we claim to provide for, there is the need to revamp NFIS to capture current realities and come up with new strategies to navigate through certain concerns or challenges. Part of these concerns includes; whether the existing Fintech/Insurtech business models and products are suitable and sustainable for the unbanked and why the Nigerian Financial Inclusion rate is lower than that of some other developing countries despite numerous programmes. POLL There have also been certain challenges that have in recent times stifled the NFIS Goal; these includes financial literacy levels (Rural areas), Payment System Laws, and lack of collaboration/partnership between various stakeholders and even Regulators. The journey to Financial Inclusion goal can only be speeded up by encouraging the scaling on Technology particularly Mobil Money and research has shown that Phone Ownership in Nigeria has increased with at least one person in a household owning a mobile phone (EFina 2018 Survey). There is also the need for Regulators (CBN, NAICOM, PENCOM, NCC, and SEC): To create open and level playing field for a wide range of providers; Increase collaboration between themselves as this create the right environment for technology to thrive; encourage innovation around product, services and delivery channels.