The Lilywhites needed to beat Leeds United and hope that Aston Villa slipped up against Brighton and Hove Albion, but the Villans secured seventh place with a 2-1 win over the Seagulls. Spurs’ focus will now turn to appointing a new permanent manager, with interim boss Ryan Mason expected to leave his role to make way for a new boss. Former manager Mauricio Pochettino, who was linked with a sensational return to the club, has instead been appointed as head coach of rivals Chelsea, much to the frustration of Spurs fans. There isn’t just uncertainty surrounding the manager at Spurs, though, as forward Harry Kane continues to be linked with a move away from the club. Now, though, it appears that Tottenham will stand firm in an effort to keep hold of the striker. According to The Mirror, the north London outfit are determined to resist interest in Kane from rivals Manchester United. Chairman Daniel Levy, who has previously prevented Kane from leaving the club, is said to be adamant that the player will not be sold to a Premier League rival. Kane, 29, is set to be out of contract next summer and Spurs could therefore risk losing him for free, especially as the player would be able to sign a pre-contract agreement with any foreign club from January onwards. POLL The England international has enjoyed a fine campaign this term, netting 32 times across all competitions. Earlier this season the forward became both England and Tottenham’s record goal scorers, and he was only beaten to the Premier League golden boot by Erling Haaland. In total, Kane has scored 280 goals in 435 matches for Spurs across all competitions, as well as providing 64 assists. Manchester United have reportedly made the former Millwall loanee their top target for the upcoming transfer window, but Tottenham are holding firm and are prepared to risk losing him for free next summer. The report also suggests that foreign clubs could opt not to make an offer for the player this summer as he is set to be available for free next year, which could mean he is likely to stay put in the capital for one more season.