One thing stands out clear in Transformations in International Relations Since 1945 – it is a rich resource document, what with its array of authors who are experts in their own right. You will find the book, edited by Abolade Adeniji, PhD, covering all relevant aspects of international relations – close or remote. ‘Distilling the Presence of the Past: Continuity and Change in International Relations’ by Abolade Adeniji, identifies, defines and dissects International Relations then and now. He thus succeeds in not only introducing the subject to the uninformed but gives a convincing executive summary of the subject. You will get to know that the modern period in International Relations commenced in 1648 with the signing of the Treaty of Westphalia, which enthroned the principle of sovereignty, which brought with it, the principle of balance of power. You will discover that the principle of balance of power helped to disallow continental domination by any one State. You will find out too that the breakdown of balance of power was responsible for the outbreak of the First and Second World Wars. Rufus Olu Olaoluwa anchors the ‘Role of International Law in International Relations’. He treats the concepts, and sources of International Law, principles of the law, as well as the relationship between International Law and Municipal laws, etc. It is interesting and in order that Olaoluwa is able to expose the ugly face of International Law, inspite of its outward qualities. Olaoluwa’s point of view can be corroborated with an Australia/ East Timor recent example, which has to do with a dispute over territorial waters. January 2006 witnessed an outpouring of criticisms against the Australian Government as the Governments of Australia and East Timor signed another interim resources sharing agreement for contested petroleum resources in the Timor Sea, by an Australian lobby group. The group attacked the Australian Government’s failure to address the larger and more important issue of permanent maritime boundaries. Timor Sea Justice Campaign co-coordinator, Tom Clarke, claims the deal to share ‘government royalties’ from the Greater Sunrise gas field 50/50, despite the field being twice as close to East Timor than Australia, simply postpones the real issues of sovereignty for half a century. This is something similar to Nigeria’s 60/40 per cent oil exploration relationship with Sao Tome and Principe. Michael Ogbeidi’s 15- page historical analysis of the ‘Middle East in Contemporary Times’ is a brief that gives one the picture of war-mongering Middle East that we know. We get to know the origin of the Middle-East debacle – an unending military confrontation that is predicated on the Palestinian question. What is the question? The Jews facing persecution and decimation in Europe wanted a safe haven elsewhere. On this question of safe haven, the Jews race was divided between the orthodox Jews who wanted to return to Palestine and the liberals of the secularists who wanted statehood and locality. The orthodox Jews had their way for the Jews migrated to their acclaimed homeland, a move that was hotly rebuffed by Palestinian Arabs. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Palestinian question has its roots in the 20th C, when most Arab nations became independent from either Britain or France, the UN voted in 1947 to divide Palestine between the Jews and the Arabs, but all Arab states rejected the plan. In 1948, when British troops left Palestine, the Jews declared the independent state of Israel. The Arab states attacked Israel, unsuccessfully, and most of Palestine’s Arab inhabitants fled. Arab-Israeli relations remained hostile, although in 1979, Egypt and Israel signed the Camp David accord, a separate peace treaty brokered by U.S. President Jimmy Carter. The dingdong relationship remains till this day. POLL Olaoluwa appropriately gives a summary of the militarism that the region had been entwined in over the years – from the 1935 and 1939 Arab terrorists and Iraq’s murder of 630 Jews in Mandatory Palestine, through the various attacks of Arab armies on the Jews in 1948, 1967, 1973, and 1991. He notes appropriately too, that the solution to the Palestinian question is the recognition of the existence of the state of Israel by all Arab nations. The genesis of the crisis tells it all. One other chapter that makes interesting reading is Chapter 13, the chapter tagged ‘Globalization and its Contradictions’ authored by Sylvester Odion-Akhaine. If you have been part of the group that has been celebrating the phenomenon called globalization you are most likely to have a change of mind after reading this chapter. Odion-Akhaine profiles current global inequality. To him, the North South divide is like a ravine, which deepens with everyday downpour. He asks the question: For who is globalization? And he proffers an answer: It is simply for capitalists, and a tool for their maximization of profits, and for the rest of us, it is poverty and social inequality. Quoting Ihonvbere, he says, “Globalization has not reduced genocide, civil wars, interstate wars and violence”. All said, the book is an indispensable, robust, quality resource material.