LAGOS – Members of the Ikeja Metro Lions Club have donated a set of school uniforms and sandals to the pupils of Makoko Children Development Foundation (MCDF) in a bid to improve the quality of the education they receive. Speaking at the event, Lion Godson Ikechukwu Anigbo, the president of Ikeja Metro Lions Club, said that the club conducted a needs assessment of the school and found out that the schools need assistance in many areas. He stated that some of the immediate needs of the pupils were footwear and sandals and the club donated the items to the school. He disclosed that the club will provide for other needs of the school and pupils. The club also gave some money for the running of the school and asked the founder to provide a plan for expansion and the cost. Anigbo, who is the MD/CEO of Ikotel Communication Ventures Limited, stated members of the club were shocked by what they saw at the school. According to him, “The place looked abandoned; it seemed they have been forgotten by the government and society. The school is standing on wood that is surrounded by water. This is not right and it is not a testimony for Nigerian and her people. “It is not right for the pupils and their teachers to subsist in this kind of environment. There is an urgent need for the government to come to the aid of these people. The government needs to relocate the school to a better environment for the pupils and pay their teachers.” POLL However, the founder of the school, Urban Wheduto, said he started the school after he discovered most of the children in his church could not recite the English alphabet and count one to ten and he decided to teach. He stated that he was encouraged to expand the teaching and with the help of friends and family he was able to build the wooden structure to teach more pupils. He disclosed that he had reached out to authorities who made promises that were yet to be fulfilled. He said he pays the volunteer teachers stipends whenever it was possible. He called on the government and public-spirited individuals to come to the aid of the school. One of the teachers, Juliet Fosupe, appealed to the government and Nigerians to help the school financially and otherwise.