The first biennial International Maternal Newborn Health Conference (IMNHC2023) in Cape Town, South Africa on Thursday called for emergency intervention to improve maternal and newborn survival worldwide, especially in African countries, including Nigeria, for them to achieve Sustainable Development Goals. According to IMNHC2023, Nigeria is among 60 countries that are at risk of not meeting the maternal, newborn, and stillborn targets of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) without urgent intervention. The World Health Organisation noted that infant deaths continued to make up about half of the under-five mortality, especially in Central and Southern Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa countries, such as Nigeria. For instance, Nigeria accounts for the second-highest number of maternal and child deaths globally, the United Nations reported at the conference. Indeed, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, bemoaned Africa’s high maternal and newborn deaths during the first plenary of the four-day event that began on Monday, May 8 at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC). He said, “Africa is where seven out of 10 women die due to pregnancy-related issues. Every year, 4.5 million mothers, newborns, and stillborns die from preventable causes.” According to Ghebreyesus, “Where a child is born or how much money its family has should not determine whether it lives or dies. But this is still the reality for many women and babies worldwide.” who was giving his keynote statement told delegates at the ongoing Maternal and Newborn Health Conference in Cape Town, South Africa on Tuesday, May 9. Similarly, Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the Republic of South Africa said, “Our continent’s future is being born again – we are called upon to start a new chapter by investing in women and newborns, where our actions have the greatest impact.” POLL Worried about the trend, Ramaphosa wrote in an opinion that heralded the IMNHC2023 plenary in Thomson Reuters Foundation seeking emergency action to curb Africa’s maternal and newborn deaths. He said, “There are stories passed down from our mothers and grandmothers about life’s beginnings. Reverberating stories of joy and pride, but stories that are whispered, fraught with shame and sadness. We speak of babies miscarried and stillborn, of those born too soon, and of mothers who passed away suddenly, leaving families inconsolable. However, many of these stories remain unheard, contributing to the neglect of maternal and child health. We have made significant strides towards better health outcomes for women, newborns, children, and adolescents. Only 20 years ago, most births in Africa happened at home, where we could not monitor adverse outcomes. Today, more than half of births occur at a health facility. Yet, this is still the lowest rate of any region in the world – far below the target of 90 percent needed to reach the Sustainable Development Goals for maternal and newborn survival. In his article, the South Africa President asked rhetorically, so why do seven out of 10 maternal deaths continue to take place in Africa? If we truly value mothers and babies, why are we slow in preventing mortality? Collaborating with the WHO Chief, he asserted, where you live should not determine whether you survive or not. Ramaphosa further queried, who you are should not determine the value of your life. How much money you have should not determine the quality of health care you can access. Your skin colour should not determine your inherent worth and right to dignity. He was optimistic that a movement is sweeping through Africa today. Our countries and communities are brimming with ambition and innovation, powered by the largest generation of young people the world has ever known. To realise Africa’s ambitions of economic and social prosperity for all, the continent needs to focus on where it all begins, with the survival and well-being of mothers and babies. Today, around the world, there will be 12,000 deaths resulting from complications around birth, including women, newborns, and stillborns. Half of these deaths are in Africa. The burden of preterm births – the leading cause of newborn death – has hardly changed in 20 years. The numbers of stillbirths, too, remain unacceptably high with two million families a year suffering preventable losses, often in silence or stigma. As Ramaphosa puts it, “This cannot be tolerated. So, in our parliaments, in our communities, and in our clinics, let us speak for change, and let us invest where it matters most. First, we need to listen carefully to what women and families tell us about what matters most to them, including how crucial it is that care is there when it is needed most, provided with quality and respect. “We need to invest in the building blocks of our health system, including better data to improve planning, monitoring, and evaluating the health system and a well-equipped workforce, especially with more midwives. “We must join the dots between women’s health and what underpins it, including promoting and protecting gender-related issues. Women’s access to sexual and reproductive health services, including family planning, is a fundamental right. “Together, we can avert 30 million maternal and newborn deaths and stillbirths worldwide by 2030, including more than 15 million in Africa alone. We hear the cries of our mothers, grandmothers, and men who have lost their wives, mothers, and children”‘ Put in the words of Ramaphosa, Ghebreyesus, and other world leaders, the time for Asian and African countries, including, Nigeria to commit to change is now.