….Two Bandits’ Drug Peddlers Arrested With 1,032 Tablets Of Tramadol ABUJA – The troops of the Joint Task Force, Operation HADIN KAI in the North East zone have arrested five terrorists and rescued 121 civilians comprising 72 children and 49 females including two Chibok schoolgirls who are on serial two and 103 of the List. The land and air component of Operation HADARIN DAJI in the North West zone of the country also arrested two suspected bandits’ drug peddlers at Wazata village, in Birni Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Troops also neutralized 40 Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists, arrested 25, eight terrorists informants and logistics suppliers apprehended during raids, fighting patrols and ambush operations in villages, forests, mountains, towns and cities of Gwoza, Bama, Biu, Kukawa, Monguno, Marte, Damboa, Mobbar and Konduga Local Government Areas of Borno State. Addressing newsmen on Thursday, on behalf of the Chief of Defence Staff, Lt General Lucky Irabor at the Defence biweekly media briefing on troops’ activities and operational successes in various operational theatres across the Country, the Director of Defence Media Operation (DMO), Major General Musa Danmadami disclosed that both kinetic and non-kinetic operations were conducted in various theatres of operations, with significant results recorded. According to Danmadami, the briefing covers the operational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies conducted in addressing the various security challenges across the Country between the period of 20 April – 4 May 2023. He said, “On 25th April 2023, troops in search operation arrested a suspected ammunition dealer at Kachia town in Kachia Local Government Area and two suspected bandits drug peddlers at Wazata village in Birni Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects are notorious suppliers of ammunition and hard drugs to terrorists. Troops recovered 15 rounds of 7.62mm special, 8 mobile phones, 105 wraps of substances suspected to be cannabis, 1,032 tablets of tramadol and the sum of N82,800.00 only. POLL “Similarly, on 23rd April 2023, troops intercepted 3 terrorist logistics suppliers with 1 vehicle, and 1 canter truck loaded with 87 bags of rice at Gusami and Mada villages in Birin Magaji and Gusau Local Government Areas of Zamfara State.” Cumulatively, General Danmadami stated that within the weeks in review, “Troops in the North West zone recovered 19 AK47 rifles, 1 LMG, 2 dane gun, 3 GPMG, 3 fabricated pistol, 1 Baretta pistol, 1 locally made revolver pistol, 1 double barrel gun, 8 AK47 magazines, 1 PKT magazines, 64 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 3 rounds of 9mm ammunition, 6 AGL bombs, 50 rounds of 7.62mm special, 60 cutlasses, 1 boafeng radio, 2 solar panel, 13 mobile phones, 38 motorcycles, 87 bags of rice, 24 cows, 8 donkeys, 28 camels, 102 goats, 231 sheep, 105 wrapped cannabis, 1,035 tablets of tramadol and the sum of N89,000.00 only. “Troops also neutralized 25 terrorists, arrested 30 terrorist informants, 6 terrorist logistics suppliers, 2 gunrunners and rescued 4 kidnapped victims. All recovered items, and arrested suspects were handed over to the relevant authority for further action, while the rescued kidnapped civilians were given medical attention and handed over to the relevant authority for further action.” He also noted that the air component of Operation HADARIN DAJI conducted a series of air interdiction operations at terrorist hideouts within Katsina and Zamfara States that inflicted casualties on the terrorists. Specifically, Danmadami said, “On 24th and 26th April, 2023, a well planned and coordinated air operation was carried out at an identified notorious and wanted terrorists enclaves, within Zurmi Local Government Area of Zamfara State and camps within Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State. “The locations were seen to be active with terrorists and thereby bombarded and following the airstrikes, feedback revealed that several terrorists were eliminated.” Danmadami further revealed that, “Between 21 – 25 April 2023, troops carried out fighting patrol to villages in Danko-Wasagu Local Government Area of Kebbi State, Bungudu, Zurmi and Maradum Local Government Areas of Zamfara State as well as Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State and Tangaza Local Government Area of Sokoto State and made contact with terrorists at this various location. “Following a fierce firefight troops neutralized 14 terrorists including a notorious terrorist kingpin, troops also arrested 6 terrorist informants and rescued 4 kidnapped victims. “Items recovered include; 5 AK47 rifles, 1 dane gun, 6 AK47 rifles magazines loaded with 25 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, 6 AGL bombs, 3 cutlasses, 1 boafeng radio, 5 mobile phones, 20 motorcycles, 24 cows, 8 donkeys, 180 sheep, 102 goats, 2 solar panels and the sum of N6,900.00. “All recovered items, and apprehended suspects have been handed over to the relevant authority further action.” Equally, he said the rescued terrorists escapees and members of the their families were profiled and given medical attention, while the surrendered terrorists and members of their families are also been profile for further action. There however, conveyed the military high command’s commendation on the relenting efforts of troops and other security agencies in the country. “I wish to once again convey the military high command commendations on the unrelenting efforts of troops and other security agencies in the various theatres of operations across the country. “The media community is also acknowledged for their partnership and continued cooperation with the military and other security agencies, in our quest to restore peace and security to our dear Country. “Also, the entire populace is hereby appreciated, for the support given to the members Armed Forces and other security agencies in the conduct of our various operations across the country, while also urging them to continue to provide prompt and creditable information on the activities of terrorists and other criminal elements, in their respective areas,” he said.