…as Gov rolls out plans for the state, women in particular The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Niger State Council has congratulated the new Governor of Niger state, Rt. Hon Muhammad Umar Bago on his inauguration as the sixth democratically elected governor of the state. With the combined qualities of Bago who is not new to leadership responsibilities haven spent three terms as member House of Representatives representing Chanchaga Federal constituency, the NUJ expressed optimisms that there is renewed hope for infrastructural development as contained in his inaugural speech. In his congratulatory message to the new Governor, the state NUJ Chairman, Comrade Abu Nmodu noted that the inauguration of Umar Bago has brought new hope in the journey for massive socio-economic development of Niger state. Comrade Abu further posited that the energy in the youthful mien of Governor Bago is not only reassuring but the vision scintillating and the zeal painted clear colour of commitments as the common man never hid their expectations from the new government. The union in a congratulatory message signed by te Council Secretary, Usman Muhammad Chiji, recalled excellent media engagements with Bago during electioneering campaigns and expressed hope that the long standing relationship would be sustained in the first four years of the administration and beyond in effective dissemination of policies and programmes. Journalists in Niger state are optimistic of brighter future for the entire citizens irrespective of tribe, religion and regional considerations, if Governor Bago keeps to his promise of operating open door policies of engaging especially the masses constructively. Meanwhile, Governor Umar Bago has after oath of office kick-started his administrative plans and programmes of changing the state for the better with the order for the demolition of a police station built along pipelines. The administration under his watch, Bago assured will no longer be ‘business as usual but business unusual’ in upholding; transparency, accountability and physical discipline by government functionaries who are expected to be dutifully and diligently providing services to citizenry in all government businesses. “It is not going to be business as usual, but business unusual for the betterment of the entire people of the state”, Bago said, adding however that the most compelling task before him is strategizing towards securing the lives and properties of Nigerlites. In the first four years term, Governor Bago said his administration will encourage gender balancing with the appointment of women to serve as Secretaries in Local Government Areas besides other responsibilities aimed at empowering them for self reliant. Bago also solicited for the support and cooperation of all to achieve his robust plans for a new Niger state that all will be proud of by taking the advantage of the existence of the four national hydro dams; Shiroro, Jebba, Kainji and Zungeru in the state to ensure 24 hours power supply to boost commerce and industry.