After a rigorous and systematic training, an Ibadan-born talented and great boxer, Ayanfe Adeoye, popularly known as BB Shinobi among his fans will this Sunday, 21st May 2023 at White House Youth Development Center, Oshodi, slug it out with another talented boxer, Ali Shaibu. The eight (8) rounds National Challenge bout, dubbed, “Unbeatable Champions of Oshodi, which is promoted by Felachamp promotion is the first fight of the year 2023 of Adeoye popularly known as BB Shinobi. It could be recalled that BB Shinobi won his first international professional fight against Ghanaian boxer, Emmanuel Allotey in far away Ghana on May 1st, 2021. He won by round five knockouts in a six rounds bout that came up at Lebanon house Accra, Ghana. In 2022, he also defeated the likes of Ibrahim Sodiq at Ijeja Abeokuta; Williams Eleshin at Yucateco Arena, Ikorodu; Idris Wasiu at Egbeda and Raji Jamiu at Adesba Hotel Abeokuta. Adeoye, a young talented boxer, who will be clocking 23 years in a few weeks’ time, while speaking with journalists through his Manager, Temidayo Osasona, said he wish to repeat the Ghana feat and another victory in Nigeria on Sunday. He said with the hard work through training and dedication that won him all the fights will repeat itself on Sunday in Oshodi. According to him, “with the level of concentration, training and prayer, he is optimistic of coming out victoriously, and that he promise to dedicate the victory to Almighty God and as usual to his fans here in Nigeria and in diaspora. POLL “My ambition is to make boxing a number one sport in Nigeria. I want to be a great example to the younger ones that you can still be a boxer and be a decent, reliable and responsible person. It’s a sport and not for ‘thugs’ as some people perceive. And most importantly, I want to make boxing great in Nigeria like other greatest Nigerian born boxer. “I am looking up to the likes of the greatest Muhammed Alli, Lennox Lewis and Sugar Ray Leonard and my brother and a role model, ‘The Champ’ Anthony Joshua”. Speaking on boxing development in Nigeria, BB Shinobi said he won’t really put all the blame on the government as government alone cannot do everything but appeal to government to also pay attention to boxing like football because there are lots of potential and talents in boxing as well. “I won’t really like to put it all on the government. Even corporate brands can come in and sponsor stand out boxers. It doesn’t have to be financially, but it could be boxing gears, supplement and other training facilities”.