ABUJA  – The outgoing Minister of Transportation, Mu’azu Jaji Sambo, at weekend commis­sioned the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Skills Ac­quisition Centre in Zaria, Ka­duna State and a twin lecture theater donated by the agency to Kaduna State University. The skills acquisition centre located in Zaria has facilities such as electrical, mechanical, sewing, technical, and welding learning facilities among oth­ers for youths and women. Osagie Edward, the Assis­tant Director, Public Relations, NIMASA, made this known in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday. According to the statement, the Minister noted that these projects are parts of the leg­acies of the Federal Govern­ment, under President Mu­hammadu Buhari, to improve education as a basic need for economic development, even as he commended the Dr. Jamoh-led management of the Agency for the initiative. On his part, the Director General, NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, noted that the NIMA­SA Skills Acquisition Centre is one of the centres located across the six geo-political zones of the country. He also disclosed that higher institu­tions in all geo-political zones of the country are benefitting from the Agency under her Corporate Social Responsibil­ity (CSR) projects. “Our desire as an Agency is to ensure that young Nige­rians acquire skills to make them self-dependent thus pro­ductively engaged. We are also developing such centres in Ni­ger, Lagos, Anambra, Gombe, Bayelsa and Rivers states. This is also aimed at fighting insecu­rity on land, which will have a multiplier effect on security in the maritime domain”, he said. The outgoing Governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Hadiza Balarabe, noted the commit­ment of Kaduna State govern­ment to education and thanked NIMASA for completing the project in record time. The Emir of Zazzau, Am­bassador Ahmad Nuhu Bamal­li, commended NIMASA for citing the project in the Emir­ate Council, assuring that the centre will be maintained for the benefit of the people. POLL It will be recalled that under the leadership of Dr. Jamoh, NIMASA has continued to maintain focus in ensuring the Nigerian maritime sector takes its rightful place in the co­mity of maritime nations. Just recently, the Agency commis­sioned five enforcement boats, four staff ferries and an ultra­modern world class Search and Rescue Based Clinic, in addi­tion to the commissioning of a permanent building, housing the Agency’s Abuja Office.