Dominic Alancha, a Public Affairs Analyst and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ,in this interview talks about the controversial zoning arrangement of leadership positions in the National Assembly (NASS), why the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party should rescind its decision, tells Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the President-elect, to stay away from power sharing in NASS, among others. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Why do you think that the leadership of the APC took a wrong decision by zoning the National Assembly leadership positions? What they have done is not zoning nor is it consensus. When you talk about consensus, when people come on the table there is wide consultation and then you will agree that Mr. A should take this, Mr. B should go with this, Mr. C should go with that, and they all agree, you also factor their interest that is when you can say that there is consensus. In this case, Senators, and members were not consulted. You can see in the South-East when they met, there was no single Senator contesting for that position that was consulted, whether Osita Izunaso, Orji Uzo Kalu, the two major candidates from the South-East. It is the same for the House of Representatives. Aminu Jaji was not consulted, Betara was not consulted, Idris Wase, the current Deputy Speaker and the highest ranking officer in the House was not consulted. Even the only female contestant was not consulted. So, there was no consultation, which was why in the letter that the party released to the press a few days ago, they tactically advised the leadership to engage in further consultations. Believe me, that has put the party in a very bad state, and in a very bad position, and people are pointing accusing fingers at Aswiaju Bola Tinubu for endorsing this kind of a thing. I think he should stay away from that. Recall that about a year ago when the NWC of the party came out and announced Ahmed Lawn as a consensus presidential candidate, as a democrat he (Tinubu) said he was going into the election. He went against the position of the party, delegates supported him because he canvassed for their votes. He was elected as the flag bearer of our party and today he is the president-elect. We mobilised and worked for him. As a true democrat, I think he should stay away and allow the members-elect and Senators-elect to elect somebody they feel can lead the 10th Assembly and then they should be conscious of zoning because the country as it is today, we must factor zoning into this whole arrangement. The North-West cannot get two principal officers of the National Assembly. It got the Speakership, it is also taking the Deputy Senate President position. It is unacceptable, even certain regions from their own permutation that contributed less in terms of voting strength, not to talk of the region that gave their all to the party. I think that merit wasn’t considered in this zoning and we are calling on the leadership of the party to reverse this decision. With the way things are going in the National Assembly, they have ignited a situation where there will be rebellion, and the 2015 arrangement will come back to the table. The party should do further consultations, call all the Senators from all the regions that are contesting, call all the House of Reps members that are contesting from all the regions, let them agree so that we don’t go into this election like a divided house. The South-East Senators should also learn from what some members in the House are doing. They are coming together, forming alliances in order to ensure that they come out with a consensus candidate. What measure can be taken to ensure that the APC power sharing arrangement promotes accountability, transparency and good governance in a way that this doesn’t become a tool for rewarding political allies or in some cases blocking the aspirations of qualified candidates from other represented regions? Nigerians are expecting that the leadership of 10th Assembly should do the right thing. Some of the things that should be put forward in terms of considering who becomes the 10th Assembly chairman and deputy chairman should be competence, experience and capacity. Now, if it cannot factor some of these things, bring them to the table, you cannot engage them. In this case there was no engagement of these members. They went ahead, sat down on their own, drew out a list. Well, I don’t know some of the people that are behind these things. What they are doing is not in the interest of Nigeria, they are only doing this because of their personal interest. What we are saying is just like the party rightly advised in its letter, they agreed that there was not much consultation and that they are advising that there should be better and further consultations to avoid a division in the house. We are calling on them to do more consultations. The issue of excluding a zone will be injustice that will haunt the party till 2027. It is not going to be accepted by the North-Central and we are calling on all our leaders, thankfully about 19 Senators from the North-Central have written to the National Chairman, rejecting the purported zoning and consensus arrangement of the party. The same thing that the House of Reps members from our zone have done, and we have the support of other regions. Reward is something that counts in politics. Even in your organisation if your staff do well, and are committed, you will reward them. At the North-Central level, we have been very committed to the APC. Since 2015 we have been supporting APC. In this election we even gave more votes than most zones. We came third and if you look at it in terms of percentage rating, we gave 41 percent to Asiwaju. It is the North-Central zone that gave the victory votes to Asiwaju. We won in Benue, Kwara, Kogi and Niger States. We lost Kaduna the State of Tajudeen Abass that they have anointed as consensus candidate. The so-called consensus candidate lost in his ward, it tells you that he is not the candidate that the people want. Most members don’t know him, he is not a popular candidate. How does it affect the independence of the legislature if the current arrangement is allowed to stand? If the current arrangement is allowed to stand it will mar the independence of the legislature. The institution of the National Assembly will no longer be independent, which is why members must rise against it. If members believe in the independence of the legislature they should rise and stand against this thing. They should present somebody that can be generally accepted by the members. If this decision is allowed to stand, it will mark the end of the independence of the National Assembly but I can assure you that it will not stand. How should APC balance diverse opinions within the party so that there won’t be a division even before the 10th Assembly kicks off? POLL The only way to balance it is to engage members and consider all the zones. We have six geo-political zones in this country, the South-West has the president already, the North-East has the vice president, the remaining four positions in the National Assembly should be spread to other zones. In the South-East you have Osita Izunaso, and Orji Uzor Kalu for Senate President. In the South-South, Akpabio that is anointed already and Adams Oshiomhole are also contesting for Senate President. So, call them to a table and let them agree. But most importantly all the zones should have a sense of belonging. They should be carried along, if they are not carried along, it would be an injustice. This injustice will haunt the party till 2027. It is not a threat, but I am only telling them that the people are not happy. Already we prosecuted the electioneering campaign of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Now, they are telling us that they are looking at commitment to the party. They told us that Asiwaju is not a democrat, we said that he is a democrat, so what is happening now, is it democratic? Definitely, it is not democratic. You cannot impose an individual on people and insist that it will stand. If he is undemocratic he shouldn’t have flown the flag of our party and today he is elected. What are your expectations from the National Assembly assuming this hurdle is crossed. I expect that if we are able to cross this hurdle, the 10th Assembly will be a robust and an effective one. Effective in the sense that the institution of the National Assembly is key to the progress and development of this country. I have taken my time to go through “Renewed Hope Agenda Manifesto” of Asiwaju Bola Tunubu and sincerely speaking he needs an effective Assembly, because there will be a lot of enactments that will support some of the programmes that he is bringing on board. So, you need somebody with experience, competence, character and capacity to lead the Assembly. We expect that in this 10th Assembly one of the key roles of the National Assembly is oversight function. With proper oversight function we believe that the Assembly will be pro-people.