LAGOS  – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders under the auspic­es of the Imo PDP Grassroots Movement have vowed that they will ensure that the will of the people prevail in the November 11 governorship election in the state despite alleged plans by the incumbent Governor Hope Uzodimma to deploy state and security apparati to retain power. The stakeholders, who spoke through their State Coordinator, Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, Imo PDP Grassroots Movement, told Sunday Independent in an exclu­sive interview, after their meet­ing at the weekend in Owerri, that although they know that the coming election would be hot and heated, efforts would be made to stop the alleged plot by the incumbent governor to ma­nipulate himself back to power. It would be recalled that Uzod­imma became the Imo State gov­ernor following a Supreme Court ruling which overturned the elec­tion of PDP’s Emeka Ihedioha who had ruled for some months after he was declared the winner of the governorship election in the state about four years ago. Going by the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC’s) verdict, which was re­versed by the Supreme Court, Uzodimma, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who came fourth in that election, became the governor, displacing Chief Emeka Ihedioha, who had held sway for few months. Adikwuru, a seasoned politi­cian and an all-time associate of Emeka Ihedioha, said: “The Imo guber election coming up in No­vember will be hot, heated, and expectedly the will of the people must prevail. “Irrespective of the fact that it will be one all in the federation, Imolites will come out en masse to cast and defend their votes. “The electoral manipulations through the use of fake uni­formed men by the present APC government will be on check and never will they be given the chance to overturn the popular choice of the people.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I can say that the election is narrowed down to APC and PDP with PDP getting strategically disposed to upstage Hope Uzod­imma and APC.” POLL Contributing, Hon. Charles Anike, President of Eastern Union (EU), a political pressure group for the people of the old Eastern Region, stated that the No­vember 11 gubernatorial election in Imo State will be very strategic because it will afford the Imolites an opportunity to right the wrong of 2019 by the Supreme Court. Anike stated: “The Imo State citizens have been praying, wait­ing patiently for an opportunity to reclaim their stolen mandate. They are eagerly looking forward to the end of the reign of terror in the state. “Since the inception of the present government in the state, Imo has witnessed a high level of bloodshed, terror and insecurity allegedly sponsored by the gov­ernment to force legitimacy and acceptance by the people. “The people’s anger will be expressed at the poll, just like what happened in the February 25 elections.”