Over 500 pregnant women across Oyo state have benefited from the 2023 bi-annual Ibadan Central Hospital health initiative tagged: “Health Gathering”. The event, according to the Medical Director of the Hospital, Muyiwa Bewaji was part of activities marking the 25th anniversary of the hospital. Bewaji said the purpose of the event was to celebrate, appreciate and sensitize pregnant women in the state, particularly in Ibadan and its environs on the importance of anti-natal and what to expect during pregnancy. According to him, pregnant women were basically chosen for the program having realized the role of mothers in the society and importance of maternal healthcare. He maintained that the maternal mortality rate in Southwest is at a lower rate compared to what it used to be a decade ago courtesy of sensitization of pregnant women and focused anti-natal healthcare. According to him, “We sensitise them on importance of anti-natal care, what to expect during pregnancy, and for them to know how to take care of their child after delivery. “We also give them gifts in the form of a raffle draw, this year’s event is special because it coincides with our 25th anniversary, we are having another section for children that were born in this hospital over a decade ago by next week, we are taking care of mothers this week.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The General Manager of the hospital, Olajumoke Caxton-Martins in her remark described the event as a way of giving back to society, adding that maternal mortality is still high in Nigeria, hence the need to educate expectant mothers on what to know. POLL She lamented that some women still prefer to give birth at home or in Mission Homes, adding that it become imperative to educate them on what to know whenever their health is been threatened. “They need to know what is normal and abnormal, this is our own way of giving back to society, educating them on what they need to pay attention to, we bring together pregnant women twice every year, we feed them, entertain and sensitize them. “Women are important to homes because they take care of the children and family, which is the bedrock of any society, we teach them how to have these children and how to take care of them after delivery.” She said the brain drain is also affecting private hospitals because doctors are in high demand everywhere in Nigeria and this is affecting society but her hospital still manage to handle the situation. One of the expectant mothers, Agboade Dorothy thanked the organizer of the program for the initiative, saying the program will go a long way towards addressing the healthcare of pregnant women in the state.