Police Parades 37-Year Old Man, Accomplice For Alleged Murder Of Elderly Couple TITILOPE JOSEPHLagos A 37 years-old suspect, Wale Adeyemo and accomplices Kingsley Chibueze 26 were arrested and paraded for alleged killing of an elderly couple in their home on March 19, 2023. The police spokesperson who paraded the suspects and 40 others before journalists on Thursday at Command headquarters, Ikeja said it was revealed during investigation that Adeyemo, who was formerly an employee (driver) of the couple, requested to be paid off and was obliged sometime in February. It would be recalled that tragedy struck at Ikeja, Lagos during the Saturday’s Governorship and State House of Assembly elections  as  the elderly couple were found dead in their house while their house help was seriously injured fueling speculation that the couple were murdered. The election day tragedy threw the entire neighbourhood into instant mourning. While parading the suspects, the Police said during the cash crunch, Adeyemo allegedly recruited Chibueze to aid his plans of robbing the couple. “The robbery then led to the gruesome murder of the couple and attack of the housemaid. The suspects went away with unaccounted sum of money in Dollars and Naira with two Samsung smart phones and they were later arrested,” he said. POLL Also, arrested was two men who were allegedly found with human parts in Ikorodu. Hundeyin said that investigation also revealed that both suspects were members of Aiye Confraternity, while one of the suspects identified as Laitan, was a murder suspect detained at Ikeja but escaped from cell during ENDSARS protest. “Suspects later confessed to have gotten the human parts from his friend. While effort is in place to arrest other members of the gang.” However, Police detectives also arrested the trio of Emeka Kalu 52, Emeka Jefferson 46 and Christain Odah on May 20,  for specialising in breaking into shops and stealing parked vehicles. The police spokesperson said three Toyota Camry, one Toyota Sienna Space bus, one mini bus, six generators a bag of rice and five televisions were recovered from them. He said further investigation led to the arrest of their receiver one Azuma Benedict 76. Items recovered from her possession were two grinding machine, two televisions, one home theater, three generators. In a similar development, one Olayinka alias ‘Koko Senior’ a notorious cultist who was involved in the killing of his rival cult group members and innocent residents during cult related clashed was spotted at his hideout in Ikorodu area of the state where he was arrested when Police swift into action. During investigation it was revealed that Koko Senior is the number one in rank of Aiye Confraternity and was initiated in 2016 while other suspects confessed to being members of the said group. While effort was ongoing to arrest other members of the group. Meanwhile, police said no fewer than 40 persons were arrested in the last one month over various offences, imcluding armed robbery, stealing, kidnapping, cultism, murder amongst others crimes in the state. Hundeyin noted that from all the cases they successfully cracked, a total of eight arms, 16 live ammunition, six vehicles, one motorcycle and two axes were recovered. He said other items recovered were  nine generators, seven Television sets,  two grinding machines, two knives, one home theater, 27 phones, one bag of rice, hard drugs and decomposing human hands.