The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has vowed the Garki International market would remain closed until traders follow the sanitation rules. Comrade Ikharo Attah, the Senior Special Assistant to the Minister of FCT on Monitoring, Inspection, and Enforcement, stated this while visiting the market alongside Director Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Osilama Braimah, to review the cleanliness of the environment. He stated that despite the market’s closing since last Friday, there was still garbage in several spots throughout the market. Recalled that the board had closed the Garki International Market last Friday due to inadequate cleanliness and the traders’ unwillingness to take the necessary measures to meet the Administration’s desired level. Attah stated that FCT Minister Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello desires a clean and safe Abuja, hence the need to steps must be put in place to uphold the standard. According to him: “The present stage of Garki market is a disaster waiting to happen, we have gone around the market to check the level of sanitation but is still bad. We sealed it last Friday, so by now, there are supposed to be some signs of seriousness on the part of traders. “The Abuja Environmental Protection Board AEPB has acted in line with the Ministerial directives, any part of Abuja either market, school or office must be kept clean “.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Similarly, the Director Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Osilama Braimah said the board was keen on reopening the market but was not satisfied with the level of hygiene. POLL “This is about my fourth visit to the market, but it is still in a deplorable state, very filthy. We are planning to reopen the market but looking at what is on the ground is not possible, hopefully, it will be in a few days to come” One of the tailors in the market, Umar Hamza said the Garki market has been shut in the last 5 days due to uncleanliness, and he pleaded for mercy. “AEPB shut the market about 5 days ago, we pleaded for more time in order to clean and evacuate the wastes. The waste has accumulated due to the traders’ refusal to pay the current service charge imposed by Abuja Market Management Limited, we are appealing to FCT Administration to feel our pains, We have lost billions in the last few days over the closure” Meanwhile, Daniel Kalu also a trader in the market, said: “We have even started the clean up of the market, all the refuse dumps have been reduced to a little as a result of our clean up exercise. “Why we stop was because of a Court issue,  you know some of our people went to Court because they consider the service charge placed on us to be too much, so they want Abuja Market Management Limited to reduce charges, but I can confirm to you that they have gone to the Court to withdraw the case. “We are pleading with the AMML to come to our aid by reopening the market for us, on our part we are ready to ensure that the cleanup of the market is completed,” he said.