Many people want to take care of themselves and want to do their own wish instead of allowing God who created them, who is protecting them, guiding them, providing them to direct their lives. Some people do not give God the opportunity to take of them. These people always fail to seek for what are in tune with their destiny. Consequently they opt for what could cause downfall or untimely death for them. Brethren, I implore you to be patient to receive what you deserve from God. Some people embark on or do something which they are not destined to do and they do these things but they like doing them. For instance someone is not destined or supposed to wear red coloured clothes, he or she continues wearing it because he or she loves it, or sees people wearing it and find it befitting and want to imitate those that are wearing it. These people fail to inquire from their creators. In the same manner people at particular age brackets eat foods, take drinks that are injurious to their body system. They take these foods and drinks because they are sweet and palatable whereas these foods and drinks cause sickness that can lead to untimely death. Why is it that people do not like truth? People do not allow God to direct and control the journey of their life. It is their own will that they allow to prevail. This has led to downfall of people and disaster for some people. For instance, some people do not permit God to choose the kind of spouse them. In the long run they make wrong choice which may destroy their marital life. Prospective wives look for men that are very handsome and rich believing they will be loving and caring. In the same vein, prospective husbands look for spinsters that are pretty, light-complexioned and with good body statistics. Both prospective husbands and wives do ask God the kind of would-be spouse to marry. A man may be destined to marry a lady with tribal mark on her face but eventually wed a lady with spotless and smooth face whom may be attractive to other men that are rich, wealthy and powerful than the husband. Any of these men may be interested and want to have the woman, and then he starts plotting how to achieve his desire. He can employ any method either to sham the woman to love him of eliminate the husband. The elimination can be through assassination or placing ‘Thunderbolt’ on the woman so that when the husband makes love to her he will die. But if the husband initially marries the lady with tribal mark, she would not be attractive to men; the couple would live their life devoid of trouble end external aggressors. Our Lord Jesus Christ taught us how to pray i.e.The Lord’s Prayer Matthew 6 vs10 ‘………your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven’. The question is who is doing the will of God? Some people are destined to do the will of God by winning souls for God instead they seek for money throughout their life which they do not get. Parents are created to nurture their children to a level where the children become prosper and responsible in the society but some parents neglect their children in pursuit of their own business or work thereby the principalities of this world to snatch the children’s glory. Eventually the children become useless, not-well-to-do so when the parent grow old and retires, the children will be able to cater for the parent. Jesus Christ always involves God in whatever he wanted to do. When he wanted to raise up Lazarus from the dead, he firstly acknowledged God performed the miracle. John 11 vs 41 ‘……….. Father, I thank you that you have heard me, I knew that you always hear me……..’ Brethren, invite God into your work, family so that he can direct, and guide in His own way. Do not allow your will to prevail over that of the Lord. Even Jesus never allowed his own will to prevail over that of God. Matthew 26 vs 39 ‘…….. My Father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. Yet not as I will, but as your will…’ Finally all the things people do, do they do them in the way of the Lord? If not, that is why they always fall sick, lack many things.