ABUJA – The flagging Off of the proposed national carrier, Nigeria Air, on Friday was trailed by criticisms with stakeholders expressing doubts over the feasibility of the airline flagged a few days before the end of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation and Aerospace, who unveiled the national carrier at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, NAIA, led the delivery of Boeing 737-800, adding that other aircraft would be added in coming years. This is coming despite a Federal High Court order in Ikoyi on April 15, 2023, issued an interim injunction restraining the federal government and other parties from executing the proposed national carrier project. However, Sirika had on numerous occasions insisted that Nigeria Air will fly before the Buhari administration comes to an end on May 29. But, noting that a national carrier has been a major project that has been missing in the country’s aviation dynamics, he assured that the airline is equal to the size of the market in the country, even though the highest shares are controlled by Ethiopians Airlines. He said: “There are no sentiments to this. This is one infrastructure that has been missing in the general aviation dynamics of the country. The airline is equal to the size of the market, the dynamics of the market of Nigeria, its geography and the fortunes of the country. Indeed, we do need the kind of infrastructure that we’re having today in the name of Nigeria Limited. “This Nigeria Air Limited of course, obviously, it’s an entity known to Nigerian laws. There is a partnership between entrepreneurs in Nigeria and the entrepreneurs in the Ethiopian Airline Consortium. The consortium is a company belonging to many partners, and it’s a very long journey. “We started in 2016 and it ended up today. There is a history behind all of these. There were challenges down to one for that matter. We didn’t allow them to make us lose focus. We stayed with the eyes on the ball and today we’re here.” POLL Speaking on the standing court ruling that suspended the establishment of Nigeria Air, Sirika explained that his action are not in anyway sub judice to the court ruling, saying that the project brings needed development economically and otherwise to the country. He said: “No, it is not sub judice. If it is we’re not going to embark upon it. There’s nothing that stops us from continuing to bring developmental projects to our people. The constitution of Nigeria is very clear that it is within their rights to go to court for whatever reason they want to go to court, and it’s also within our own rights to do all the things that will promote the general well-being of Nigeria and Nigerians and this is one of it. “The economy of Nigeria, the centrality of civil aviation and the promotion of the economy and the value addition to the GDP. It’s very important and paramount and the focus of government and I can tell you that, from the roadmap implemented, aviation became the fastest-growing sector of the economy before COVID. Even with COVID, we were the third fastest growing sector and this is the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics. “So, it’s a noble thing we are doing and Nigerians are happy. Nigerians love this. So, this is the alternative. This is to show how to do airline business very well and to serve Nigerian people better. And like I said, it is not unhealthy competition.” Sirika, however, assured that more aircraft would be deployed following the conditions directed by the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, NCAA. “So, in the process of establishing an airline, there are the conditions set by the regulator which is NCAA. So, this airplane will be here and we will commence the demonstration flight to show that we can do it. Normally, I think between zero to 40 hours, but it can be less it can be five hours, it can be two hours and this is to ensure that we are able and we have the capacity to do it. “But, of course you know partnership with Ethiopian Airlines, Nobody can doubt the capacity that this can happen. So, I know very well that the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority will do the needful, and of course, give the clean bill to start to fly. So, this is part of the process. it’s the beginning of the establishment of the airline. “In the business case, it is envisaged that within the next five years, it will hit the 35 Aircraft mark. You don’t come in one day to dump 35 airplanes. You cant come in one day and start going to London. So, it’s a gradual process. The aeroplanes will be coming one after another. And until in the next five years, according to the business case, we achieve the 35 aircraft mark from there it continues”, he explained. On his part, Lemma Yadecha Gudeta, the Chief Commercial Officer, of Ethiopian Airlines, while commending the effort of the Federal Government, assured that the project under the watch of the Ethiopian Airline, would ensure economic development for the country. Furthermore, he assured that Nigeria Air would be a one billion dollar project in five years times. According to him, As far as the initial business plan that we are working on in collaboration with stakeholders in the consortium, Nigerian Air will be a 1 billion US dollar company in five years’ time. “As a company in Africa, which operated for the last 77 years in aviation with Ethiopian Airlines is very much pleased to be part of the beginning of the Nigeria national carrier and we strongly believe that our presence here in Nigeria will serve as a way of supporting the economic growth of Nigeria,” he added.