The Plateau state denominational church leaders and spiritual fathers have condemned the resurgence of killings In Mangu and Riyom local government areas of Plateau state. The church denominational leaders led by ECWA President Rev Dr Stephen Baba Panya in a statement issued in Jos and made available to Sunday Independent, said they were deeply saddened by the resurgence of mindless killings of innocent citizens, mainly Christians, in Mangu and Riyom Local Government Areas of Plateau State. The church leaders regretted the killings which started in Mangu village on Monday, 15th May 2023 by so-called unknown gunmen which has claimed many lives and properties with many persons still missing. According to them, the villages affected include Fungzai, Hale, Kubwat, Bwoi and many other communities of Kombun District of Mangu Local Government Area and some communities in Riyom Local Government Areas. ”According to reports, about 130 people were killed, about 1000 houses and about 22 churches burnt, and about 22 villages affected.” “We the church denominational leaders and spiritual fathers view this round of killings and destruction as devilish, barbaric and an act of genocide against innocent and armless villagers.” According to them, this is another sad commentary on the unabated bloodletting that has engulfed Plateau State over the years without any meaningful attempt by the government at the federal and state levels to decisively address the unfortunate situation. “How long will this bloodletting and the persistent attacks and killings in Plateau state continue? POLL “Who really wants to destroy Plateau State and why? Are the killers really ‘unknown’ gunmen and why do they always have sophisticated weapons and enough time to wreak havoc on innocent citizens? “What has happened to those arrested in previous attacks? Are the security agencies in Plateau really handicapped?”, they asked. The church leaders argued that if “we must move forward as a peaceful, united and democratic nation, then these and many other questions must be answered through deliberate action by government to bring these killings to an end and restore peace and tranquility in Plateau State and other troubled parts of the country.” “We the church leaders and spiritual fathers are calling on the government and all security agencies to immediately stop this ongoing massacre and its spread to more communities. We also urge relevant emergency management agencies to urgently provide shelter and relief materials to the affected communities and bring them the much-needed succor.'” They implored spirited individuals, groups, and organizations to come to the aid of these devastated communities and alsocalled on citizens to remain calm and peaceful in the face of this unwarranted persecution, and trust that government and its relevant agencies will immediately restore normalcy and build the confidence of the people. They commiserated with families that have lost their loved ones and prayed for God’s comfort, healing and restoration to all those injured. They charged churches in the state not to relent in praying to God for divine intervention, inner strength and perseverance for the people. “Let us hold on to God’s promises and fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith (Hebrews 12:1-3)”, they stressed.