ABUJA – President Muhammadu Bu­hari on Thursday in Abu­ja declared that the ninth National Assembly will be remembered as one of the most productive in terms of output and outcomes. He attributed his admin­istration’s achievements to the harmonious relation­ship between the executive and the legislature. Buhari made the re­marks while commission­ing the permanent site of the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), an agency of the National Assembly. “As you are all aware, I have traversed all parts of Nigeria in the last few days commissioning several crit­ical infrastructure that our administration has com­pleted over the last eight years. “Our successes as a gov­ernment are primarily due to the harmonious relation­ship between the executive and the legislature. “The legislature is the cornerstone of any democ­racy. It is vital to ensuring that the wishes and aspira­tions of all Nigerians are considered during the law­making process. It also per­forms the critical function of overseeing the executive and ensuring government spending aligns with legis­lative intents. “From the moment of my election in 2015 and sub­sequently, I supported the idea of an independent Na­tional Assembly to decide its leadership and develop its agenda in line with the manifesto of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC)”. Buhari while under­scoring the collaboration that existed between his government and the legis­lature, stressed: “I refrain from meddling in the af­fairs of the legislature and promote, instead, a culture of mutual respect and col­laboration between the two arms. POLL “The numerous positive outcomes for our country underscore the importance of a harmonious executive/ legislature relationship. “Working with the Na­tional Assembly, we have passed an unprecedent­ed number of bills into law, provided funding for key infrastructure…and addressed some of the long-standing challenges which have hampered eco­nomic growth and develop­ment”. Other areas of concerns which he listed as the ad­ministration’s achieve­ments include reforms in the oil and gas sector, strengthening the elector­al framework, diversifying the economy, improving transparency and account­ability, tackling insecurity and entrenching good gov­ernance are easily verifi­able. “This ninth Assembly will be remembered as one of the most productive in terms of output and out­comes. I thank the leader­ship of the National As­sembly for giving me the support required to deliver on my promises to Nigeri­ans,” he added. On his part, the Presi­dent of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, described Buhari as “the most parliament friendly president since the beginning of the Fourth Re­public”. According to him, the outgoing president had identified himself as one president who cared and catered for the National Assembly and expressed gratitude to him for the ap­proval that he gave for the renovation of the National Assembly complex. “I cannot leave this place without emphasising what you have been able to achieve with us in the ninth National Assembly. “Whatever we have done here is because you allowed us to do it. Whatever the executive has been able to achieve, and you have achieved a lot, is because this ninth National As­sembly has always been there to give you the kind of support that you need to achieve what you have so far achieved. “About a week ago, I cit­ed a case of you being the most parliament friendly president since the begin­ning of the Fourth Repub­lic. I am not saying the other presidents were not friendly. They were but to varying degrees. Yours is a total commitment to the legislature. “You have never inter­fered with what we do. You have never even asked that we should do this. You always believe that the National Assembly, espe­cially this ninth National Assembly, knows its chal­lenges and therefore it can perform within the con­straints. “But one thing that you have achieved that past presidents haven’t, is for you to within four years, 2019 to date, assent to over 100 bills that we have passed. And most of them are not common bills. Very strategic, critical and cru­cial bills that will change the lives of citizens. “Our partnership has been working. It has worked in our work. It is working in our operations. “I am going to take the opportunity here today to urge you Sir, that this (NILDS new building) is not only for National Assembly members, it is for all Nige­rians and we will be pleased to see people from the exec­utive arm of government coming to take some les­sons in NILDS because that will help in understanding what the National Assem­bly or parliament does. “Also for us in the 10th National Assembly, having suffered serious and mas­sive casualties of losing about 70 percent of our sen­ators and members of the House of Representatives, it means we have to work hard on capacity building for the rest of us who will be new in the National As­sembly. “So this is an apt time to have NILDS permanent site commissioned and then NILDS will have to hit the ground running be­cause there will be many who will need the capacity building that will be offered by NILDS”.