ABUJA – Dr. Andrew Idoko, National Coordinator of Civil Rights Action for Democracy, an assemblage of about 200 civil society organizations, has asked the All Progressives Congress (APC) to consider the North Central for the position of Secretary to Government of the Federation. In other words, Dr. Idoko has called for the appointment of Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State for the position, as a way of compensating the North Central for its loyalty to APC. The National Coordinator of Civil Rights Action for Democracy claimed the region was instrumental to the success of the APC in the February 25, presidential election. He, therefore, pleaded with the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to consider competence and dedication to the fortune of the party in the last few years. “A lot has been said about the zoning arrangement of the APC with regard to balancing along the lines of religion and ethnicity. “This has indeed generated a discourse in the polity. As it stands, all regions in the country have been identified and earmarked for leadership positions, but the North Central. “As a body devoted to the ideals of democracy, it is our view that the North Central region was instrumental to the success of the APC in the presidential elections. “The leadership acumen of the Governor of Plateau State and Chairman of the Presidential Campaign Council was also instrumental to the party’s overall success despite the numerous hurdles that were before it,” Idoki said. Addressing the press in Abuja, Idoki stated further that, “Governor Simon Lalong displayed a rare leadership style that emphasized competence and dedication to the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria. His plans and programs, even as the governor of Plateau State in the last eight years, speak volumes of a man on a mission to contribute to the country’s socio-economic development. POLL “It is also common knowledge that the country is desirous of such individuals who are passionate and committed to democracy and sustainable growth and development. “It is our opinion that the APC as a party must, as a matter of urgency and necessity, encourage such credible leaders to continue to contribute their quota to the development of Nigeria through ways and means possible.The group argued that APC as a party must also ensure that the North Central region is adequately compensated for loyalty and dedication to the party as exemplified during and after the general elections in the country.One of the ways this could be achieved is the appointment of Governor Simon Lalong as the Secretary of the Government of the Federation (SGF) to reward the North Central region for their loyalty all the while and also to tap into his wealth of experience in our quest for sustainable growth and development, the group posited.“It must be stated that having Governor Simon Lalong as the SGF would go a long way in addressing the concerns of the North Central region with regard to inclusion in governance on the heels that the proposed leadership of the National Assembly didn’t accommodate the North Central region for inexplicable reasons.“The implication of a non-action in this regard is that the APC as a party does not regard the numerous contribution of the North Central to its electoral success. Despite the stiff opposition to the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the APC, the North Central rallied support and voted massively for the APC.“This indicates absolute loyalty and the dexterity of Governor Simon Lalong to ensure that all hands were on deck to bring about the needed electoral victory for the party.“Let us emphasize that the suitability of Governor Simon Lalong as the SGF cannot be overemphasized.“He is a dedicated and hardworking party leader who worked tirelessly and round the clock to ensure the party’s victory at the polls,Idoko said.Therefore, the Civil Rights Action for Democracy has called on the leadership of the APC to do all that is necessary to include the North Central in the scheme of affairs as the incoming administration takes shape.