Mallam Tijjani Musa Isa, the 58th President of the Institute of Char­tered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has said that wrong, false, or mishandled financial information can spell disaster for an entire economy. This, he emphasised, demonstrates the signifi­cance and sensitivity of the role Chartered Accountants play in any economy. Isa stated this while speak­ing to the 1978 newly inducted members of the Institute at the 71st induction ceremony for new members at the ICAN Centre in Amuwo Odofin. He said that the account­ing profession is a reputable endeavour that commands the regard of public organi­zations and the government enjoyed by chartered accoun­tants. “We have the unique, al­beit delicate privilege to be the custodian of sensitive financial information. This information, if professional­ly handled, is a critical input for charting the growth tra­jectory of businesses, govern­ments and economies. “My dear inductees, by be­coming members of our pres­tigious Institute, you are now part of the preferred class en­trusted with the responsibility of reshaping the future of our noble accounting profession. With your new professional status, you can confidently be entrusted with and are equipped to engage in financial reporting, taxation, auditing, forensic accounting, corporate finance, business recovery and insolvency, accounting systems and processes. “The different stages of the rigorous examination ex­ercise have equipped you with the necessary competencies to make a meaningful impact, and it is now your responsibil­ity to utilize them for the bet­terment of the profession and the economy of our nation. “I urge you to continue to uphold the highest standards of ethics, impartiality, hon­esty, and free of conflicts of interest. In an ever-changing world, where challenges are complex and solutions are not always clear-cut, you must uphold the highest standards of Accuracy and Integrity. Let these virtues illuminate your path as you navigate the future. POLL “As we bask in the success of induction, I encourage you all to embrace a lifelong commitment to learning and growth. The world is evolving at an unprecedented pace, and as professionals, it is essential to adapt, innovate, and stay at the forefront of knowledge to remain relevant in an ev­er-evolving professional land­scape.”