EJIKEME OMENAZU Tomorrow, President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to pack out of Aso Rock, giving way to the new landlord of the Presidential Villa. Going by the pronouncement of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will be sworn in as the next president, even as Nigerians will be watching the proceedings of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. However, Nigerians have been trying to assess the achievements of Buhari, who in his first term in 2015 campaigned with the Change Mantra, based on the planks of fighting insecurity, corruption and improved welfare of the people. One of such Nigerians who spoke on Buhari achievements is Hon. Shakirudeen Olofin, former Chairman of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), in Lagos State. Hon. Olofin, in assessing the eight years of Buhari, said: “Let me use this opportunity to thank the outgoing administration for delivering on the promises made to Nigerians. “The outgoing government has done very well in the area of providing an enabling environment in Ease Of Doing Business. “The outgoing government has also done brilliantly on the issue of power generation. Before the coming of this government, the power generated was 13,000MW, but the outgoing government has upped it to 22,000MW. “The outgoing government has done well in the area of rural electrification. There were waivers and reduction of import duties for importers of power equipment. POLL “However, the weakest link in the power sector was the transmission, but the outgoing government has upgraded it. “On security, the outgoing government took the Nigerian Military to a level that it became the fifth powerful nation in Africa. He overhauled the Military wares with billions of dollars that led to serious decimation of Boko Haram and ISWAP. “Before the coming of this government, we the Muslims in the North could not observe our Eid without the presence of the military as guide. “This outgoing government ensured payment of entitlements of former Nigeria soldiers who defected to fight on the side of Biafra during the Civil War. “We must give 100% pass mark on infrastructure to the extent that the whole governors of the South East unanimously agreed to name the Second Niger Bridge after President Muhammad Buhari. “The road built by this administration is first of its kind, God bless Buhari. The introduction of N-Power was first of its kind, employing 500,000 young graduates with a token of N30,000 monthly. Thank you Mr President. “The outgoing government has brought about a major new direction to the Nigeria ministries where you see new best practices of world standard.” Contributing, Julius Adegunna, a publisher, stated: “I believe Buhari has come to do his best, perhaps what God wanted him to do, good or bad. Like any other human being or leader, Buhari as Nigeria’s president has his good and bad contributions. “In terms of infrastructural development, his name will remain indelible. He did more than his predecessors, even combined. I think he believed in that. “Unfortunately, Buhari will never be forgotten for the wounds and damage he inflicted on Nigerians – the spate of insecurity, killings and kidnappings, nepotism, passivity, corruption, economic problems, and Fulanisation agenda. “But, we thank God that time has no respect for anyone, it moves at its divine pace, and that long eight years then have come to an end. The survivors should celebrate. “I am also of the belief that Buhari has laid a foundation which his successor can build on as I wish him a restful political retirement. He may have to live to explain some things someday.” However, Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, an activist and the President/Executive Director, Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative (CREMA Initiative), said that Buhari’s eight years will go down in history as one of the most traumatic periods for most Nigeria. He continued: “I say this with every high sense of responsibility. Starting from his first year when he was more out of office due to health challenges and the cabals tagged ‘the Presidency, were presupposed to be running the affairs of the nation, combined with his popular cliché “I am not aware”, Buhari created an impression of an absentee president and a man not prepared for office, despite attempting it multiple times and was a former Head of State. “Many who cheered him on with ‘Sai Baba’ because of his CHANGE slogan to do things differently from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Goodluck Ebele Jonathan (GEJ) administration, tagged ATM, due to corruption, are more disappointed than disappointment itself. “Buhari came into office and within his first year did nothing meaningful. Appointing his cabinets was herculean and he punished the citizens with multiple fuel price hikes that had spiral inflationary effects, as the purchasing parity of the naira slumped. These were the signs of things to come. “Other issues that these eight years gave Nigeria are: On security, banditry, kidnapping and deaths, including the herders farmers clashes that were almost getting out of hand. “Nepotism and ethno-religious bigotry exalted above excellence. Inflation is over 100% as against the 23.3% during Goodluck Jonathan’s exit. Nigeria became the poverty capital of the world. “Our corruption ratings by Transparency International worsened. He threw the Nigerian nation into indebtedness amounting to several trillions of naira (over N70 trillion). “However, kudos should be given to him on some infrastructure like the modular refineries built, why the major ones, however, suffered; the completed Warri-Itakpe and Abuja-Kaduna rail line; Lagos Ibadan Road and Rail, even having connecting railway line to Niger Republic (all yet to be completed). “As one who wants to leave office on a high note, he commissioned the Dangote Refinery, though a private concern is said to be the largest single line refinery in the world and the seventh globally, as well as the Second Niger Bridge. “It is thus worthy of note in summarising that while Buhari government did well in infrastructure, security of lives and properties as well as indebtedness paled those achievements into irrelevance, as the two premise of enjoying them, security and vibrant economy, were highly compromised and put the nation and citizens at a disadvantage.” In the same vein, Hon Charles Anike, the National President of Eastern Union (EU), a political pressure group for the people of the old Eastern Region, maintained that Buhari’s eight years as president were years of agony and regrets by well-meaning citizens. Anike maintained that many had been saying that if possible, the regime should not be remembered in the nation’s history, adding that indeed, “It was entirely eight years of darkness. It was eight years of doom to the nation and eight years of gnashing of teeth by the citizens. His eight years in power were a season where both the poor and the rich, both old and young experienced untold hardship, worse poverty and uncertainty, and everyone prayed never to witness such forever.” Anike stressed: “Recall that Buhari came to power with the mantra and propaganda of bringing a change in governance, which later turned out to be chains of enslavement of Nigerians. “At the inception, citizens were in high spirits and great expectations, but, all to no avail, as everything about Buhari later turned out to be the biggest scam of the century. “Unfortunately, all the known ills in our national lives became aggravated, reinforced and escalated by Buhari and his cohorts. Everything that prompted Nigerians to erroneously vote Buhari into power in 2015, became more scandalous at its highest point. “His eight years in power is acknowledged globally as a period of monumental corruption, and to the extent that Buhari was and still gives presidential approval and cover to corrupt politicians and other individuals. Buhari did not only get involved in corruption, but became an institution of corruption, worse than we ever had ever known our history. Those under were actively involved in the bandwagon for the massive looting of public treasury. “Unfortunately, Buhari goes about outside the country to talk of fighting corruption. In the eight years of Buhari, insecurity by way of banditry, herdsmen attacks, kidnappings, gunmen killings and more, became a normal way of life among the citizenry, as everybody from north to south always slept with their eyes open. “Killings and bloodshed became a daily occurrence, while helpless the administration paid ransom to the kidnappers and herdsmen who incidentally are of the Fulani stock like him. They have continued the business of killing other tribes. Even the Hausas are not speared. “In summary, a cross section of Nigerians see the Buhari administration as most corrupt, sadistic, clueless, lair, hypocrite, ignorant, unaware, uninformed, unchanged, most incompetent, nepotistic, autocratic, coded terrorists, and bare faced religious bigotry. “According to the former governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido, Buhari successfully reduced Nigeria and Nigerians to his level, whereby even Professors and SANS are behaving like illiterates, courtesy Buhari. “In eight years of Buhari, there is no record of any meaningful achievement. Every project initiated always ended up to be fraud and disaster, just like the 2023 general elections and the aborted census.”