A ctually, Dr. John Kayode Fayemi, the former governor of Ekiti State, delivered the 15th Founders’ Day Lecture at the Western Delta University (WDU), Oghara, Delta State, on Saturday, April 29th, 2023. Before I return to that lecture I have to thank Prince Nduka Obaigbena for donating all of One Billion Naira to the University. In a series of articles I wrote generally on Nigerian Universi­ties but with special focus on Western Delta University, I said that only endow­ments from public-spirited individuals and companies could keep the Nigeri­an university system not just alive but thriving. Prince Obaigbena, theFounder of THISDAY newspaper and Arise TV, a man that has often walked where there was no road before and ended up leaving a shiny path, has done it again with his immense donation to WDU. I hope to re­turn to that golden deed from Obaigbena in future. For today, I want to dwell on Dr. Kayode Fayemi, CON. I didn’t know whether to laugh or cry when I read in the former Governor’s lecture titled SUB NATIONAL GOVER­NANCE IN NIGERIA: THE EKITI EX­AMPLE, that he is now a Visiting Pro­fessor, Africa Leadership Centre, Kings College, University of London. Yes, I didn’t know whether to laugh or to cry; I was happy for him that he a university has engaged him to bequeath his wealth of experience to a future generation. I am sure that by the time his tenure there is up, he would have written some books from which others could learn invalu­able lessons. A university environment tasks a brain more than the rumble in Nigerian street rough-tackles and invec­tive-hurling politics does, no matter how incandescent is the brain in question. Yet, why must it be a university out­side Nigeria. And so the brain drain continues! The best books about Africa are not in Africa. They are in libraries of the western world. It is even difficult to get past editions of Nigerian magazines in Nigerian libraries. Yet, you would find them, in stellar condition in foreign li­braries. As introductions go, Dr. Fayemi’s at Oghara is electric; he quoted three per­sons. First; Mario Cuomo, the one-time poet laureate of the US Democratic Par­ty: “You campaign in poetry and govern in prose”. Then Tip O’Neil, the legendary once upon a time Speaker of the US House of Representatives, the Boston Brahmin whose “all politics is local” saying is now a global quotation. I doubt if any day passes without it being reproduced somewhere in this ball of dirt and stone and sea that is hurtling through space and time. At Western Delta University lecture, Fayemi quoted O’Neil’s other saying: “It is easier to run for office than to run the office”. Yet, the quote I sincerely hope that the young bright minds, yes, the stu­dents who thronged that lecture at WDU, and who mobbed the Presidential Candi­date of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi, whose presence electrified the event, would have all, by now, stuffed the third quote, from a past American President, Theodore Roosevelt Jr., into their mind and to think about it every day of their unfolding lives, because it is one of the most memorable calls to action, that has ever been made. Roosevelt said according to Fayemi: “It is not the critic who counts, not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done better. The credit be­longs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again; who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly so that his place shall never be with those cold and tim­id souls who neither know victory nor defeat.” Theodore Roosevelt Jr. often re­ferred to as Teddy or by his initials, T. R. was special, no he was singular, unusu­al, distinctive, and superior even, who lived his life with a volcanic eruption of energy. He was an American politician, statesman, soldier, conservationist, nat­uralist, historian, and writer who served as the 26th president of the United States from 1901 to 1909.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Born 27 October, 1858, and died 6 Jan­uary, 1919, he gave the speech which con­tained this quote in Paris, France, titled, “Citizenship in a Republic”, on April 23, 1910. The speech is popularly known as “The Man in the Arena.” Dear reader you would be doing yourself a favour by reading the entire speech, if you ha­ven’t done so. It has been described as “a constant reminder to ignore the noise, buckle my chinstrap, and battle through whatever comes my way.” Oh, there is a fourth quotation: “Who determines what is good and bad gover­nance? What yardsticks are applied?”…And that came from Issa Shivji. Fayemi said he settled on the topic for serious reasons: “I then decided to settle for a reflection on my experience of governing at the sub-national level as the most recent inductee into the club of retired Governors. Esoteric as this might sound, you never know who is going to be involved in politics and public policy management out of this graduating set. Besides, management has been a challenge for us at all levels in our country and there are too many assumptions even in the academic en­vironment about what happens in the states and our local governments. Indeed, from the outside, people in government often look omniscient, omnipotent and all powerful: on the inside though, they often feel helpless, stretched beyond breaking point by the weight of expectations on the one hand and the sheer complexity and difficulty of meeting them on the other. When running for office, contes­tants always claim to know better than the person in the saddle. In fact, as a contestant, you are allowed, if not ex­pected, to speak grandly about your vision and how you can turn things around overnight if voted into office. More often than not, no one asks you for evidence or challenge you to justify the many claims that you make on the campaign trail. However, if you are for­tunate to win the election, that’s when the rubber meets the road. You would soon discover that governing is about finding real solutions to real problems that affect real people who expect you to solve all their problems every single day. That’s when the poetry and rhetoric of campaign shows give way to the tedious prose of heavy lifting work that people don’t see and therefore would not be on hand to clap for you. That’s when you find that your good intentions are not enough. People want results, and they want it with the urgency of now. When I decided to run for office in 2005, I was already active in the public policy space in Nigeria and on the con­tinent. As Executive Director of the Cen­tre for Democracy &amp; Development, I had been involved in advisory services on public policy issues for the Federal Government and some states, particu­larly in the Western region, including Ekiti State. Therefore, I was quite famil­iar with what the issues were as well as the gaps between the promises that politicians make and their actual per­formance in office. Moreover, as an aca­demic of many years standing, I under­stood the linkage between processes and outcome in public policy governance as well as all the theoretical prescriptions on how to move from policy formulation to implementation. Perhaps, the best way to put it is that nothing can sufficiently prepare you for the challenge of swimming in an open sea. You never know what would happen next, your resources are limited and the rooms to manoeuvre are even more limited. Nevertheless, you stand a good chance of survival, if you had spent more time on actual preparation, which would have helped to anticipate some of the challenges and how to re­spond to them. The tenure of an elected governor is four years. However, in reality the actual functional years hardly add up to three years. First, you arrive office to a budget approved and in operation for almost half a year, which you knew nothing about. By the time you get your own amended budget through the leg­islature, you would have lost a couple more months. Soon after, you start to prepare for your own full budget for the following year. In between, you face the big task of assembling your own team, which once assembled would have their own ideas of what they would like to accomplish in their respective ministries, which would advise the budget proposals that they would send to your office. Yet, it is often advised that you must hit the ground running and take advan­tage of the honeymoon period to take some tough decisions. Whether you would be able to do these or not, would depend on how much efforts and time you have devoted to developing your own policy agenda. In my experience, some chief executives do come to office without a development agenda. Some only start to fish around for ideas after getting into office, while others just sim­ply muddle through on a day-by-day ba­sis. Almost all come to office with some kind of campaign manifesto. But like I noted at the beginning, these are hardly more than marketing tools. What even­tually informs your budget are deriva­tions from the manifesto which has been taken through the mills of actual stake­holders and is a product of broad and deep consultation. They are multi-year plans that have been fully costed in the light of your financial realities. While the manifesto tells the people what you plan to do in broad terms, this plan tells you and everyone in your team, not only what you want to do, but also how you want to do it, including the time lines for delivery. In times past, it used to be the case that political parties had a common manifesto which stands as the political agenda of the party and the general principles of governance for all the candidates elected on the party’s plat­form. That’s when the parties were strong and known for something. In the Second Republic we had UPN with its free education, and NPN with its mass housing, etc. The Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) on whose ticket I ran for office was an offshoot of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), which could also trace its ancestry back to the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) of the Second Republic and all the way back to the Action Group (AG) of the First Republic. The ACN, em­braced a more grassroots model of eco­nomic development that promised dig­nified employment and a decent wage, good social services and social safety nets, modern functional education that provides marketable labour skills; increased agricultural output, revival of moribund industries, promotion of knowledge economy and provision of modern infrastructure. Enough for now. We will take a seat next time and focus seriously on Dr. Fayemi’s lecture at WDU for he raised serious issues. First, what does one make of his saying that by the time a government settles down a year is al­ready gone? As the fourth year is spent campaigning for re-election, it means that only two years are spent on real gov­ernance. In fact, part of the first year is spent at election tribunals! And he almost cried out for the return to times past when parties were powerful and had manifestos that governors had to key into. Now, parties have no serious manifestos and are all the same.