AKURE – The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for the House of Representatives bye-election for Akure North/South federal constituency in 2021, Barrister Muyiwa Adu on Monday defected to All Progressives Congress (APC) with his numerous supporters. The event, which took place at the MKO Democracy Park, Akure, the state capital, saw many chieftains of PDP defecting with the security expert. Addressing the mammoth crowd, Adu declared that he decided to join APC with her several supporters to strengthen the party so that it could win elections without much Ado. He said: “Don’t let me talk about the governor, he is supposed to be the first person I should talk about but he’s the last I will talk about and you will see the reason why I will do so.“He’s been very, very fantastic. He played not just an active role because you can do activities and not effective. Even efficiently, he made it possible for me to return home. I will tell that I am home because I am from a warrior home. “When I was in PDP, I seemed to be the odd man out in the family. Nothing will happen in Akure without the warriors of Akure. If they say no, it will not work. Some of them ran into the bush when I was contesting as the House of Representatives candidate. They pretended that they were arrested by the police. They said it because they could look at my face. “Now they are happy, we are back home. I am home because the Israelites wouldn’t have succeeded in being where they are today if they had not wandered in the wilderness. I am not here to say anything nagative about any political party, because without them they wouldn’t have known we have strength. “We are in the field. If we have one political party in Nigeria, then we are not in a democracy. Ours is to show that we are better than them. We have just started the journey. What I have to say here today is to first appreciate the leaders of APC that have made the party worthy for all of us standing here today. We just must thank you. “We have come not to show that we are better. We can never be better than them. because if we were better than them we would have made it much more better where we were coming from. We have only come to join forces with them so that we can be more strong and forward ever backward never. I learn faster and that’s why I am able to pull the crowd that is following me to APC today. POLL “My role in the next two years is to remain the welfare Officer of APC in Ondo State so that when they see you, your face would be shining. You will eat very well. And when the election comes, it will just be a run-over.” Welcoming Adu and his supporters to APC, the state Chairman of the party, Engr. Ade Adetimehin described the defecting of Adu and his supporters as an added value to the party. He said: “We appreciate our brothers who deemed it fit to leave their party that’s not united and there’s no way they can win the election. I thank them for deciding on their own volition to join us to lift APC to the destination. “The Governor said I should welcome you all that’s available in the party 100% for swinging the light and joining us. There’s development in our state. Akeredolu is a man with grace, created by God with knowledge and understanding.I welcome you to our party. I shall prosper in this party. I shall not be a bad egg in the party.”