LAGOS – The operatives of the Delta State Police Command have said that as part of strategies emplaced by the command to check the activities of kidnappers and armed robbers in Warri, Ughelli,  and other parts of the State, nip them at the bud, the Commissioner of Police, Delta state, CP Wale Abass, had directed DPOS and Tactical Commanders to step up their game and be ahead of these criminals in order to get them completely flushed out of the state. The Command said that in the sequel to this,  on May 31, 2023, at about 1.20 am,  Aliyu Shaba, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) led operatives from Ovwian Aladja division and embarked on a confidence-building proactive patrol along DSC/Effurrun road. Bright Edade, Police Public Relations Officer,  Delta State Command who disclosed this in a statement made available to Daily Independent said that during the patrol, the DPO received a distress call that a man and his wife (name withheld) were kidnapped and their Lexus Jeep (registration number withheld) was taken also. Edafe, a Deputy Superintendent of Police said the DPO  swiftly trailed the escape route of the suspected kidnappers and eventually intercepted the vehicle along Warri-Sapele road by Aziza junction. “On sighting the police, the suspects opened fire on the team in a bid to escape,  and the police professionally responded, neutralizing two of the suspects in the process, while the other suspects abandoned the kidnapped couples in the vehicle and escaped. “The victims were rescued unhurt. One AK47 rifle with breach number 16869, forty-six rounds of 7.62 live ammunition, one pump action gun, and thirteen live cartridges were recovered. Manhunt for the fleeing suspects is ongoing,” the PPRO further revealed. POLL Meanwhile, CP Abass,  while expressing satisfaction with the conduct of the successful operation, admonished other DPOs to sanitize their areas as well. He averred that the command under his watch will force criminals to relocate or steer clear of crime. The CP also advised parents and community leaders to talk to their youths/wards not to take up arms in order to make a living because they will eventually meet a disastrous end. 