“Necessity”, as often said, “is the mother of invention”. This agelong axiom played itself out in Lagos on Thursday, May 18, 2023, when Mr. Eniibukun Adebayo, the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of CleanAce Drycleaners, led a host of other sky-bound laundry and drycleaning outfits in Nigeria to the LG-Electronics-sponsored grand official launch of the Fabricare Professional and Drycleaners Association (FPDA). This newborn teamed-up, according to the unanimous expression of the all-enthusiastic stakeholders, is out to ensure that henceforth, the total satisfaction of customers is guaranteed even at the corporate level and then to provide a central benchmark for the acceptable and sustainable operation of players in the industry cognisant of global standard practices. The Godly-minded, public-spirited dry cleaner took Daily Independent online on a three-decade personal background voyage of what inspired the establishment of CleanAce Drycleaners. According to Adebayo, the business of laundry and drycleaning is a public-service endeavour that runs in his paternal genealogical tree. He described himself as a third generational dry cleaner, given that his grandfather and his direct father (Adebayo) were into the conventional laundry endaevour, a side-occupation then for the family in the spirit of service to humanity. According to him, his father operated a homegrown Laundromat and Drycleaning business wherefrom Eniibukun garnered vast experience in the conventional, manual laundry business to a level such that even when he eventually gained admission into the university, his father was initially reluctant to allow him to go, given that he (Eniibukun) had gained so much expertise in the practice and management of laundry that his father had reposed absolute trust in him to keep driving the outfit as a thriving business that it had become under his diligent and prudent watch as distinct from other workers in the employ of his father. POLL Long story short, Eniibukun, divinely guided, was able to convince his father to allow him honour the varsity admission. Added to the intermittent holiday practical experience garnered through the four years spent at the university, Mr. Adebayo, today is not only a well-traveled learned laundry and dry cleaning entrepreneur but also by God’s grace, a respected and well-sought trainer and employer of a good number of other mentors and mentees in the industry. It is instructive to state, at this juncture, that his pet firm, CleanAce Drycleaners, founded in 2005, is the first ISO 90012:2015 Certified Drycleaner in the entire Africa. The graduate of Economics and an alumnus of the prestigious Lagos Business School is insistently committed to the pursuit of “Piloting CleanAce Drycleaners to becoming Africa’s Cleaning Industry Leader” The vastly traversed business executive declared: “My work in consulting in the drycleaning business venture has just begun today. I will not leave the industry as I met it. No, I must make it much better than I met it”; Adebayo enthused. Eniibukun Adebayo is a personified testimony of family peace, unity and absolute trust. Meanwhile, stakeholders who spoke at the launch of the Fabricare Professional and Drycleaners Association (FPDA) all bemoaned the harsh conditions under which businesses are forced to operate in Nigeria. Such unconducive conditions include policy summersault ( policy inconsistencies from one government to the other); acute power shortage (where it is available at all) unbearable, yet continuously rising costs of power plants, diesel, fuel, machinery and other affiliated but unrebated expenditures. The worst of all is the menace of multiple taxation as imposed by all tiers of the government.  