By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba) republished in January 2010 Intro: Last week, this column repub­lished ‘Questions & Answers on Nai­ra Rate’.It was written in interview style format to provide responses to relevant questions about the state of Nigeria’s economy and the path ahead. If you missed this article, all republications can be found in the archives using the below link. (See www.betternaijanow.com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) Today’s republication, provides a bird’s eye view of the challenges fac­ing Nigeria’s economy as well as the challenges faced by brilliant minds (such as the Late Sir Henry), in advo­cating for monetary policies that will improve local industries and the lives of Nigerians. As you read through the below ar­ticle taking note of previous events and rates, keep in mind its first re­publication (2006), a clear indication that Nigeria’s economic situation re­mains stagnant even as we face the year 2023. In response to the anomaly of in­creasing income coexisting with increasing poverty in Nigeria, I embarked on a close observation of the operation of the national econ­omy sometime in 2001, and discovered that the root cause of our problem was the subsisting monopoly of the CBN in the supply of both the dollar and naira in the economy. In august 2002, together with a colleague, we presented a paper: A Liberalised For­eign Exchange Market: a proposal for a liberalised foreign exchange market in Nigeria and its economic benefits” – Boyo/Ojomaikre, to the National Economic Intelligence Committee (NEIC) and proposed that our crude oil derived dollar revenue be allocated to constitutional beneficiaries in the form of dollar certificates, as a way of restoring sanity and development in our economy. In addition, my colleague and I wrote several articles in various newspapers and made ourselves available for numerous interviews in the print and electronic media. Over 4000 copies of our paper were also circulated within the academia, the Federal Executive, Legislature, the organized private sector, and two workshops were conducted at our own expense to promote our pre­scribed solution. POLL In the end, we received no reply from the Ministry of Finance and Dr. Nnana, the Central Bank’s Director of Research at the time gave a tepid formal response to the effect that CBN could only act on the instruction of the Federal Executive! However, surprisingly, in the first quarter of 2006, the CBN rolled out with fanfare its own version of a ‘Liberalised For­eign Exchange Market’, which to all intents and purposes was a travesty of our original concept of liberaliza­tion. The CBN replaced the existing DAS with a WDAS (Wholesale Dutch Auction system). The article ‘El Dora­do and CBN’s Monopoly’ published in this column on 13/3/2006 was my first response to CBN’s ‘considered’ strategy and I maintained that ‘the new WDAS had the potential to be a more fraudulent and restrictive mechanism for determining the ap­propriate value of the naira”. On the 3rd of April 2006, a follow up article titled ‘Bogus Liberalisa­tion = Capital Flight’ appeared in this column. Now that the chickens have come home to roost, I crave the indulgence of readers of this column to take another look at this article. Please read on: “Every keen observer of the man­agement of our economy over the re­cent past must be totally befuddled by the apparent contradictions between the objectives of government eco­nomic policy and the dismal results, which are brought about by the adop­tion of wrong instruments of offence. Regrettably, the failures of these eco­nomic measures are often celebrated by the promoters as major successes, in spite of the bewilderment of the masses! “We have ceaselessly advocated the enthronement of a liberalized foreign exchange market as the first step to rapid economic recovery and prosperity. In this regard, we had insisted that our Central Bank’s uni­lateral monthly conversion of the dis­tributable dollar revenue to naira at a lower rate of about N110=$1 and its subsequent sale of the same dollars to the commercial banks at a higher rate of exchange creates a monopolis­tic market structure, which distorts the cash supply in the system with adverse consequences for interest rates, inflation, employment and the already battered value of the naira. In place of this obtuse and destruc­tive system, we proposed a truly liberalized foreign exchange market in which the 36 states, 774 local gov­ernments and other agencies, which are constitutional beneficiaries of the federation pool, receive their monthly share of distributable dollar revenue in certificates which they can nego­tiate at any commercial bank or any such approved outlet. This arrangement would change our fortunes rapidly and reconcile the contradictions between policy objectives and results as the absence of huge naira cash injections into the banking system every month (when allocations are paid to the bank accounts of the three tiers of government) will ensure that the CBN would not have to mop up and borrow over N300bn of money it does not need at double digit interest rates monthly through treasury bills! Furthermore, the CBN control rate for commercial interest rates (Min­imum Rediscount Rate – MRR) will fall below 5% from the current 14.5% and stimulate industrial growth and reduce unemployment. The naira would appreciate quickly as more dollars chase limited naira, and sala­ry and all naira income earners will receive more value for their money as they will be able to buy more goods and services with the same amount of money. “The above reality notwithstand­ing, the CBN Governor announced a different brand of liberalization of the forex market at a press brief­ing last Monday. The Guardian of (Tuesday, pg. 3) reported that “…they (CBN) are liberalizing the DEMAND SIDE of the forex market to promote greater efficiency.” (Note that this column has advocated for the liber­alization of the dollar supply side of the market”)! Meanwhile, the Punch (Tuesday, 28/3/06) reported that “… the CBN announced major strategic initiatives to address the increasing divergence between the official and parallel foreign exchange markets … and maintained that the divergence between the official and parallel mar­ket rates where a 10% premium now exists was unacceptable”. The reality, of course, is that the naira has depreciated to about N150=$1 at the black market, while the ‘official rate’ is about N129=$1 i.e., a margin of about N21/$1 or 17% profit for each dollar that you can buy from the official market and sell at the black market! The CBN itself ac­knowledges that the foundation of the meteoric expansion of banking in Ni­geria in the last two decades was the illegal gains which accrued to banks from foreign exchange round tripping and the handsome interest rates paid on government’s treasury bills, while the real sector – i.e. industry and ag­riculture continued to be starved of low interest funds for growth. Large differences between the black market and the official rates create distor­tions in the economy as the official rate continuously struggles to catch up with an upwardly mobile rate in the smaller but ‘powerful’ black mar­ket – a case of the tail wagging the dog, you might say! “In order to put an end to this destructive relationship between the two rates, the CBN, according to Soludo, has resolved to cater for per­ceived patrons of the black market by making officially priced foreign exchange readily available in all banks and other such designated outlets including the lowly bureau de change and also remove the red tape and documentation requirements that presumably attract customers to the black market. To this end, the CBN has now ‘simplified’ forex pro­curement documentation for over­seas medical treatment, payment of school fees and also increased basic and personal travel allowance from $2,500 – $5,000 and $2,000 to $4,000 per quarter respectively. Furthermore, “commercial banks and other autho­rized dealers would henceforth be al­lowed to import forex subject to soon to be released guidelines” “On the surface, the above mea­sures seem quite attractive, but closer evaluation may admonish caution; in the first place, it seems odd that we are trying to unify and stabilize the price of a commodity by expanding its de­mand base. Secondly, even countries with stronger industrial and econom­ic structures than ours do not know­ingly throw open, not only windows, but also doors and highways to facil­itate the remittance of their national dollars earnings abroad! Genuine applicants for forex for education or health purposes should have no difficulty providing supporting doc­uments to save themselves up to N20 for each dollar requirement, but the relaxation of the requirement for forex purchases opens a gateway for spurious forex demands by looters of government treasury and other such economic saboteurs. “The menace of the patronage of smugglers of contraband and corrupt civil servants (such as Alamieyeseigha) of the black mar­ket is much more devastating to the economy than the genuine demands for education and health purposes. A liberalization and facilitation of the demand base of forex will not only engender capital flight in droves, but also constitute a threat to the already wobbling domestic industries, which would have to compete with smug­gled equivalents brought in with cheaper official rate dollars! Talk about cutting your nose to spite your face! But wait a minute, the CBN Governor also indicated that banks can also import forex; Nigerians may wonder where these banks and desig­nated outlets will get the dollars they will import if not from round tripped officially sourced dollars; in other words, this maybe our CBN’s formal endorsement of currency trafficking and speculative trade in dollars ahead of the placement of up to $7,000m of the nation’s reserves in the care of some Nigerian banks shortly. Nigeri­ans beware! The destabilizing impact of this scenario when it becomes a reality will prolong the agony of pov­erty for most Nigerians! “The more you look at Prof Solu­do’s expectations as expressed in Monday press briefing, the less you see! In spite of the touted conver­gence of the official and interbank rates as a sign of progress, what we actually have is still a multiplicity of exchange rates, as follows: (1) budget exchange rate, i.e. rate at which CBN changes monthly dollar allocation before sharing; (2) CBN commercial rate, i.e. rate at which CBN sells forex to the banks; (3) trading rate; rate at which banks sell forex to their cus­tomers; (4) commercial bank/bureau de change rate; (5) bureau de change/ customer rate and finally, of course, (6) the unofficial black market rate! It is interesting that the CBN refuses to countenance this multiplicity of rates but would rather make us be­lieve that a little more patience and it will be El Dorado, but we know better, don’t we? Convergence of rates is not possible with our current monetary framework and in any event, conver­gence will not bring down interest rates, inflation or unemployment but Soludo’s legalization of capital flight will be warmly embraced by the banks, treasury looters and a speculative international business community!” I will close this week’s essay with the concluding paragraph from another article titled “Cheaper Black Market Dollars” (published 17/07/2006) in which I surmised that “We are fortunate to have “excess” dollar reserves to support the dol­lar profligacy to BDC (Bureau de Change) for now, but what happens when the dollar income from crude oil is depleted? Presumably, we may need to borrow from our internation­al friends, who have just fleeced $13bn from our tattered pockets to continue funding our BDCs”(check our above website for referenced articles). Save the Naira, Save Nigerians!