IBADAN – Nigeria’s premier healthy food chain, So Fresh has celebrated the launch of its newest outlet in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital with a grand opening event on May 20, 2023. Located at 4, Town Planning Way, Ring Road, the outlet is set to change the healthy food landscape in the city and further promote the benefits of a wholesome lifestyle. With a firm belief that “FRESH IS BEST”, So Fresh, Nigeria’s pioneer and number one healthy food chain, is committed to providing fresh, delicious, and nutrient-rich meals that cater to health-conscious individuals with its wide range of offerings, including fresh salads, juices, smoothies, parfaits, fiesta wraps, sandwiches, and other quick on-the-go healthy meals. As expected, the launch of the Ibadan outlet which attracted a diverse audience, generated a lot of excitement among the residents who expressed their delight about So Fresh’s entry into the city. Chief Executive Officer, So Fresh Nigeria, Mr. Olagoke Balogun said, “We are thrilled to introduce So Fresh to Ibadan and contribute to the promotion of healthy living in this vibrant city. Our goal is to provide a wide array of nutritious and delicious options that empower individuals to make positive choices for their well-being”. Speaking in the same vein, the Co-founder and Executive Director of So Fresh Nigeria, Mrs. Abimbola Olagoke who cut the ribbon to officially declare the outlet open for business, said that with the outlet now open, the city’s residents can now indulge in its delectable and healthful range of meals. She assured of the dedication and commitment of So Fresh management and staff to deliver exceptional service, while fostering a culture of wellness among its patrons. The event featured a walk-in session, which allowed customers to explore So Fresh’s menu and experience the flavorful and healthful offerings firsthand. The enthusiastic response from attendees demonstrated the growing demand for convenient and nutritious meal options in Ibadan. POLL The launch event was preceded by several activities aimed at engaging with the community, including an exciting roadshow to six major locations in Ibadan, including Bodija, Jericho, Oluyole, University of Ibadan, Ring Road, and Akobo on Friday May 19. So Fresh is Nigeria’s pioneer and number one healthy food chain, dedicated to promoting a healthy lifestyle. With a wide range of fresh salads, juices, smoothies, parfait, fiesta wraps, sandwiches, and other quick on-the-go healthy meals, So Fresh offers nutrient-rich options that are both delicious and convenient.