LAGOS – Since elder statesman, busi­ness mogul, and renowned engineer, Chief Emmanu­el Iwuanyanwu, emerged the new Ohanaeze Ndigbo Pres­ident General to succeed the late Professor George Obiozor, a cross section of Igbo indigenes has been expressing doubt over his ability and capability to hold the Igbo nation together and fulfil his role as a vibrant leader to his people. Some also wondered if Iwuanyanwu’s leadership of the apex Igbo socio-cultural or­ganisation can improve the lot of the people, socially and political­ly, and give them a real sense of direction in the Nigerian nation. However, several Igbo in­digenes, who spoke to Sunday Independent, maintained that Iwuanyanwu’s emergence has raised a new vista of hopes for the people of Igbo extraction, es­pecially at the political and social levels. Barrister Emeka Iheonu, a Lagos lawyer, while sharing his thought, noted that Chief Iwuanyanwu is one of the high­ly respected elder statesmen in Nigeria, especially in Igboland. He however, expressed his doubt that he can champion the cause of the Igbo as things stand in the current political dispensa­tion. Iheonu, who hails from Imo State like Chief Iwuanyanwu, stated: “Chief Iwuanyanwu is one of the highly respected elder statesmen in Nigeria, especially in Igboland. “I however do not forsee any improvement in the fortunes of the South East under his leader­ship. I believe that the status quo will remain because the general prejudices against the South East and Igbos have remained.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Igbos will continue to im­prove in their fortunes via their individual efforts and not through any regional association or group.” POLL Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a seasoned politician, also from Imo State, maintained that “the expectation from Ndigbo on Chief Iwuanyanwu’s leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo is that of improved intertribal and inter­religious relationships fostered between the Igbos and the rest ethnic and religious groupings in Nigeria. “Chief Iwuanyanwu has tra­versed the nooks and crannies of the country and made enormous contacts and goodwill which, if put in use in his new position, will be of immense good not only to the Igbos, but also the entire country. “My reservation, however, is on the inconsistency, un­predictability and oftentimes, self-serving characters in Chief Iwuanyanwu, coupled with the political platform of his emer­gence as Ohanaeze President General. “Recent and, in fact, recurring activities of Chief Iwuanyanwu have reduced people’s trust and confidence in his delivery of de­sired leadership of the apex Igbo socio-cultural and political body. “However, given this scepti­cism in the minds of the majori­ty of Igbos, the onus lies on him to prove us wrong and go all out in the service of the Igbo nation putting the general interest at heart.” Also, Ambassador Dr. Kalu Ofon Emmanuel, the Lagos State Chairman, international Human Rights Protection Service, noted that Chief lwuanyanwu is an outstanding personality to reck­on with in Nigeria and also in lgbo land. Dr. Emmanuel who hailed from Abia State, stressed: “Be­ing recently named the new Ohanaeze Ndigbo President General is a good and welcomed development. “I strongly believe his leader­ship of Ohanaeze can improve the fortunes of the South-East despite its relationship with oth­er parts of Nigeria. “I am not stressing that his predecessors did not improve the fortunes of the South-East, rather he will most likely learn from their mistakes and improve for better leadership. “Leadership is all about put­ting yourself in the shoes of oth­ers, hearing their cries, respond­ing to their yarning, defending, and protecting their interest without favouritism. “All he needs is the relentless support of the Ohanaeze Ndig­bo for greater achievements and successful leadership.” Apostle Dr Kanayo Success Uchime, an Enugu State born international missionary, on his own stated: “Well, I heard a lot of dissenting voices on the choice of Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu as the Ohanaeze President Gen­eral prior to his emergence. “Some said he is anti-Igbo and all sorts of things. But, I think it all has to do with sentiments. I believe if he is given the latitude and cooperation he needs to func­tion, he will do extremely well. “The Iwuanyanwu I know is very much at home with all the myriad of challenges confront­ing the Igbo nation; they are not new to him. “So, there is no need to say if he can perform well as Ohanaeze President. He will definitely do well, and even exceed his prede­cessors. “He spoke out seriously on the outrageous Igbophobia in Lagos; as an Igbo elder, he did not keep quiet. But, he rightly condemned the maltreatment meted on the Igbo, to the extent that some Yoruba even called for his head. “So, I have no doubt in me whether he will perform well or not. All we, the Igbo people, need to do is to give him the necessary support he needs, and he will get there by God’s grace.” Also, Hon. Charles Anike, the National President of Eastern Union, a socio-political pressure group for the people of the old Eastern Region, stated: “The Eastern Union would like to con­gratulate Ndigbo worldwide over the emergence of Chief Engr. Emmanuel Iwuanyawu as Pres­ident General of the apex Igbo organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo. “We look at this elevation of Chief Iwuanyawu as appropriate and a reward for commitments, sacrifices and dedication to the service of our people of Igbo ex­traction. “Chief Iwuanyawu’s vibran­cy, courage, outspokenness, te­nacity of purpose and commit­ments to the Igbo course is highly required in our history. “We must bear in mind that leadership is an action and not a position, hence, we look forward to seeing him providing a pur­poseful leadership to Ohanaeze, especially in our present political quagmire. “This forceful and courageous leadership has been lacking since the expiration of the tenure of office of Chief Nnia Nwodo. “Chief Iwuanyawu had in his inaugural speech assured that Ohanaeze under his watch will pressure the Federal Govern­ment of President Muhammadu Buhari to secure the release of the IPOB leader. “He also promised to lobby for the creation of an additional state to the South-East zone, which is the only zone in the country with less than six states, a discrepancy that has not gone down well with Ndigbo for ages. “The new President General also promised to ensure the cre­ation of Ohanaeze’s investment company, creation of Ohanaeze cultural centre, revival of ag­riculture and industries in the Ohanaeze territories, revital­isation of educational system, reposition of the health sector and to evaluate the possibility of generating electricity by taking advantage of the coal deposits in Enugu. “It will be the wish of the East­ern Union to collaborate with the new Ohanaeze leadership to en­sure justice, fairness and equity for all Nigerians, and to contin­uously mobilise our people for political participation.”