ABUJA – Prof. Abdullahi Mustapha, Director General/Chief Executive Officer of the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), has said agricultural biotechnology remains the key to combating hunger and malnutrition in Nigeria and Africa. Mustapha stated this in Abuja at the ‘World Hunger Day’ Dinner and the Launch of ‘National Farmers Day’ organised by the Alliance for Science in collaboration with the Open Forum on Agricultural Biotechnology (OFAB) in Africa, Nigeria Chapter, under the auspices of the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA) and the African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF), Nairobi, Kenya. He explained that agricultural biotechnology could play significant in ending hunger in the country. Commenting on the essence of the World Hunger Day’ Dinner, the NABDA boss explained that it was organised to honour farmers and raise awareness about the important role farmers play in ensuring food security, and at the same time discuss the importance of National Farmers Day and how it can be implemented in the country. According to him, “We are bringing together a cream of distinguished personalities to discuss ways of promoting sustainable agricultural practices that will support government efforts in addressing the challenges of food and nutritional security. “The event will highlight the importance of scientific innovations in tackling the food crisis.” Also speaking, Dr Rose Gidado, Director, Agricultural Biotechnology Department, NABDA, while acknowledging that significant strides have been made in reducing hunger and malnutrition, said much work still needs to be done, especially in the Global South. Gidado noted that one of the ways to address the issue of hunger and malnutrition is by supporting and recognising the contributions of smallholder farmers who grow crops and foods that are the backbone of the food systems in these countries. POLL She explained that the main objective of this initiative was to celebrate World Hunger Day by organising dinner for farmers in Nigeria, and at the same time use this event as a platform to launch a campaign for National Farmers Day in the country. The goal of National Farmers Day, according to her, “is to honor and recognise the hard work of farmers who feed their communities and country.” It would be recalled that World Hunger Day is observed on May 28th each year.It was launched by the Hunger Project in 2011 as an opportunity to raise awareness about the issues of hunger and food insecurity that affect millions of people around the world.