ISEGHE AJAYI Many people have a wrong notion about debt especially those who view it as way of life regardless of their monthly earnings. Some people cannot do without owing or borrowing before the month ends due to financial recklessness, as they cannot differentiate between ‘wants and needs.’ The present economic situation is such that survival is dependent on your financial lifestyle. And if you are bent on not pruning down your expenses especially if your income is not enhanced, there is no way you will be debt-free. Mind you, making debt a way of life is deceitful and will put you in financial misery. Some individuals view debt as something that is normal, but that does not mean it should become a way of life particularly if you yearn for financial freedom. Do you know that debts deprive you of your present and take or steal from your future? It keeps you trapped in a cycle such that creating wealth or moving forward financially becomes almost impracticable. But, because sometimes, several individuals have seen it as a way of solving their financial problems are determined not to let go of the habit. People give so many excuses for staying in debt and still have this erroneous belief that they will attain financial freedom which is untrue. POLL Creating wealth is possible when you are debt-free by servicing your debt and not depending on it for survival. The under listed tips will help you to see the need not to fall for any of these fallacies about debt: Debt Is Common The notion that debt is a normal thing is wrong because it can kill. And why making it a way of life, if you really desire financial freedom? Debt is not normal as it keeps one in financial bondage. Debt Is Crucial For All Major Purchases There is nothing bad in collecting debt for viable projects or investments but when you make it a rule to use it for all your major purchases, it will do you more harm than good. While it is factual that you may likely want to use some form of debt for various things, this could lead to risky spending. For example, when you are spending outside your budget because of the loan you collected and you feel it is still okay to collect more to satisfy your heart desires then you are in for financial heartache. Do you know that this way of thinking can affect smaller purchases as well? Principally, the eagerness to purchase items in debt is there because you are accustomed to it but you may end up paying more in the long run due to unfavourable interest and fees it at Budget Limits Freedom A lot of people have the misconception that having a budget limit their freedom which is fictitious. But the fact remains that with a good budgetary plan, you can track the money that goes out and comes in. Budget gives you financial freedom especially if you religiously adhere to it. No wonder, some people in debt do not even know how much they owe because they are not keeping track and as such would be difficult for them to get out of debt. Debt Should Be Avoided At All Costs It is quite true that some people with no good money management or business sense view debt as a bad idea and should be avoided at all costs without taking into cognizance of the positive aspect of it. There is no doubt that luxurious, out-of-control debt can mar your financial well-being but it is also correct that if you cautiously build your credit history and managing your debt prudently, debt can assist you reach your financial long-term goals. Impossible To Make More Money Having the notion that it is impossible to make more money that will enable you to be debt- free is a big lie. With self-determination, financial discipline and prudence, you can live a debt-free life. The most important thing is your mindset about money and debt. If you really desire to break-free from debt to experience financial peace of mind, then you must be prepared to pay off your debt by enhancing your earnings, live within it by being frugal. Paying off your debt is possible regardless of your income but making more money will help you get out of it quicker. All Debt Is Bad The negative suggestion and shame attached to the word ‘debt’ has led many people to believe that all debts are bad. Even as reckless borrowing is awful, well-managed debt can be helpful, assisting you to build a credit history and advance your credit score. This improved credit score can help you obtain credit in the future and secure big loans for long-term investment that will improve your financial life. Failure To Prioritise Your Debts Everybody has bills and nearly every individual wants to get out of debt, but some people lack focus, not seeing debt as a priority. The best way out of it could be to merge your debts and make just one payment every month. Another way to get focused would be to take a piece of paper and write down debts you want to get rid of. You can tape the piece of paper to your wallet or credit card so that every time you reach out for that card or wallet, you would be reminded whether you are making headway or not. Buying Items On Credit Most people in debt love materials things and as such ready to procure whatever they desire on credit. But what they fail to realise is that if they cannot pay cash for their purchases, it means they cannot afford it. Also, procuring items on credit will certainly weigh you down especially if you cannot pay at the agreed time. 