Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc, (the Company) recently released its 2022 audited financials to the general public having gotten the requisite approval from the Industry’s Regulatory Authority, National Insurance Commission, NAICOM. In spite of the challenging operating environment that characterized operations of most businesses in the country in 2022, Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc, maintained its growth trajectory remarkably in the period under review when compared with the performance of year 2021. Mr. Olaotan Soyinka, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Underwriting Firm, said the performance of the company in 2022 is quite encouraging considering the various business challenges that the insurance Industry had to deal with in the past year. He said there is definitely room for improvement in the days ahead and that, the Underwriting Firm is poised to take advantage of the opportunities that are inherent in the insurance marketplace. Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc, (the Company) recorded a total of N15.2billion Gross Premium Written in 2022 as against the sum of N12.7billion that was written in 2021, representing a 20per cent growth rate for the year. It is quite interesting to note that the Company also recorded a 9per cent increase in its Profit Before Tax of N962million as against N885million recorded in year 2021. Equally of note is the increase in the company’s Total Equity which also grew by 9per cent from N9.6billion in 2021 to N10.4billion in 2022. The CEO while briefing newsmen in Lagos said the management of the company is committed to meeting and surpassing the expectations and aspirations of its shareholders and stakeholders alike. “These performance levels are a confirmation of the management’s determination to effectively and strategically position the Company as one of the leading and vibrant insurance companies in the country while also making conscious efforts at propelling the Company to a profitable height for shareholders’ delight” in the years ahead.