Nigerians will pause today for the inauguration of Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Kashim Shettima as President and Vice President of the country, respec­tively. It will mark the end of one era, the Buhari-Osinbajo era, and the beginning of a new era. There are understandably mixed reactions or verdicts on the Buhari era. President Buhari entered office in 2015 with solid political capital, enor­mous goodwill, and public approval; he is leaving against the background of widespread discontent and a low pop­ularity rating. Fortunately, the ultimate verdict of history is incorruptible. Buhari’s suc­cesses and failures are left for posterity and historians to articulate and pontif­icate on. Nigerians lived experiences, left in the sands of time during his ad­ministration, will form the ingredients of such historical evaluation. It is now time to put behind us whatever views, disenchantment, or even praise we have for the Buhari era and build on whatever successes he achieved and fix the areas he failed, mindful of the fact that no leader is infallible. Moreover, Nigerians roman­ticise past administrations when cur­rent administrations dash their hopes and aspirations. Little wonder, people reminisce and glorify the days of for­mer presidents they felt were terrible before leaving office when faced with the harsh realities of the new admin­istration. In Tinubu-Shettima, we are not expecting a perfect president and vice president, but at least it is a new dawn – a new beginning for a country in dire need of unity, peace, and progress. All Nigerians are beckoning on the new administration to create a new vision of Nigeria and work hard towards ac­tualising that vision. Nigerians are holding on to the re­newed hope this administration prom­ised during elections – an audacious hope of a better Nigeria built on our strength in diversity, harnessing our great human and natural resources, and leveraging the successes of past administrations in creating the Nigeria of our dreams. We recognise that the road ahead is bumpy and rough, but we trust the instinct of Nigerians who gave Tinu­bu-Shettima the mandate to drive them through this rugged terrain and their undeniable belief in their ability to take them to safety and progress. Most Nigerians, suffering from adverse economic hardship, poverty, insecurity, and poor living standards, view this new dawn as a good situation, a ray of hope and an opportunity to start afresh. As Tinubu- Shettima as­sumes office, they must recognise the enormity of the weight of the hopes of millions they are carrying. POLL Millions of Nigerians are not ask­ing for much from this administration; they want a better life for themselves and their families, and they believe that brick by brick, this new adminis­tration will cre­ate the enabling environment that will make life good for many people. The inauguration marks the end of politicking, and all opponents to the administrations are left with the judicial process to seek redress for any perceived electoral maleficence. As the Tinubu-Shettima administration is sworn in, they are now the president and vice-president of Nigeria. As ad­vised by ex-President Uhuru Kenyatta in the pre-inauguration lecture in Abu­ja, they must rise above party politics and assume the leadership position of the presidency entrusted to them. “The contest is now over and the hard work of building a prosperous and United Nigeria begins,”enjoined Kenyatta. But we know that managing victory is even more complex than securing it. With electoral victory comes the labo­rious act of managing the expectations of multiple stakeholders, managing claims and counterclaims of people who participated in securing the win, managing politicians and your party, and managing the hopes and aspira­tions of Nigerians. While it is legit­imate to expect new energy and new approaches to familiar problems, let us be conscious of the fact that we are dealing with the same party platform so there will be some level of continuity. The past few months have seen the justling for positioning, the bravado of close allies to the presidency, and the intrigues and shenanigans of power brokers ever ready to hijack the polit­ical system, structures, and processes. This administration’s success depends significantly on managing these com­plexities while focusing on what is best for Nigeria. This administration must overcome these challenges and start from day one to show Nigerians and the world that it is ready for business – the business of leading Nigeria in a democratic way to give all dividends of democracy. It is imperative that from day one, this administration is perceived as serious, focused , and dedicated to im­proving the quality of life of Nigerians. The first time is always the best time to create a lasting positive impression, and this administration must shape public perception of what it wants to project from today and maintain that. This inauguration is a significant milestone in our democratic consoli­dation . It is the 7th consecutive inau­guration. Although our democracy has its faults, this is a feat worthy of cele­brating. Nigerians are celebrating and hopeful for a better future. Ordinary Nigerians want a government that works from the new sheriffs in town. Let us consider three agenda items the government may focus on and three roadblocks we must contend with im­mediately. The first agenda item is that the gov­ernment must create a clear roadmap for Nigeria’s critical issues. They must have a definitive roadmap on energy subsidy, insecurity , fixing the econo­my, food security, power, technology, education, health, corruption, unem­ployment, and others. These roadmaps should be clear for all Nigerians to see how the government defines the prob­lem and its strategies and definitive action to solve the issues. Nigerians are expectant, and rightly so and want to know ab initio that the government is serious about dealing with the myri­ad of problems they are encountering daily. The second agenda item is that the government should articulate critical policy statements on many contentious issues the past government shied away from. These issues include the remov­al of fuel subsidies, parallel foreign ex­change regime, debt profile, national census , public workers’ agitation for pay increases and improvement of service, approaches to tackling poverty and health inequality, insecurity (seces­sionist agitations, farmer-herders cri­sis, terrorism, kidnapping and armed banditry), and environmental degrada­tion inclusive of climate change. The third agenda item is inclusive­ness. Given the prevailing perception of marginalisation by some groups in the country and the divisive nature of the last general elections, the critical job of this administration is first to create unity in the country. The need for national unity and via­bility is more important now than ever in our history. Without a substantive Nigerian nation, all our best efforts and fancy programmes will come to nought . Now is the time to pull the country together by being inclusive in the government. Thankfully, the Vice President-elect at every occasion has insisted there is no islamisation or eth­nic dominance agenda. As good as these agenda items are, their success depends on how the government navigates the many road­blocks that are evident in truncating them. These roadblocks are the quali­ty of the cabinet, money to finance the government, and national reconcilia­tion. The quality of the president’s cab­inet can be a roadblock or a source of strength. Acknowledged there are polit­ical IOUs to be paid; however, it should not be with the country’s future and the government’s reputation. It is not in dis­pute that whether a president succeeds or fails, or whether he is remembered by history or not, is determined by the quality of his cabinet. A cabinet of mediocre, failed former political office holders, inexperienced, ill-informed, without character and dishonest per­sons will be a terrible roadblock to the success of the incoming administra­tion. A cabinet of knowledgeable, honest, competent, and experienced persons will shore up the profile of the govern­ment and its acceptability. A core cabi­net team of professionals of ten persons around finance, economic planning, law and order, education, infrastruc­ture, power, trade and investment, ICT and innovation with a clear vision and mandate will send strong signals that this administration is ready to deliver service. A competent chief of staff to the president will strengthen the coordi­nating capacity of the presidency. It is no more news that Nigeria is in a deep financial crisis. The Nigerian external debt is more than $40bn plus domestic debt of over N41 trillion and Nigeria spends most of its revenue on servicing debts. Nigeria’s primary source of foreign exchange earnings is crude oil. And Nigeria’s finances follow the fluctuations and instabilities of the price of crude oil in the international market. The outgoing government borrowed heavily to improve infrastructure, and the dividends of this infrastructural development to the economy are more medium to long-term than short-term. The money to run the government and provide the dividends of democracy promised to the electorate may not be there to achieve all the promises. This takes us to the urgent need for diversi­fication of the economy as a solution . The need for the government at all levels to creatively raise revenue with­out putting a new tax burden on the peo­ple is urgent. This new administration must look for ways to increase revenue and cut down on waste, corruption, and the cost of government. It must make revenue mobilisation a focal point of the administration. The third roadblock is national reconciliation. The success of this administration depends on how the constituent parts of Nigeria come to­gether in peace and unity. Government must douse the tension in the country and address all secessionist tenden­cies, and it must intentionally heal the wounds caused by actual or perceived injustices. This administration must pursue to­tal national reconciliation as a critical building block of nationhood, law and order , and progress. There is no doubt that Nigerians to­day are revelling in the new dawn of a new era. Tinubu-Shettima’s presidency carries the hopes of millions of Nigeri­ans who feel that this is the beginning of a fresh start, and that this adminis­tration will get things right this time. I implore the presidency to live up to the essence of these hopes and champi­on a genuinely united Nigeria where millions of Nigerians will look to the future with happiness. Today is the first day of the first four years of your ad­ministration. Let the ride begin!