LAGOS – Analysts says taming Nigeria’s soaring inflation rate by the incoming administration would require efforts beyond tightening the MPR alone, but a combination of fiscal and monetary policy alignment to improved communication of monetary policy to the market, and a holistic approach to structural challenges . They also said that the persistently high commodity prices will continue to be held back by structural problems, including electricity shortages, transport and logistic inefficiencies, as well as labour and product market rigidities. They told Daily Independent that they anticipate the pressure on food in the country to be sustained in June due to the ongoing geopolitical tension in Europe and structural challenges affecting food production and preservation on the Central Bank’s insistence on lowering inflation They advised the Federal Government to expedite the implementation of policies to diversify its export potentials, mostly the huge stock of natural and agro resources, adding that domestic inflation drivers for the past three years revealed that supply-side shocks , and not the demand side, are the main drivers of the elevated price levels. They advised the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to adopt a more flexible and predictable foreign exchange management model to regain the confidence of foreign investors. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), consumer prices rose by 18bps to 22.22% y/y in April (March: 22.04% y/y). Analysing the breakdown, food inflation (24.61% y/y vs March: 24.45% y/y) rose in line with the festive-induced demand given the Easter and Ramadan celebrations, higher transport costs, and low food supplies exacerbated by the below-historical average cultivation activities. Core inflation (+28bps to 20.14% y/y) increased to its highest level since May 2004 (23.43% y/y) as the existing factors stoking non-food prices remain dominant in the review period. POLL On a month-on-month basis, headline inflation increased by 5bps to 1.91% (March: 1.86% m/m). Dr Muda Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer of the Centre for Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), in a chat with Daily Independent, reiterated the central bank’s insistence on lowering inflation may signal more hikes in subsequent months. He said: “To address the looming catastrophe, the fiscal and monetary authorities must adopt a more flexible and predictable foreign exchange management model to regain the confidence of foreign investors. Yusuf, who argued that the technical computation of the inflation figures is not in dispute, said: “the reality of the impact of the intense inflationary pressures over the past one year is at variance with the official inflation data. “For the basket of goods consumed by most households, prices have jumped by between 30-100% over the past one year. The same is true of businesses. “The pressure of spiking inflation on household budgets has been intense and distressing. “Purchasing power has been massively eroded, real incomes have collapsed, and the poverty situation has consequently worsened. “Businesses have been similarly impacted as they have been experiencing a slump in sales, turnover and profits margins. The impact on small businesses is even more severe because of their limited capacity to absorb economic shocks. “The spiraling inflation dynamics deserves an urgent policy response at the highest level of government. The impact on citizens’ welfare is severe. The effect on SMEs is troubling. There is worsening social discontent, driven by poverty inflicted by inflation. The incoming Federal Government should avoid the unconscious over-dependence on hydrocarbons – oil accounted for 90.5% of merchandise trade in 2022; Poor policy coordination – Expansionary fiscal operations, driven by massive borrowings vis-à-vis contractionary monetary policy; Fiscal inefficiency and revenue leakages – recourse to borrowing , it is relatively easy, and doing so inefficiently ,largely through CBN, largely funding recurrent expenditure; Counterproductive fiscal policies- Fiscal Policy Reform (FPR) weakening manufacturing activities and new investments; Misplaced priorities – Deepening brown economy and disregarding sub-national comparative advantage, and discourages productivity and weak social compact”. An executive director of a new generation commercial bank, who craves anonymity told Daily Independent, that the upward trajectory of headline inflation may persist in May and June due to the ongoing planting season, higher taxes, lingering currency pressures, and increased transportation costs. He noted that the ongoing Russia/ Ukraine war triggered a positive oil price shock with spillover effects on operating costs, raw materials, and inflation in countries not directly engaged in the war. “The key drivers of inflation include high and increasing energy cost; worsening currency depreciation, escalating transportation cost, high import duty on manufacturing inputs, illiquidity in the foreign exchange market, bottlenecks in the logistics chain, security concerns and low productivity resulting from structural challenges and weak application of technology. Central bank financing of the fiscal deficit is also a major driver of inflation. “To tackle inflation, all forms of taxes and levies on the importation of petroleum products should be suspended to give a respite on the spiking energy cost. There should also be deeper stakeholder engagements across sectors to develop an enduring strategy on the way forward”, the financial expert emphasised . Auwal Musa Rafsanjani , the Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC),in a chat with Daily Independent, said Nigeria was not an exception as prices of goods and services were moving northwards with the potential implication of shrinking production of goods and services. He said that if the conditions persist, production volumes would be impacted by the raw materials supply chain disruptions, the rising cost of diesel, and other internal security crises. “Job losses are also very likely due to constrained production and disrupted supply chains, and all of these will likely depress growth potential in the remaining quarters of this year “The manufacturing sector, for instance, will likely suffer some shocks from the rising cost of diesel, logistics, foreign exchange illiquidity, domestic inflationary pressure, weakening purchasing power, poor public infrastructure and port-related challenges. “These may continue to present as headwinds to the sector’s performance”, he said On the way out, he advised incoming government should match non-oil revenue to recurrent spending, aggressively promote exports to the world market starting with African countries; strengthen domestic manufacturing, interrogating the nexus between import and export tariffs. “The Federal government should ensure actionable, consistent and coherent fiscal, trade and monetary policies by promoting high level actions on policy coordination and ownership, unified voice on policy pronouncement, setting the right tone at the top, revamp reform on Ease of Doing Business, evaluate policies based on deliverables”. Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) told Daily Independent that the naira depreciation has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index. “To tame the current inflationary pressure, he suggested that government should reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate and reduce volatility, address forex liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures, address the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities and address productivity issues in the real sector of the economy”, he said. Cordros Researchers Weekly Economic and Market Report (19-May- 2023), stated that Nigeria’s headline inflation maintained its uptrend for the fourth consecutive month, rising to the highest level in 17 years. “In May, we anticipate the upward trajectory of headline inflation will persist due to the ongoing planting season, higher taxes, lingering currency pressures, and increased transportation costs. “As a result, we forecast the headline inflation will settle at 1.89% m/m in May, and translate to 22.35% y/y. “The amount disbursed by the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC) to the three tiers of government in April (from the total revenue generated in March) declined by 8.2% m/m to NGN655.93 billion (March: NGN714.63 billion). “For the review period, we note that declines in inflows from the Petroleum Profit Tax (PPT), Companies Income Tax (CIT), Oil and Gas Royalties, Import and Excise Duties, and Value Added Tax (VAT) led to the fall in revenue. Furthermore, the distributed amount was composed of distributable statutory revenue (NGN364.65 billion), distributable Valued-Added Tax revenue (NGN202.76 billion), inflow from Electronic Money Transfer Levy (NGN14.52 billion), NGN50.00 billion augmentation from Forex Equalisation, and Non-Mineral revenue of NGN24.00 billion. “We maintain our expectation that non-oil revenue will continue to support aggregate revenue, given the sustained improvement in economic activities and the impact of the provisions of the 2022 Finance Act. “However, we expect oil revenue to remain underwhelming due to lower crude oil prices, reduced crude oil production relative to pre-pandemic levels, and high PMS under-recovery costs”. Besides,Afrinvest Weekly Update ,Pre-MPC Analysis: Upward Sticky Inflation Reinforces Need for Fiscal Policy Augmentation to MPR stated that: “we share our expectations on the likely outcome of the 291st Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting of the CBN slated for Monday and Tuesday. “In our previous notes, we argued that taming Nigeria’s soaring inflation rate would require efforts beyond tightening the MPR alone. For instance, our analysis of domestic inflation drivers for the past three years revealed that supply-side shocks (and not the demand side) are the main drivers of the elevated price levels. “Even in January and February 2023 when the Currency In Circulation (CIC) and Currency Outside of Banks (COB) were both below 2.0% of 2022 GDP due to the liquidity crunch that characterized the ill-implemented Naira redesign policy, headline inflation rate still nudged up by 47bps and 9bps in each of the month respectively. “Further analysis revealed that the pressure on food inflation rate has remained elevated since August 2019 when the FG announced the closure of all land borders to food importation from neighbouring countries.