CHIBUIKE CHUKWU With a projected one hundred thousand direct labour and close to, if not equal or more, indirect labour from the energy value chain, the newly commissioned Dangote Refinery may not have happened to Nigeria at a better time. The refinery is expected to boost domestic refining capacity, getting rid of the current consumption shortfall. It will also reduce import dependency and stimulate economic growth. The inauguration of the facility will also open the door for the diversification of revenue earning to include the export of crude oil and now marketing of the refined product itself, although both are still in the same energy value chain. Dangote Refinery is the first privately owned crude oil refinery in Nigeria. Nigeria’s existing refineries, plagued by operational inefficiencies under government control, have failed to meet the growing demand for petroleum products. In the face of this, substantial imports have become necessary. Nigeria currently imports more than 80% of its refined petroleum products. The country is the largest importer of refined petroleum products in Africa. Local production will therefore massively cut the country’s import bill. Unfortunately, the current administration under the stewardship of Muhammadu Buhari made the resuscitation of the country’s moribund refineries its main campaign promise, taking advantage of the seeming unabated petroleum crisis in the country to convince Nigerians to vote for them. Buhari leveraged on his previous portfolios as the Minister of Petroleum and later the chairman of Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) under the Sani Abacha administration to sell lies on Nigerians on how he was going to make sure that the four refineries in Warri, Port Harcourt and Kaduna became operational and served the energy needs of Nigerians. Sadly he either lacked the capacity to effect changes or he never meant to match his promises with actions as he would be exiting the stage in less than one week with the four refineries still lying fallow. POLL In the last 20 years, Nigeria has spent over $25 billion in turn around maintenance (TAM) of the refineries with nothing to show for it. Various Group Managing Directors of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), now NNPC Limited, have taken out time to reel out how various sums of money had been spent in the shadow-chasing turn around maintenance of refineries. For example, in 2021 at a forum in Abuja, the GMD of NNPC Limited gave a detailed account of how about $1.5 billion was earmarked and spent in turning around Port Harcourt refinery, with pertinent questions being what has become of the refinery or the money. Mele Kolo Kyari, at the event, promised that both Port Harcourt and Warri refineries would come on stream latest before the end of Buhari’s administration In May last year, President Buhari reiterated that the refineries, particularly the Warrior facility, would deliver fuel production before the end of first quarter of 2023. He said this during the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd and Daewoo Group for the rehabilitation of the Kaduna refinery. Represented by Femi Adesina, the President said he was particularly excited as the signing came against the back of the then ongoing rehabilitation works at the Warri refinery by the same Daewoo Group of South. Adesina quoted Buhari as saying, “Daewoo Group has massive investments in the automobile, maritime, and other sectors of our economy. ”I am also aware that Daewoo is currently engaged in the execution of the NLNG train seven project and also constructing sea-going LPG vessels for NNPC and her partners,” “I look forward to the delivery of ongoing projects, especially at the Warri and Kaduna refineries, and the NLNG Train Seven for work in the first quarter next year. ”This no doubt will open many more windows of opportunities for Daewoo and other Korean companies in Nigeria” The inability of the President to keep to his promises has cost the country abysmally in terms of earnings and wants. For example, in 2021, Nigeria spent US$11.3 billion on importing refined petroleum products. Nigeria subsidises the pump price of petrol. Since the country imports the bulk of its refined petroleum products, the official reason for sustaining petrol subsidies was to minimise the impact of rising global oil prices on Nigerians. According to NNPC Limited, Nigeria spent $10 billion on fuel subsidies in 2022 and is expected to spend $7.5 billion on fuel subsidies by mid-2023. This represents about 24% of Nigeria’s 2022 budget and is an unsustainable drag on public finances. This money can now potentially be saved with Dangote refinery plugging the supply shortfall. In general, the regime of President Buhari has spent over N16.9tn on the importation of not less than 132.24 billion litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) and this is despite the President’s campaign promises to halt PMS imports. Figures obtained from the National Bureau of Statistics and the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited showed that Nigeria relied majorly on petrol imports since the current administration came on board. This is because the country’s refineries have remained dormant for years, even though the government reportedly spent a whopping $2.9bn for Warri and Port Harcourt refineries in 2022. The continued importation of petrol and the humongous amount spent in subsidising the commodity have been described as alarming by industry operators and analysts, who have all appreciated the commissioning of the Dangote Refinery but berated the Federal Government for abandoning its responsibilities in ensuring energy security for the citizens. Speaking on this, Dr. Austin Maho, Editor in Chief of Daybreak Newspaper, berated the President Buhari-led Federal Government for making no efforts at revamping the petroleum sector through ensuring the workability of the government-owned refineries He spoke on AIT morning Programme, Kakaaki: “When you look at the speech made by Mr President at the commissioning, it shows that Buhari wants to take credit for something he ought not to have taken credit for; in fact for what he should be ashamed of because in eight years of his administration, Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) which promised Nigerians that they would make sure that the four government-owned refineries would work did not do anything to make them work; none is working. “It was very regrettable to see him praising the efforts of Dangote when he himself failed in his promises to revive Nigeria’s refineries, seeing that the four refineries in Kaduna, Warri, Port Harcourt are all in comatose. “It should prick his mind that what his government could not achieve with all its might, an individual achieved it,” he regretted. Speaking in the same Programme, Alhaji Majid Dahiru, a newspaper columnist and public affairs commentator, admitted the failure of the government in this regard, however, challenging the Federal Government to ensure there is no monopoly in the petroleum sector, asking that the four refineries be still put to use. “It is a big relief that now we have a facility that can quickly guarantee adequacy in domestic demand for PMS and other products from hydrocarbons that we need to fuel our economy. “While it is true that the government has not done well in refurbishing our state refineries, it is also a thought whether it is not a deliberate policy to kill our own refinery in order to give Dangote some level of monopoly. I do not know but it is quite curious because the government invested heavily in maintaining them,” he said. Meanwhile, with NNPC having 20 percent equity in the Dangote Refinery, analysts have also asked whether there is a deliberate effort on the part of the government to cripple the state-owned refineries in order to prop up Dangote’s and make him the sole refiner given the latter’s supposedly penchant to completely dominate any industry he ventures into. Maho has this to say. “On the other hand, such thought is founded because Dangote has the knack to dominate and one can ask if there is a deliberate effort at sabotaging the government-owned refineries in order to ensure Dangote’s own work,” he argued. Alhaji Dahiru said it is very curious given the attention the Federal Government devoted to Dangote Refinery whereas it failed to match the same with its own facilities. “It is very curious because the acquisition of a 20 percent stake in Dangote Refinery is what gave Dangote the boost to complete this project. While this is what I can commend, the question is; why is the government not doing the same to its own refineries? This is because we need as many refineries as possible in order not to create a monopoly in this sector as it has been in other sectors. “No country can be said to be energy-secured until energy is both available and affordable to it. This is why the government must maintain a presence in this very important sector. “If the four refineries are working, they and Dangote refinery would have complemented each other which will serve the energy needs of the sub region, making it a win-win situation for the economy of Nigeria,” he concluded. So many Nigerians believe that the Federal Government has not done enough in stemming the energy crisis in the country and unanimously urged the incoming government to do all within its powers to ensure the workability of the four refineries in order to create balance and competitiveness in this all-important sector.