VICTORIA OJUGBANA; TONY EZIMAKOR LAGOS / ABUJA – King Charles III who ascended the British throne on September 8, 2022, after the death of his mother, Queen Elizabeth II, was formally crowned on Saturday, May 6, in the first such celebration since 1953. The new king along with his wife, Camilla, was crowned by the Archbishop of Canterbury, at Westminster Abbey. About 2,200 people, including the Royal Family, celebrities, faith leaders and heads of state, were there to witness the event. Thousands of people lined the streets of London to catch a glimpse of the King and Queen as they went past. The splendour of British royalty shone through the glob­ally observed ceremony amid protests from some sections of the British society which want an end to the monarchy. But the protests which rep­resents an emerging disinter­est in royalty among sections influenced by republican sen­timents did not dent the pomp and pageantry that attended the ceremony, neither did it dampen international attraction for it.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Director, Centre for Interna­tional Advanced Professional Studies (CIAPS), Lagos, Prof. Anthony Kila, an international relations expert and the Interna­tional Society of Diplomats(ISD) Special Emissary on Media to Nigeria, Ambassador Victor Asije, said the monarchy was still a powerful force in world politics. POLL In a chat with Sunday Inde­pendent, Prof. Kila described the British Monarchy as an important symbol of Britain’s greatness and splendor, saying that “with the throne, Britain is able to claim its role as the oldest living and most relevant Kingdom”. He added: “With some much social revolution going on in the world and drama affecting indi­vidual members of the British Royal Family, the Monarchy has been shaken and tested many times. “Those who manage the crown have, however, been able to keep its magic and practical use.” While emphasising that the throne of England continues to be the repository of what is best in the land, Prof. Kila stressed that “it not only helps to con­serve culture, it also serves as symbol of unity and measure of standard”. According to him, “The Brit­ish Monarchy is also an import­ant tool of diplomacy and eco­nomics. Palaces and souvenirs still bring in millions of Dollars into the coffers of Britain.” He noted that the coronation has been carefully planned to re­iterate and showcase the magic and usefulness of the British Monarchy. “Though the main events are in London, each part of the country, from every village to town and county, has some­thing they are doing for the cor­onation. “A king is being coronated but it is England that is celebrat­ing and affirming its centrality and relevance,” he said. Similarly, Ambassador Asije said the world expects King Charles III to do more in sustaining Queen Elizabeth 11 internationalism, as well as uphold the British Monarchy’s splendor. Asije described the British Monarchy as the oldest form of government that is still highly respected by Britons and the rest of the world. His words: “As world lead­ers and other nationalities con­verged on Westminister Abbey for the coronation of King Charles 111, they will definitely expect to see and hear from the King, his plan to sustain Queen Elizabeth 11 internationalism and effort at upholding the age-long splendour of the British Monarchy. “The British Monarchy has, over the years, undertaken con­stitutional and representational duties. “The Queen, before her death, used her constitutional and representational duties to promote diplomacy by visiting many countries, received many world leaders, ambassadors, emissaries, professionals and well-meaning nationalities to the palace.” The ambassador enjoined King Charles 111 to be more committed to making the Brit­ish Monarchy seductive and a cynosure to the rest of the world. Asije added that the world also expected the newly coro­nated King to promote unity and peace among the Royal Family, adding that the Royal Family currently remained one of the few existing thrones. “The admiration, love, attrac­tion and fondness Britons and peoples from other parts of the world have for the monarchy and relations, should be sustained during his kingship. “We expect King Charles 111 to sustain the awesomeness, splen­dour, gracefulness, attractiveness and heavenliness that pervade and exude from the British Mon­archy,” he added. The envoy said that it was also expected of the King to use his good offices in promoting global peace, international relations and diplomacy, and overcoming glob­al challenges of climate-change, diseases, migration, hunger, gen­der issues, racism and racial dis­crimination, as well as conflicts. According to him, “Queen Elizabeth 11, before her death, promoted diplomacy by visit­ing many countries around the world. During her visits, she heard, saw and felt the challenges being faced by different nation­alities. She received hundreds of world leaders, ambassadors and other representatives. “This way, she felt the pulse of other nationalities’ political, economic and social challenges,’’ he said. The special emissary, on be­half the International Society of Diplomats (ISD), congratulated King Charles 111 and prayed that the good Lord will give him wis­dom and understanding during his Kingship. “We at the International So­ciety of Diplomats, this day, join world leaders, other ambassa­dors, emissaries, international­ists, international organisations and individuals, in wishing King Charles111 a successful King­ship,’’ he said. The coronation had Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari, his colleagues in other countries colonized by Britain, among oth­ers, in attendance. The coronation began after the arrest of anti-monarchy pro­tester on Saturday, prince Charles took oath of office. The sword was blessed by the Archbishop of Canterbury and presented to the King by Lord President of the Council, Penny Mordaunt. It had been carried into the Westminster Abbey by Petty Of­ficer Amy Taylor, who became the first woman to undertake the duty of carrying the sword into the Abbey after being selected to represent service men and women as a tribute to the King’s military career. In a message on Saturday, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Nigeria’s president-elect congrat­ulated King Charles III on his ac­cession to the British throne and expressed confidence that the reigning monarch would follow in the glorious footsteps of his late mother, the Queen, whom, he observed, left her footprints in the sands of time. Urging King Charles, an en­vironmentalist per excellence, to cast a kind eye at Africa’s un­derprivileged peoples during his reign, Senator Tinubu expressed hope of deepening existing ties be­tween Britain and Nigeria, while anticipating an early engagement with the British monarch. The letter read in part: “The splendour of British monarchy and the rich tradition came to the fore again on Saturday and the world literally came to a stand­still as you are crowned the new British King, with the appellation of King Charles III. “By way of this letter, there­fore, I convey to you my warmest congratulations on your corona­tion. “It is heartwarming that your accession to the throne is coming after the 70-year-reign of your iconic mother, Queen Elizabeth II, whose death last September left the entire world in grief, given her eventful reign. “Bearing your unique place in history as the first King to be inaugurated in Britain since 1937, I trust that you will follow in the glorious footsteps of your late mother and even surpass her achievements in United Kingdom and the Commonwealth. “Particularly remarkable about you is your love for the environment, importantly your lifelong crusade for sustainability and biodiversity. “I hope that you will continue to push for these initiatives with kind eyes on the situation and plight of the under-privileged people in Africa and around the world. “As the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I also hope that during your reign, the excellent bilateral relation­ship between Nigeria and Britain will continue and even become stronger in the interests of our two countries. “I look forward to further en­gagements with you and the op­portunity of a meeting in the near­est future as both of us had earlier indicated in discussions with mu­tual friends and associates. “Once again, I rejoice with you on your coronation and pray that God Almighty grant you strength and wisdom and make your reign successful for the benefit of not only the people of the Great Brit­ain, but for the entire world.”