LAGOS – Lagos State Government has sought increased collaboration with World Bank for the development of mass housing schemes in the State. This appeal was made during a working visit of a team led by Dr. Fuad Malkawi, Senior Urban Development Specialist and the Spatial Planning Community of Practice Leader at the World Bank to the Ministry of Housing, Lagos State. During the visit, the Commissioner Housing Lagos State Hon. Moruf Akinderu-Fatai called for partnership with the World Bank to ensure that the vision of housing for all in Lagos Mega City is attained. “Uninhibited migration to Lagos from other States of the Federation as well as some nations in the West Coast has made the issue of housing provision very critical. Given the littoral nature of the State, enormous support is required in the area of housing development” Akinderu-Fatai stated. He pointed out that the State needs to build in thousands so as to accommodate the increased influx and hence sought assistance in the area of innovative technology that could make housing development faster and safer. The Commissioner said: “the required intervention in housing development now is new technology that can make for speedy delivery without any compromise on quality and safety.” He also noted that vertical development of homes in a manner that the scarce land available in the State can be optimized for maximum yield in terms of homes is also needed in order to adequately bridge the housing gap in the State. Speaking further, Akinderu-Fatai noted that the collaborative efforts should address the challenges posed by climate change and technology and the likely impact of these factors on designing homes for the future. POLL He also urged the World Bank to support in sourcing cheap funds, not necessarily foreign exchange, that could help increase number of homes built and make them easily accessible through convenient mortgage for end users, particularly low income earners. In response, Dr. Fuad Malkawi expressed the willingness of the World Bank to partner with the State in developing and implementing strategies for urban renewal in Nigeria. He pointed out that issues related to housing cannot be treated in isolation without reference to efficient transportation system, waste disposal, and energy supply. He disclosed that the main focus of World Bank is to help in setting priorities and ensuring that developmental projects achieve the desired impact on people’s lives. Earlier at the event, Mr. Kamar Olowoshago, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Housing has sought help with capacity development particularly middle level professionals and artisans. He opined that utilisation of indigenous workforce will reduce cost as well as enhance the economic development of the State. Olowoshago also called for assistance in the area of digitalised monitoring of ongoing schemes to ensure speedy completion and delivery of ongoing projects. Present at the meeting were Management staff of the Ministry and the Urban Development Consultant to the World Bank, Dr. Banke Abejirin.