LAGOS – Dr. Oluwarotimi Fashola, Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Agriculture has said that there is a need for the young population to come into agriculture, that generally, the average age of farmers is 50 years. He stated this on Friday while speaking at the continuation of the Agricultural Value Chains Enterprise Support Programme held at the Eti Osa Local Government. He said that for the younger population to come into agriculture necessary implements and inputs are needed to be put in place that will make them attractive to agriculture which the state government is doing. He advised the youths to partner with the state government through the Ministry, stating that the state has various programmes for the youths and women which are targeted at encouraging them and enhancing their productivity. “One of the challenges confronting agriculture in the State is an aging farmer and fishermen population and most youths who make up about 60% of the State’s population are not interested in agriculture as a profession because of drudgery in the System. “It is in the wake of this fact, that the Ministry partnered with innovative companies to introduce technology in agriculture, especially the upstream sector. This is evidenced by the recently launched Tractor-on-the-Go project which is a tractor-hailing service designed to facilitate easy and affordable access to mechanization services through applications installed in mobile phones and integrated agricultural projects implemented in the state secondary schools tagged Lagos Agric Scholars Programme to stimulate the interest of school children in agriculture. “Other youth-centred efforts include the Lagos Agripreneurship Programme with the goal of training 15,000 youths with a passion for agriculture of which 3,000 has been successfully trained and plans are being put in place to train an additional 1,200 youth this year. “Aside from these, this Administration has trained 51,476 and empowered 25,691 women and youth in different agricultural value chains, such as the Cage & Pen Culture, Poultry, Rice Production, Snailery, Bee Keeping, Coconut Arts & Craft amongst others, using various government platforms. POLL Speaking further he said the 2022 Agricultural Value Chains Enterprise Activation and Farmers’ Support Programme is designed to provide agricultural inputs and production assets for over 120 fishing and farming clusters/communities across the 20 Local Governments of the State. He said over 20,000 fisherfolks and farmers will benefit from the programme while budgetary provision has been made to accommodate a larger number of Value Chain Actors in the 2023 edition of the programme. Saheed Bankole, Chairman, Eti Osa Local Government while speaking commended the efforts of the Lagos State Ministry of Agriculture for putting up a programme like this. He also commended the Ministry for its unwavering commitment to the agricultural sector and for recognizing the importance of supporting farmers in the Local Government and Lagos state as a whole. Sulieman Adekambi who represented Bankole said the proramme is a clear demonstration of the government’s determination to improve the standard of living of the farming community in Lagos State.“Your vision for the establishment of fishing and farming clusters and food processing within strategic locations in Lagos State is indeed a game-changer for us,” he said.