AHMED MUSA; VICTORIA OJUGBANA ABUJA / LAGOS  – The Vice President-elect, Senator Kashim Shetti­ma, has referred to the duo of Hon. Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna) and Hon. Benjamin Kalu (APC, Abia) as Speaker and Deputy Speaker in-waiting. Recall that the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC, on Monday endorsed their candidature as Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the 10th House of Represen­tatives. The VP-elect made the refer­ence on Friday evening when the duo accompanied by 178 other members-elect visited him at his campaign office at the highbrow area of Asokoro in Abuja. He expressed delight at the crowd behind the party’s choic­es saying that he was more than happy, but overwhelmed. Responding to speeches made by the duo earlier, the VP-elect said: “Thank you so much Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, by God’s grace our Speaker in wait­ing. And my very good friend, Rt. Hon. Benjamin Kalu, our Deputy Speaker in waiting. To say that I was pleased meeting this collective is an understate­ment, I was overwhelmed. “This collective has come to prove to Nigerians that what binds us together is greater and supersedes whatever divides us. Rt. Hon. Members, the trajecto­ry of global growth is facing Africa and Nigeria to make or mar that transition. 220 million black people, one out of every four black is a Nigerian.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Average age in Africa to­day is 19. The Asian economy, the Asian Tigers are maturing. China today is aging. Indonesia, Malaysia and South Korea are all aging. So the future of the world rests on this continent. POLL “I’m quite glad because this is a gathering of ladies and gentlemen of different politi­cal colouration. We are bound together by our collective desire to reposition our nation. “I urge you to maintain this momentum, to sustain this brotherhood and sisterhood, so that collectively we can cat­apult our country to a higher pedestal. The country is in dire state,” he said. Senator Shettima therefore assured the party’s anointed aspirants of his determination to speak to other contestants to get their support and forge a united front going into the new administration. “Be rest assured that we are not only on board this project, I will take it upon myself to reach out to other contenders. “Politics as said is all local. Rt Hon. Muktari Betara Aliyu is my brother. We are from the same subregion, we are from the same state. And I have the best of relationship with him. “I met him two nights ago, and I will sustain that discus­sion, so that at the end of the day there will be no winner, no vanquished. “Around 1.pm today, I met with Rt. Hon Esse, the Deputy Speaker. He is someone who’s very close to me. We will contin­ue the engagement so that we can have a rancour free 10th As­sembly,” the VP-elect assured. Speaking earlier, the APC anointed Speakership hope­ful, Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, told the VP-elect that he wuld in conjunction with his deputy run an inclusive House which would not disappoint the ad­ministration, the party, as well as the country as a whole. He expressed delight at the prospect of having both the President and his Vice as alumni if the National Assem­bly, noting that such has never happened before. “We are here to say we are very grateful to you, to Mr President-elect, and to the par­ty for finding us worthy of this mantle of leadership. I want to assure you that we will not disappoint you, the party and Nigerians.” Hon. Benjamin Kalu, who’s the only surviving APC mem­ber from his state in his speech thanked the party and the lead­ership for considering inclu­sion and national cohesion in choosing him for the presiding officer position despite the poor electoral outing the party had in the South East. “Before now, no South East­erner was in the presiding of­ficer’s position in the last four years, but this time, irrespec­tive of the number of votes that came out from the South East, the party considered co­hesion and gave us this. We are grateful. “Here with me today are members of the House from the South East, we are about 43, and irrespective of the political par­ties differences they are solidly standing by this your decision. “And they will show it on the day of election because this a decision that will give every part of the country a sense of belonging,” Kalu added. Regardless, outgoing deputy speaker of the House of Repre­sentatives, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, has insisted on running for the speakership, saying his intention to run was to evolve a virile and truly independent legislature. Wase’s promise was con­tained in his 10 point agenda he made public while declaring his intention to run for the office on Friday in Abuja. He said: “Generally speak­ing, my conduct will be motivat­ed by an avowed commitment to national integration to build a society where justice reigns. “We need to build on the suc­cesses recorded so far within the context of national laws and support Nigerian international commitments that seek to pro­mote national interest and wel­fare of all Nigerian citizens”. Wase noted that since the return of democracy in 1999, the North Central geo-political zone where he hails from has not produced the Speaker. He appealed to the power brokers to cede to the geopolit­ical zone, adding that “it is my turn.” “It must also be noted that it is only the North Central in the entire country that has not pro­duced the Speaker in 24 years after the return of democracy to Nigeria in 1999.” In their goodwill messages, other Speakership aspirants, Rt. Hon Mukhtar Betara from Borno State; Rt.Hon Aminu Sani Jaji from Zamfara State; Rt. Hon Sada Soli (Katsina State); and Rt. Hon Princess Mariam Onouha of Imo State, Rt. Hon. Yusuf Gagdi from Plateau State who made up the Group 7 (G7) aggrieved lawmak­ers protesting the nomination of Hon. Tajudeen Abass by the APC as its preferred candidate said they will support one of them to contest for the office. Specifically, Soli, Gagdi and Betara made the revelation. “Six of us aspirants are here to support the campaign of our Deputy Speaker. Six of us are determined to protect democra­cy because the House of Repre­sentatives is the House of the Nigerian people. By the time we lock ourselves in the House, no leadership of the House will be there. It will we and we. May God almighty see our heart and chose the leader.” Meanwhile, the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has stressed the need for the members-elect for the House of Representatives in the in-com­ing 10th Assembly to ensure the unity and diversity of Nigerians. Sanwo-Olu gave the charge on Saturday while receiving the Federal House of Representa­tives-Elect and Speakership Aspirant, Tajudeen Abbass, as well as 35 members-elect from the All Progressives Congress (APC), People’s Democratic Par­ty (PDP), Labour Party (LP,) All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) who were on a courte­sy call at Lagos House, Marina. As they commence their engagements, the governor charged them, “To continue to ensure that you do not take anybody for granted, to contin­ue to ensure that you are about a well-diversified population in the House of Representatives. “Ensure that the leadership and the followership reflect the units of our country, reflect the true federal composition and political composition that we have in the country.” While urging the lawmak­ers to ensure that their “en­gagement is total, is transpar­ent and inclusive,” Sanwo-Olu added: “Ensure that everybody that needs to be carried along is carried along. All of the other aspirants are eminently also qualified to do so.” Sanwo-Olu also urged the lawmakers to “ensure that your engagements further deepen their engagements and ensure the leadership reflects the yearnings of the people.” Sanwo-Olu also called on 360 members-elect to ensure the engagement is total, transpar­ent and inclusive, saying they need to do more to carry others along, as the people would not settle for anything less than the best from the leadership of the 10th Assembly. Speaking during the visit, Abbas, the speakership aspi­rant, representing Zaria Fed­eral Constituency of Kaduna State on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), said the 10th Assembly is a uni­ty project of everyone, which is aimed at unifying Nigerians.