According to a report by Goal, Dani Olmo is the subject of interest from Bayern Munich. The Spaniard is also a target for Barcelona and Real Madrid. Meanwhile, RB Leipzig will demand €40 million to part ways with the playmaker in the summer transfer window. Dani Olmo has made considerable progress since joining RB Leipzig from Dinamo Zagreb in January 2020. The 25-year-old has been in the spotlight since he took the brave decision to leave Barcelona as a teenager to move to Croatia. And his stock has continued rising in the last three years. The Spaniard has been decent this season, amassing five goals and nine assists in 28 appearances thus far. But Olmo’s stint with Leipzig will likely end in the summer transfer window, with his deal running out in a little over 12 months. Such a situation has captured the attention of Barcelona, Real Madrid, and Bayern Munich. Olmo has been on Barcelona’s radar for several years. The Blaugrana also attempted to re-sign the Spanish international in the last two summer transfer windows. But financial troubles have always stopped Barcelona from bringing him back to Camp Nou. And with RB Leipzig demanding €40 million to part ways with the player, a summer move might be complicated. Real Madrid will not have any such problems as they are in a healthy financial position. And with Eden Hazard and Marco Asensio facing uncertain futures at the Santiago Bernabeu, Olmo is a viable target. However, Real Madrid will face stiff competition from Bayern Munich in the race to sign the 25-year-old. The Bundesliga champions are considering parting ways with Sadio Mane and Thomas Muller this summer. And while the two players have vastly different profiles, Olmo can replace either of them in the Bayern Munich setup. In addition, the Bavarian giants can afford to pay €40 million to land the Spaniard. Recent reports have also linked the Spanish international with Manchester United. But Bayern Munich’s entry complicates the matter for Barcelona, Real Madrid, and others. It will be interesting to see if the Bundesliga champions keep Olmo in the Bundesliga beyond the summer.