AWKA – Veteran politician and one-time chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State Mr. Ifeatu Obi-Okoye on Tuesday evening emerged new chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the State. Obi-Okoye emerged after other contestants stepped down for him in the party’s State Congress. National Leader of the party and Governor of Anambra State Professor Chukwuma Charles Soludo was at the Congress which was held at Professor Dora Akunyili Women’s Development Center, Awka, the state capital. Other officers that emerged alongside  Obi-Okoye include; State Deputy Chairman – Mr. Paul Uzor, State Vice Chairman South – Surplus Ezewuzie, State Vice Chairman North, Odinaka Ozoechina, State Vice Chairman Central, Nduka Okoye, State Secretary, Levi Obiadu, Asst. State Secretary, Ekene Nnadinma, and State Treasurer, Mrs Veronica Nweke. Others are: State Asst. Treasurer – Mr Uche Maduekwe, State Financial Secretary – Josephson Okezie, and Asst. Financial Secretary – Nnamdi Ifejika, Publicity Secretary, Mofunanya Peter and Asst. Publicity Secretary, Ikechukwu Okoye. Others yet are: Legal Adviser, Innocent Izuchukwu Okafor, Asst. Legal Adviser, Victor Onwumelu, Welfare Secretary, Chikaodili Nonyelu, Asst. Welfare Secretary, Martin Otika, Organizing Secretary, Sylvanus Udezuka, Asst. Organizing Secretary, Iykon Okoli, Women Leader, Mrs Esther Onyekwesi, Asst. Women Leader, Mrs Chinwe Umerie, Youth Leader, Tochukwu Obiadi, Asst. Youth Leader, James Anagor Chukwuemeka, Auditor – Oraegbunam Uchenna, Asst. Auditor, Chidi Anasiudu, State Empowerment & Disability, Mrs Gloria Udevi, Assistant State Empowerment and Disability, Mrs Amaka Okoli, Ex- Officio, Kizito Onunkwo, Ex- Officio, Ugo Ibeneme and Ex- Officio, Osundu Ozumba. The newly elected officers took the oath of office shortly after the election when they pledged to devote all of their time, skills, and resources to serving the party. In his speech, Governor Soludo thanked the party’s outgoing National Chairman, Chief Victor Oye, and the State Chairman of the party Sir Nobert Obi, for steering the party safely to its present height as the third-largest party in the country POLL Soludo emphasized that no faction exists in the party and that APGA has remained strong under their leadership. According to him, their unwavering commitment to the party has tremendously helped to position it as a force to reckon with in the country “Some of you have paid your dues to APGA, the first party with progressives in its name, which will lead Nigeria to the promised land. “We are inviting other progressives to join the grand alliance because true leadership requires all progressives to work together. “Those who left are now in transit. We’ll open our hands wide to welcome them back to the party when the wind blows. “You will go into the political wilderness if you leave APGA the way some people did,” Governor Soludo advised. He added: “All progressives call APGA home, I congratulate all 326 wards represented here today, as well as all statutory members, on the successful ward and LGA congresses. They were democratic, and the people’s voice was heard. “I congratulate you all on being successful delegates from each ward and unanimously choosing the personality to lead you.” “On Wednesday next week, the national convention will hold and a new leadership will be elected…We will be eternally grateful to everyone who has served and remained faithful to this party.” “Some call APGA a spirit, while others call it a movement.” We refer to it as a progressive movement. I commend all aspirants who ran and did not win but remained true to the ideals of the party. APGA is Anambra, and Anambra is APGA. “Anambra will continue to grow from strength to strength under APGA!” “I also want to congratulate you all on your tremendous success in the recent election, particularly in the Anambra House of Assembly,” the Governor explained.