ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Tuesday okayed the removal of fuel subsidy by President Bola Tinubu. The House commended President Tinubu for his courage and appealed to Nigerians to be patient with the new administration. The commendation and the appeal came sequel to a Motion of Urgent Public Importance sponsored at the plenary by Hon. Jimoh Ibrahim Olajide. In moving the motion, the lawmaker noted that Mr. President, on May 29, 2023, made a public pronouncement on fuel subsidy removal. He said the president was a concerned senior citizen whose agenda was to favour the downtrodden. The House said it was aware that there was no provision for fuel subsidy in the 2023 Appropriation Act. It said it was further aware that the current 10th Assembly and the past administration had given it a legal backing. The House is convinced that further legislative actions in supporting Mr. President in delivering dividends of democracy would go a long way in enhancing development because he asked for it, he campaigned for it and he is ready for the task ahead, the House said. POLL The Reps said they are convinced that President Tinubu was concerned about the masses and had a meaningful objective to utilise Nigeria’s funds appropriately with a budgetary reforms agenda on education, health, infrastructure, agriculture, food, security and above all security of lives and property as embedded in the constitution.” The House therefore resolved “To salute his courage and boldness to serve our country Nigeria with honesty and integrity. To congratulate him for his readiness for national tasks ahead and service to humanity and appealed to Nigerians to remain patient, resilient and prayerful so that the president can deliver on his promises.” It will be recalled that Tinubu after his inauguration at Eagles Square, Abuja, swiftly announced the removal of oil subsidy. The decision had however been greeted by cheers and jeers in many quarters as the immediate effects are now being felt with many oil marketers and filling stations shutting down while those selling fuel have hiked the prices to as high as between N300 to N600 per litre.