ENUGU – Dr. Emmanuel Chukwuemeka Iwuanyanwu on Sunday was in­augurated as the new President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. He also listed his agenda for Ndigbo during his tenure. The inauguration, which was held at the old Government Lodge in Enugu during the Ime­obi meeting of Ohanaeze Ndig­bo, was attended by Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State. Meanwhile, the governor of Ebonyi State, who is also the Chairman of South-East Gov­ernors’ Forum, David Nweze Umahi; Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma, and Abia State governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, who were absent at the meeting were represented by their dep­uties which included Kelechi Igwe (Ebonyi), Prof. Placid Njoku (Imo); Rt. Hon. Ude Oko Chukwu (Abia). Other dignitaries at the meeting included Enugu State Governor-elect, Dr. Pe­ter Ndubuisi Mbah; former governor of Imo, Chief Ikedi Ohakim; Mr. Peter Obi, former Anambra State governor and presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the 2023 election; members of the Na­tional Assembly; ministers; Chief Adolphus Wabara, for­mer Senate President; former President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, among oth­er dignitaries. In his inaugural speech, Iwuanyanwu expressed his determination to serve Igbos diligently just as he called on President Muhammadu Buhari to release Nnamdi Kalu before the end of his tenure. Iwuanyanwu, who decried security situation in the South- East, said, “I believe that there is very urgent need for a Peace Summit in Igboland.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I will therefore make a special appeal to Mr. Presi­dent, Gen. Muhammadu Bu­hari, GCFR, to release Mazi Nnamdi Kanu before the ex­piration of his tenure in office. Nnamdi Kanu is very crucial for any key discussion and it is not possible to negotiate any peace while Nnamdi Kanu is in prison. POLL “It is also important to note that the judiciary has discharged and freed Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. It will be the joy of many Igbo people and Nigerians to see Mazi Nnamdi Kalu released from detention. There is also a report that his health is deteriorating. I feel it is important that he is released to have access to his medical doctors so that he does not die in the prison,” he said. On his emergence as Pres­ident-General, Iwuanyanwu said, “I must frankly confess that I did not nurture the ambi­tion to be the President-Gener­al of Ohanaeze Ndigbo World­wide, instead I had the ambition of becoming the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I contested for the presiden­cy on three occasions but I did not succeed. I took my losses in good composure knowing fully well that as a Christian all pow­ers and promotion come from God. But today destiny has placed squarely on my shoul­ders the duty of leading the Ig­bos as the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide. “I, therefore, have a duty to valiantly defend Igbo cause and I promise Ime-Obi and all Igbo people that by the grace of God I will not fail them. I have carefully examined our present circumstances and I have decid­ed, among other things, to carry out the following assignments during my tenure: These are education, agriculture, indus­trialisation, electricity, power generation, health”. Iwuanyanwu also assured that additional state will be cre­ated in South-East during his tenure. He said, “The South-East is the only geopolitical zone with only five states in Nigeria. Sev­eral political conferences have recommended the creation of additional state in the South- East to bring the number of states to six. So far, this has not been actualised. I will make sure that during my tenure ad­ditional state is created for the South-East”. The PG also promised to establish Ohanaeze Ndigbo In­vestment Company. “I will take immediate steps to establish an Ohanaeze Ndig­bo Investment Company. The equity of the company will be held by Ohanaeze Ndigbo states and not individuals. This company in addition to creating goods and services, will create employment opportunity and also be a source of funding for some of our projects,” he said.