…..I’ve Challenged Them To Prove I’m Working For Tinubu Bashir Lamidi Apapa, factional National Chairman of the Labour Party (LP), has debunked the news making the rounds that he is a mole in the party, stressing that those alleging that are mischievous. In an interview with Daily Independent Apapa said, “I’m not working for Tinubu. I have denied that many times. If I’m working for Tinubu, anybody who has evidence should present it. I’m 21 years in the party. I have been praying for a day when we’ll have this kind of improvement at the party. Is it now that we are having success in the party that I will begin to work for an opposition party that won’t add value to my life? “Those claiming that I’m working for Tinubu haven’t proved it beyond a reasonable doubt. Have they done anything to prove that I’m acting as a mole in the Labour Party? “Anybody who has evidence should bring it for the whole world to see. They’re just being mischievous. I have repeatedly challenged them to prove their cases,” Apapa said. Reacting to the criticism over his action when he gave 48 hours to the lawyers handling their case at the Presidential Election Tribunal to give him an update, he said, “At the High Court the Judge turned down the request of Julius Abure’s lawyer, restricting him from parading himself as the national chairman of the party. It nullified their request and validated me to take charge until another pronouncement would be made. If I’m in charge of the party in an acting capacity, I should have an update on the court proceedings. “If you’re representing a party that I’m going to lead or that I’m leading, I need to know the level of activities in the party,” Apapa said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Recall that the party has been embroiled in a leadership crisis after a court-ordered removal of its National Chairman, Julius Abure. POLL Since then, Apapa, who is the Deputy National Chairman (South), said he is the next person to hold the office in an acting capacity, pending Abure’s clearance. Apapa said that he is fighting to entrench justice, instill sanity, and uplift constitutionalism, and urged Abure to do the right thing.