LAGOS  – The Federal Government has commissioned four upgraded vocational skills training centres across some rural communities in Anambra State, as part of efforts of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to reduce unemployment and alleviate poverty in the country. The centres are located in Alor, Idemili South LGA, Ifite-dunu in Dunukofia LGA, Akweze and Enugu-Adazi, both in Anaocha LGA of the State. Sen. Chris Ngige, the Minister of Labour and Employment, while speaking at the formal commissioning of the centres in Alor ,said his ministry, in collaboration with other stakeholders, worked tirelessly towards this goal, recognising the critical role of skills acquisition in shaping the future of Anambra State and Nigeria. Ngige described the four digitalised skill centres as the pinnacle of collective efforts in advancing apprenticeship and traineeship development in Anambra State and our Nation. According to him, the centres which represent more than just physical structures, symbolise the commitment of the government to mass production of a skilled workforce, capable of meeting the demands of a rapidly changing economy, based on advances in technology. Ngige said: “We are now in an era defined by digital changes. It is imperious that we equip our citizens with the necessary competencies to thrive in a competitive job market world- wide. That explains why the syllabi include re-skilling and upgrading knowledge in different trades. “The launch of these centres is a proof to our vision of inclusive growth and empowerment. We are cognizant of the fact that skill acquisition should be accessible to all, irrespective of gender, social background, or physical ability and location. That explains why those centres are not sited in Awka, the state capital, but in the rural areas where people live mostly.” Speaking further, he explained that the centres would be vital in providing equal opportunities to every individual, to ensure that all talents are tapped, leaving none behind. POLL Expressing satisfaction with the broad nature of the training courses, the Minister noted that they took into consideration the evolving needs of industries and designed a programme that aligned with market demands. “From technical skills to soft skills, these centres will provide a holistic learning experience that will equip individuals with the versatility and flexibility required to succeed in workplace. “Furthermore, these skill centres will serve as a stimulus of entrepreneurship and job creation. We believe that the true nature of success lies not only in providing training but also in the provision of opportunities for self-employment and fostering an entrepreneurial spirit.” Ngige said by nurturing and supporting aspiring enterprenuers, they aim to create a vibrant ecosystem that encourages innovation, productivity, and sustainable economic growth. He noted that all the skills acquisition centres, are linked to the ministry’s National Electronic Labour Exchange (NELEX) platform where every Nigerian could stay and access job openings anywhere in the world. The Minister, however, emphasized that the success of these skill centres depends on cooperative efforts, stressing that a synergy between the government, private sector, education institutions and civil society is essential to realise the full potential of their skill development initiatives.