ISEGHE AJAYI So many people are experiencing loopholes in their finances unknowingly despite planning their purchases appropriately. They assume that it is because of the persistent rise in the prices of commodities that is responsible for their inability to have a firm grasp of their money. It is unarguably true that with this present unfavourable state of the economy, living within one’s earnings can be very challenging owing to unending inflation and depreciating value of Naira. The situation has seen several individuals especially those whose sources of income have been affected negatively, living in financial misery. Likewise, those who are reckless in their spending habit. That is why it very crucial to try as much as possible to have a firm hold of your finances by prioritising your needs to avoid amassing debts. Remember, the money to borrow is not even there since most people are under pressure to meet their basic needs. Do you know that the persistent rise in the prices of commodities has made adhering to one’s budget, if there is any, practically not feasible and as such cannot accommodate savings because survival is critical? It is crucial to plan ahead of retirement despite the unfriendly state of the economy and one way to do that is to block that money drips. POLL Do not feel it is impossible as when you go for shopping there are expenses that you cannot account for because you cannot recall how much money was expended. Those expenses you acquired and cannot account for especially when going through your spending plan are called money drips. It usually comes to your notice, mostly when you are assessing your bank or credit card statements. You can even be in the know of where the money actually went but the problem is not eagerly remembering how the money was disbursed, implying that it just leaks out of your account and was spent on something that was so unimportant. Surviving in this current economic situation requires proper financial planning regardless of the social class and this entails self-discipline, prudent spending to accommodate savings and investment. But then, keeping money in your savings account may be quite demanding owing to the fact that inflation has continued to depreciate the value of Naira such that depending on a source of income may not give you that financial freedom you are longing for. Having a firm grip on your money will assist you to set future financial goals which could be short or long term, depending on your preference. Failure to track expenses incurred on a daily basis particularly if you are the type that follows one’s budget religiously indicates that you may be experiencing leaks in your money. Besides, your inability to do away with loopholes in your finances can be demoralising to your financial state if not controlled. The under listed tips can help you to block those money drips that are influencing your financial life unfavorably: Evaluate All Payments If you really want to obstruct loopholes in your finances, it is important to keep all receipts of items purchased for proper evaluation. This will allow you to identify where your leaks are frequently occurring. Through the receipts, you are able to figure out the items that are vital and the ones that are not essential. A critical study of the non-essential receipts often exposes the worst of your spending blunders. Plan Your Purchases There is need to budget your daily or monthly expenses if you really want to plug your money drips. It is important to restrict events you attend to in order to avoid unnecessary spending that may lead to financial regrets. More so, there is no shopping event you attend that you are not likely to spend money because even if you do not bargain for some expenses, you may be tempted to spend money on trivial things that you may probably not remember. However, when faced with such situation, use a simple approach for keeping control of your finances by calculating and making up your mind on what to spend. You can do so by withdrawing the desired amount in cash before embarking on the event. Patronise Inexpensive Shops It is very important you cut down on daily fling to the coffee by ensuring you bring your own snacks from home. Also, you really need to know where you purchase your smart food such as drinks and snacks as location seems to be a determinant factor for prices of some items and may not be favourable. For instance, prices of bottled drinks and snack foods at some convenience stores are generally exorbitant when compared with the price purchased in a discounted shop. So, it is vital to take into cognizance shops or convenience stores you patronise for your smart foods. Patronise Your Needs Having freedom to spend your money whenever you wish is good but when there is no control on items purchased, it could be ruinous. Hence, the need to have a good budgeting package is expedient to enable you work on your financial habit. One of the best ways to conquer money leak is to buy and prioritise items that are of utmost value. Also, a firm decision must be taken on monthly or daily expenses to avoid impulse buying. Ensure expenses made are essential and the money for it has to come out of your “free spending” money. Certainly, there is need to always assign a portion of your monthly income towards a certain expense to enable you stick to your monthly budget. Be Financially Alert Identifying places that are prone to money leaks will help you to be financially alert in your expenses. Also, ensure you avoid places where you cannot evade impulse buying. For example, avoid going to big shops to buy items that you can easily get in your area of abode without going through stress. Handle Cash Wisely Individuals treat cash in diverse ways, which is not an offence depending on what they really want. However, for some people, they prefer to go out cashless to avoid unnecessary expenses and not to be tempted to spend it. On the other hand, some people desire to spend only cash because it is easier for them to track their expenses and also not to make purchases if they do not have the cash in their wallets.