“You campaign in poetry and govern in prose.” — Mario Cuomo “It is easier to run for office than to run the office.” — Tip O’Neill “It is not the critic who counts, not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again; who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know vic­tory nor defeat.” — Theodore Roosevelt “What is ‘Good Governance’? Who determines what is good and bad gover­nance? What yardsticks are applied?” — Issa Shivji It is always a matter of utmost pleasure for me to be on a university campus to interact with scholars, students and ad­ministrators. It’s even more delightful that I’m doing so at the 15th Founders’ Day Ceremony of a university whose mission is “to produce men and women with intel­lectual, professional and technological ca­pabilities who can apply their knowledge and skills to the resolution of national and international challenges.” This is credit to the Visitor Chief James Onanefe Ibori and the Urhobo Advancement scholars led by Professor GO Onerkhoraye and Professor GH Sarah who worked hard with him to establish this impressive institution and have continued to nurture the dream of “safeguarding knowledge for human ad­vancement” since 2007. When the Pro Chancellor of the Uni­versity, Professor Eghosa Osaghae ap­proached me to give this lecture, he said I was at liberty to speak on any topic of my choice. A number of topics ran through my mind as I set about the assignment at hand. First, I wanted to speak about the idea and ideals of the University in the Nigerian context as we grapple with what to do with the management of ter­tiary education. But I jettisoned the idea because I had done this at a lecture at the Osun State University a few years ago. On another level, I thought it might be best to focus on a topic that counsels young grad­uates going to the world out there. I wasn’t quite convinced that would appeal to my audience here, since this is the Founders’ Day lecture, not the convocation lecture. I even considered reflecting on our recent electoral journey, but I felt it was better to eschew anything that might hint of par­tisanship in an academic environment. I then decided to settle for a reflection on my experience of governing at the sub-na­tional level having just left office barely six months ago. Besides, you never know who in this audience is going to be involved in politics and public policy management anytime soon. Besides, management has been a chal­lenge for us at all levels in our country and there are too many assumptions even in the academic environment about what happens in the states and in our local gov­ernments. Indeed, from the outside, peo­ple in government often look omniscient, omnipotent and all powerful: on the inside though, they often feel helpless, stretched beyond breaking point by the weight of expectations on the one hand and the sheer complexity and difficulty of meeting them on the other.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ When running for office as the open­ing quotations attest, contestants always claim to know better than the person in the saddle. In fact, as a contestant, you are allowed, if not expected, to speak grandly about your vision and how you can turn things around overnight if voted into of­fice. More often than not, no one asks you for evidence or challenge you to justify the many claims that you make on the campaign trail. However, if you are fortu­nate to win the election, that’s when the rubber meets the road. You would soon discover that governing is about finding real solutions to real problems that affect real people who expect you to solve all their problems every single day. That’s when the poetry and rhetoric of campaign shows give way to the tedious prose of heavy lift­ing work that people don’t see and there­fore would not be on hand to clap for you. That’s when you find that your good inten­tions are not enough. People want results, and they want it with the urgency of now. POLL Preparation for Public Office The tenure of an elected governor is four years. However, in reality the actual functional years hardly add up to two and a half years. That is why elected officials are often advised to hit the ground running. Whether you would be able to do these or not, would depend on how much efforts and time you have devoted to developing your own policy agenda. In my experience, some chief executives do come to office without a development agenda. Some only start to fish around for ideas after getting into office, while others just simply muddle through on a day-by-day basis. Almost all come to office with some kind of campaign manifesto. But these are hardly more than marketing tools. What eventually informs your action plan are derivations from the manifesto which has been taken through the mills of actual stakeholders and is a product of broad and deep consultation. They are multi-year plans that have been fully-costed in the light of your finan­cial realities. While the manifesto tells the people what you plan to do in broad terms, this action plan tells you and everyone in your team, not only what you want to do, but also how you want to do it, including the time lines for delivery. In times past, it used to be the case that political parties had a common manifesto which stands as the political agenda of the party and the general principles of governance for all the candidates elected on the party’s platform. That’s when the parties were strong and process driven. In the Second Republic we had UPN with its free education, and NPN with its mass housing, etc. The Action Congress (AC) on whose ticket I ran for office was an off­shoot of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), which could also trace its ancestry back to the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) of the Second Republic and all the way back to the Action Group (AG) of the First Repub­lic. The AC, embraced a more grassroots model of economic development that promised dignified employment and a de­cent wage, good social services and social safety nets, modern functional education that provides marketable labour skills; increased agricultural output, revival of moribund industries, promotion of knowl­edge economy and provision of modern infrastructure. My 2006 campaign manifesto docu­ment – _Making Poverty History: Road­map to Ekiti Recovery – The Eight Point Agenda_ was anchored on the national manifesto of ACN in the specific context of Ekiti State and its local realities. In it, I highlighted in great detail what we were going to do in office in the areas of Functional Education and Human Capital Development, Modernising Agriculture, Improving Healthcare, Infrastructure and Industrial Development, Promoting Arts, Culture and Tourism Development, Gen­der Equality and Women Empowerment. I must admit that in preparing for of­fice, I had a unique opportunity. The three and a half years that we spent in court gave us time to fine tune the various aspects of the manifesto. Through our elected rep­resentatives in the hung parliament (the 2007 parliament in Ekiti was 13 members for us and 13 for PDP in the 26-member parliament), we appointed a shadow team that produced annual budget which later formed the fulcrum of our budgeting when eventually we got in the saddle. For those three years – 2008 – 2010, we published alternative annual budgets to co­incide with the release of the official state budget, basically to highlight our differing priorities and demonstrate to the people the difference between our people-oriented approach of doing development with the people and the Government’s top-down approach of doing development for the people. This approach also became the hallmark of our budgeting process in the eight years we spent in office. I can say that this participatory governance approach is not only good for democracy and good gov­ernance, it is also good for politics. It makes it easy for the people, especially the critical stakeholders to own government policies and actions, and to volunteer as vanguard of change and on behalf of government. As a result of this approach, there’s hardly any community in Ekiti in my eight years in office where we did not implement phys­ical projects suggested by the community and jointly executed with them. By the time we eventually won in courts and got inaugurated barely twenty-four hours af­ter the court pronouncement, I already had a sense of specific steps to take in the eight areas of focus. We had a 100-Day Plan fully costed and a draft revised budget. We were indeed ready to hit the ground running Let me say at this point that one of the important challenges that every Governor would face early on is that of making key appointments. Apart from the challenges of ethnic or regional and religious balanc­ing, you also have political IOUs to settle. Every Governor would have to strike the right balance between appointing core politicians who had been involved in the long and torturous political struggle that brought the Governor to office and the technocrats who will be required to under­take specific assignments for the smooth running of the government. While the local political context would determine what the right balance is, this is something every new governor must always be mind­ful of. But it would always be helpful if you understand what your key priorities are. This will help you to understand those ap­pointments you can play politics with and those you have to assign to the best possible hands. The balance is that you cannot take all away from politics, and you cannot give all to politics. However, a key lesson from my own experience is that whether one is a technocrat in government or a core politician, all political appointees must be strongly connected to their communities. I have argued here that you cannot get away with not having a clearly defined plan that articulates your priorities based on wide consultations. I will add immediately that governance is a process. It must there­fore be dynamic enough to respond to new information and new knowledge that you would encounter in the course of imple­mentation and as you deepen your inter­action with the people; or even to a force majeure like the CoronaVirus pandemic which took almost two years out of the ten­ure of the Governors of that period. The dictum therefore – for every new Governor should be: Be prepared, but also be flexible! Funding the Vision and Mission One major challenge that every elect­ed Governor encounters is how to quickly mobilise adequate resources to accomplish the promises made to the electorate. The temptation is to mount an inquisition into what transpired on the watch of the imme­diate past Governor. Whilst it is eminently sensible to review state finances if only to gain necessary understanding and ensure accountability, it usually ends up in argu­ments of “you be thief, I no be thief”. If you are not careful, you could spend your entire tenure chasing shadows instead of recov­ering any money that you thought could help with your projects. As most Gover­nors have discovered in office, it’s a distrac­tion that one could ill afford. As Chairman of the Governors Forum, I spent quite a bit of time interceding between new and im­mediate past Governors on issues relating to financial accountability. My position is that it is always better for the incumbent to draw a line in the sand and just move on. Apart from the fact that such inquisitions hardly yield much fruits, it unnecessarily overheats the system and keep the outgo­ing governor alive in the consciousness of the public. If you bear in mind that no mat­ter how bad he must have been, he must have his own supporters and people who were with him. Most importantly, he does not have a job. He can therefore afford to be the devil’s workshop. You cannot. He has all the time in the world. You don’t. To be continued …Being text of the Founders’ Day Lecture deliv­ered by Dr. Fayemi, former Governor, Ekiti State and Visiting Professor, Africa Leadership Cen­tre, King’s College, University of London, at the Western Delta University, Oghara, Delta State on 29 April, 2023