Monday Ubani, former Vice President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and also former chairman of the Ikeja Branch of the association, in this interview with CHIBUIKE CHUKWU, bares his mind on the 2023 general elections, ongoing Presidential Election Tribunal (PET), the controversial 25 percent votes of the FCT for presidency, among others. Excerpts: How can you assess the recently concluded general elections? It’s still ongoing because the judicial process is part of the electoral process. The judicial process is the last lap after the elections are conducted and the results announced. Those who feel aggrieved have the right to go to court to seek judicial intervention. So, yesterday (Monday), we started the process at the tribunal with the pre-hearing. The tribunal has 180 days maximum within which to decide and 60 days at the Supreme Court. So I won’t say so much because the election and results are being challenged presently, even though some people felt okay and said it was the best election ever conducted in Nigeria while some others felt otherwise that the Independent National Electoral commission (INEC) failed to comply with their own guidelines and even the electoral act. So it is now left for the tribunal to decide who is right and who is wrong. Presently it is a subject of litigation. I was a participant and in my state we were able to have a change in governance in Abia State where I come from. Also some of the sitting governors who wanted to go to the senate lost. Also the results that were uploaded on the INEC Result Viewing (IREV) portals immediately after the announcement of the results at the polling units reflected the will and wish of the people but it was not transmitted as promised and it is a very big issue of consternation. So, we will find out whether those who are saying there is irregularity in that process will have their way at the court or otherwise. A lot has been said about the controversial 25% FCT Votes; do you think it can actually form a judgment and stand in the way of the president-elect? These are matters that are subjudice and it is left for the court to decide. This is the first time the court will have to expressly decide on that 25 percent conundrum, it has been a major issue. But one thing I did was that I did a research from 1999 till date and found out that all the candidates that were eventually declared winners of presidential elections including the incumbent president all secured more than 25 percent in the FCT, starting from Obasanjo two times, Yar’Adua, Jonathan and President Buhari two times. Now if we get to this 2023 and they are saying the present president-elect does not require 25 percent in the FCT, the court will look at the provisions of the constitution. If it is clear, they give it their own understanding but if it is not clear, they will still deal on it. So it is a matter of subjudice. Let‘s wait and see what the Supreme Court will say before we comment on the issue. But as a senior lawyer, have you been able to look at that aspect of the constitution and actually see what it is talking about concerning the 25 percent in the FCT? I have looked at it and I have my own opinion but my opinion is of no relevance here since the matter is before the court. I have my own view concerning that requirement for one to be declared the president of the country. So being a lawyer and a senior one for that matter, I will rather reserve whatever comment I have concerning my own view until the court has the final say. What is your take on the contending issue that the president-elect should not be sworn in until the appeals are settled by the court? POLL This is a very good question because I have heard people say why are they planning to swear in the president-elect and by extension the governors-elect when there are issues before the court and I am wondering have they looked at the laws? There is no legal framework. Does our legal framework say that in any election in Nigeria, a declared winner will not be sworn in until issues are settled in court? We are not starting this constitution today. We have been operating this constitution since 1999 and from 1999 till date, people who allegedly won were sworn in despite court cases. President Buhari went to court three times and in each case, the declared winner was sworn in. One can appreciate their concerns and that concern is this; how can somebody whose election is being challenged be asked to be governor or president? The person will now be using the state resources to fight the opponent. This is because immediately they get there, they have unhindered access to the state treasury which is one of the reasons that make Nigerians desperate to win political offices. Desperation comes because of what is available. There is no institutional checks and balances, so when they get there, they have unhindered access to the treasury and they now use the state treasury to fight their opponents. So that brought about the argument that why will you swear in somebody whose election is still being challenged. Now when you swear him in, the man is inside while his opponent is outside being fought with state resources, why not allow the judicial process end first because judicial process is part of electoral process. Because there is no such legal framework, you cannot ask the present people not to be sworn in because there is no legal framework that says they should not be sworn in. Until we amend our constitution; until we amend our electoral act, and now make a provision that says ‘don’t swear this people in until judicial intervention which is part of electoral process is concluded; such argument cannot stand. In the absence of any legal framework, it will be absolutely wrong for anyone to depend so much on emotions and sentiment on this issue, we can’t operate that way. We as lawyers should always be fair and truthful at all times to tell even our clients who have contrary opinion to know what the law says. At times some lawyers begin to pander to the sentiment of their clients and say ‘yes you are right’; right where there is no such legal framework. We don’t have to pander towards sentiment; we should be truthful enough to look at what is possible, what is feasible and what is practicable, and what the law says. How can you rate the eight years of President Buhari as he is gradually winding down his tenure? Well, I was one of those that were in the forefront to campaign for President Buhari. I was all over the place; radio, television and pages of newspapers campaigning for him to be elected and calling for a change because I felt President Jonathan wasn’t getting it right. I thought with the level of education of Jonathan, there would have been some level of sanity in his governance, but there was total confusion because whoever wanted to get something will get in and get whatever he wanted. People like Deziani were not giving the government good name. There was every good course to insist that the Jonathan government had to go and we had good intentions. So when we looked at the campaign slogans and manifesto of the All Progressives Congress (APC) then, they clamored for a lot of reforms in the system especially regarding the fight against corruption, insecurity and the economy. We were very vehement in pushing down our throats their ideas especially as they contain certain things we felt the nation should begin to enjoy, including power (energy), but we never knew that we were letting in people that were coming to play chess; people who wanted to use Nigeria to learn governance. They have no idea what governance was and there was no preparation whatsoever to govern. In fact there was no agenda; it was trial and error from the APC. We have passed through hell in the hands of President Buhari and his APC people. They crippled the Vice President who would have made a difference. They made sure he was completely crippled and rendered useless in the system. So you see they didn’t even want to change anything. They had an agenda and that was to take us several years backward. In all the promises they made, there is no single one you can say they scored up to 30 percent. Is it fight against corruption? Is it basic infrastructure? Look at how they are still battling with Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, still uncompleted after failed promises. After these eight years of Buhari, I cannot take off now by road to say I am going to Abuja and I drive or I say I want to go to east and I drive smoothly: it doesn’t exist. So what did they come to do after all their promises which deceived Nigerians into voting for them? But in the east, they have always said of second Niger Bridge… (Cuts in) second Niger Bridge you are talking about was not their initiative and up till now we are being told that they will complete it before they leave but the point is that it wasn’t their initiative. So there is nothing you can say this government conceived that was really generational and developmental; something you can consider very significant that justifies all the noise that heralded their coming, nothing. There is nothing you can say is the major achievement of President Buhari government, there is none. Just look around you and confirm if there is any. May be they will say they fix one airport or the other like that; that is not generational. Even at that, there is none they have completed. They wanted to sell Lagos Airport to themselves and had already positioned someone they want to sell it to, their own person you know and they will all have percentages in those. Don’t you feel this is a mere allegation that is not factual yet? It is not an allegation because I am into it; I know about the case because the matter is in court where they wanted to package and awarded to themselves with so much impunity. What I am saying is that the government of President Buhari, in all parameter, can be scored between 20 or 30 percent and that is because I am even generous: there are people that cannot score this government up to five percent. Based on all these challenges, what agenda can you set for the president-elect; which area should take his attention the more? The person that is coming to take over from Buhari has a lot in his hands and I don’t envy anyone that is about to reign after Buhari. I hope Bola Tinubu is strong enough to run Nigeria because the country is clearly on a life support. In all areas, it is that bad and prices are tripling by the day. So I don’t envy the president-elect because the country is on a life support. The economy is down and the industries are gone. He has to bring back the industries and bringing back the industries, you have to bring back the light; the energy is the key. If you cannot guarantee at least 18 hours power, there is no way any person can come and invest in your country when he spends almost 80 percent of his running cost on energy. So he has to address squarely the issue of power and then roads because we don’t have any good road; and then you know traveling by road is one of the most exciting experiences. In traveling by road you stop here and there to buy things. I used to do that but I can’t do it anymore because there is no road; there is no road to go to east, there is no road to go to north. I don’t know if the president-elect has the moral stand to run this because first you must run a thrifty economy; an economy that is not into ostentatious things, not into extravagant spending, keeping all manner of presidential fleets at airports, budgeting and maintaining them with huge amount and budgeting for Aso Rock and all manner of expenses. You must avoid such expenses to be able to achieve something in this kind of our economy. Bola Tinubu has a lot in his hands and let’s believe that those who believed in him and elected him won’t be disappointed because there is nothing to come and enjoy. In coming to power, Tinubu has made so much money that can last him for life so he has no need to acquire more unless he as a different agenda coming into government, so there are lots of work for him to do. He has to fix the economy, the political system, agriculture, the energy sector and above all he has to restore the confidence of Nigerians in the country. People have lost and are still losing hope in the country. People’s hopes were rekindled before the election that they want to have the country they would call their own. But immediately after the election, it was like, oh! Power has gone back to the same set of people who have been in power and have not made any concrete move to change the system, to address the needs of the people or show empathy to the plights of Nigerians; none of them. Their noses and eyes are up and not looking down. The day we have the kind of government that shows empathy to the people, it’s that day that we can say we have started having good governance but the signs are not there. May be the morning is not determining the day. The moves and the body language of the president-elect has not shown that the morning will determine the day, but I am waiting until when he is sworn in because his works are cut-out. I hope he has come to solve Nigeria’s problem and not to compound it because Buhari came to compound Nigeria’s problem. I honestly pray that Tinubu doesn’t take us several years backward because Buhari did. I am praying that he succeeds but for that prayer to work on him, he must make up his mind that he is coming to work for Nigeria. If he has no such intention to work for Nigeria; if he has come to acquire more wealth for himself, I wish him luck. But if he has come to change the story, image and poor narratives of Nigeria, I sincerely pray for him and he will succeed and God will give him wisdom to do that. But intention matters because my prayer can only work when God looks at his heart and see that he has the intention to come and change the negative image of Nigeria and make the young ones to begin to love Nigeria because they are all running away. There is disillusionment in the air; there is frustration in the air. Even families that are living well here are leaving because they have looked at the future and it is bleak, there is no hope, nothing to hold onto. So given the myriad of challenges you have listed, what advice can you advance to the judges handling the election petition issues for them to restore the faith of Nigerians in the judicial system? I will advise them to do the right thing, to look at the place of the law. If the law has not been complied with, say the right thing and don’t look at any person’s face. It has been done in Kenya and other countries. In all these countries, it was their judicial system that changed the entire process for good. So let the judges be bold enough and independent to look at the law and apply the law because people will be watching. But on the other hand, I don’t want people to ventilate sentiment because there are certain things people say that make the whole topic funny like on the social media they say President Obasanjo has gone to fly in Russian lawyers and these Russian lawyers are they qualified to practice here in Nigeria; all these are some of the sentiments that have been brought into this. In your state, Abia, it’s obvious that the governor-elect, Dr Alex Oti, already has his hands full because of challenges he has met on ground; where do you think he can start from? I have written about him already with the title, ‘The Morning Determines the Day”. He has already invited Julius Berger. If he hasn’t been sworn in and he is already inviting Julius Berger, you can read his intention already. I told him all the federal roads in Abia, let him try as much as he can, in conjunction with the Federal Government, and see what he can do on them, especially the Aba-Port Harcourt Road. When he fixes Aba and Umuahia, the state capital, then clear all the arrears of workers, we will solidly be behind him in the next four years. When he shows seriousness and transparency in governance, I am telling you that Abians in diaspora will be paying their taxes because they will feel they have gotten somebody who can judiciously use their money. Let me tell you, Nigerians are the most compliant people. They want to comply with their government. The moment you put those things in place that will make life meaningful for them, and they will comply with you. But the moment you steal, steal and steal, and achieve nothing left to work, like Okezie Ikpeazu that spent solid eight years and nothing to show for it, you will be rejected. They talk about the flyover at Aba he built that they called centre table. That is the most disgraceful project of that nature, just visit there and see for yourself. I am afraid that bridge may not survive the next eight years without collapsing and billions were spent on it. Is he proud of that? I am ashamed of such project.