Napoli president Aurelio De Laurentiis insisted that the newly crowned Serie A champions will not sell star striker Victor Osimhen this summer amid ongoing interest from Manchester United. The Nigeria international, 24, is a concrete target for the Reds ahead of this summer’s transfer window, as they aim to strengthen their pool of attacking options. Manager Erik ten Hag is understood to have prioritised the addition of a new goal-getter and Osimhen has been on their radar since November, although Harry Kane is the manager’s preferred target. Osimhen, who is also attracting interest from the likes of Bayern Munich and Paris Saint-Germain, played a key role in Napoli clinching their first Serie A title in 33 years this season, scoring 22 goals in 27 league appearances. In total, he has notched 27 goals in 34 appearances in all competitions this term. He has established himself as one of the most sought-after strikers in Europe and several clubs, including United, have been monitoring his progress ahead of this summer. However, Napoli chief De Laurentiis, following the Italian club’s title victory on Thursday night, poured cold water on any hopes that United, as well as any other suitors, may have had of securing his signature. Speaking to Italian channel Rai Sport, De Laurentiis said: “I will not sell Victor Osimhen this summer – no way.” Osimhen has been the jewel in Napoli’s crown this season, highlighted by his impressive tally of 27 goals. He joined the Serie A champions in July 2020 and has since scored 55 goals in 96 appearances. Following Thursday night’s 1-1 draw with Udinese that clinched Napoli the Serie A title, Osimhen refused to go into detail about his future, insisting that it wasn’t the right time. “I’m thrilled with this victory,” Osimhen told Sky. “I’m happy for me, for the team and for the fans. I can’t wait to come back in Naples to embrace our fans, even though tonight I already felt the warmth of the people. POLL “I’m happy for all the Neapolitans. I scored the Scudetto goal, it’s true, but anyone else could have scored it. I feel like a leader and I never give up. Future? Now I want to enjoy this historic moment, this is not the time to think about my future. “[Luciano] Spalletti is a great coach, he asks us a lot but he is like a father to all of us. He always manages to motivate us and he deserves this title.”