The emergence of Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu as the 16th President of the Federal Republic of Nige­ria following his inauguration on Monday, May 29th, 2023, the same occasion which many naysayers swore would never materialise, represents an epochal shift in the nation’s political trajectory. Nigerians have gone through several hardship and communal immiseration that were directly occasioned by a leadership disposition that was also prone to making regressive and sometimes, punitive policy options during which period the nation drifted more and more into a state of debillatio. A change of guard is therefore a positive constitutional way of reinvigorating a waning national confidence. So, the change of baton that took place two days ago carries with it a successional op­portunity for Nigeria to chart a new course, developmentally speaking. It is therefore important that some conceptual clarifica­tions be made about certain assumptions in our constitutionalism for the purposes of accurately recording Nigeria’s political history in a manner that is consistency with reality because it is doubtful, for example, if it is correct to say that President Tinubu is the “16th President of Nigeria” as was widely disseminated unless we are inclined to indiscriminately lump non-constitution­al military juntas along with duly elected constitutional Presidents in our leadership history. The office of “President” in our scheme of democratic constitutional governance car­ries special legal and syntactic conations to the extent that the toga of “president” ought to be used sparingly in the constitutional space because not every leader, even if he is a Head of State, is constitutionally qual­ified to be addressed as “President”. Yes, in our typically loose political parlance certain positions are casually referred to as “presi­dent”. An immediate example is when we use it to describe the presiding of officer of the Senate of the National Assembly or to ingratiate leaders of private clubs or asso­ciations as “Mr. President” but that is not what we mean when we address some one as the “President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria” because the term, as used official­ly, carries both constitutional and political hallow. The question may then be asked: What is the constitutional difference between Tinu­bu and those past leaders like Muritala, Babangida, Abacha, Ironsi and Shonekan? The simple answer is to qualify to be ad­dressed as a constitutional President in Ni­geria, you must have fulfilled certain con­stitutionally stipulated requirements with respect to age, educational qualifications, citizenship status, etc., and you must, above all, emerge through an election and have a definite inauguration day and a definite dis­engagement day. In other words, a presiden­tial stewardship is constitutionally limited to a maximum tenure of two terms of four years each a requirement that does not apply to unconstitutional leaders whose terms are indefinite or until forcefully deposed, killed, or dies naturally in office. Other critical features are the existence of legal institutional guardrails, checks, and balances within the framework of Sep­aration of Powers and the hierarchical al­location of governing powers in a federal system. Also, a constitutional President is subject to the disciplinary process of Judi­cial Review and legislative impeachment if necessary. None of these rules apply to those undemocratic military juntas of the past, never mind the presidential alias adopted like Babangida did. Tinubu’s emergence as the President came through unfamiliar routes: unlike the previous elected presidents, he was not “drafted in” as a reluctant candidate or is he an “accidental president” such as we have seen in the past. For example, President Shagari’s initial ambition was to go to the Senate; Obasanjo was drafted into the pres­idential race immediately after he was un­expectedly released from prison. Yar’ Adua was unilaterally drafted into the arena by Obasanjo apparently in consideration of his elder brother, General Musa Yar’ Adua who was his ally while Vice-President Jonathan fortuitously became President only after the demise of President Yar’ Adua. President Tinubu’s emergence is quite dif­ferent. He consciously demanded and fought for the job after decades of playing the role of “Kingmaker” to others, including Presi­dent Buhari. So, when the 2023 presidential election became contestable, the Kingmaker himself stepped forward boldly proclaiming the famous “Emilokan”, meaning, “it is my turn”! That immediately generated loads of flaks in addition to the tons of already existing efforts to thwart his presidential ambition for which he had being working for decades. He instantly became the combined target all the opposition parties, placing him on the po­litical crosshair. They thereafter questioned everything about his health, both physical and mental, queried his stamina and surviv­ability on the grueling campaign trails, etc. They dredged up previous records alleging a drug-related forfeiture order from the US all with a view to disqualifying him. The nega­tive campaigns were as nasty as they could possibly be, but he surprisingly overcame all amidst policies that were contrived by his own APC-led government calculated to ensure his defeat as there were no concrete party’s achievements to run on. POLL Those who regularly follow this column would recall how I made it abundantly clear severally that Tinubu, despite everything be­ing thrown at him, will emerge victorious because his main opponent, the PDP opted to break itself into factions and Abubakar Atiku, the party flagbearer, bluntly refused to placate his revolting G-5 governors. Ex-governor Peter Obi, another formidable opponent who angrily left the PDP to join the Labour Party, relied heavily on the anger of the urban youth against the Buhari adminis­tration and the “ENDsars anger as propagat­ed by Social Media as well as on the obvious of a section of the Christian community’s frustration with the Muslim/Muslim ticket but he failed to broaden his political base beyond the southern and eastern Christian belt and the angry urban population. When after the February 25 presidential election Tinubu won, they belatedly cranked up their campaign rhetoric that was primar­ily geared towards voiding his victory and thereafter set in motion a monumental le­gal challenge, disputing his victory while also alleging that the referee, INEC, did not follow its promises to transmit the results online but not so much that the results were different from what they all contemporane­ously confirmed through their agents right at the polling booths. Suddenly, the challenge became not about the “results” but of the “process”. They further clung on to the requirement that a candidate for the presidency must have scored “nothing less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in each of at least two-thirds of all the states in the federation and the federal capital territory”. Note that the law did not say “and IN the federal capi­tal territory” (emphasis mine) as it did with respect to “each state of the federation”. This to me is a simple matter. People apparently in their anxiety over-read this provision and consequently missed the simple fact that if the lawmakers wanted such a conjunctive consequence, he would have simply written “and IN the federal capital territory” instead of just “and the FCT”. After listening to the President’s inaugu­ral policy declarations, it became clear to me that the Tinubu presidency is already setting the stage for a fundamental departure from the old rentier governing template in which the State became a huge parasite on the citi­zens through corruption-laden schemes like fuel subsidies and multiple exchange rates which enable the CBN and its middlemen operating bureau de ’change “mallams” to be feeding fat on our peoples’ miseries. With the new administration, one can already see something that is akin to F D Roosevelt’s “New Deal” which, if pursued with the single-mindedness with which he pursued his election, Nigeria is likely to see fundamental changes that will resonate positively on their economic, political, social wellbeing because they effectively address the challenges of insecurity and corruption, the twin albatross undermining the Nigeri­an polity. Hail the Jagaban!