LAGOS  – The manufacturing sector’s local raw materials sourcing increased to 3.5 per cent in the second half of 2022, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) Bi-Annual Economic Review for second half (H2) of 2022, has disclosed The Report also noted that the manufacturing sector’s local raw materials sourcing increased to 53.5 percent in the second half of 2022 from 50 per cent recorded in the corresponding half of 2022, indicating 3.5 percentage points increase over the period. It also increased by 1.5 percentage points when compared with 52 per cent recorded in the preceding half. Local raw materials utilisation in the sector averaged 52.8 percent in 2022 as against 51.5 per cent recorded in 2021. Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, the Director-General of MAN, while commenting on the report said: “the increase in the local raw materials utilisation in the sector during the period is due to increased difficulty in sourcing forex which compelled manufacturers to look more inward for raw materials notwithstanding the associated huge cost.” Ajayi-Kadir stated that, “it is therefore important for the government to re-evaluate its role in local development and production of raw materials in terms of funding. “For instance, the development and production of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) has continuously eluded due to limited funding of the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) by the government.” He stressed that the absence of local production of APIs has been having dire consequences on the pharmaceutical production, particularly in the current situation of acute shortage of forex. MAN Director General, while caking on raw materials production, supply and utilisation for incentivised investment in local development of raw materials, noted that the attention to domestic production of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) and Basic chemicals is paramount. POLL “Refocus on backward integration and Resource-Based Industrialisation; reverse the duty for Annealed Coldroll back to 45 percent from the new five percent; and re-invigorate the backward integration policy through the use of local resources to provide raw materials to the industries,” he emphasised. He added that manufacturing production was severely affected in the second half of 2022 by the absence of implementation of new capital project by the government as they focused on the election.