ABUJA – A leading aspirant for the position of the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, Hon Aliyu Muktar Betara has called on Members-elect to keep faith with Nigerians, as President President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu prepares to take over leadership from President Muhamadu Buhari. Hon. Betara who gave the charge via a statement issued by his Media Office, applauded all the Members-elect for their resolve to serve their respective Constituents across the 360 Federal Constituencies in the next democratic dispensation. He expressed appreciation towards the overwhelming support received from the Members-elect and Nigerians at large across party lines, urging stakeholders to disregard all forms of misgivings being disseminated through the social media and some National dailies. Betara reiterated commitment towards healthy engagement of all the Members-elect ahead of the inauguration of the 10th Assembly and assured various stakeholders of his commitment to the Nigerian Project and democratic Institutions. According to him, the People’s Parliament remains the beacon of hope for all the citizens irrespective of religion, tribe, race and political affiliation. “We must all be resolute in our quest not only as Parliamentarians, but as a united people to do all within our capacity to defend the democratic Institution of the National Assembly,” he said. The statement added that Hon. Betara’s Speakership aspiration is driven by Nigerians, APC Members and colleagues.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He assured that the 10th Assembly under his watch, will be one united, indivisible legislature that will work harmoniously with all arms of Government. POLL “Honourable Muktar Betara Campaign Organization wishes to refute in very strong terms the ill-motivated, sponsored, bile intentioned and untruth publication which sought to create disaffection across the nation. ” We will not be deterred by unidentified distractors from pursuing our course to a logical conclusion” “Hon Betara has not and will not veer off this course. “It need be clearly stated that his joining the 10th Assembly Speakership raceh is not fuelled by personal ambition, therefore lacks any iota of desperation that will inform working at variance with normal expectations of his political party. “The Organization wishes to reiterate Betara’s commitment to his party, the All Progressives Congress, that he joined hands with many party faithful to work hard to build leading to the victory for the President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “The Speakership race is a national one, that will naturally attract interests of many compatriots across all divides and inclination, definitely not excluding the Honourable Members-elect from other parties who also will have a say according to the fine details and principles of democracy. “The ultimate purpose and vision is to ensure that the 10th House of Representatives will be one united, indivisible Assembly that will work harmoniously with all arms of Government, particularly the Federal Government led by His Excellency, the President- Elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to enable us meet the huge expectations of our countrymen and women. “The 10th House of Representatives God willing under Hon Betara, will promote a legislative dispensation that will accommodate all opinions in the larger interest of all Nigerians, in our journey to a stronger, more prosperous, indivisible, and united nation starting from the parliament. Nation building is my utmost priority, he stressed