LAGOS  – The Managing Director, Global Process & Pipeline Services (GPPS) Limited, Engr. Obi Uzu, says the Pipeline Tool Award the company received at the recent Nigeria International Energy Summit (N.I.E.S 2023) is a recognition for the huge investments the firm made over the years. “We have forged enduring partnerships and made enormous investments in our bid to become the reference point for indigenous capacity for process and pipeline services in the country and we are happy that the industry has taken note of our genuine efforts”, said Obi Uzu on the sidelines of the annual energy summit in Abuja. One of the feats that stood GPPSL out in recent times is its partnership with IK-Group of Norway which delivered for the first time in Nigeria and Africa the removal and change out of a 36-inch cryogenic pipeline gate valve. The project, executed in June 2022, was the first and largest AOGV ever deployed on the African continent to solve long-term stuck valve issue for a major LNG plant. Besides, its latest technology in the crude oil tank and vessel cleaning operations is considered as a game changer. The robotic tank and vessel cleaning technology entails minimal man entry which would enhance safe confined space entry and swift cleaning approach. On the back of these technological and innovative approaches, the company is targeting continental expansion that will drive its strategic vision aggressively across African countries as a way to maintain its competitive edge over competitors. Before the current award, GPPSL had received the Oilfield Services Company of the Year award for three consecutive years between 2018 and 2020 having been adjudged the best in the oilfield services category after an online voting process by industry professionals and stakeholders. GPPSL is the only Nigerian company focused solely on process and pipeline services with major projects completed in the deep-water applications in her product service line and has attracted the best hands in the industry from the multinationals to work for her. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒