Zobo drink is produced from the red calyces is native to the northern Nigeria, but its consumption has gained wide acceptance all over Nigeria due partly to its speculated antihypertensive properties. However, the low shelf life of the drink produced by the traditional method has placed a serious limitation on its general acceptance and consumption in Nigeria. The Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi while realising the many health benefits of Zobo drink has worked extensively on production and preservation of the drink and has developed and perfected a process technology for same. Zobo Drink Production Business The good news is that research and technological advancement has made it possible for this business to become an agribusiness project to venture into with high return on investment. With thought out preservatives zobo drinks has a life span and can be produced, distributed to any part of Nigeria. “I can categorically say the our zobo drinks has international markets too”. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Business Opportunities In Zobo Drink Production POLL • Energy Drink: Zobo drink helps to increase energy levels, can also speed up the metabolic system and help in healthy, gradual weight loss. • Health Drink: The consumption of zobo drink in different concentrations may help in the treatment and prevention of high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and inflammatory problems as well. It helps cure liver diseases and reduces the risk of cancer. It is rich in vitamin C, minerals, antioxidants and helps in the treatment of hypertension and anxiety. • Zobo soft drink: zobe drink is widely made and consumed in Nigeria as a recreational drink. Raw Materials For Zobo Drink Production The major raw material for zobo drink production is Dried Zobo also known as Hibiscus flower, but one can add ginger, garlic, cinnamon, star anis and honey etc, fruits such as pineapple, cucumber, beetroot , sugar (optional) and flavors to spices it up. What you add to zobo drink depends on the brand you want to produce. Zobo drink is becoming commercially packaged, branded and distributed like other drinks. If properly branded with intensive and extensive advertisement it will fly. You should take a clue from zobocola. It is a refined zobo, certified by NAFDAC. Zobocola comes with 40cl and 50cl sizes. How To Bottle Zobo Drink • There are some bottling samples such as coca cola, spirit, fanta etc. But it should be something uniquely different from others. Such that anybody sighting the drink without coming closer will know that is your zobo drink. Mix several flavours until you get the desired taste. The taste has to be consistent (write it down somewhere less you forget), uniquely different from any other zobo drink. • Print labels and paste them on it. Use a well conned and appealing name that can easily be memorized and pronounced. • Make sure the mouth is properly sealed in other to guarantee for its quality and hygienic conditions. Use different sizes of containers such as 50cl, 75cl etc and sell at different prices. Preservatives The Zobo beverage will stay fresh for a longer period if you use preservatives. There are natural and chemical preservatives. The list of natural ingredients you can use includes ginger, garlic, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, lime. These additional ingredients can preserve the flavor and freshness for a while. There are additives you can use for preservatives such as: – • Sodium benzoate • Potassium Sorbate Production Process To produce 200 litters of Zobo drink of different flavor the following are the formular: – 200 litters of zobo drink will give 570 bottles of 35cl. Pineapple Flavour • 10 mudu of zobo leaves • 10 big Pineapple peel (cut to pieces) • 250 gm of ginger (blended fresh) • 200 litters of water • 5 kg of sugar (the sugar quantity depends on individual, due to high of sugar, you can add fresh flavor sweetener to test • 25g of Sodium benzoate for preservative • 25g of Potassium Sorbate for preservative The Process • Put your leaves, pineapple peel and ginger in the boiling pot of 200 litters of water. If the boiling pot has a net like inner, then put both the zobo leave, pineapple peel and blended ginger (primary raw material) inside and boil. • Once it is boiled, remove the primary raw material from the boiling put. Add sugar and re-boil again, discharge into mixer add Preservatives and sweetener (to your test) and mix. • Add Pineapple flavor liquid or powdered then mix again after it has cool. • After mixing it, filter it into packaging tank • Package into pet bottles. This is for natural pineapple flavour but might not be achievable when pineapples become expensive another alternative is using fresh (pineapple) or just pineapple flavour liquid or dry (powdered). For the 10 mudu, 10 bottle of the liquid would do the powdered is usually stronger so you need less of it. Cucumber Flavour • 10 mudu of zobo leaves • 15 big Cucumber peel (cut to pieces) • 250 gm of ginger (blended fresh) • 200 litters of water • 5 kg of sugar (the sugar quantity depends on individual, due to high cost of sugar, you can add fresh flavor sweetener to test • 25g of Sodium benzoate for preservative • 25g of Potassium Sorbate for preservative The Process • When you have boiled your zobo leaves unlike the pineapple please *DO NOT* put your cucumber on the fire with the leaves. The taste would be horrible. • Once it is boiled, remove the primary raw material from the boiling pot. Add sugar and re-boil again. • After boiling, discharge to the mixer, add your cucumber both peel n fruit itself just dice and throw it. It would infuse the flavour. Add sugar and cucumber fresh sweetener mix to test. • After mixing it, filter it into packaging tank • Package into pet bottles. Ginger Flavour • 10 mudu of zobo leaves • 2kg of fresh or dry ginger (blended) • 200 litters of water • 5 kg of sugar (the sugar quantity depends on individual, due to high of sugar, you can add fresh flavor sweetener to test • 25g of sodium benzoate for preservative • 25g of potassium sorbate for preservative The Process • Put your leaves and ginger in the boiling pot of 200 litters of water. If the boiling pot has a net like inner, then put both the zobo leaves and blended ginger (primary raw material) inside and boil. • Once it is boiled, remove the primary raw material from the boiling put. Add sugar and re-boil again, discharge into mixer • Add Preservatives and sweetener (to your test) and mix. • Add fresh ginger flavor liquid or powdered then mix again after it has cool. (Optional. This usually done during scarcity of ginger) • After mixing it, filter it into packaging tank • Package into pet bottles. Ginger Drink • 20kg of fresh or dry ginger (blended) • Fresh fruit (pineapple, watermelon, cucumber etc.) blended • 200 litters of water • 10 kg of sugar (the sugar quantity depends on individual, due to high of sugar, you can add fresh ginger flavor sweetener to test • 25g of sodium benzoate for preservative • 25g of potassium sorbate for preservative The Process • Wash the ginger, peel off the back and blend put in the boiling pot of 200 litters of water. If the boiling pot has a net like inner, put blended ginger (primary raw material) inside and boil. •Once it is boiled, remove the primary raw material from the boiling put. Add sugar and re-boil again, discharge into mixer • Add Preservatives and sweetener (to your test) and mix. • Add fresh ginger flavor liquid or powdered and the blended fresh fruit you want to produce the flavor then mix again after it has cool. • After mixing it, filter it into packaging tank • Package into pet bottles.