Hon.John Yakubu, an aspirant for the Edo 2024 governorship election has accused some top Edo State government officials of ordering the removal of his billboards from the streets of Benin city, the state capital. Yakubu who threatened court action against the culprits however called on the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki to rein in these top officials in order not to create a situation that will result in the unavoidable political crisis in the state as the state march towards 2024. Yakubu, a 2016 deputy governorship candidate on the PDP platform who revealed the incident at a press conference also called on all Edo State people of goodwill to speak out on the matter, saying that “it portends clear and present danger for our politics as we approach the 2024 off season Edo State governorship election”. According to him, I wish to bring to the notice and attention of the good people of Edo State through this press conference, the emergence of a dangerous and dictatorial tendency inimical to the practice of democracy, which among others, guarantees free speech, freedom of movement, freedom of association among others. “Some days ago, we observed with dismay that a number of our billboards which we paid for and caused to be placed along Airport Road, Ikpoba Slope and Ikpoba Hill had been removed illegally. “On enquiry, the advertising company that handled the transaction on our behalf told us that the removal was ordered by a very top Edo State government official who was angry about the message contained in the billboards. It was alleged that he used his temporary possession of transient power to order officials of the Oredo Local Government to pull down the messages displayed on the billboards. “We find this reprehensible, irresponsible, distasteful, high-handed and dubious attempt to hold down our modest efforts to reach and sensitize the good people of Edo State on our message of hope, our message of ‘Edo of Our Dream is Possible.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The message did not canvass for votes neither did it seek to promote the interest of any political party. The messages have not violated any electoral law. It merely says ‘Edo of Our Dream is Possible’, and that has put them on a panic mode because they know this is exactly what the good people of Edo State are yearning for. POLL “It has become clear from this action that the alleged top government official who is also rumoured to be nursing the 2024 gubernatorial ambition became alarmed and frightened at the speed at which we have succeeded in convincing the Edo State people in our little way that the dream of a better Edo is indeed possible. “We are aware that the race to the 2024 Edo Governorship election has not begun in earnest, but we have decided in our own little way to commence the gradual sensitization of our people to get them to open their eyes, to be aware, to be conscious of their political powers and that this race will not be conducted on the basis of business as usual. “The days where some persons, no matter who they are, sit in their bedrooms and decide who rules our people are all gone, and forever. Democracy, rooted in the choice of the majority has taken footing in Nigeria with the advent of electoral devices such as the BVAs and electronic transmission of results. “Edo State people, be they teachers, traders, bus and tricycle drivers, mechanics, market women, among others must be involved in the process of electing those who will govern them and that’s the beauty and essence of democracy,” he said. The former Esan North East local government chairman further stated that from the knee-jerk action of the alleged top official of government who knows himself, it is clear that he is worried stiff that he has a formidable opponent in Hon.John Ehibhationman Yakubu, who over the years has succeeded in garnering the necessary experience and exposure to be ahead of others to be Edo State’s No1 public servant. “Come to think of it: Is it not amazing that a top government official who ought to be busy with serious business of governance will have the time to look out for billboards of potential opponents to pull down? “The alleged traducer knows that we possess the passion, competence, compassion, temperament and integrity to do the job and do it very well to the satisfaction of Edo State people. “He knows that we can mobilise massive support from a broad spectrum of Edo State as a result of our past solid record of achievements as a past Chairman of Esan North East Local Government where we left behind enviable and verifiable records of achievements yet to be surpassed after many years of leaving office. “It is this track record that we bring to the table in our request to the Edo State people to accept us as the vanguard of change that will bring about a new lease of life and a better life for the people. “We promise to replicate on a larger scale, our record of achievements at the state level if given the opportunity to improve on the lives of our people and guarantee them every inch of our manifesto, which will be geared towards the promotion of the welfare, progress and safety of our people. “It is this opportunity of adding value to the lives of our people that these agents of darkness are trying to truncate. We make bold to say that we cannot be cowed or stopped by the antics of persons with temporary possession of power who in a few months from now will become ex-this and ex-that (apologies to the Zik of Africa) “Our advice to them is not to be frightened by our well-calculated and deft moves to win the approval of our people, they should rather come out from their closets and place their own record of achievements and display their roadmap on how they intend to change the fortunes of Edo State citizens and allow the people decide who they will find suitable to govern them going forward. “They are invited to join the race and sell their ideas to Edo people. Is that not the beauty of democracy? “It should be noted that it is on record that we are not new to confronting such primitive, primordial, parochial, mundane, underhand and undemocratic tactics aimed at stopping us from serving our people. “I am sure you are all familiar with my past struggles either as a returning Esan East Local Government Chairman or as the PDP Deputy Governorship candidate in the 2016 Edo governorship election. The struggle is part of life. “As always, we shall not shy away from taking decisive actions against retrogressive elements until our goal of impacting meaningfully in the lives of our people is achieved and that is my God-given mission in politics. “Indeed this is an early warning signal that should be taken seriously and nipped in the bud before it gets out of hand. “This will no doubt allow for a level playing field for a robust contestation for power only fit for an enlightened society that we aspire to be. “We will like to serve notice that if our billboards which we have duly paid for are not restored soonest we shall be left with no other option but to take necessary legal action to seek redress. “Edo State belongs to us all and any person or groups of persons who think they own our state will need to have a rethink” he declared