The Faculty of Social Sciences at the Niger Delta University (NDU), Wilberforce Island, on Friday, organized a reception/homecoming ceremony for the outgoing Vice Chancellor of the university, Professor Samuel Edoumiekumo. The event was among several activities put together to celebrate his exit, including a valedictory congregation and the formal inauguration of a petrol station established by the NDU Cooperative, which he performed. Edoumiekumo handed over the baton of leadership to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (DVC) (Admin), Professor Jonah Akekere, pending the appointment of a substantive VC by the Visitor to the NDU, Governor Douye Diri. Speaking at the event, Edoumiekumo, who returns to teach economics in the faculty, said that he was leaving office as a happy man after serving out his tenure. He said he was fulfilled because God helped his leadership to ensure that the university recorded a lot of achievements in quality infrastructure and human capacity development. Edoumiekumo, who was accompanied by his wife, Adesewa, said,”I’m fulfilled because God has helped this university. Niger Delta University is now recognised in the world by the comity of universities under my watch, I’m happy. I was awarded the African Educationist of the Year, I was chairman of the Committee of Vice Chancellors of State Universities and chairman of the Committee of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian Universities. “We have enhanced the level and quality of our products. Is it infrastructure? Many universities don’t have half of what we have in this university, so I’m a very happy and fulfilled man. In the professorial cadre, we made 150 Professors- 76 Professors and 74 Associate Professors, all under my watch. Which university has this calibre of persons? So I’m a fulfilled man.” The elated professor of economics, who was presented a plaque and certificate of meritorious stewardship by the faculty, expressed gratitude to the Dean, lecturers and staff members of Social Sciences for showing him love, noting that the faculty provided him the platform to attain a great height in his lecturing career in the NDU. POLL He further said, “The show of love is overwhelming, I was not expecting this. It’s a surprise that the Faculty of Social Sciences, my beloved faculty, the faculty that produced me; from the rank of assistant lecturer through to the rank of professor, and also gave me the platform to ride on to the height of my career. And (as though) those are not enough, they came out today to welcome me home. What else will I say but thank you.” In their separate remarks, the DVC (Admin) and the Dean of Social Sciences, Professors Akekere and Nkereuwem Ekpenyong, said the faculty was delighted to receive Edoumiekumo back after his six-year vice-chancellorship, adding that they were certain that he would resume teaching Econometrics and other courses in his area of specialization next semester. The DVC (Academics), Professor Tonbara Kingdom, and the institution’s Director of Research, Linkages and Quality Assurance, Professor Stanley Ogoun, described the outgoing VC as “an asset to the university”, noting that the warm faculty reception was unprecedented in the institution. “If you serve well, your people will receive you well. If serve badly, nobody will receive you,” Kingdom said. Speaking on behalf of the faculty’s organising committee, its chairman and Associate Professor of Economics, ThankGod Apere, commended the leadership and staff members for their support and cooperation, stressing that the outgoing VC deserved the honour due to his dedication to service and humane disposition.