Players in the African aviation industry gathered in Abuja, last week, at the second edition of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria’s (FAAN) National Aviation Conference (FNAC) to dissect the factors limiting the sector’s growth and proffered solutions to the challenges, OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. Sustaining the growth trajectory recorded in the Nigerian aviation industry over the years was the focal point of many aviation stakeholders and professionals within and outside the country for four days last week in Abuja at the second edition of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria’s (FAAN) National Aviation Conference (FNAC). Most of the presenters, panelists and indeed contributors at the conference with the theme: ‘Sustainability of the Aviation Industry In Nigeria,’ agreed that describing Nigeria as the “potential giant,” in Africa and indeed among the comity of nations around the world for more than half of a century was gradually becoming a swansong. They also concurred that at this stage of the country, with its population of over 200 million people, Nigeria at least should by now be among the leading 10 aviation countries in the world. Participants, however, regretted that many factors, including brain drain, finance, government policies, bureaucracy and lack of the understanding of the importance of the sector to facilitate growth by the government are militating against it from moving from a potential country to a great aviation nation. Participants also observed that while the essence of aviation is for movement of human and cargo, it is also necessary for managements of aerodromes to channel their energies to non-aeronautical revenues to grow the sector. According to experts, for any airport to be sustainable, it must grow its non-aeronautical revenue to about 60 per cent of its revenue generation while aeronautical revenues could be between 30 t0 40 per cent. For instance, Mr. Emmanuel Chaves, the President, Airport Council International (ACI) Africa said that some airports are operating at a loss due to insufficient passengers to drive their sustainability. POLL Chaves declared that any airport with less than one million air travellers annually is not viable and cannot sustain its operations. Besides, the ACI Africa President opined that the aviation industry on the continent of Africa should migrate from its present way of doing business and grow with the modern trends, most especially through the adoption of technology. According to him, in a bid to sustain growth in the sector, aviation as a big consumer of electricity is contributing to the environmental pollution, which has been on the rise globally over the years. Chaves proposed that to change the narration, it was necessary for authorities in the sector to invest in sustainable electricity like solar …..and others, stressing that by doing this, environmental pollution through the sector would reduce drastically. Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General Civil Aviation (DGCA), in his paper: ‘Sustainability of the Aviation Industry In Nigeria: The Regulator’s Perspectives, said that the African continent and the global aviation Industry are collectively responsible for less than 5 per cent of man-made global warming and greenhouse gas emissions. Nuhu stated that although the sector and continent contribute minimally to climate change, Africa is already experiencing devastating climate impacts and would bear the brunt of future global warming effects, ranging from desertification, flooding and climate-induced conflicts. The debilitating effects of climate change put forth a call to action for all economic sectors to proactively reduce human-made greenhouse gases emissions worldwide, noting that this called for region-specific approaches that entrench the principles of sustainable aviation to drive long-term aspiration goals, powered to operationalise and accelerate cleaner and green air travel footprint across Nigeria and Africa. He added: “It is the cardinal imperative of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) under my leadership as its Director-General to activate climate-smart solutions for sustainable aviation through the Fly2Green Initiative; integrating the ambitions and long-term goal aspirations of the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA).” Nuhu further said that for the Nigerian aviation industry to sustain its growth, its carriers must embrace the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM), which he said had enhanced the sector’s contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to $128 million. Besides, he said that no fewer than 17,400 jobs have been created in the country through the programme, while it has enhanced consumer benefits by $93 million. He argued that full adoption of SAATM by all industry professionals would strengthen and position the nation’s aviation sector as a key player on the continent, adding that it has immense economic benefits for Nigeria and its investors. Nuhu, however, regretted that the sector in Nigeria was faced with numerous challenges that impacted sustainability and profitability. He mentioned some of the challenges to include high cost of funds, debt profile, Jet A1 and forex scarcity. In his presentation, ‘Sustainability of the Aviation Industry In Nigeria: The Operators View Point,’ Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director, FAAN, said that government policies were some of the reasons the sector in the country attained slow growth. Yadudu explained that the recent policy whereby agencies in the sector are compelled to contribute 40 per cent of their revenues to the federation account was militating growth. According to him, FAAN in 2022 alone, contributed about N44 billion of its earnings to the federation account. He also said the compulsory contribution to the federation account by the agencies contravened the new FAAN Act 2022, which stipulates that all revenues generated by the agency must be ploughed back into the sector for the purpose of infrastructure development. He said: “Talking about government policy, right now, we have 40 per cent of our revenue being deducted at source. Finance is about 99 per cent of the challenges we are facing in the industry. Last year, about N44 billion of our revenue went to the federation account. The price of diesel has increased to N1,150 per litre from N400 when we were buying it about a year ago. “Now, we have our own Act. With this, FAAN should not be sending any percentage of its revenues to the federation account.” For a sustainable aviation industry, Yadudu also emphasised that airports operators should diversify their sources of income and have access to adequate funding from the government for the development of infrastructure to meet international and world-class standards. He also said that airport operators should maintain a high level of service quality, develop and implement a formidable corporate governance culture, emphasizing that government policies should be made to encourage the industry, consider it as a major economic enabler and catalyst. Besides, Mr. Ikechi Uko, the Coordinator, AviaCargo, Road Map Committee, said that Nigeria, despite being the largest producer of many agro-products globally, losses about $1 billion annually to non-certification of its agric produce for export. Uko, lamented that 80 per cent of containers arriving Nigeria return empty, while out of every 10 containers that come into the country laden with imports, only about one or three leave the country with exports. Uko quoted the 2021 statistics by the worldexports.com, which put Nigeria as the fifth biggest African exporting nation alongside South Africa, Egypt, Algeria and Morocco, accounting for over 55.7 per cent of the continent’s overall export by value. He also stated that Airports Council International (ACI) same year put value to the cargo exports in tons with the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, accounting for 204, 649 tons behind the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Kenya with the highest exports at 363,204 tons, while Cairo international Airport, Egypt had 333, 536 tons and Oliver Reginald International Airport South Africa with 304, 018 and Addis Ababa Bole International Airport with 226, 417. According to Uko, Nigeria has ranked quite high in the world in agricultural commodities production, thriving in products like yam, ginger, cocoa beans, pineapple, onions, chilli peppers, groundnuts among others. But, he identified obstacles, including non-compliance of farmers to internationally and domestically accepted standards, lack of certification, inability to trace, lack of access to international markets; lack of knowledge on global requirements as well as governments’ bureaucracy. Others are high cost of preservation and packaging to global standard, poor logistics, insecurity, weakness of supervision, poor airport infrastructure, lack of government support, mindset/attitudes, lack of skilled manpower, taxes and charges and funding as some of the challenges bedeviling industry sustainability. Comrade Ben Nnabue, the President of National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) in his presentation said workers’ welfare should not be relegated to the background. According to him, the focus of employers in the country’s aviation industry was only on profit making, while health and appropriate wages of workers are treated with levity. Nnabue insisted that for the sector to be sustainable, training and retraining of the workers was very paramount. Capt. Sheu Iyal, the Managing Director of Afri-Air International Limited, said that the compulsory contribution of 40 per cent revenues of aviation agencies to the federation coffers was having a negative effect on the agencies’ performance. Iyal explained that the survival rate of the agencies was minimal and appealed to the Federal Government to reverse the policy for the growth of the agencies. Iyal explained that aviation was not for profit-making, rather for national security, stating that such deduction may distract them in the long run. He said: “If FAAN uses 40 per cent of its revenue and the government takes it, how do they want them to be able to run it? So, there is a need to talk to the government. There is a need for the government to realise that aviation is more than business, aviation is a component of national security. “So, there is no reason our airports and airlines should have the kind of problems we are having today because aviation is a component of national security. So for whatever reason, we must find a way of helping them to survive. Then, we talk about sustainability. This is in two stages, but if we want to carry the two of them together, fine. We must realise that there is a need for survival.”