LAGOS – A new Zonal Coordinator has assumed duty to take charge of  Zone A, of the Nigeria Customs Service with headquarters in Lagos. The new Customs boss is Festus Okun, an Assistant Controller General of Customs (ACG).ACG Okun’s takeover was a sequel to the statutory retirement of the immediate past  Zonal Coordinator,  ACG Adeyanju Aremu. In a brief handing-over ceremony in her office, the retiring ACG thanked the Customs management led by Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd) for the confidence reposed in her with her posting as the Zonal Coordinator up till the time of her retirement. The outgoing Zonal Coordinator described Zone ‘A’ as the bedrock and microcosm of the Nigeria Customs Service and charged officers in the zone to work assiduously towards supporting the new Zonal Coordinator to enable him to succeed. She highlighted the giant strides of the zone in the areas of Revenue and anti-smuggling and expressed confidence in the capacity and competence of the new Zonal Coordinator to take the zone to the next level. While thanking the principal officers in the zone, she urged them to ensure that the new Zonal Coordinator s given all necessary support in all ramifications. On his part, the new Zonal Coordinator, ACG Festus Oyedele  Okun, thanked his predecessor for the enviable standard that Zone ‘A’ has attained under her regime and promised to bring his wealth of experience to bear in setting new standards as a way of continuity. He wished the retiring ACG well in her future endeavours.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Assistant Comptroller General Festus Oyedele Okun was born in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State, Nigeria. He obtained a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) degree in Sociology from Ondo State University and also obtained Masters in Public Administration from the University of Lagos. The Technocrat joined Nigeria Customs in 1989. He has served in various Customs Commands in different capacities such as: Trained ASYCUDA Technical Supervisor, Area Project Manager in Lilypond, Area Project Manager in PTML.     DC Revenue in Tincan Island,     Area Project Manager Tincan Island,     CAC PTML and     ACG Zone C He attended several courses in Nigeria AND Overseas. The courses include Project Management,  Change Management,  Classification and many so numerous to mention.His hobbies among others include playing golf, watching football               and table tennis.        He is happily married with children. Photo Caption ACG Festus Okun (right) and ACG Adeyanju Aremu