The Lagos State University (LASU), Sandwich Degree Programme, has matriculated 1500 new students admitted for the 2022 modular year academic session. The Vice-Chancellor, Olatunji-Bello, represented by Prof. Olufunsho Omobitan, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), spoke during the matriculation ceremony for the 2022 modular year Sandwich Degree Programme at the weekend. The VC said that the choice of the students to enrol in the sandwich degree programme was a clear indication of their belief in our capacity to provide qualitative education for them. “LASU can give you a worthwhile educational experience that will ensure you have the opportunity to excel in your course of study. “It is important for me to mention that LASU is a student-centered university and a place for the grooming of generational leaders. “It is also a place of freedom, however, the freedom often comes with equivalent obligations and boundaries,” she said. She added that their objective at LASU was to produce graduates who would be catalysts to the process of transformation of the state to a greater Lagos. “I advise you to embrace self-discipline and avail yourselves of all the opportunities that the university provides for you to succeed. POLL “Attend lectures regularly and punctually, carry out all your assignments, shun deviant behaviours that can truncate your academic career, and imbibe the qualities of a truly educated person. “The university has zero tolerance for cultism, examination malpractices, corruption and hooliganism,” Olatunji-Bello said. The Vice-Chancellor noted that the student’s welfare was top on their priority and we would ensure that the academic and learning environment was conducive. “Dear students, our vision is to become the best university in West Africa, we are determined to achieve this. “I enjoin you to support that vision by striving for academic excellence,” she said. Prof. Femi Adeogun, Director, Sandwich Degree Programme, LASU, in his remarks, asserted that the Sandwich Degree Programme was one of the best in the country. Adeogun assured the students that there was no disparity between the certificates issued to sandwich degree students and regular students of the university. He also added that the Directorate was readily available to assist the students in achieving laudable feats in their academic pursuits. “I advise the students to face their aim of being in this institution which is studying their respective courses. “I enjoin them to participate in different student activities and be their best behaviour to be the best university in West Africa,” he said.