BAUCHI – Following the detention of a Sayawa monarch, the Gung Zaar-Select, Air Commodore Ishaku Komo (retd.) along with six others for their alleged involvement in the recent communal crisis that erupted in Sang Village in Bogoro Local government over the coronation of a Hamlet Head, the National, Zaar Youth Leader, Ga-Allah Daniel has called on the State Government to put political interest aside and release the traditional ruler and others arrested by the police. Addressing journalists during a protest by Sayawa women in the state, the National Zaar Youth Leader said that the people of Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro are not happy with the continued detention of the monarch which he claimed is innocent of all the allegations leveled against him. “This is the gathering of our mothers popularly called ‘Gudiya’ as you can see them here. So, we now went yesterday (Wednesday) both representatives of the youths and our mothers.” “As we went there, the story changed, they asked us where do we intend to carry out our protest and we said at the Government House, they asked us again, inside or outside and we told them that we prefer the outside, they said no, that they will not allow anyone or group of persons to carry protest to the Government House or anywhere in Bauchi metropolis simply because since we blocked the road, they pleaded with us and we refused to open the road, they said that if we go there, we will cause public disturbance. How did they control us here? They have a lot of security issues.” ”So therefore, if really want to continue with the protest today (Thursday), we can only do it at the Police Headquarters in Bauchi and the number of people should not exceed 100. We later now ask them about the first letter we wrote to them which they approved but now saying that we should come to the Police Headquarters, it seems they are contradicting themselves.” He narrated that the struggle for self-rule by the people of the area has been on for a long time which has resulted in several legal issues and it will not be stopped until the right thing is done by the government. Recall that the Bauchi State Police arrested Komo and six others for their alleged involvement in the recent communal crisis that erupted in Sang Village in Bogoro LGA, the coronation of a Hamlet Head.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Command, Superintendent of Police, Ahmed Wakil, in a recent statement, insisted that the detained monarch and six persons have a case to answer over the incident.