UN Global Road Safety Week takes place in May and the dates are announced by the U.N. closer to the time, with this year’s fixed to be marked from 15 to 21, May. The UN General Assembly mandated the World Health Organisation WHO and the UN regional commissions to plan and host periodic UN Global Road Safety Weeks to serve as a platform for global, regional, national and local activities to raise awareness about road safety issues and to stimulate and advance responses as appropriate for the places. In line with this year’s celebration, a national Media group has secured the gracious support of the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation to organise a one day Lecture and other activities to commemorate the Global Road Safety Week holding from 15-21 of May as part of its own contribution to the various programmes and events marking the week across the State. In a press statement signed by its Public Communication Manager, Funmilola Olowookere, stated that the Media Group is leveraging on the robust road safety policies of the Lagos State government and its innovative edge in the provision of safe, secured and reliable mobility for its teeming citizens, to organise the lecture, discussions and to give awards to different categories of deserving individuals supporting the cause of road safety both in the state and the country at large. The theme of the lecture according to the statement is; ‘Improving Safety, Security And Traffic Flow On Lagos Roads: A Peep Into 2nd Term Agenda’ to be handled by Engr. Abdulhafiz Toriola, the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Transportation, Lagos State. Funmilola said: “Bolaji Oreagba, General Manager of LASTMA; CDR. Babatunde Fariloye, Lagos State Sector Commander, FRSC; Mrs Afusat Tiamiyu, General Manager, LASDRI; and CDR. Seni Ogunyemi, Ogun State TRACE Commander/Chief Executive will also be discussing; How To Foster Compliance To Road Safety Regulations By The Motoring Public’ at the lecture event billed to hold on Thursday 18, May at the LASTMA training Hall. “Another important event coming up that day is the unveiling of the Global Road Safety e-Newspaper GRSE, to be published daily excluding weekends for the purpose of highlighting and gauging compliance levels to road safety standards and regulations by individuals and corporate bodies across all sectors.” The statement added.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Giving a further breakdown of the reasons behind the creation of the E-Newspaper, the statement reads that due to fact the Nigerian roads accounts for more than 80% of the total volume of mobility of people, goods and services it deserves a well packaged tabloid to focus on its activities and importantly to monitor compliance to safety regulations for the reduction of the high number of fatalities recorded from road crashes. POLL Funmilola referred to data provided in the global status report of the World Health Organization (WHO), stating that more than 39802 people are killed on Nigeria roads annually. The report judged Nigeria as one of the most dangerous countries with an estimated rate of 21.4 deaths per 100,000 people, compared with that of the entire Europe which stands at 9.3 deaths per 100,000 populations. Citing empirical statistics that further suggests that road crashes continued to remain the leading source of violent deaths in Nigeria, leading to an average of 109 Nigerians being violently killed DAILY from road crashes across the country. The e-newspaper has a vision of reporting road safety compliance levels to ensure conformity to global best practice and to improve operational safety standards, particularly by organisations in the road transportation Industry. The mission is to publish a one stop medium providing holistic reports on compliance to road safety standards by players in the road industry vis-à-vis objective classifications of violators’ effective interface and advocacy, the press statement reads. It stated further that the goal of the publication is to reduce Road Safety offences/Violations by 50%, for the reduction of Road Crashes by 50% and ultimately reduce DEATHS from road crashes by 50% in line with the goal of the UN Decade of Action on Road Safety by 2030. The publication will also seek to network and encourage Traffic/Safety Management Agencies to embrace Occupational and Associational classifications cum calibrations of Road Safety offenders/Violators, for objective interface with associations with the highest record of traffic offenders. While organising an all-sector ‘Traffic Violations To Compliance Conference’ (TV2C Conference) regularly. To carry out highway auditing exercises for ascertaining the state of the roads and road safety furniture available; production of multilingual animation videos for educating illiterate drivers practically on all road safety regulatory signs. The publication will also seek to promote and highlight innovative technologies applicable for improving compliance and reduction in road safety offences and give occasional reports on train services, developments and safety concerns. The Media organisation according to the statement has identified key working partners to enhance the sourcing of report contents for the e-newspaper, amongst which are: Traffic/Road Safety Regulatory Agencies; Organised Transport Unions/Associations/Groups; Passenger commuting companies/Organisations; Logistics/Freight companies; Road construction companies; Fuel Marketing companies; Motor Manufacturing/Marketing companies; Traffic Division of Nigeria Police; Nigeria Railway Company and other Rail companies; and organised labour Unions, Associations and Groups. This years’ celebration with the theme; #RethinkMobility, is aimed at calling and drawing the attention of policy makers to make walking, cycling, and public transport safe and convenient so that people can make the shift to active, sustainable mobility. This modal shift is one of the recommendations in the Global Plan for the Decade of Action 2021-2030. Activities during the week is to be used to also draw attention to the desperate need for local and national governments and their partners to rethink and redo mobility. This includes increasing investments in walking, cycling and using public transport, modes that can contribute to making people healthy, cities sustainable, and societies equitable. The Global Road Safety Week was first marked in 2007, but was not observed again until 2013, and it had been recorded every two years since then until 2019. It is a special global road safety campaign hosted by the World Health Organization (WHO) that aims to raise awareness about road safety and accident prevention. Road traffic injures are a leading cause of death and disability worldwide, with around 1.3 million people killed and as many as 50 million people injured each year. For people aged 5-29 years, there is no greater threat to their lives. Globally, 1 of every 4 deaths occur among pedestrians and cyclists. The Global Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2021-2030 reflects an ambitious target to reduce road traffic deaths and injuries by 50% by 2030. It highlights that they can be prevented by addressing the whole of the transport system, taking action to ensure safe roads, vehicles and behaviours as well as to improve emergency care. WHO invites all road safety and sustainable mobility partners to mark the 7th UN Global Road Safety Week by organising events and activities and sharing messages and materials on social media with the hashtags: #There is a desperate need for governments and their partners to rethink mobility. #Safety must be at the core of efforts to reimagine how we move in the world. #To ensure safety, road networks must be designed with the most at risk in mind. #When safe, walking and cycling can contribute to making people healthy, cities sustainable, and societies equitable. #Safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable public transport is a solution for many societies’ ills. This year’s Road Safety Week wants to highlight the desperate need for governments and their partners to rethink mobility, to shift from car-centric cities to people-centric ones. The theme maintains that safety must be at the core of efforts to reimagine how we move in the world, focusing on the need for active and sustainable mobility. Another key message saw the importance of safe road infrastructure, stating that road networks must be designed with vulnerable road users and the most at risk in mind – this means creating roads and streets that cater to the needs of young people, children, women, people with disabilities, and the elderly. The theme, #RethinkMobility, emphasizes that safe walking and cycling can contribute to making people healthier, cities more sustainable, and societies more equitable. It also holds that safe, affordable, accessible, and sustainable public transport is a solution for the many ills that society has. The Global Alliance of NGOs for Road Safety on its official website shared the following activities you can do to support the Global Road Safety Week Car-free days – Make a few key streets where people and vehicles usually mix (such as shopping streets), car-free for a day. Rather than just encouraging people to walk and cycle, car-free days create conditions where they can walk and cycle freely. Remember to get the necessary permissions well in advance and advertise your car-free day widely. (Involved: local authorities, NGOs, communities, media) Decision makers “walking the talk” – Hold a media event or roundtable on public transport or with a decision maker or other public figure walking or cycling to show that it is a desirable way to travel. Decision makers (or influencers and celebrities) have a powerful influence on people’s perceptions. In many countries, people are not used to powerful people walking, cycling, and taking public transport.