The U.S. Mission in Nigeria has announced the annual competition for the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program, 2024/2025 academic year. The Humphrey Fellowship is sponsored by the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The Humphrey Fellowship is a specialised, non-degree exchange program for accomplished mid-career professionals. The fellowship takes them from designated countries, including Nigeria to the United States for one-year long graduate level study that focuses on leadership development and professional collaboration with U.S. counterparts at select U.S. universities. The programme is designed to provide broad professional enrichment through a combination of activities tailored to each fellow’s interests. While in the United States, fellows will share best practices, build expertise in their fields, participate in workshops and conferences that provide interaction with leaders from U.S. federal, state, and local governments, multinational organizations, and the private sector. Fellows will also participate in professional affiliations (placements) that provide firsthand exposure to a U.S. work environment on a full-time basis for a minimum period of six weeks. The objective of the Humphrey fellowship is to provide fellows with an overall experience that broadens their perspectives, enhances their capability to assume greater career responsibilities, and provides opportunities to establish useful professional contacts. Following a highly competitive selection process, candidates are selected based on their demonstrated leadership ability, a commitment to public service, and a strong desire to effect change in their workplace and community. To participate in the Humphrey Fellowship, candidates must have:an undergraduate (first university or Bachelor’s) degree;a minimum of eight year of full-time professional experience;limited or no prior experience in the United States;demonstrated leadership qualities;a record of public service in the community;demonstrated English language ability by scoring not less than 100 on the Internet-based TOEFL (iBT) test. Participants should use 9616 as the institution code to ensure that their scores are sent to our office. POLL Application opens on April 1, 2023. The deadline for submitting the online application with supporting documents is June 16, 2023.