Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, on Monday, treated Nigerian juniors to dinner to celebrate their exploits at the recently concluded Confederation of African Athletics (CAA) championships.Team Nigeria, against all odds, raked in 17 gold, nine silver, and seven bronze medals and came second to South Africa, who topped the medals table based on their numerical strength. Speaking at the event, Secretary to the Delta State government, Chief Patrick Ukah, who represented Governor Okowa, said it was thrilling to see Nigerian juniors performing excellently well at the championship in Ndola Zambia. He said Governor Okowa was excited, particularly with the outing of Delta-born athletes in the team. He urged them to build on their success.“We are overjoyed by your performance in Ndola. You have once again proved that Delta is indeed the home of sports in Nigeria. “We are excited and proud of what you have done, this is just the beginning, we hope to see more achievements in track and field from you,” said Ukah who later announced various awards to the athletes.” Also, speaking at the event, Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Chief Sunday Dare, expressed delight with the medal haul. He added that the athletes painted a picture of what was to come in Nigerian track and field.“I met them in Lagos when the team arrived from Zambia and we enjoyed ourselves. Thanks to the team for what they have done. “These ones represent the future of our athletics. In three or four years, the likes of Tobi Amusan and Ese Brume would have reached their peak. With the crop that came from Ndola, we have hope. “We have to put the group together and do the right things. We can do well at the African Games and Olympics.” He thanked Delta State for its contribution to sports in Nigeria. POLL “We have seen the contributions of states in the country. In our adopt an athlete program, Delta supported 16 athletes, and other states adopted just one or two athletes.” Athletics Federation of Nigeria President Tonobok Okowa was grateful to Governor Okowa for supporting the team during their preparations and also hosting them on their return. He added that the AFN will strive to ensure the athletes attain greater heights.