The vision of Arla Foods, makers of Dano Milk, to shape the future of dairy in Nigeria, received a major boost as the company takes delivery of 216 Danish Holstein Heifers for its Kaduna dairy farm. According to Arla Farm Manager, Dr. Jimmy Johnmark, the 216 Holstein-Friesian heifers arrived at the farm on Tuesday, May9, 2023. Johnmark, noted that the Holstein-Friesian breed has a much higher expected yield per cow compared to the local breeds. He disclosed that the heifers, sourced directly from Arla’s farmer owners, travelled by air from Europe, arriving at the Mallam Aminu Kano Airport in Kano, Nigeria, in the early hours of Tuesday, 9th May 2023. “The heifers were then transported to the farm in special trucks that were adapted for their optimum comfort. The heifers have arrived in Nigeria ahead of the official commissioning of the farm which is scheduled to hold later this month. “We are very excited to announce that the Arla Farm is fully set to commence operations for milk production, to boost local dairy production, with the arrival of the livestock from Denmark” he said. He explained further that the heifers have now settled into the farm and are getting comfortable in their new home, noting that milk production on the farm is expected to start in the third quarter of 2023. Arla Farm, located in Kaduna State, is a state-of-the-art commercial dairy farm, established by Arla Foods to serve as a model for productive and sustainable dairy farming in Nigeria. POLL The farm development project, which officially began in 2021, is one of Arla’s investments in Nigeria’s dairy sector and one of the steps taken towards backward integration in Nigeria. Senior Manager, Raw Milk Supply and Production, Mr. Snorri Sigurdsson, disclosed that the ultra-modern Arla Farm, which is the first of its kind in Nigeria, covers a land area of 400Ha, and has the capacity to house 400 milking cows and in total 1,000 animals. It will feature modern technology for optimal animal comfort and milk production.