ABUJA – The leadership of the House of Representatives has described as “malicious” and “unfounded”, an allegation that it took a $15m  bribe from the executive arm in order to approve President Buhari’s request for a N22.7trn  Ways and Means taken from the Central Bank of Nigeria. Recall that the leadership newspaper on Monday reported that the leadership of the under Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila allegedly accepted financial inducement of the said amount in order to yeild to the request from the executive. Reacting to the publication on Friday, the Spokesperson of the House and the Deputy Speakership candidate in the 10th Assembly, Hon. Benjamin Kalu said in a statement that the report couldn’t have been farther from the truth, saying that no such inducement took place, and that the House will always stand with the Nigerian public and their collective interest. The statement reads: “The attention of the House of Representatives and the leadership of the house has been drawn to a malicious media report alleging that 15 million dollars was received from the executive arm to approve the request of President Muhammadu Buhari to restructure the N22.7 trillion ways and means advances taken from the Central Bank of Nigeria. The allegations are not only false, but also baseless and unfounded. “Usually, the House would have refrained from dignifying such a report with a response, having faith that all well-intentioned Nigerians would outrightly dismiss it. However, it has become imperative to address the report and the unfounded claims made therein for the benefit of all Nigerians. “As elected representatives, our decisions and actions are taken in the public interest. It should be remembered that the house had temporarily deferred the approval of the executive’s request, following the recommendations of the relevant committees of the House, which called for further engagement with the executive in order to facilitate a comprehensive and meticulous analysis and deliberation on public interventions the executive earmarked the said request for. “We implore the media to exercise restraint and desist from disseminating unfounded allegations that have the potential to tarnish the reputation of public institutions and individuals, particularly during this critical period when lawmakers are deeply engrossed in the political competition for the leadership positions in the impending 10th National Assembly. POLL “The insinuations and attacks against the person of the Speaker goes to naught as he remains the most forthright upstanding and most loved Speaker in our parliamentary history. Any attempt by one or two to plant malicious stories for the unsuspecting public goes to naught,” the statement stressed.