LAGOS – The organised labour, under the aegis of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) have expressed disappointment over the statement of Mr. Allen Onyema, CEO of Air Peace, whom they said has put his personal business interest above the lives, welfare and businesses of Imo State people. Comrade Benson Upah, Head of Information and Public Affairs of the NLC in a statement made available to Daily Independent stated: “We had thought Mr. Onyema was a reasonable citizen, but like the rest of them, he has shown his hand rather too early. “His desperate attempt to personalise the strike action by over 70 unions and the NLC’s president Comrade Joe Ajaero as scuttling the business interest of a fellow Igbo is a familiar refrain of scoundrels who take refuge in primordial sentiments. “We find it disgusting that rather than address the fundamental issues that led to this avoidable strike action, the Air Peace Chairman has called for sanctioning of Comrade Ajaero and manacling of the Labour Unions. The NLC stated that if the ordinary Nigerian has knowledge of the rights of citizens to peaceful protest as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the corpus of Labour Laws, and African Charter on Fundamental Rights that Onyema, a Lawyer is presumed to be even more knowledgeable about the operation of the laws/rights. Against the foregoing, the NLC said it inevitably puts a question mark on his claims to his credentials if he is bereft of this basic knowledge of the law. It added that the same law allows for the unionisation of the staff of Air Peace Airline which has been denied the basic right by Onyema from 2016 to date. According to NLC: “In light of this, the Air Peace Chairman is given two weeks to allow the staff of Air Peace to unionise. POLL He should equally calculate and remit check-off dues from 2016 to date. If he fails to do this, he should be prepared to keep a date with the entire labour movement soon. It added that “The society Onyema canvasses is that of unquestioning submission to illegal acts, impunity, crime, and bestiality. While this might be helpful to him in the pursuit of his wealth, we find it sordid and immoral. “We assure him such a society has no place in our democracy as we continue to hold leaders to account for their conduct”. Recall that NLC alleged that the Air Peace Chairman said he lost N700 million Naira in two hours of the strike action and disputed the fact that it is a lot of money by any standards as that means he makes N5 billion a day and N150 billion a month on the average. Against the foregoing backdrop, the two labour centers demanded to know how much tax he pays, arguing that the last time he made tax returns was in 2020, saying that what he paid should be in the public domain but it is not. Against the foregoing backdrop, the unions invite the tax authorities to avail them and the general public of the tax returns of Air Peace, threatening that they would ask them to note the earnings of Air Peace as proclaimed by its owner. The unions buttressed their demands as they stated that “It was so convenient for him to be hysterical about the financial losses that he forgot to mention the violence his goons visited on workers including the Lagos State Council Chairperson, Comrade Agnes Sessi ,who sustained an eye injury after she was smacked breaking her glasses. In the same vein, they further argued that that, in deceit , Ait Peace’s flight operations flew to Owerri, after claiming a flight was bound for Port Harcourt Against the foregoing backdrop, the unions said since the Air Peace Chairman has decided to pitch his tent with the Imo state governor in violating and visiting mindless violence on workers that they wish him well, and advised that he should be called to order. “For the benefit of those not in the know of this matter, the unions have exercised utmost restraint in the face of provocations and violations by the Imo State Governor”. According to the unions, the abridged chronicle of what transpired cut across the meeting of the Joint Central Working Committees of the NLC and TUC held at the Olaitan Oyerinde Auditorium of the NLC in Abuja on May 1, 2023. Given the foregoing backdrop, the unions recalled that the meeting took a report on how the Governor of Imo State, Mr. Hope Uzodinma, used thugs and agents of the state, to interfere with, disrupt and scatter the commemoration ceremony of May Day organised by workers of Imo State after workers, in protest of the violations of their rights by the Governor, particularly refused to be part of the Governor’s May Day ceremony. As recalled by the unions, the meeting also took a report on how in the course of the violent disruption by the thugs and agents of the Imo Governor that several workers sustained injuries and had to flee for their lives.