ABUJA – Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has stated that the Federal Gov­ernment is commit­ted to addressing the dearth of human resources in the health sector, especially at pri­mary health care level across Nigeria. He said that there is not a single country in the world that can boast of effective health care delivery without adequate and well distributed human resources. He added that no matter how much of a masterpiece the architecture of a health fa­cility is, or how sophisticated the equipment are, or even the availability of the commodi­ties, a health care delivery system will not function opti­mally if there are not enough skilled workers. Osinbajo said this at the launch of the Communi­ty-based Health Research Innovative Training and Ser­vices Programme (CRISP) on Monday in Abuja, adding that there is no better way to tackle the challenges in health care delivery in Nigeria than to close the gaps on the availabil­ity of skilled health workers in PHC facilities. Represented by the Min­ister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, the Vice President said, that:”I am aware that Nigeria makes up only 2 percent of the world population but ac­counts for 14 percent of the world’s maternal death bur­den. Similarly, our country loses 2,500 children under the age of 5 everyday due to largely preventable causes, including the lack of ser­vices that skilled birth at­tendants could provide. It is of interest that 80 percent of these death burdens occur in the primary health care and community levels. This clearly justifies the need for urgent actions to be taken to implement the CRISP to address this situation. “I can confidently tell you that President Muhammadu Buhari and I are ever pas­sionate about interventions that would help to improve the health and wellbeing of the Nigerian people, and I have no doubt in the ca­pacity of Dr Faisal and his team working in partner­ship with the academia and teaching hospitals will im­plement and get the desired result from this initiative. This initiative will not only make skilled health workers from our teaching hospitals and federal medical centres available to offer services in our primary health care centres in all states of the federation but will also be leveraged to ensure capacity transfer to, and mentorship of PHC workers as well as promotion of best practices in community health.”