LAGOS – A political activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has faulted Friday’s decision of the Supreme Court on the dou­ble nomination case against the joint ticket of the Presi­dent-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had approached the Court to inval­idate the joint ticket. Reacting to the judgment through a statement, Timi Frank said the court that is meant to be the last hope of the citizenry has become a place of the highest bidder, wondering whom Nigerians offended. According to the activist, one would be tempted to ask if there is hope in the ongoing Election Petition Tribunal. Would we be surprised if the aggrieved parties are at the end of the day described as busy bodies? He said: “It is a sad day in Ni­geria. The court that is meant to be the last hope of the citi­zenry has become the place of the highest bidder. Who did we offend as a country? Where in the world do you see judges jump into the arena in deliv­ering judgments? Why would you not decide the cases on their merit? “This ruling has clearly shown that they are partisan. The hope of the country has been dashed by this singular act. Why would our court de­cisions be premised on senti­ments? One thing I will say to our judicial officers today is; many days for the thief but one day for the owner. “My hope is that God will one day, rescue Nigeria from the shackles of these justices, whereby they will no longer determine who governs us as we expect that our elections will be manned by men and women of integrity, unlike Prof. Mah­mood Yakubu and his cohorts. “It is a fact that in Nigeria of today, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the ruling party, the All Progressive Congress (APC) will beg people to go to court because they know our courts have been compromised. POLL “What happened to the days of Justice Niki Tobi, Justice An­thony Aniagolu, Justice Chuk­wudifu Oputa, Justice Tabai, and many more? – Who stood against the military and many odds to deliver very sound judg­ments that were seen to be fair and just.” While asking Nigerians not to lose hope, Timi Frank, who is the United Liberation Movement for West Papua (ULMWP), Ambassador to East Africa and the Middle East, said Nigerians should not relent and not be defeated in the face of in­justice in the country.