A group known as the Zaar Concerned Citizens has warned the Former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, not to be a stumbling block in the path of the actualization of the Sayawa Chiefdom by the people of Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Bauchi State. The Chairman of the Zaar group, Godfrey Manasseh, who stated this during a press conference held in Bauchi, said that it has now become imperative considering the trade of words building up between Yakubu Dogara and the Bauchi State Government which if allowed to degenerate, may jeopardize the chances of actualizing the chiefdom. He said that Dogara’s alleged rejoinder to a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Ibrahim Kashim, over the crisis in the Tafawa Balewa/Bogoro area was unnecessary and inciting. Accompanied by the Secretary and other officials of the group, Manasseh maintained that the rejoinder by Yakubu Dogara may have negative effects that will serve as a bloc for the creation of a chiefdom for the Sayawa ethnic group. “We want to express dissatisfaction to Honorable Dogara over his rejoinder as regards the press release emanating from the Secretary to the State Government Ibrahim Kashim concerning the violence and loss of life which occurred at Sang Village Bogoro LGA, Bauchi State. “The rejoinder was not expected of an elder statesman whom Dogara claimed to be but given his antecedent, we cannot say we are shocked or surprised as this has become his stock in trade since the year 2019. We the people of Zaar land he claims to represent and speak for have never appointed him our spokesman or person and he can never speak for us rather we know he is up to his tricks and is coming for his selfish agenda again” he said The group also said that he wondered why Dogara who promised to fight for the actualization of the Chiefdom is now fighting with the Bauchi State government which is their only gateway to actualizing the much-needed Chiefdom. “Why can’t the Hon. Dogara respect the government of the day the way we all respect him whilst he held sway at the National Assembly? The same Hon. Dogara is the one who in 2015 promised us the actualization of Zaar Chiefdom, relocation of Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area Headquarters back to Tafawa Balewa, economic empowerment, and reopening of GGSS Tafawa Balewa. POLL “We are happy he has admitted that only the Governor and House of Assembly can do the above. The question then is why he has been fighting all previous Governors who have attempted to ensure that the Chiefdom comes to fruition if not for his anti-Gung Zaar stance and selfish interest? He wants to appoint the Gung Zaar and have him as his own personal stooge” “Posterity will surely judge him unless he seeks forgiveness, but, we know his inflated ego will never allow him to admit he has goofed and goofed badly. His case is like that of the dog in the adage whom the gods desired to kill and they first made it mad so it refused to listen to its master’s whistle leading to the lions in the forest to kill and devour it.” “All these rejoinders and statements from him are nothing more than him looking for a way or manner to cover up and distract our people from looking into his almost 16 years of non-performance and further distract us from demanding accountability from him over what he did with our constituency funds, “The group said The group alleged that Dogara has gotten used to playing god and had forgotten Almighty God his maker and those he placed over him, adding that they can vividly see the handwriting on the wall which unfortunately, the end result of Dogara’s arrogance has prevented him from seeing as the end result is not far off.