The race to determine the top schools in season four of the Dolphin Swimming League enters the grand final on Saturday, May 20, at the Children International School (CIS) in Lekki, Lagos. The four leg, being the finale of the first private schools swimming tournament, will have more schools joining to compete for the top spot as Grange School will be up against the rest of the teams in the grand finale. The tournament has continued to attract more schools as the enthusiasm of parents and guardians showed that the swimmers are ready to lift their schools in the finale. According to the coordinator of the tournament, Oluseyi Oyebode, the enthusiasm shown by the schools confirmed that the finale promises to be exciting as winners of season four would be determined. “We are overwhelmed by the interest shown by the parents, guardians, and students to be part of the tournament because they feel we are doing something right with the tournament. “Since the Dolphin Swimming League has started, we have shown that we are interested in developing and unearthing talents in the sport and our focus is to be able to produce world stars for Nigeria with the hope that they will fly the country’s flag at the Olympic Games. “We ensure that we get the right personnel to handle proceedings and that is what prompted our decision to partner with the Lagos State Swimming Association which provided us with the experts in the sport.” Oyebode said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Being a good host of the third leg, CIS has been chosen as the venue and the battle for the highest honours hopes to be fierce when the tournament holds this weekend. POLL Also, the Nigeria Aquatic Federation, Nigeria School Sports Federation (NSSF), as well as the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), have shown interest in the tournament with the aim of selecting outstanding swimmers from it for major competitions within and outside the shores of Nigeria. The league is organized by Dynaspro Promotion and Advanta Interactive with support from Rite Foods. The management of Rite Foods have also promised to make the event memorable as the swimmers would be supported with several products from the company that has been part of the tournament journey in the last two years.