ABUJA – The Minister of Police Affairs, Dr Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi has reaffirmed President Muhammadu Buhari’s germane desire to reclaim policing primacy through police reforms, capacity building, enhanced welfare and equipping to improve internal security arrangements in Nigeria. The minister gave this assertion at the 39th Etim Inyang Lecture Anniversary with the theme, “Enhancing the Ideals of Community Policing in Nigeria,” organized to honour the founder of PCRC, Retired Inspector General of Police, Etim Inyang, which took place at the Force Headquarters Abuja. Dr Dingyadi who was represented by Mrs Jaachinma Agu lauded the Police Community Relations Committee’s (PCRC) 39 years of existence which is evident in the fostering of the partnership between the Police and the Community with a view to enhancing efficient and effective policing through an active partnership with members of the communities and critical Stakeholders across Nigeria. He said the 39th anniversary is a means of appreciating police contributions to the safety of lives and property, good governance and improved living standards in Nigeria. “This event is therefore highly commendable and reassures everyone here present including serving officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force, that their commitment and contributions towards tackling crimes and criminalities will not go unrewarded,” he noted. The minister pointed out that the Ministry in the past few months has organized Town Hall Meetings with PCRC stakeholders and the NPF in four Geo-political zones of the country namely: North-East, North-Central, South-West and South-South. “These Town Hall Meetings were to enhance the unity and working relationship between the Nigeria Police Force and the PCRC. So far the attendance and deliberations have been top-notch and the recommendations from the meetings are being implemented to ensure a smooth working relationship between the NPF and the PCRC to achieve maximum reduction in crimes and criminality in our nation.” he said. Earlier in his opening remarks, the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba thanked the PCRC for their contribution and supporting Nigeria Police Force and Nigeria at large. He praised the effectiveness of the community policing initiative in the country. POLL Also, the Team Lead Police Reform and Transformation Office PORTO, Mr. Tunji Lardner, the Special Assistant to Mr. President on Research and Strategy, ably represented by Mrs Zainab said the PCRC 39 Anniversary of PCRC and inauguration of PCRC women’s and youth committee is a significant milestone for the Police Community Relations Committee PCRC and a testament to PCRC commitment to promoting gender equality and youth empowerment. “I would like to take this opportunity to commend you for your vision and leadership in this regard. Your commitment to promoting gender equality and youth empowerment is an inspiration to us all and a shining example of what can be achieved when we work together towards a common goal,” he noted. The National Chairman of PCRC, Alhaji Mogaji Olaniyan, said the committee has been strongly efficient through the assistance of the Inspector General of Police. Olaniyan said that PCRC had grown in leaps and bounds in its 39 years of existence, saying the committee was poised to do more in delivering on its mandate. He pledged to continue to work with the police force to be able to achieve effective policing in the country. Guest Speaker, Chairman Police Service Commission, Retired IGP Solomon Arase delivered a keynote paper presentation on achieving effective and efficient Community Policing gains in Nigeria, its Prospects and challenges, while the resource person, Comrade Adeyinka Folarin, National Secretary Committee for Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) presented first lecture on criminal Justice system and Human Rights in Nigeria: The Nexus. The PCRC also at the 39th-anniversary celebration presented an award of recognition to the wife of an Inspector General of Police, Hajia Hajara Alkali Usman Baba, Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammad Maigari Dingyadi, Retired AIG Hamed lliyasu, DIG Abdulmajid Ali DIG Johnson Babatunde Kokumo, Ambassador Dr Faruk Maiyama the immediate Past PCRC National Chairman, Aare Adetola Emmanuel King Chairman and CEO Adron Homes and Properties Ltd, Hon Dr Martins Orim Chairman GFO Orim Foundation and Her Excellency Agogo Florence Awhobiwon, the Zinariyan Gwallameji, Bauchi.