Says Outgoing President came, saw, conquered An Islamic human rights organisation, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC),has rated  the outgoing administration as a huge success,inspite of the gassing conspiracy theory which kept him on hospital bed for eight months . The body said no Nigerian leader had  gone through so much, survived and achieved victory. The Executive Director of MURIC, Professor Ishaq Akintola, in a statement  on Saturday argued that the “most visible sign of his success today in the area of security is the absence of suicide bombers. “As President Muhammadu Buhari winds up his administration and prepares to hand over power on Monday, 29th May, 2023, we congratulate him and we thank Allah for his life. Although some Nigerians may not appreciate him at the moment, we have no iota of doubt that his legacy will endure. He is, indeed, the ‘Father of Modern Nigeria’. “No Nigerian leader has gone through so much, yet he survived and achieved victory. A gassing conspiracy theory kept him on hospital bed for eight months, but still he ‘rose from the dead’ and toiled with all his strength to bequeath to Nigeria a lasting memorabilia. “The success in the area of security led to the  closure of many Internally Displaced People (IDP) camps. He subdued Boko Haram and ISWAP and transformed the Nigerian Army into the most deadly fighting machine on the continent of Africa through consistent funding and transparency. “He completed several Macadam road projects and bridges around the country, particularly the Second Niger Bridge which was recently commissioned. Rail transportation, which was in comatose for more than forty years, has been revived. Nigeria also got a national airline, Nigeria Air, in the twilight of the administration. But his greatest asset is his incorruptibility. No single allegation of corruption was laid at his door throughout his eight-year rule. POLL “Like Julius Caesar wrote in his letter to the Roman Senate around 47 BC after he had achieved a quick victory in his short war against Pharnaces II of Pontus at the Battle of Zela (modern-day Zile, Turkey), President Muhammadu Buhari can take the ‘last look at the Moor’, beat his chest and say, “Veni, vidi, vici” (i.e. I came, I saw, I conquered).” The inauguration ceremonies of the next administration began about one week ago and will be rounded up at Eagle Square, Abuja, on Monday, 29th May, 2023.