Spokesman to All Progressives Congress (APC) Ondo State, Steve Otaloro has absolved the state Chairman of the party, Engr. Ade Adetimehin of any complicity in the supensiion of a lawmaker, Gbenga Omole, by the party in his ward. In a statement made available to newsmen on Sunday in Akure, the state capital, Otaloro described as spurious the allegation levelled against the party and party’s chairman by Omole as being the masterminds of his suspension. Exonerating the party and the chairman from the crisis the led to the suspension of the lawmaker, the Director, Media & Publicity of APC said: “The leadership of our political party categorically denies all allegations leveled against the party and our esteemed Chairman by Hon. Olugbenga Omole, a member of the state legislative arm of government. “We want to state unequivocally that our Chairman has conducted himself with the utmost professionalism and integrity in his dealings with all members. He has always acted in the best interest of the party and its members, and his commitment to ensuring electoral victories for the party is unwavering.” Otaloro noted that the lawmaker was affected by the trauma of losing return ticket in the party’s primary and suspended by his ward. He said the allegations levelled against the party and party’s chairman was baseless and politically motivated. Otaloro, therefore, called on the public, party members, and supporters of the party to discountenance Omole’s claims, assuring them the leadership would continue to work for unity and harmony among members of the party. The statement reads in parts: “Regrettably, Olugbenga Omole, a member of the House of Assembly, who should be acquainted with our party’s code of conduct, has chosen to make baseless accusations against the Chairman in the public, which we believe are politically motivated and aimed at tarnishing the reputation of our party and its leadership. POLL “Our party and its leadership have endured months of opprobrium from Hon. Olugbenga Omole with consistent disparaging remarks about our political party and the party chairman following his loss in the party primary to re-elect him as a member of the state House of Assembly. “We do not condone or support any form of verbal abuse or unprofessional behaviour from our party members, more so from a legislature, regardless of the circumstances. “While we understand that losing an election and consequently being suspended by your ward from the party can be disappointing and frustrating, all members need to uphold the values of our party, including respect for the party leadership. We urge Olugbenga Omole and all members to channel their grievances through the appropriate channels and engage in constructive dialogue to address genuine concerns. “As a party, we remain committed to upholding the principles of democracy, transparency, and accountability in all our activities and processes. We will not tolerate any form of misconduct or unprofessional behavior from our members and will take appropriate action to address violations of our code of conduct. “We call on all members to respect party decisions and work together to promote the interests of our constituents and the development of our state. Together, we can achieve our goals and build a better future for all. We remain committed to upholding the principles of democracy, fairness, and justice in all our dealings. “We urge all members of our party and the general public to disregard the baseless accusation and insults aimed at tarnishing the integrity of our party and focus on the work of building our party and promoting the interests of our people as we look forward to the installation of our party’s president-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on 29th, May 2023. “We wish to assure all members of our party that we will continue to work tirelessly to promote unity and harmony within the members and to ensure that the party remains a formidable force in the state and the country at large.”