ABUJA  – The aviation industry recorded a milestone last weekend with the passing out of the first set of Arms-Bearing Aviation Securi­ty (AVSEC) personnel. Describing the achievement as unprecedented in the pro­motion of national security, the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, assured that all the graduates received the best training and were well equipped with the morals, the discipline and values that were expected from the training they received. He urged the newly graduat­ed armed security personnel at a ceremony in Abuja, at week­end, to see their job as a clarion call. “This should come to you as a clarion call to work within the precepts of the training. This training that you have received is expected to commit you to the level of dedication that is expect­ed in ensuring that the nation of Nigeria will not only be proud but also reap the benefits of this well-organised training,” he stated. He recalled the Turkish Air­line incident in 2016 where some aggrieved passengers overpow­ered AVSEC officials at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja and gained ac­cess to the tarmac. Sirika also cited an incident at the Sokoto Airport where some political supporters force­fully entered the tarmac, stress­ing that those actions were clear security breaches which would have been forestalled by the AVSEC personnel if they were armed. He assured the personnel that uniforms, armoury and other things that would enable them to discharge their re­sponsibilities of securing and safeguarding airline officials, passengers and other airport users had been made available.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He warned that the aim, in­tention, training or the purpose of the arms were not to harass or intimidate innocent airport users, but to protect them, and that no misdemeanour on their part would be tolerated. POLL He stressed that the civility of civil aviation must be upheld at all cost. “In acceptance to be trained as aviation security personnel, you must realise that it was a privilege to serve your coun­try at this level as the aviation industry is one place where adherence and commitment to rules and standards are applied strictly to the letter,” he said.