Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed alongside his Deputy, Auwal Jatau on Monday, the 29th of May, took oaths of allegiance and office to serve the people of the state for another four years,assuring that his administration will improve security and welfare of the people of the stat. Governor Bala Mohammed who was sworn in by the Chief Judge of State, Justice Rabi Talatu Umar, was administered the oath of office at about 11.30 am, amid mammoth crowd that throng the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium. After taking oaths of allegiance and office, Bala Mohammed in his inauguration speech titled:“My Bauchi Project: Consolidating the Mandate to Place Bauchi First!” recalled with extreme joy and gratitude how four years ago, he took the same oath of office and allegiance as Governor, saying that after forty-eight months,he is humbled to deliver his second and final inaugural address as Governor of the state for another four years. According to governor Mohammed, he has accepted the call to serve, not because he sees himself as the most qualified but because it is a divine mandate over which he has no choice. “Looking into the faces of the exuberant crowd of our patriots here present, I recognize the overwhelming significance of this moment..I appreciate the trust that has been reposed in our administration by the majority of our people who voted for me. I am conscious that my re-election signifies the endorsement of the manifesto of our great party and the “My Bauchi Project” agenda on which platforms I ran for election in 2019. I am honoured that today’s inauguration represents a validation of the performance of our Administration during the first term.” ”I wish to recall with extreme joy and gratitude that, on this day four years ago, I stood at this podium to take the oath of office and oath of allegiance as your Governor and to deliver my first inaugural address to a mammoth crowd like this one.” ”I find it indeed humbling that 48 months, (that is, 208 weeks or 1,460 days) later, here I am again to deliver my second and, by the provisions of our constitution, final inaugural address on the auspicious occasion of my swearing-in as Governor of our great state for another four years.” “But it goes beyond that. I see it as a summons to do more. Not as Governor of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) under whose platform I ran or any partisan or sectarian interest but for everyone residing in Bauchi State: indigene and non-indigene, citizen and foreigner, rich and poor no matter one’s station” POLL “Yet, while acknowledging the neutrality demanded of me in my position, it is only proper that I acknowledge with gratitude first, my political party that gave me the platform to run. Secondly, also deserving of my gratitude are members of my team: the SSG, my Chief of Staff, Commissioners, Special Advisers and Special Assistants who brought their expertise and competences and stood by me, all through both exciting and challenging moments, to produce the performance that culminated in my re-election.” “I would like to say that, for me, the dissolution of the State Executive Council will not put a stop to the virile relationship that we cherish. on that note, should circumstances dictate the return of any of you, It is my sincere wish that you will avail the state the benefit of your patriotic service.” “Not the least, I want to thank our royal fathers, my Lords spiritual and temporal, civil society organizations, my colleagues members of the fourth estate and all our compatriots without whose continuing prayers and support this day would not have been possible,” he said. According to him,”As the sages have aptly remarked, unless you understand the take-off point of your journey, the chances are that you may never get to your destination. So, to fully appreciate the journey you and I are about to start, let me take you back a little.” “In the course of the visioning process that produced our strategic document and action plan in 2019, our environmental scan revealed both the remarkable opportunities as well as the profound headwinds that we must astutely and courageously navigate to either steer the ship of state to a stable trajectory or drift in disarray into political oblivion and irrelevance. We chose the former.” “Those headwinds included: Insufficient cash flow, a huge loan portfolio; accumulated outstanding liabilities, dearth of critical infrastructure, collapse of educational institutions, ineffective healthcare delivery services, high rate of unemployment and drug addiction and gangsterism. Equipped with this knowledge, our 2019-2023 Programme of Action and the Medium-Term Plan had sought to tackle wide-ranging challenges characterized by low and fragile economic growth, insecurity, weak institutions, inadequate public service delivery, gross infrastructural deficit, climate change and the attendant weak social indicators.” “Undeterred by the headwinds and other challenges, we set out with the twin objective of improving the living standards of the people and placing the state among the first ten most economically viable and socially developed states in the country.” “Today, I can look back to the journey of the past four years with a mixture of pride (not arrogance) and sobriety (not disappointment). For instance, while substantial mileage has been achieved in infrastructure, social services, economic development and poverty alleviation, the anticipated investments into the economy slowed down from 2019 onwards because of the negative impact of certain macro-economic variables which were characterized by external shocks principal among which were the COVID-19 pandemic, collapse of global crude oil prices and worldwide social conflicts of which Nigeria was not spared,” The Governor said,”As the sages say, experience is the best teacher. We have gathered so much on the road that we can claim, with all modesty, that we have enough to draw from to launch the next phase of our developmental agenda.” “However, conscious that no one has a monopoly of wisdom, just as we did prior to taking office in 2019, the strategy of our government for going forward is being distilled from both our experience and the report of two expert committees that I commissioned recently,” he added. According to him,”Our primary focus remains peace and security and the welfare of our people and everybody living in Bauchi State. In sectoral terms, we shall not only prioritize education and agriculture as critical areas with inestimable value chains that will impact on all our plans, but I also hereby declare an emergency in these two sectors. They will rank only with staff salaries and security as first line charges critical to the survival and future progress of the state.” “Let me reiterate the fact that Bauchi State has no reason to be poor. I want to assure you that by the grace of God, the Mandate you have renewed will be deployed to position Bauchi State where it ought to be, a position that, if I may repeat, is characterized by good governance anchored on transparency and accountability, an inclusion and diversity management policy, founded on the principles of equity, justice and fairness, prudent management of resources, peace and security, all leading to shared prosperity for all.” “Finally, I consider the above deliverables, as minimum milestones that I shall, for the next four years, commit my every energy, faculty and fibre to achieving, not because I want to be remembered by them, but because you deserve no less for entrusting in me, the son of a humble District Head from the backwaters of Duguri, with your present hopes and aspirations and above all, the future of generations to come,” Bala Mohammed concluded.