President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) have been advised to be on guard not to plunge the party into needless crisis over the zoning on 10th Assembly principal offices. APC Integrity Group, an amalgam of members of the defunct Congress for Progressives Change (CPC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP), and a faction of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) gave the warning in statement they issued in Abuja on Sunday. Reacting to ongoing horse trading ahead election into NASS leadership election the group observed that the ongoing alignment and counter alignment could be injurious to the unity and existence of the party should they be allowed to play out. According to the group, the party would benefit more if it zones the Presiding Offices of Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker, House of Representatives and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives to different geo-political zones,cognisant of the strength of the party in the zones, among other variables. “It is pertinent to state that the national leadership of the party was yet to come up with the zoning arrangements. Also, the President-elect is yet to anoint a candidate as a presiding officers. “But going by the horse trading at the National Assembly, some lawmakers have been favoured for the positions of Senate President and Speaker of House of Representatives. “The development has led to alliances formed among some Senators and House Representatives members for Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker House of Representatives and Deputy Speaker House of Representatives”. It has to be noted that a number of candidates have been mentioned for Senate Presiding Offices, including Senators Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia), Sani Musa (313 Niger), Jibrin Barau (Kano), Osita Izunaso (Imo) and Abdullazizi Yari (Zamfara). POLL For the House of Representatives are: Hons. Tajudeen Abass (Kaduna), Mukta Betara (Borno), Ahmed Idris Wase (Plateau), Ben Kalu (Abia), Miriam Onuoha (Imo), Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau)etc. Senator Jibrin Barau (Kano), Senator Abdullazizi Yari (Zamfara), Hon. Tajudeen Abass (Kaduna), they are all from North West, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia), Senator Osita Izunaso (Imo), Hon. Ben Kalu (Abia) and Hon. Miriam Onuoha (Imo) (South East), Senator Sani Musa (Niger), Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase (Plateau), Hon. Yusuf Gagdi (Plateau), (North Central), Hon. Muktra Betara (Borno), (North East) and Senator Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom) (South South). The Group, in the state signed by the Coordinator and Secretary, Malam Dawu Mohammed and Comrade Chisom Nwakanma respectively, said the position of Deputy Senate President and Speaker of House of Representatives cannot go to the same zone. The group said, “we have observed the horse trading going on about the presiding offices of the 10th Assembly and we consider it pertinent to advise that two presiding offices should not go to one geo-political zone. Doing so, we believe would be injurious to the unity and existence of the party. “We, also consider it a concern that the NWC of our party had till date not been able to come up with the zoning formula. This situation had led to different interests and agitations that we are witnessing among our elected lawmakers. “The APC Integrity Group expect that those take lawmakers to the President-elect for endorsement should do that in the interest of the country and not because of juicy committees and other considerations. “The President-elect and the party leadership should know that whatever crises that comes from the zoning and election of the presiding officers, they are responsible for them. “It is our sincere view that the Deputy Senate President should be zoned to the North Central since the party is considering zoning the Speaker House of Representatives to the North West.” “For us, what is paramount is a viable 10th National Assembly, which we believe could be achieved with proper zoning and competent leadership” the group stated. It is their view that political fixers should not take liberty of the zoning stance of the party and mislead the President -elect in the spread of presiding officers of the NASS.