The Nigerian Senate has joined stakeholders and professionals in the country’s aviation industry to kick against the regular picketing of aviation companies, airlines and airports by the organsied labour, saying that such approach is outdated and should be discarded by all well-meaning Nigerians. This is as Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation has said that the Federal Government has made indelible marks in the development of the sector in the country in the last eight years and hoped the incoming government would continue from where it stopped. Speaking on Monday at the commencement of the four days National Aviation Conference oganised by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) with the theme: ‘Sustainabiility of the Aviation Industry in Nigeria,’ Mrs. Abiodun Olujiimi, the Chairperson Senate Committee on Aviation, said that the persistent picketing of organisations in the sector by the unions, would continue to set the industry backward. She specifically said that the recent disruption of smooth flight operations by the members of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) was unwarranted and should not be allowed to continue in the sector. She urged the NLC, TUC and their affiliated members to device other means of pressing home their demands, stressing that most of the issues, which lead to disruption of operations could be settled without necessarily picketing organisations or disrupting flight services. Besides, she lamented the encroachment of airports by illegal occupiers, insisting that this should be nipped in the bud before it causes more havocs to the industry. Olujimi further called on the respective authorities to as a matter of urgency, address the skyrocketing airfares among the domestic operators, warning that this may drive away potential air travellers, while aviation contributions to the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of Nigeria had remained low.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She said: “There is inadequate infrastructure in our airports, which makes it impossible to contribute to the economic development of the country. The industry is bedevilled with picketing by the unions. This is a sad reminder of the past and should not be allowed to continue. The NLC and their members should start to settle issues behind closed doors and when issues are settled, we should ensure that they are properly settled. POLL “Also, encroachment of airport lands by some people should be stopped forthwith before it gets out of hand. A situation where the government watches and allows buildings to come up before demolition is not good for the country. Safety is key and should not be toyed with.” Also, Sirika said that the present government had contributed immensely to the growth of aviation in the last eight years. Sirika who was represented at the occasion by Dr. Emmanuel Meribole, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Aviation, said that the present government had raised the bar in airport infrastructure and moved the sector to one of the most developed in recent times. “We want to thank all the stakeholders for their support in the last eight years. I feel proud and fulfilled that the government has made indelible marks in our sector. And since government is continuum, I will expect the incoming government to continue from where we stopped.” Earlier, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director, FAAN in his welcome address, stated that the conference would always serve as an open market to generate business opportunities for investors. He explained that no fewer than seven of last year’s resolutions from the maiden edition of FNAC had been implemented by various authorities, hoping that resolutions reached at the 2023 edition of the conference would also be implemented and further contribute to the growth of the sector. Yadudu explained that the essence of the current management was to bequeath to the younger ones who may want to venture into the industry quality programmes, which are sustainable and progressive.