ABUJA – The chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Navy and major contender for the Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi (Pankshin, Kanke and Kanam Federal Constituency, Plateau State), has joined other eminent Nigerians to congratulate President Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Vice President Kashim Shettima, as they take over the leadership of the country. In a congratulatory message personally signed by Hon. Gagdi, he hailed President Tinubu, saying with his dexterity in governance and leadership, Nigeria is on a path to positive change. According to Gagdi, “The new president has the capacity to right the wrongs of previous administrations and ensure that competent hands are engaged to revive comatose sectors of the country.” He added that President Tinubu’s political journey to the presidency is a deeply inspirational one that proved that with grit, sincerity of purpose, absolute trust in God and an unwavering commitment to empowering others, one can attain the greatest heights. He expressed confidence in his ability to deliver on the promise of democracy to the Nigerian people because his track record showed excellence and dedication to duty. He saluted the vice president, Kashim Shettima, who he said led Borno State at the darkest and most difficult of times, and did not for once desert his people or renege on his responsibilities. “These are men who have demonstrated their commitment to our great country and as president and vice-president, our hope in a prosperous and peaceful Nigeria that works for all citizens irrespective of class, ethnicity and religion has indeed been renewed. “President Tinubu has proven that with grit, sincerity of purpose, absolute trust in God and an unwavering commitment to empowering others, one can attain the greatest heights. I am confident in his ability to deliver on the promise of democracy to the Nigerian people because his track record is one of excellence and dedication to duty. POLL With His Excellency Vice President Kashim by his side, I believe Nigerians can now rest, knowing that the country is in safe hands.”