ABUJA – An indigenous peace-building group in Plateau State, under the auspices of the Coalition of Plateau Peace Practitioners Advocate (COPPA), has condemned the recent heinous killing of over 80 locals in the Mangu Local Government Area, describing the act as not only barbaric but ungodly. It however commended Operation Safe Haven, OPSH, a military outfit in the state for assuaging the plight of Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs by providing them with relief materials. The group expressed satisfaction that despite OPSH’s major assignment which is to provide security with the help of other security agencies in the state, they also had to provide social services to the people in the community. The group passed a vote of confidence on OPSH, saying contrary to unwarranted attacks against the military outfit by some aggrieved persons, the military formation has performed its work professionally. The Jos-based non-governmental group, tasked the government to take deliberate action in ending the killings just as it urged security agencies, especially OPSH to go after the perpetrators with a view to bringing them to face the wrath of the law over the ugly act. In a statement on Wednesday, signed by its National Coordinator, Rev. Elisha Gyang and National Secretary, Dr Gabriel Bulus Kombu, COPPA noted that the dastardly act was a setback to the hard-earned peace in the state, insisting that the perpetrators must face the consequences of their action. The group bemoaned the statement against security agencies by the state governor, Simon Lalong, saying the statement was not only reckless but unbecoming of a state chief security officer who should have known the workings of security agencies better than ordinary citizens. It called on the federal government, especially the military high command to ignore recent calls by some persons it considered, that OPSH be taken out of the state. POLL “For those calling for the removal of Operation Safe Haven from Plateau State,we strongly think it is sponsored by those paid to kill us in the state because it will rather worsen the security situation in the state than solve it,”it insisted. The group said: “The entire executive and members of the Coalition of Plateau Peace Practitioners Advocate, COPPA, an NGO based in Jos, have noted with concerns recent heinous attacks launched by agents of darkness in the state, especially in Mangu Local Government Area which has caused ethnoreligious tension in the state. “We strongly condemn these barbaric, senseless and inhuman attacks that led to the death of several persons including women and children in Mangu Local Government Area by some suspected criminal herdsmen”.