For many Nigerians, the 1977 sensational hit dem leave sorry tears and blood, dem regular trademark in which the legendary singer Afrobeat crooner- Fela Anikulapo Kuti re­counted his ugly encounter with government troops, could very well describe the experience by Nigeri­ans in the past eight years of Presi­dent Muhammadu Buhari, who will on Monday, May 29, cede power to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the former governor of Lagos State and candidate of the ruling All Progres­sives Congress (APC) in the Febru­ary 25 Presidential election. Many Nigerians believe that Tinubu, who was declared winner of the election which is being chal­lenged at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT), will be assuming office on Monday from his predecessor who obviously failed to deliver on his 2015 cam­paign promises. Tinubu must have to deal with the unholy alliance of non-state actors engaged in kidnap­ping for ransom, a multi-billion in­dustry; bloody killings, as well as heightening inflation, burgeoning unemployment especially among the youths, which continue to fuel brain drain especially among the country’s youths and profession­als, which now referred to as the japa syndrome, and a mountain of public debts. In a tweet during the week via his twitter handle @steve_hanke, Steve Hanke, Professor of Applied Economics at the John Hopkins University noted that the outgoing President “has left Nigerians with more violence, debt, and corrup­tion than before his reign.” But Bu­hari’s handlers are willing to swear, though arguably, that he is the best thing that happened to Nigerians since independence particularly in the area of infrastructure develop­ments, and have continued to flaunt his scorecard for whoever cares to see. But for Buhari, the nation could have been worse off. Saturday Independent recalls that Muhammadu Buhari, then can­didate of the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) had in his final message to Nigerians before the Saturday March 28, 2015 Presidential election in which he was declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), had begged Ni­gerians: “Give me the chance to lead you in rebuilding a Nigeria that all of us can be proud of once again.” Perhaps, only very few Nigeri­ans, particularly those bestriding the corridors of power would agree the outgoing government has left Nigeria better than it really met it as promised. In his message, Buhari who had contested the elections three times before, faulted the Goodluck Jona­than administration on three broad areas- corruption, poverty and inse­curity, noting that “at no other time in our history is Nigeria in such an urgent need of strong and compe­tent leadership. Sadly, at no other time is this leadership so sorely ab­sent in our country.” “…Under the current admin­istration, corruption has enjoyed unprecedented prosperity and this has been at the heart of most of our government failings, including insecurity, broken infrastructure and growing inequality in our coun­try,” he said, stressing that under his watch, Nigeria would be great again. “We live in a time of great oppor­tunities and great peril. It is only a leader that understands these in equal measure that can find the rightful place for Nigeria among the great Nations of the world.” POLL More Corrupt If the government of Jonathan was adjudged corrupt as determined through its Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), which scores nations 0 to 100 on a combination of the various manifestations of corrup­tion like nepotism, taking or giving bribes, and manipulating processes to win government bids or tenders are common forms of corruption, the outgoing government failed to kill corruption as promised. Accord­ing to the 2023 CPI, Nigeria scored 24 and ranked 25th, just like Afghan­istan, a war-torn nation; Central Af­rica Republic, Lebanon, Tajikistan, Guatamala, and Guinea, far behind fellow African nation- Rwanda with a CPI of 51, same as Saudi Arabia; neighbouring Niger Republic at 32; Togo and Egypt, 30; Gabon, 29; and Mali, 28. The administration made no pretense to ethnic and religious balancing in the distribution of po­litical offices like his predecessors. He began by appointing all of his service chiefs from same religion and section of the country, just like chief executives of federal agencies and department despite the public outcry, aided by a National Assem­bly described as a rubber stamp for approving everything proposal pre­sented by the Presidency. Multidimensional Poverty, Bloating Inflation According to data from the Na­tional Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Buhari inherited 5.53 million unem­ployed people at the end of 2015Q1, but he will be leaving behind 133 million multi-dimensionally poor people, as shown in the 2022 Multi­dimensional Poverty Index (MPI) Survey launched in Abuja last De­cember, by the National Bureau of Statistics in partnership with the United Nations Development Pro­gramme (UNDP), and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), among others. While Buhari had lamented in 2015 how Nigeria “is home to the continent’s highest number of peo­ple living in extreme poverty,” for which he blamed failure of previ­ous administrations to plan for the youths, he will be leaving the Aso Rock Villa with unemployment rate at a dizzying peak. A report by global financial consulting giant- KPMG estimates that Nigeria’s un­employment rate could jump from 37.7 percent in 2022 to 40.6 percent by year end, blaming “low industri­alisation and slower than required economic growth and consequent­ly the inability of the economy to absorb the 4-5 million new entrants into the Nigerian job market every year.” The report warned that by 2024, the unemployment rate will grow to 43 percent. Unemployment rate spiraled to 33.28 percent at the end of 2020, which is worse when combined with the 22.8 percent under-employment rate. For a youth dominated coun­try, youth unemployment under Bu­hari’s watch was 42.5 percent, and under-employment of 20.0 percent. Inflation rate has also spiked from just 8.19 percent in the second quarter of 2015, when Buhari re­placed Jonathan, to 22.22 percent at the end of April, owing to a combi­nation of food inflation due to inse­curity in the north east and central, rising cost of transportation and foreign exchange hiccups. With such overwhelming data, KPMG warns that the incoming administration will face an environ­ment characterised by fragile and slow economic growth and challeng­es in the foreign exchange market, at a time “government revenue re­mains inadequate to support (the) much-needed expenditure, leading to a high debt stock and high debt service payments.” As he bows out of office, Buhari will also be leaving behind a shrunk­en economy with a Gross Domestic Product of 2.31 percent, down from 3.52 percent at the end of 2022Q4; from 3.96 percent in 2015Q1 Flourishing Killing/Kidnapping Industry While Buhari had blamed Jon­athan for failing to stop the gale of killings and kidnapping by those he referred to as a rag-tag army, the Boko Haram insurgents be­came even more brazen under his watch. If Nigeria was a killing field under Jonathan, the Boko Haram insurgency simply festered, as the militants expanded their killing ter­ritory to other parts of the country, resulting in the death of 63,111 peo­ple lost their lives in the last eight years. A breakdown of the number shows that in the first term, 27,311 persons were killed, while 35,800 died between 2019 and early in May 2023. With 100 lives wasted in Man­gu few days ago, the tally of 63,111 deaths, the grim figure of murders gotten away with since outgoing President Buhari assumed office on May 29, 2015, becomes even more staggering. These death toll resulted from what the Nigeria Se­curity Tracker (NST), a project of the Council on Foreign Relations’ Africa programme, described as the failed state syndromes ranging from terrorism, banditry, herders/farm­ers clashes, communal crises, cult clashes, and extra-judicial killings among others unmentioned. The gale of kidnapping and death caused by the insurgents continued throughout the govern­ment’s two terms across the country. In Benue State alone, in three weeks between March and April this year, 400 people are believed to have been murdered in communities within the three local governments in Idoma-speaking people of Benue South District. The Kaduna State Government, last April, put the total number of people killed by bandits in 15 months within the state at 1,266; and another 746 persons kidnapped between January and March 2023. Also under Buhari’s adminis­tration, attacks on worship centres claimed over 289 people within 18 months, one of the worst of which was the June 5, 2022 attack on Saint Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, in which about 40 wor­shipers were killed, according to data by NST. In a series of tweets titled “The Buhari regime,” which highlighted the eight years of the outgoing Pres­ident, Senator Shehu Sani, who rep­resented Kaduna Central Senatorial District between 2015 and 2019 said the killings were in spite of the “$20 billion budgeted for Defence (under) this administration…” Reacting to a statement by Gha­naian President Akufo Addo that West Africa will miss Buhari for bringing peace to the region, Sani prayed that with “over 63,000 people slaughtered, 3.6 million displaced, 11,536 schools closed, tens of thou­sands kidnapped for ransoms,” Ni­geria’s “tragedies should not be the wish of Ghana.” A Stack Of Debt Buhari’s government will also be remembered for the debt binge it threw Nigeria into. Only on Wednesday, May 24, Senate Pres­ident Ahmad Lawan read a letter from Buhari for approval to pay judgment debts of $566,754,584.31, £98,526,012.00 and N226,281,801,881.64 being owed by the Federal Govern­ment totaling N704 billion through the issuance of promissory notes. The letter recalled that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on March 29, approved the liquidations of the judgement debts by issuing promis­sory notes redeemable “over time through provisions in the budgets of the Federal Government of Ni­geria.” According to Statisense, a data tech company with expertise in analysis, while his predecessor left Nigeria’s total public debt at N12.06 trillion in March 2015, Buhari sim­ply broke the bar, raising it to N68.95 trillion, representing a 471.72 per­cent growth in eight years. This is besides the ₦22.7 trillion Ways & Means to be securitized and the fresh N704 billion judgment debts. ASUU Strike, Medical, Tourism Under Buhari’s administration, many public officials continued flaunting pictures of their chil­dren’s graduation from foreign universities, which is said to be why threat of strike actions by the Academic Staff Union of Universi­ties (ASUU) and others in the ivory tower are wantonly disregarded by government. In the last eight years, the Buhari family has flaunted the picture of their children’s gradua­tion from abroad, just like Dr. Buko­la Saraki, Senate President between 2015 and 2019, among others. When Waidi Nuhu was running about the streets in 2015 with the change mantra, he was expecting the country to change for the better. In the eight years of the outgo­ing government, ASUU is reputed to have gone on strike for over 610 days, the longest period of strike in the country’s democratic era. In 2020, university lecturers stopped work for over 270 days following disagreement with government over the funding of the universi­ties and the implementation of the payment system, with ASUU Pres­ident, Emmanuel Osodeke, accus­ing the Buhari government of insincerity and failure to prioritise education. It is always very funny, he lamented, “that the federal government cannot raise 200 billion to revamp all Ni­gerian universities annually to world standards. The same government can raise N4 tril­lion for fuel subsidies. Fuel subsidy and Nigerian educa­tion, which is more import­ant to any country that wants to move forward?” The lecturers were not alone, as there has been in­cessant strikes by doctors and other health workers in federal government hos­pitals resulted in the loss of more than 153 working days between 2015 and 2023. Due to this instability, Ni­geria lost an estimated £3 bil­lion to educational tourism in 2022 Doctor strike and all kinds of sector based strikes which have left the econo­my unable to give enabling opportunity for middleclass professional growth and planning, therefore the japa phenomenon of sustained brain drain of Nigerians to the diaspora increase astro­nomically as well. The Junketing President Buhari could go down in history as one of Nigeria’s most traveled President. In the first four years of his ad­ministration, he spent an es­timated 404 days travelling to 33 countries, most of which was for medical tourism, de­spite budgeting billions of tax payers’ money annually to maintain the State House Clinic, which was this year upgraded to a health centre. Last Line Also taking to his Twit­ter handle, Chidi An­selm Odinkalu, a human rights activist, lawyer and former Chairman of Nigeria’s National Hu­man Rights Commission (NHRC) wrote: “There is no way to massage the Mu­hammadu Buhari legacy. It’s dreadful,” he added, noting that the story head­lined “a legacy of kidnap­ping, inflation, & debt,” by the BBC is “quite kind” an assessment of the outgo­ing President’s years. But expectedly, as Buhari’s tenure winds down, his Spe­cial Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, claims the administration made outstanding progress between 2015 and 2023 in addressing security-related challenges. As if responding to the plethora of perceived mis­deeds by his administration, Buhari after the investiture of President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and Vice President-elect, Kashim Shettima, with national hon­ours on Thursday, ahead of Monday’s swearing in, retort­ed: “I have run a good race, I have finished my course. It is now time for another to take up the baton.’’