LAGOS  – The Chief Executive Officer of 11 Plc,Mr.Adetunji Oyebanji, has stated that policy change in the country’s oil and gas sector should guarantee level playing ground for all operators as the new government in Nigeria takes the baton. Oyebanji, made the declarations at the company’s Annual General Meeting, where he also emphasized that it was necessary for the new government to promote free market in the sector. He said: “People talk about deregulation from different perspectives but there will always be regulation at least in the areas of health, safety and product quality. However, regulation should not apply to the pricing and sourcing of products. “We believe that a policy change might be imminent and we are very optimistic that with the investment already made by the company,11Plc is well poised to take advantage of whatever policy directives of the incoming administration, especially at the federal level. “Looking forward, we see an inspiring bright and fulfilling future for our company and the country in general” He mentioned that despite the harsh operating environment in 2022, our Profit after tax also grew by 200 per cent to N18 billion in 2022 as against N6.08 billion in 2021. He said:”We are exhilarated with our performance in the year under review even though there is still room for improvement given our growing investment in human and capital resources. With the growing pedigree in all our business lines, we are upbeat about improved performance in subsequent years” According to him,the company’s greatest asset in meeting its vision remains the workforce, adding that it would continue to place a premium on our human capital and ensure that they key into its growth trajectory. POLL As part of efforts to improve deliverables by the workforce, Oyebanji said the company has continually trained them at various levels taking advantage of whatever human capacity development facilities are available in Nigeria. He added: “I thank my management team and the entire staff without whom; we would not have delivered this exemplary performance” He spoke on the business environment in 2022,saying that the Russia- Ukraine war has taken a toll on the Nigerian economy in many ways. The conflict caused disruptions to the global supply chains as prices of commodities such as crude oil, natural gas, aluminium, nickel, wheat, and other commodities soared to record levels, leaving markets in disarray. According to him, the price of a litre of diesel skyrocketed to a record high of N600, two weeks into the war, from around N420-N450, as oil prices climbed above $120 a barrel, worsening the inflation outlook in Africa’s biggest economy. He said, diesel prices have since risen to above N800 per litre and Nigeria has had to take a wrecking ball to its finances to keep up subsidies on petrol. He also said, manufacturers, retail outlets, and small businesses that rely on diesel to power their machines have had to raise the prices of manufactured goods and services, even as consumers grapple with lower purchasing power. He said the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) also entered its second year of effectiveness and continued its long journey towards implementation, adding that the most notable step was the creation of regulatory bodies for the petroleum upstream, midstream and downstream sectors and the official “relaunch” of The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation as NNPC Limited in July in a ceremony led by President Muhammadu Buhari. “The year also had the regrettable incident of the importation of adulterated petrol which took a toll on cars and the distribution of products across the country, especially in Lagos and Abuja. In 2022, Nigeria’s oil sector saw significant revenue leakages due to rising activities of crude oil theft as conservative estimates put the total leakages from oil theft and petrol subsidy to over N3.5 billion by the end of 2022. “Despite the daunting challenging environment which our company operated in the 2022 financial year, our company has continued to enjoy a cordial and seamless relationship with ExxonMobil and continues trade under the name Mobil trademark based on the agreement before its exit after the acquisition of the majority stake by NIPCO Investment. The new core investor is very bullish about Nigeria and has since stepped up its investment, subsequently raising the profile of our company as the gold standard in the hydrocarbon industry. “We have made lots of investments in packaging to eliminate counterfeiting, especially our lubricants. The company is also working closely with the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) on the issue of counterfeiting while law enforcement is assiduously working to checkmate perpetrators of this ignoble act. “Our hospitality firm, Lagos Continental Hotel, is also making giant strides by offering excellent services to its growing customers and competing favourably with its peers in the industry. We have remained a socially responsible organization in all ramifications either in our host communities or with relevant government agencies”.