The last has not been heard about the mark left by the dare-devil robbers who invad­ed the popular phone market, otherwise known as Tarmac at Ibara Roundabout in Abeokuta, Ogun State, killing one of the traders. The traders have, therefore, urged security agencies to come to their rescue by deploying security opera­tives to the market and its environs to prevent such attacks from occurring again in the future. Speaking on the incident, one of the traders who pleaded anonymity said the robbers who invaded the market in a commando-like style were moving from one shop to another and collecting phones including that of our customers. He said, “They broke into shops, packing phones, accessories, laptops and other gadgets into their bags.” It would be recalled that suspect­ed armed robbers numbering about eight, arrived at Abeokuta computer village in broad daylight masked and started to shoot sporadically to scare passers-by, business owners and other customers at the business hub. The Chairman, Mobile Phones Dealers and Technicians Associa­tion (MOPDATEC), Ogun State, Mr. Ifebola Togunwa, said men of the un­derworld dispatched themselves into four groups and raided about six shops within one hour at gunpoint. Speaking further on the market robbery, the trader further said, “It was a really terrible experience for us.” He added that while the robbers were at it, the traders later summoned courage and went after the armed rob­bers. “It was in the process of repelling the attack that Bankole lost his life,” he said. POLL He described Bankole’s death as shocking and a huge loss to the mar­ket. “When the robbers were done with their operation and were about to leave, we fought back because the majority of us are youths. “We summoned the courage and started pelting the hoodlums with stones, sticks, bottles and other objects we could lay our hands on. “We were doing this from a distance and this disorganised the robbers, but they kept shooting at us. “When they saw that we would not stop, they tried escaping. Some of them ran in different directions, two out of the attackers were trying to mount motorcycles and we gave them a hot chase. “They ran towards Omida market and we pursued them, the deceased caught with one of the robbers and engaged him in a fight, but the robber overpowered him and shot him in the process. “We got hold of one of them and disarmed him. He was later handed over to the police”, he said. He further lamented that the robbers stole goods valued at N16 million. He called on the security agencies to deploy security operatives to the market and its environs to prevent such attacks from occurring again in the future. Three of the four armed robbers who invaded the tech market were arrested on May 6, by detectives after Kemta Divisional Police officers re­ceived information about the suspects’ hide-out at Abule Ake area of Kemta for quite some time in order to evade Police arrest. The police spokesperson said the arrested suspects were identified as Ajayi Kayode, Habeeb Idowu and Temitayo Oresanya; two of the sus­pects had confessed to their partici­pation in the robbery incident, while the third one Oresanya, affirmed to the police he was a member of the same cult group with the three other suspects, but claimed that he didn’t participate in the robbery.