Supports Akpabio for Senate President, Abass for Speaker, Lalong for SGF JOS – The North Central All Progressive Congress (APC) Forum has thrown its weight behind the National Working Committee (NWC ) of the party in its zoning of the positions of the Senate President of the 10th National Assembly to the South-south and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to North-West. The forum made its resolution known on Monday in Jos the Plateau State capital after an emergency meeting on the crises which the zoning has been stirring among some aggrieved members of the National Assembly. Speaking on behalf of the forum, its Chairman Alhaji Saleh Mandung Zazzaga said there is nothing wrong with the zoning of the Senate President to South-South and Speaker House of Representatives to North-west. He also said the party’s choice on the consensus reached for the former Governor of Akwa Ibom state, Senator Godswill Akpabio, as the next Senate President and Hon. Tajudeen Abass from Kaduna State as the Speaker of the House of Representatives is in order. According to him, all those aggrieved party stakeholders should sheath their swords and support the decision of the party under which platform they also won elections and enjoyed support, adding that there are other appointive positions that are coming and varied regions would be captured. Similarly, he reiterated their forum’s call for the appointment of Governor Simon Lalong (North Central) as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), saying that Lalong deserves the position not only as a performing governor of Plateau State, Chairman of the Northern Governor’s Forum or the Director General of Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, but because he is an achiever and a goal getter.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Recall that some members of the party have been kicking against the zoning of positions of the Senate President and that of the Speakership of the 10th National Assembly by the APC National Working Committee (NWC). POLL “The party said it zoned the Senate President of the 10th National Assembly to the South-south and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to North-West. The party equally agreed on aconsensus for the former Governor of Akwa Ibom state, Senator Godswill Akpabio, as the next Senate President and Hon. Tajudeen Abass from Kaduna State as the Speaker of the House of Representatives. “We do not see how that should be causing any crises among the legislators from our party. All elective members of our party enjoyed the support of the party in one way or the order, and now to begin kicking against the party zoning arrangement of the National Assembly is not fair. “But we the North Central APC Forum have thrown our weight behind the party’s zoning arrangement and we also stand by the concensus of the Senate President and the Speaker. We all know the antecedents of Senator Godswill Akoabio as the Governor of Akwa Ibom State and even as a senator, as well as Hon. Tajudeen Abass from Kaduna State. “And on the appointment of the Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), we are affirming our support for Governor Simon Lalong. He has contributed to the development of our great party over the years and the emergence of our President-elect, Bola Tinubu and his able Vice, Kashim Shettima. Lalong is an achiever, a goal getter and a peace maker,” he said. He stressed on the need for all those aggrieved with the zoning to toe the line of peace and party progress and inculcate the respect for Party Supremacy at all times since they believe in the party and also belong to it. He urged the APC supporters to pray for a smooth and successful inauguration come May 29, saying that the incoming administration will fit in and do well and the nation will be better for it.