ABUJA – Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Olukayode Ariwoola has enjoined Information and Communication officers, and Legal Research Assistants to be efficient in the discharge of their duties. Justice Ariwoola gave the charge on Tuesday, at the opening of the 2023 Hybrid National Workshop on Legal Research, and Information and Communication Technology organised by the National Judicial Institute. The CJN described the workshop as a valuable platform to enhance the knowledge and acquaint participants with best practices as it holds tremendous significance due to the relevance of ICT and legal research in the administration of justice. “With the ever-evolving trends and techniques in ICT development, it is imperative for you to stay updated in order to carry out your duties effectively, the CJN said. “ICT has become an integral part of our society, and judiciaries worldwide are shifting from pen-and-paper practices to digital technologies. “This transformation has caused a revolution in the delivery of justice and further promises to make it more efficient and cost-effective, Justice Ariwoola said. However, in pursuit of digital integration, the CJN said the participants must ensure that the principles of the rule of law are not compromised. In his welcome address, the Administrator of the National Judicial Institute, Justice Salisu Abdullahi said the workshop was aimed at improving the quality, accessibility and cost efficiency of justice delivery through automated Case Management System (CMS) and other ICT mechanisms, thus bringing to the fore the importance of ICT in conducting legal research.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Justice Abdullahi noted that the theme of the workshop: “Nurturing High Standards of Performance for Better Service Delivery”, was vital to the objectives of the judiciary in attaining effective and efficient justice delivery. POLL “The high standard of performance by the support staff of the judiciary has been the backbone of speedy dispensation of justice and deepening of public trust. “Firstly, As court registrars, you are entrusted with the crucial task of overseeing the daily administration of the court. This includes case management, record keeping, and financial budgeting. “As the most central officer in any court registry, you are an invaluable asset to the judiciary.Secondly, As legal research assistants, you are required to have a fundamental understanding of the legal system and be familiar with various legal information sources and analytical tools. “Your responsibilities include gathering information using efficient research methods, critically evaluating the information, and applying it effectively while giving your opinions on legal issues. The Administrator advised participants to adhere to the standard outlined in the rules of professional conduct that regulate the activities of legal practitioners in the course of discharging their duties. According to Justice Abdullahi, the judiciary has witnessed significant growth and an increase in workload over the years. “Consequently, it has become necessary to implement modern and efficient technology solutions to overcome the challenges faced by the judiciary. “By integrating these modern solutions, there will be an inevitable increase in efficiency, productive research and easy information retrieval, the NJI boss stated.