Senator Abdullahi Adamu, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress has doused the ongoing frenzy surrounding the leadership of the 10th National Assembly, saying that the party is not in a hurry to zone the NASS leadership offices. He however said that the party will not stop those flouting their credentials, interests and interest of their zones, campaigning and positioning for the various leadership positions. Rising from a meeting of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) on Wednesday, in Abuja , Senator Adamu said the party cannot jump into zoning of the offices without due consultation with the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu who he said has the mandate of Nigerians, and has just returned to the country. Stressing that today’s NWC meeting toda did not dwell on the zoning arrangements for the 10th Assembly leadership, Adamu said the four-hour meeting of the NWC was successful“We came out a more formidable and united than anything” he said. ” When we do the zoning meeting and we don’t just go alone as a party, zoning is to take along the person who has the mandate of this country, President-elect, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinibu, we want to take him along. “He travelled after the election and he came back only last week and we have to carry him along. And we cannot stop those who are ambitious or zoning interest, or individual interest, we cannot deny them and as long as that is there, we have to find a way, persuasively of re some level of consensus. That’s is what we are working on. It is not a one-day affair”. Barr. Felix Morka, the National Publicity Secretary corroborated Senator Adamu, explaining that“Amongst all of the issues discussed at the meeting, we look at some internal and domestic house keeping matters with a colleague that you know who has expressed his concerns about something he believes the party should be doing”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Recall that a member of the NWC, Comrade Salihu Mohd Lukman had Tuesday last week dragged the party, INEC, the National Chairman and Secretary to Court, citing serial abuse of the party’s constitution. POLL “We deliberated completely about it. And as we speak, a committee that was set up to complete that conversation is in progress right now. So, there is a meeting that is going on that I am supposed to be part of to fully rectify that discussion and offer final recommendations on that subject. “But I am happy to report as the Chairman just indicated. The party stands completely united behind the leadership of His Excellency, the National Chairman of our party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. And we are all standing together. Our colleague who has concern, is being looked into. And I think in due course, we will have very specific conclusions of those discussions. We are good on this question” he explained. Elaborating the zoning formula for the NASS leadership he stressed that the party is not delaying the process. “We are not wasting time. There is no timeline to do so. The zoning is something that the party does. It is a mechanism by which the party is able to make decisions and afford those who are interested in competing for power in the leadership of the 10th National Assembly to do so with a minimum rift and rancour. To do so peacefully and seamlessly. “So there is no timeline to that. We are not in hurry. We want to do it right.The chairman just said this required very exhaustive consultation not just of the leadership of the party but also of those who are aspiring. So, that whatever the party comes up with, by way of formula will be acceptable with minimum friction. It is important that the consultation is done and it done properly. That is what is going on right now”.