JEROME-MARIO UTOMI With a few days to the May 29 inauguration of the new administration in the country, it is glaringly evident that President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government of Nigeria has successfully completed its constitutional two terms of eight years. Though there exists no codified, metered or iron cast way of assessing the administration’s performance, it is, however, assumed that an administration that spanned eight years must be able to point to some milestone achievements. Indeed, while there are flicker and recognizable flashes of achievements in some sectors of the nation, it is my view that infrastructural provision is the administration’s greatest accomplishment. The crucial point, then, is how do you define what constitutes infrastructural success and how was it achieved? What is/was the opportunity cost of the purported success? In February, 2021, President Buhari reportedly established the Infrastructure Corporation of Nigeria (InfraCorp), with initial seed capital of N1 trillion, provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) and the Africa Finance Corporation (AFC). InfraCorp was also expected to mobilize up to an additional 14 trillion Naira of debt capital. Through InfraCorp, Buhari catalyzed and accelerated investment into Nigeria’s infrastructure sector via originating, structuring, executing and managing end-to-end bankable projects in the country. Today, the administration has to its credit 56km Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge Rail, completed and inaugurated within a Nigerian record time of four years (2017 to 2021); 186km Abuja-Kaduna Standard Gauge Rail Line, completed and unveiled in 2016. 327km Itakpe-Warri Standard Gauge Rail, completed and inaugurated in 2020, 33 years after construction began. Also, the administration, going by media reports, invested over a billion dollars in three flagship projects: Lagos-Ibadan Expressway (for completion in May 2023), Second Niger Bridge (for completion in May 2023), Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano Expressway (two of three sections for completion in May 2023), among others. Even when this piece holds the opinion that the administration demonstrated understanding of the pivotal role infrastructural provision plays in providing the society with the services that underpin the ability of people to be economically productive, it will on the other hand objectively qualify the aforementioned achievements as sparse and insufficient, particularly when juxtaposed with a catalogue of adequately unattended sectors (education, security, power, Niger Delta region, labour and employment, etc). POLL In fact, each time I reflect on President Buhari’s eight years administration, the fears expressed by a friend in 2015 about the present administration come flooding. Adding context to the discourse, my friend, amidst euphoria triggered by the declaration of the 2015 presidential election result, cautioned me with these few words: “Men will change their ruler expecting to fare better; this expectation induces them to take up arms against him, but they only deceive themselves; and they learn from experience that they have made matters worse.” Eight years after that conversation, I cannot categorically say that my friend was right or wrong in his prediction. But the present instinct in the country explains two things; firstly, apart from the fact that the shout of integrity which hitherto rent the nation’s political space has, like light, faded; jeer has since overtaken the cheers of political performance while fears have displaced reason – resulting in an entirely separate set of consequences – irrational hatred and division. The reason for this spiraling feeling is understandable! In 2020 alone, there were outright abridgments of the masses’ welfare by the Federal Government via increase of Value Added Tax (VAT) from five to 7.5 per cent, re-introduction of Stamp Duty Charge, re-introduction of Stamp Duty on house rents and C of O transactions, electricity and petrol price hike crisis, among others. These were inextricably linked both in their causes and solutions. Each of these challenges has its roots in the administration’s payment of little attention or lip service to expert warnings about the poor state of the economy, and further fed by Federal Government’s persistent formulation of policies with no clear definition of problem, the goals to be achieved, or the means chosen to address the problems and to achieve the goals. There are very recent examples. According to a recent report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), it stated that in April 2023, the headline inflation rate rose to 22.22% relative to March 2023, which was 22.04%. Looking at the movement, the April 2023 inflation rate showed an increase of 0.18% points when compared to March 2023 headline inflation rate. Similarly, on a year-on-year basis, the headline inflation rate was 5.40% points higher compared to the rate recorded in April 2022, which was 16.82%. This shows that the headline inflation rate on a year-on-year basis increased in April 2023 when compared to the same month in the preceding year (i.e., April 2022). It is common knowledge that in January, 2023, Patience Oniha, Director general, Debt Management Office (DMO), while fielding questions from journalists at the public presentation and breakdown of the highlights of the 2023 Appropriation Act in Abuja, noted that the incoming Federal Government would inherit about N77 trillion as debt. Aside from signaling an indication that Nigerians should expect tough time ahead or better still, may not anticipate a superlative performance from the incoming administrations as they will from inception be over burdened by debt, what is, however, ‘newsy’ is that each time the present Federal government went for these loans, Nigerians were usually told that “the loans would stimulate the national economy, making it more competitive by focusing on infrastructural development, delivery of inclusive growth and prioritizing the welfare of Nigerians to safeguard lives and property; equipping farmers with high tools, technology and techniques; empowering and enabling mines to operate in a safe and secure environment and training of our youths through revival of our vocational institutions to ensure they are competitive enough to seize the opportunities that will arise for this economic revival.” What the above tells us as a country is that more work needs to be done and more reforms to be made. It also reminds us that as a nation, we are poor not because of our geographical location or due to absence of mineral/natural resources but because our leaders fail to take decisions that engineer prosperity. *Utomi is the Program Coordinator (Media and Politics), Advocacy for Social and Economic Justice (SEJA)