LAGOS – The operatives of Delta State Police Command have disclosed how they arrested five sus­pects in connection with armed robberies and secret cult activi­ties in the state. The Command said sequel to its unrelenting efforts, it has recorded massive arrests and recovery of one locally fabri­cated Beretta pistol, one pump action gun, four locally made cut-to-size guns, one battle axe, and 13 live cartridges. Bright Edade, Police Public Relations Officer of the Com­mand who confirmed this, said that in the early hours of May 22, 2023, at about 3 a.m., the DPO Oghara Division, SP Suleiman Yahaya Doma, while acting on intelligence he received, led a combined team of policemen from the division and the State Investigation Bureau (SIB) to a criminal hideout in Otefe Community Oghara, Ethiope West LGA. He said, “During the opera­tion, one Edafe Ajari (m) 29-yr-old, Wallis Louis (m) 24-yr-old, both of Otefe Community Oghara were arrested with one pump action gun, two double barrel cut-to-size, one battle axe, and three live cartridges.” He added, “The matter was under investigation. “ Edafe, a Deputy Superinten­dent of Police (DSP), disclosed that in another development on May 22, 2023, at about 1:13 p.m., the DPO Orerokpe Division, SP Paul Obaware, received in­formation from a member of Okwukoko Anti-cult Unit that one Bibi Asengbe (m) 38-yr-old, a notorious cultist and a gun-runner who had been on the command’s wanted list was sighted on a motorcycle around Okwukoko Community. He said that the patrol team from Orerokpe which was swiftly mobilised by the DPO alongside members of the local anti-cult embarked on a techni­cal intelligence-led operation and trailed the suspect to his hideout at Okwukoko, where he was rounded up and arrested. “When a search was con­ducted on him, a locally made English berretta pistol was re­covered. Investigation revealed that the suspect was on his way to supply the arm to one of his customers named Marvin (surname unknown) at Jak­pa Junction Warri at a cost of N250,000. The investigation is ongoing while a manhunt for the said Marvin and other ac­complices is ongoing.” POLL According to the police im­age maker, in Ughelli south LGA, on May 20, 2023, at about midnight, “acting on a tip-off, the DPO Otu-Jeremi Division, CSP Pius Eredie, working on information gathered on a syn­dicate who terrorises Usiefrun community, led patrol teams to the said community where the duo of Bright Akpomuje (m), aged 24, and Michael Oghener­uese (m) aged 24, were arrested with one locally made cut-to-size pistol and seven rounds of live cartridges. Suspects are in custody while the investigation is ongoing. “In Isoko North LGA, on May 18, 2023, at about 0930hrs, acting on a tip-off that some se­cret cult members were hold­ing a meeting at their hideout in Owhelogbo Community Isoko North LGA, police oper­atives attached to Otor-Owhe Division, stormed their hide­out and cordoned the area. The suspected cultists on noticing the presence of the policemen, took to their heels but were given a heated chase. During the chase, one Precious Moses, 30, of Owhelogbo was arrested and a locally made cut-to-size single barrel gun and three live cartridges were recovered from him. Investigation revealed that the suspect is a member of Viking Confraternity and part of the syndicate terrorizing the said community. Manhunt for the other fleeing members of the gang is ongoing.”