It was a short trading week on the Nigerian Exchange as the positive momentum and increased buying interest of bargain hunters supported the market rally for the period as revealed by the huge traded volume and positive market breadth. The recent of NGX was attributed to improved liquidity, impressive corporate earnings and actions in form of dividend announcement and payments approved at the recent AGMs. The positive sentiments in some sectors and accumulation of stocks with great value pushed the benchmark NGX All Share Index to close higher and thereby halting the six weeks pullback, despite the price adjustment in the shares of Nestle. Okomu Oil, Total Energies, Berger Paints and Eterna for dividends recommended by their boards, as he market traded above the 52,000-basis point mark, to solidified its rebound in the midst of earnings influx and expected macroeconomic reports ahead of the last MPC meeting of this administration before May 29 the handover date to the new government. Meanwhile, the market is still expecting the pending 2022 audited accounts of FBN Holdings, SterlingNG, Presco and others, especially unaudited numbers of March year end companies. The prevailing low prices of many stocks in the market due to price adjustments that has made many companies attractive for new entry and repositioning of portfolios in the midst of high inflation and contracting economic activities as result of high cost of funds that are impacting negatively on the general economy. Already, the market had extended it recovery from its oversold state as the NGXASI traded above the T line and 20-Day simple moving average on daily time frame that support uptrend pattern for technical traders and discerning investors. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ This, however, requires confirmation before players can fully jump into any position, especially as stocks have rally for some days to likely witness profit booking, despite the prevailing undervalued state. POLL As market digest the Q1 numbers released so far since these earnings reports beat market expectations. As these earnings are hitting the market, it better for market players to combine the fundamentals of these companies and their technical which the charts and volume below represent to guide players decision. Momentum is a word that is used an awful lot when referring to public markets. You hear people talk about “momentum stocks” or how they’re seeing a “momentum shift”. Let us look at the price action below.