Ikeja Metro Lions Club has raised funds to renovate and buy equipment for the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the Gbagada General Hospital, Lagos State, as part of its activities for the year 2022-2023 Lions Service Year. Speaking at a dinner tagged “Dinner with the Titans And Rewarding Excellence” held recently in Lagos to raise funds for the club’s core project as well as appreciate Lions and friends who have added value during this Lions Service Year, Lion Godson Ikechukwu Anigbo, President of the club, said that the renovation and equipment will improve the service delivery of the hospital to its patients. He stressed the need for individuals and corporate organizations to support the government in order to deliver on its promises to the people regarding health services. He also called for support from corporate organizations, philanthropists and well-meaning Nigerians to donate in order to ensure the completion of the project on time. Anigbo said, “Ikeja Metro Lions Club is counting on you for the completion of this noble project.“Your financial support is crucial to our efforts to solve the problems in the health sector of our dear Lagos State and indeed our country Nigeria. “We truly believe that the government needs to be supported and assisted to ensure we jointly build a better and healthier nation. “It is all about collaboration and partnering with the government in the health sector. We came into the hospital and we saw a need and we are already solving the problems by renovating the ICU. It is at 100%  now. We have started buying medical equipment to enable us to equip the ICU. We hope to commission it on or before the end of May.” Also speaking at the event, the Core Project and Fundraising Committee Chairperson, Lion Umebali Blessing, said the impact of renovating and equipping the Intensive Care Unit of the Gbagada General Hospital will go a long way to save the lives of the citizenry, thereby making life worth living. POLL “The whole essence of life is to uplift one another no matter how little, because kindness is like a baton when you have it you pass it on to the next person,” Umebali submitted.She said that every person should be a part of community service activities in order to assist the government in touching the lives of the people, especially the poor and needy in society.Members of the Lions club and guests donated towards completing the project.