The much touted elections have come and gone and winners declared by Nigeria’s Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, with preparations heating up for the inauguration and swearing in of the next president and other political office holders on May 29, 2023. With glee, experts from across the country have begun to generously throw in their submissions and setting agenda for the incoming government of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on various sectors of the economy, with the hope to set the government on the right path for the successful governance of the country. In the light of this, Jide Owatunmise, an expert on Road Safety and the Director of Studies, Institute of Driving Instructors of Nigeria, in an exclusive discussion with DAILY INDEPENDENT gave the following submissions; Road Safety is a very critical area that no Government in Nigeria has ever paid adequate attention to till date. Over 80 per cent of Transportation in Nigeria is done by road. It is however unfortunate that the Governments at the Federal, State and Local levels have not for once paid serious attention to Road Safety right from Road construction, Road furniture, vehicle road worthiness, Driver Education by Driving Schools, Road Traffic Enforcement and general road safety administration despite the daily loss of lives and properties on Nigeria roads. According to global reports affirmed by the United Nations through the World Health Organisation (WHO), Nigeria is among the 10 Countries in the world with the highest rate of Road Traffic Crashes, Injuries and Deaths in the world. This is disheartening; yet, no Nigerian Government has taken any serious action to stem this worrisome tide. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The number of people killed and maimed by road accidents annually is more than those killed by Boko Haram, Bandits and insurgency put together. POLL Yet, billions of dollars and trillions of naira have been expended on the criminal activities that killed less to the neglect of road accidents that killed much more. Both should be given the right attention for speedy and permanent solutions. The Nigerian Government signed more than 5 International Conventions on Road Safety without paying attention to their implementation in the Country. The UN Decade of Action for Road Safety (2011 – 2020) came and passed without Nigeria achieving any of the Goals or Pillars. We are already two years into the extended UN Decade of Action for Road Safety (2021 – 2030) with no sign of commitment from the Government. The National Road Safety Advisory Committee (NaRSAC) was set up and I was opportune to be a Member of the Technical Working Group. We successfully packaged the Nigeria Road Safety Strategy (2021 – 2030). Some States have launched their State Road Safety Advisory Committees (SaRSAC). Up till now, Nigeria has not achieved 10 percent of the objectives. May 15 – 21, 2023 is the Global Road Safety Week with the Theme: Thinking Mobility with the objective of promoting Walking, Bicycling And Public Transportation. As at today, there is no serious action by the Federal, State and Local Government towards this event which is the launch of the areas of Road Safety on which Governments worldwide should focus attention on for at least the next 2 years The incoming Government at the Federal, State and Local levels including the Legislative and Judicial Arms should focus the following areas as the case may be: Road Construction Roads and Road Furniture must be constructed with the safety component well taken care of. Hitherto, this has not been the case as could be clearly seen in the case of the Abuja to Lokoja Road. Awarding of road construction should not be more of a political statement which will unduly prolong the construction time which has caused so many crashes and loss of lives. The formula of Governor Wike of Rivers State should be adopted by the Federal, State and Local Governments. Governor Wike will not award contracts for roads or bridges when adequate money is not available to fund them. Once he awards a contract, he releases between 75 to 85 per cent of the project cost which will be sufficient for the Contractor to finish the work. He will supervise and ensure the project is completed within the stipulated period. This is why projects awarded by him were delivered on time with high quality of performance. The process of awarding the contract should be such that it will not leave the Contractor with less money to implement the job thereby doing shoddy or inferior jobs. The process should be corruption – free. When Officers of Government milk Contractors, they will not have quality jobs. The process of delaying the funding of contracts also depletes Government funds through frequent cost review of ongoing projects. Many roads were constructed without traffic signs, road marking, and other road furniture thereby making them death traps. Road User Education Adequate attention needs to be paid to the provision of quality Education to all road users, including; (Drivers, Riders, Pedestrians and others). The Driving Schools charged with the mandate for Road Users Education should be supported by the Governments as it obtains in Countries like the United Kingdom. All Road Users must undergo periodic training in accredited Driving Schools as contained in the National Road Traffic Regulations (2012 and 2016 Ammendments), Resolutions of the National Council of State(2014, 2021 and 2022) and the Nigeria Road Safety Strategy(2021 – 2030). Road Safety Education should be included in the Curriculum of Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Institution with serious and result – oriented support from the Governments. Traffic Law Harmonisation and Enforcement The traffic regulations of the Federal Road Safety Commission, Nigeria Police Act/Federal Highway Act and the various State traffic Regulations should be thoroughly harmonised for uncompromised enforcement nationwide. The use of modern day technology should be embraced for a more effective and uncompromised environment nationwide. Too many Nigerians are dying daily on the road. The Governments should no longer place revenue above the Safety of irreplaceable lives and valuable properties. An end should be put to the recurring quarrels or arguments about which Arm of Government has the right over the other to control traffic or enforce traffic laws on one road or the other. The National Assembly and the Judiciary to work on the establishment of Small Claims Courts dedicated to the prosecution of Traffic Offenders nationwide instead of the unstable Mobile Court system currently in use. The use CCTV Cameras particularly at black spots of the roads nationwide and connected to an independent control room should be created. The Nigerian Government can work towards linking the CCTV Cameras to the BVN of all vehicle Owners so that the stipulated fines for traffic offences can be deducted automatically from the bank accounts of the vehicle Owners without human intervention which could be corrupted. This will further ensure sanity on the roads. Road Worthiness Of Vehicles The Federal Government should intensify efforts to disallow vehicles that are not road worthy from being imported into the Country. It is not only rickety vehicles that are not roadworthy. For example, any new or used car that has red colour as turn indicator or pointer instead of yellow is not roadworthy. Likewise, any car without airbags, no matter how new, is not roadworthy. There are global road safety standards that must be strictly adhered to. Nigeria is already a Signatory to the International Road Safety Conventions. Conventions The incoming President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria should go through all the Road Safety Conventions which Nigerian Governments have signed and work assiduously to implement them to drastically reduce and ultimately end the loss of lives on Nigeria roads. Committee The President should set up a Committee of Road Safety Stakeholders to critically examine the points I raised in this write up and much more so that objective and result – oriented recommendations can be made available to the President for proactive policies and decisions. Public Transportation There has been a gross neglect of public transportation by the Federal and State Governments in Nigeria. There is a need for the 10th Assembly of the new Federal Government to take a deep look at the new National Transport Bill, review and sign it into law for full implementation. Instead of individual operation of the public transportation system, corporate operation should be adopted to reduce crime. The Mass Transit system should also be encouraged with financial support from the Government. The use of Public Private Partnership strategy should be adopted to construct many networks of strategic and commercial roads nationwide without putting financial pressures on the Government. Organised Park System and Rest Bays As at today, there is no standard Motor Park in Nigeria except in Lagos and Oyo States that have very few which are grossly inadequate in the 2 States. The absence of standard motor parks in the various States is further complicating Nigeria’s poor public transportation and road traffic systems. There are no single ‘Rest Bays’ along any of the Federal Roads thereby prompting motorists to park on road shoulders, causing accidents and destroying the roads. Joint Task Force could be added to the Rest Bay operations. That is, the operation offices of Nigeria Police, FRSC, NDLEA, Nigeria Customs, Nigeria Immigration and Small Claims Courts could be established as appendages to all the Rest Bays to enhance their operations, security and safety on the strategic roads covered. The Rest Bays should also have Driver Training Facilities and Driver Licence Processing centres where traffic law violators can be offered correctional training and refined for safer road use.