LAGOS  – The recent introduction of Golden Terra Soya Oil Mega-Fill Pack to the Nigerian market is gaining positive consumer reviews as its popularity rise steeply. The new Mega-Fill pack which comes in a tamper-proof refill pouch ticked the boxes for consumers who are constantly looking for all-purpose healthy cooking oil that fits into their weekly family-size purchase requirements to enhance the natural taste and aroma of food and fries. The trendy 1-liter pouch is in keeping with the current trends of consumers who are becoming more conscious of their spending, based on limited purchasing power and understanding of the consumers’ desire for affordable healthy oil in a refill pouch that meets their needs. Golden Terra Soya Oil is the ultimate kitchen companion! Not only is it enriched with Vitamin A, but also a rich source of Omega 3 and 6, with zero cholesterol and zero Trans Fat. This makes it a perfect choice for consumers looking to maintain a healthy heart. Its unique composition ensures low oil retention, giving you that satisfying crispiness in your meal. Its high smoke point also makes it suitable for deep frying and high-heat cooking methods like stir-frying, baking and roasting. From enhancing natural food flavors to making frying a breeze, Golden Terra Soya Oil offers it all. Sharing their excitement about the trendy 1- liter pouch, a number of consumers express their delight with the newly introduced Mega-Fill Pack. Mrs. Ehi Osadolor, a proud mother of three who lives in Benin City, Edo State says she got to hear about Golden Terra Soya Oil refill pack from her neighbour who has been using Golden Terra Soya Oil to do all her cooking. POLL “As a mother of three in this economy, I am very mindful of my spending. I was delighted when I saw the Mega-Fill pack in my neighborhood, knowing that I can now buy one sachet that will last me until my next shopping day. I am happy the manufacturers considered us that like to eat healthily but do not have much money to buy in bulk”, she said. Mrs. Sherifat Alhassan, a caterer based in Minna, Niger State says that the new Golden Terra Soya Mega-Fill pack fits into her clients’ purchase budget, “I am happy because Golden Terra has given us a lot of pocket-friendly options. “I am impressed by the manufacturer’s innovative mindset. It’s also great knowing that I and my family can eat healthy on a budget” she remarked. Also speaking with Segun Oshinowo, a father of two who loves to shop for his family, “I recently purchased the Golden Terra Soya Oil Mega–Fill pack for my family, I was thrilled when I saw the sachet pack because I didn’t know the brand now has a bigger size in a sachet. For my family, the pack size helps us to cut costs when shopping. It feels good knowing that I can have the same healthy cooking oil at an affordable size and pack. Golden terra Soya Oil has always come through for me in school says Simiat Fadeyi, a student of the University of Lagos. “No matter how much money I have I always get to buy a sachet of Golden Terra Soya Oil. “I noticed that the oil doesn’t stick to the food like other cooking oils, and it fries crispier, which is a plus for me,” Simiat said. “I love that it’s a healthy option, but I’m even more thrilled that it’s affordable and comes in convenient pack sizes. It’s perfect for me,” Probal Bhattacharya, Chief Marketing Officer, TGI Group, says the concept behind the introduction of the Golden Terra Soya Oil Mega-Fill Pack was to excite consumers with a pack size that meets their weekly purchase and offer affordable Soya Oil for their meals.