The 2023 Batch A Stream II orientation course programme for corps members deployed to Ogun State for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) ended Tuesday in Sagamu. The closure of the three weeks orientation training course marked the end of the first phase of the service year that is followed by deployment to Places of Primary Assignment (PPA). The Ogun State Coordinator of the 50-year-old scheme, Mrs. Winifred Shokpeka, in her address at the formal closing ceremonies held at the NYSC Permanent Orientation camp in Sagamu urged the corps members to sustain the spirit of patriotism, resilience and hard work imbibed during the camping period, saying expectations of Nigerians are high in anticipation of their postings to government offices and parastatals, schools and communities. Shokpeka appealed to the corps members to collect and accept posting letters to wherever they are deployed, make their impact felt positively and creatively and urged corps employers and communities to be good hosts. “In this regard, I would like to remind you of the oath of allegiance you took in which you pledged to accept posting in good faith. I enjoin you to perform your duties with diligence and be guided by the provisions of the NYSC Act and Bye-Laws as well as workplace rules and regulations. “In keeping with the objectives of the Scheme, you are expected to integrate into your host communities while also appreciating and respecting their cultures. You must desist from meddling in their local politics. “Furthermore, I enjoin you to undertake personal and group Community Development Service Projects that will help to uplift the living standard of the host communities.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Emphasising the need to be security conscious in their PPAs, the Coordinator said, “My dear Corps Members, as you proceed to your Places of Primary Assignment, I urge you to be security conscious at all times, as security is everyone’s business.” POLL She urged them to avoid acts that are capable of endangering their lives such as staying out late, attending night parties, visitation of dangerous places, and acceptance of car rides and gifts from strangers. However, she affirmed that the scheme remains committed to the provision of adequate security measures and general welfare for the well-being of corps members across the nooks and crannies of the state at all times. She urged them to prepare for the world of employment and continue with the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme by building on the skills acquired in camp preparatory for self-reliance, saying the scheme would not shirk in providing requisite start-up loans to actualise their business dreams. She warned that the scheme does not confer immunity for wrongdoing and cautioned against involvement in social vices, especially drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime, advanced fee fraud and spreading of fake news, amongst others. ” I urge you to avoid using social media for ethnic jingoism, rumour peddling and the promotion of hatred. Instead, your activities online should be targeted at self-improvement as well as promotion of the unity, peace and development of our dear country,” Shokpeka added. Before she declared the orientation ceremonies closed, she thanked Governor Dapo Abiodun for his unwavering support for the Scheme, local government councils, security agencies, traditional rulers, corps employers and other stakeholders whose support has been contributing to the success of NYSC’s operations in the state.