LAGOS – The Federal Government has given its official endorsement and support for the establishment of the Nigerian Wholesale Impact Investment Fund (WIIF), and committed to providing 50% seed capital for its take-off. Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, the Minister of State, Finance, Budget, and National Planning, while delivering his speech at a high-level roundtable meeting on the establishment of the Nigerian WIIF held in Abuja on Thursday, endorsed the Nigerian WIIF as an alternative instrument for the effective implementation of public welfare and social schemes. The minister commended the dedicated efforts of the technical committee led by the Permanent Secretary of Finance, Mr Aliyu Ahmed. The Nigeria Wholesale Impact Investment Fund (WIIF) was conceived and championed by concerned stakeholders comprising the National Advisory Board for Impact Investing (NABII), Impact Investors’ Foundation (IIF), Ford Foundation, and Nigeria Competitiveness Project (a GIZ-funded programme) – who worked closely with the Federal Government to create a roadmap for its establishment. The Nigerian Wholesale Impact Investment Fund was created to drive sustainable and impactful investment in the country by channeling financial resources into projects and enterprises that generate positive social and environmental outcomes, alongside financial returns. Prince Clem emphasised the opportunities identified in the National Development Plan 2021-2025 for impactful investments such as “scaling up renewable energy capacities, utilizing natural resources for import substitution and enhanced foreign exchange, building a circular economy, and improving the bio-economy.” He encouraged all stakeholders present to “assess the challenges within their communities and consider how capital could be directed towards generating long-term, sustainable solutions.” The roundtable was attended by top government officials, industry experts, development partners, and other relevant stakeholders who shared diverse perspectives and insights to inform the design, structure, and strategic direction of the Nigerian Wholesale Impact Investment Fund. POLL Mrs Ibukun Awosika, the Chairperson of NABII, expressed her gratitude to the Minister of Finance, Budget, and Planning, as well as the Minister of State for Budgets and Planning, for their dedicated partnership, support and commitment to the project, which had been instrumental to its success. Having served on the ITF Task Force for Impact, and currently serving on the Global Steering Group Board for Impact Investing, Mrs Awosika highlighted the extensive work conducted globally between 2021 and 2022 on impact and achieving effective results, with a focus on Africa.