Dominic Alancha, a public af­fairs analyst and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has urged Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, President-elect, to stay away from power shar­ing brouhaha in the National Assembly (NASS). Alancha said that allowing the decision of the National Working Committee (NWC) as regards the leadership of the National Assembly to stand would destroy the in­dependence of the legislative arm of government. Faulting what NWC called consensus, Alancha in an in­terview on Wednesday noted that what the NWC has done is not consensus. He said, “When you talk about consensus you will agree that Mr. A should take this, and Mr. B should take that, and all of them will agree, and that is when you can say that there was consensus. “In this case, senators, and members were not consulted. You can see in the South-East when they met, there was no single senator contesting for that position that was con­sulted, whether Osita Izuna­so, Orji Uzo Kalu, they are the two major candidates from the South-East that are con­testing for Senate Presidency.” “It is the same for the House of Representatives. Aminu Jaji was not consult­ed, Betara was not consulted, Idris Wase, the current Dep­uty Speaker and the highest ranking officer in the House was not consulted, and even the only female contestant was not also consulted. He added, “Which was why in the letter that the party re­leased to the press a few days ago, they tactically advised the leadership to engage in further consultations. It also tells you that the party was not properly carried along. Believe me, that has put the party in a very bad state, and in a very bad position.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “People are pointing ac­cusing fingers at Aswiaju Bola Tinubu for endorsing this kind of a thing. I think he should stay away from that. POLL “Recall that about a year ago when the NWC came out and announced Lawn as a consensus presidential candi­date, as a democrat he (Tinu­bu) said he was going into the election. He went against the position of the party, del­egates supported him because he canvassed for their votes, and he was elected as the flag bearer of our party and today he is the president-elect. “We mobilized and worked for him. As a true democrat, I think he should stay away and allow the members-elect and senators-elect to elect somebody they feel can lead the 10th Assembly and then they should be conscious of zoning.”