The endorsement ship sailing across the nooks and crannies of Imo State for Governor Hope Uzodimma re-election berthed at Ahiazu Mbaise Local Gov­ernment Area on Tuesday, as the people, across party lines unanimously urged him to seek re-election. The people were in agree­ment that he has done well to merit continuity in office to con­solidate the gains he has already recorded. The Council Headquarters of Ahiazu Mbaise at Afor Oru, where the endorsement took place, was not only agog but wit­nessed an impressive turnout of the All Progressives Congress leaders and their supporters as well as others from other Polit­ical parties. Those in attendance in­cluded the re-elected Imo State House of Assembly member for Ahiazu, Sam Otuibe, Polit­ical Appointees led by the Sole Administrator, Tony Anakani, the Commissioners – Dr. Elias Emedom and Dr. Tony Mgbe­ahuruike and the Governor’s Chief Press Secretary/Special Adviser (Media), Oguwike Nwa­chuku. Other appointees were: Special Advisers, Hon. (Mrs.) Chidinma Onuoha, Mrs. Rose Nwigwe, the Coordinator, Ekwereazu Development Cen­tre, Chief Okey Ezem, all Local Government and Ekwereazu Development Centre Political appointees, and all the 12 Gov­ernor’s Liaison Officers. The APC LG Chairman, Chief Ethelbert Ugwu led his team of executives including those of the 12 Wards to the oc­casion, including State Officer, Hon. Tony Odirichukwu. The Political leaders were also not missing in action. They include former Council Boss, Chief Adauctus Onuoha, Chief Charles Obilor, Dr. Simeon Chi­nagorom, Chief Francis Nzen­wata, Hon Chris Okechukwu, Hon Law Agulanna, Hon (Mrs.) Salome Onuoha, Chief Johnny Chilakpu, Chief Ebere Nwosu, and Chief Cajethan Iwu, among many others.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ President Generals of Town Unions in Ahiazu Mbaise were represented by their leader, Chief Magnus Amaefule while the Chairman, Ahiazu Mbaise Council of Traditional Rulers, HRH Eze Sabinus Nwaneche, representing the traditional in­stitution, led his members such as Eze B.C Onuoha, Eze S.P Iwu and Eze Pius Onyekwere to the event. POLL In his opening remarks, the host and Ahiazu Mbaise Sole Administrator, Chief Tony Anakani welcomed everyone to the gathering and extolled the developmental strides of Gov­ernor Uzodimma, especially on road infrastructure, “particular­ly the fast-paced work on Ower­ri-Mbaise-Umuahia road which has brought accolade to the 3R Government, rehabilitation of 5km rural roads, renovation of many Community Health Cen­tres, Social Intervention and empowerment Programmes for Ahiazu youths and women, etc.”