NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE Governor Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak of Kwara State has proved beyond doubt his capacity to win elections amidst all odds. On May 29, he will be sworn in to kick start a second four-year term in office. But analysts generally agree that political sagacity as demonstrated by a victory at the poll may neither be same as delivering on the dividends of governance, nor meeting the expectations of the public, as it may well appear from varied reports and comments by observers. When Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State unveiled his over 2,000-member Campaign Council in ahead of his second-term bid in February, he had enthused that the achievements of his administration will speak for him, especially in the dilapidated structures he met on ground across the state in such sectors as primary health and education, infrastructure and water supply, which his administration had gone very far to overcome. Rating his performance so far as a basis for a second-term ticket, abdulRazaq told the council: “We have done exceedingly well across sectors,” while promising to consolidate on its achievements, positioning it for greatness, while further empowering especially the youth and women. “The previous governments couldn’t even pay salaries, pensions and gratuities in spite of huge funds that they received. Within the last two months, we have paid about N6 billion to clear salary arrears, pensions and gratuities for 2009, 2010, and now 2011,” while ensuring the total revamp of government processes and prioritisation of people’s needs. According to Olasumbo Florence Oyeyemi, the state’s Commissioner for Finance and spokesperson of the council, AbdulRazaq administration has delivered on its promise to make the people and their needs the “heart and cantre-piece of government’s plans and operations,” riding on what has come to be known as the “Otoge revolution” of 2019 described as a total rejection and complete break from an era where the destiny of the people was in the hands of a privileged few. POLL In her words, “We have invested in education, rebuilt schools, improved teachers’ welfare, provision of water, and provided educational materials for our kids to learn effectively in friendly environments and become drivers of future growth. “We have delivered quality healthcare, renovating and expanding PHCs in the state so that women and children, are no longer made to travel several kilometres just to see a doctor,” all of which the people would not overlook in exchange for “the empty grandstanding of those who made Kwara the butt of national joke.” Perhaps, agreeing with the council that the governor indeed performed well, the people gave him their mandate for a fresh four year term to enable him complete what he started. One of such sectors is education where the investment by the Kwara State is yet to be truly reflected by data, especially from the West African Examination Council (WAEC), which in 2021 ranked Kwara State as one of the three sub-nationals in the country with the poorest performance. That year, the state ranked 34th out of 36 states, meaning that over 85 percent of candidates who took the examination did secure credit passes in five subjects including English and Mathematics. The result was considered strange, considering investments in Education by Governor Abdurazak, who assumed office at the Government House on Ahmadu Bello Way, G.R.A Ilorin. Two years earlier. Indeed, when he assumed office in 2019, WAEC had blacklisted about 165 schools for widespread malpractices, and a N30.5m penalty, which the state government paid to unban, handing down warnings to school heads, many of whom were transferred. Earlier in the same year, he had to normalize relationship with the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), the country’s basic and junior secondary education funding body, after previous administration had criminally diverted money from UBEC to finance basic and junior secondary school education for which the state ought to provide counterpart funding. Prof. Shehu Adaramaja, the Executive Chairman of Kwara State Universal Basic Education Board disagrees that the governor be blamed for the poor showing in the 2021 WAEC examinations. He argues rather in an opinion piece that “the result is one of the several consequences of poor choices that Kwara made in the past. Most of the Kwara public school students who sat WASCE in the last few years are victims of next-to-zero investments in basic education for the most part of the second decade of the 21st century.” The consequence was that Kwara was blacklisted, again, from accessing UBEC money for five years until Governor Abdulrazak restored the trust after meeting the necessary counterpart obligations for those years. In the Health Sector, Kwara equally performed poorly, according to data from National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). Although it was not among the 18 States with the poorest Primary Health Care (PHC) delivery system, it was also not on the top six which had states like Nasarawa, Benue, Niger, also in the North-Central. The three states had better results, even while they are not as buoyant financially as Kwara, going by their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). For instance, Kwara rakes N34 billion in annual IGR, 70 percent more than the N20 billion earned by each of Nasarawa and Niger; also the Benue State’s N10 billion. Experts explaining these different outcomes in states, blame the parlous condition of the health and education sectors in Kwara, like many others, on ‘weak governance,’ but those close to the Abdulrazak administration strongly disagree but decline to offer any official position. Nonetheless, as Governor Abdulrazak takes the oath of office for a second term on May 29, he may well have to pay more than the usual attention to these sectors, just as many other concerns have already been raised. On Rising Debt: One other issue that would require keener attention in Kwara is her rising debt profile, the domestic component of which grew from N61.335 billion at the end of June 2019, a month after the governor first too office, to N109.382 billion at the end of last year, representing a 78.33 percent growth within the period, according to data obtained from the NBS website. Within the period also, total external (multilateral) debt increased from $44.888 million to $47.961 million. It will be interesting to know the current debt situation as of May 29, when he begins the second and final leg of his sojourn as chief executive of Kwara. While Abdulrazak and his handlers believe he has done well, which was why he was rewarded with a second-term ticket at the poll, critics noted that based on key governance and development indicators he didn’t deserve a return ticket to Government House, citing empirical data as key metrics for measuring the quality of governance and wellbeing, especially life expectancy, maternal and infant mortality, gender based development initiatives and so on. Kwara NEEDS: In all of these, a key component of achieving good governance, according to Dr Abdullateef Alagbonsi, a statistician, is using reliable data based on actual needs of residents to plan and execute policies. “This is something sadly lacking in the state of Kwara,” explained Alagbonsi the coordinator, Elite Network Sustainable Development, ENetSuD, an NGO, that measures transparency in budget implementation in Kwara State,” adding that in a few weeks, the NGO will be launching the first needs analysis of Kwara, privately funded by another NGO- the Gobir Foundation Organsiation (GFO). ‘Kwara’s Needs,’ as the survey is called, publishes findings from 500 communities in the state based on what their actual needs are. The NGO embarked on this venture because, according to Alagbonsi, Kwara has no viable data source. Sadly, the Kwara Bureau of Statistics (KBS), established 11 years ago in 2012, has remained a mere paper agency of government, raising questions as to the data upon which the state’s annual budgets are based and implemented. This, Alongbonsi told our correspondent, for example, as revealed by his investigation during the NEEDS analysis, is why the state government focuses on wrong priorities for the respective communities. A good way for Abdulrazak to kick-start his second term may just be to attend to the concerns raised in the ENetSuD report, some of which are quite disturbing. Continuing, Alagbonsi asked Daily Independent rather rhetorically: “Do you know that there are over 20 communities in Kwara where people share drinking water with cattle? In communities “where you have need for drinking water, they give them transformers when there are some already serving the community,” situations the statistician described as flip-flops that should be avoided in governance. Economically, Kwara State is civil service-driven like most sub-nationals in the country, but unlike in previous administrations, Abdulrazak has successfully kept faith with paying salaries regularly, besides paying the backlogs he inherited, besides effecting decades-long delayed promotions, a situation that endeared him to workers. “These salaries stimulate the local economy and keep the state running,” Abdulrazak once said at a meeting with the state’s civil service corps. Aside regular payment of salaries, he has also incentivized workers, with plans afoot to turn Kwara into a hub for SMEs/business start-ups hub for the North-Central through deliberate infrastructural improvements and investments in key projects. Misplacements: But these have come with cautious optimism and even a tinge of suspicion, given the grandeur in their funding. For instance, Governor Abdulrazak embarked on refurbishing the Ilorin head office of the Kwara Internal Revenue Service (KWIRS), estimated at N3.6 billion. Such projects, critics protest, are unnecessary when the money lavished on them could have been put into other critical sectors, like Ilorin’s bubbling fishery hubs, along the Asa River, especially around the famous Asa Dam which feeds sprawling fish farming communities believed to be in dire need of access roads and other critical intervention. As one stakeholder who craved anonymity told our correspondent, “unofficially, the fishing hub generates more than N100 million on monthly basis from farming catfishes. Fishes from “Odo Eja” go to cities like Ibadan, Osogbo, Lagos, and even as far as Rivers State.