LAGOS. -It’s important for a pregnant mother to consume nutrients like folic acid, iron, zinc, and iodine as well as protein as they are vital to the development of a child. Indeed, a baby’s risk for developmental delay, birth abnormalities, and cognitive deficiencies increases if one or more of these nutrients are deficient during pregnancy. Therefore, it is important for a mother to consume foods containing essential nutrients during pregnancy and after giving birth for her child to be healthy. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) is addressing issues that impede mothers and babies from obtaining adequate care and nutrition during the crucial first 1000 days of life in collaboration with the government and other partners. In order to do this, UNICEF encourages mothers to exclusively breastfeed while also expanding immunization coverage and uptake. UNICEF reports that stunting and wasting are still prevalent in the South-West region of the country, generally more widespread across Nigeria, compared to other countries. This was confirmed in the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS 6) report released in 2022, but conducted in 2021 by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), in collaboration with UNICEF and other development agencies.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In Southwest, the MICS 6 report, shows that all states in the South-West region of Nigeria demonstrate poor outcomes in the prevalence of stunting and wasting. POLL In Nigeria, 12 million children under 5 are stunted, meaning they are too short for their age due to malnutrition, according to a new analysis in a Global Nutrition Crisis report on Adolescent girls and women. Of those, about half become stunted during pregnancy and the first six months of life, the 500-day period when a child is fully dependent on maternal nutrition, the report added. Wasting refers to a child who is too thin for his or her height and is the result of recent rapid weight loss or failure to gain weight. On stunting, the data shows that Oyo state ranks highest with 34.5 percent, and Ogun state has 26.6 percent of its children still stunted. This was followed by Osun with 23.7 percent, Etiki state with 22.3 percent, Ondo state has 20.4 percent and Lagos state having the least stunted children at 17.2 percent. For wasting, Etiki and Ondo States have 3.3 percent respectively and that is the lowest in South-West states. Oyo has 3.9 percent, Osun 4.5 percent and Ogun has 5.7 percent, Lagos state with 6.4 percent with the highest prevalence among children under 5 years of age. Stunting and wasting among children contradict the requirements of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) target 2.2. The SDGs target 2.2 seeks to end all forms of malnutrition. This includes achieving the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under five years of age and addressing the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women, and older persons. The ‘First 1000 Days’ of a child is from the conception of the child to the second birthday. During this period, nutritional needs must be constantly increasing. However, not meeting the child’s nutritional needs could negatively influence their long and short-term health outcomes. The Pivotal First 1,000 days A 2008 Lancet Nutrition Series, revealed how pivotal the first 1,000 days – from the start of pregnancy until the child’s second birthday- are to the well-being of both the individual and the society in which he or she lives. The series strengthens the evidence that a nation’s economic advancement is tied to the first 1,000 days of every child’s life. Malnutrition can haunt children for the rest of their lives. Undernourished children are more susceptible to infectious diseases and achieve less education and have lower cognitive abilities. As a result, undernutrition can significantly impede a country’s economic growth. Cristian Munduate, UNICEF Nigeria’s country representative, said, “Investing in children is investing in human capital. The right to health, nutrition, and care, especially during the first 1000 days of life, can have a significant impact on a child’s ability to live, grow, learn, and rise out of poverty. It can break the cycle of poverty for families, communities, and countries, and shape a society’s long-term stability and prosperity.” UNICEF further reported that a child’s brain at birth develops 25 percent of adult size, by age two which is the first 1000 days, the child’s brain has developed by 75 percent of adult size. Also, by age six; greater than 90 percent of adult size. To improve what will shape a child’s lifelong chance for health during the first 1000 days, it becomes critical to ensure that the foundation for a child’s future well-being is built. “Good nutrition during the first 1000 days provides the building blocks for healthy brain development,” said Ada Ezeogu, UNICEF nutrition specialist. “Maternal diet and nutrient stores are the only sources of nutrition for a developing baby; women must get healthier and nutritious food before and during pregnancy.” While it is also necessary to build a child’s health, a far start in life, and prosperity, this incredible transformation is dependent on the nutrients ( Folic acid, iron, zinc, and iodine as well as protein) that the baby gets from his or her mother. The absence of one or more of these nutrients during pregnancy places the baby at risk for developmental delay, birth defects, and cognitive deficits. There is evidence suggesting that the health effects of poor nutrition and adverse experiences early in life can pass down from one generation to the next. There are, however, proven interventions to address these problems and save millions of lives within this window of opportunity. As part of the intervention, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Lagos in collaboration with UNICEF penultimate weekend organised a media advocacy meeting on COVAX and Routine Immunisation uptake in Lagos. Speaking during the event, Dr. Waheed Ishola, NOA Lagos Director, noted that his agency and UNICEF believed so much in the role the media could play in bringing the issues raised at the programme to the front burner. He argues that the media may draw attention to and inform various audiences, particularly the government, parents, and the general public, about the enormous social and economic advantages of adequate nutrition for a child in the first 1000 days. Aderonke Akinola-Akinwole, a social behavioural change specialist said the first 1000 days present the first window of opportunity to invest in a child’s chance of survival, being healthy, learning, and thriving. Akinola-Akinwole’s presentation centred on increasing a child’s chance of survival by focusing on the first 1000 days, She said, “The areas of focus are on the health in antenatal care, routine immunisation, nutrition, early initiation, and exclusive breastfeeding, improved hygiene practice and, child protection in birth registration and female genital mutilation.” “The great start for a child begins from the day the child is conceived in the womb, delivered, and cared for in a clean and protected manner. “Strengthening the health system by identifying bottlenecks, prioritising actions and building capacities at primary health care and community levels has shown dramatic reductions in under-five deaths and improvement in coverage and access to care,” she said The following practice has been shown to improve results along the first 1000 days, improving linkages with early childhood development centres in communities with primary care clinics. This includes building capacities of these practitioners for growth monitoring, improved early identification of problems in children, and referrals to care. Media’s Role The advocacy meeting tends to address and inspire the media to shape the knowledge of caregivers and advocate for policymakers to promote the practice of the key behaviour in the first 1000 days. Akinola-Akinwole, who helps to coordinate training for media in benefiting states. “We are engaging the media because it is the fourth estate of the realm. Media is a segment of society that has an indirect but key role in influencing the political system primarily as a watchdog.” She explained that the media has the power to influence the populace by providing the necessary and factual information about the first 1000 days’ reality, prevalence, and impact on child’s nutrition and development in Nigeria.  