TONY EZIMAKOR; SAMUEL OGIDAN ABUJA – At last, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) has come out to endorse what has long been speculated as the party’s zoning arrangement for the upcom­ing election of principal officers of the Senate and House of Representa­tives of the 10th National Assembly, micro-zoning the Senate Presidency to Senator Godswill Akpabio. The endorsement of Akpabio from the South-South geopolitical zone means that all contenders for the num­ber three seat from the South-East geo­political zone, namely Senators Orji Uzor Kalu, Osita Izunaso, and others have dropped off the radar. Hon. Abass Tajudeen (Kaduna) from the North-West also got the nod to run for speakership and thus eclipsed the ambition of other aspirants like Senator Sani Musa, Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara, Yusuf Gagdi, and Ado Doguwa, who had all campaigned for various positions from their zones. Confirming the zoning arrangement in a statement, Felix Morka, APC National Publicity Secretary, said the decision was taken after con­sidering reports of consulta­tions and meetings held with Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the President-elect and other leaders and stakeholders of the party. According to the zoning for­mula, the Deputy Senate Presi­dency was also micro-zoned to the North-West and to Senator Barau Jibrin of Kano State, with Hon. Ben Kalu (Abia) from South-East clinching the nomination for Deputy Speaker. The party urged further consultation with necessary parties to ensure full support for the nominees. The statement read in part, “The National Working Com­mittee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) met today, Monday, May 8, 2023, to con­sider reports of consultations and meetings held with the President-elect, His Excel­lency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, other party leaders and stakeholders on zoning arrangement for 10th National Assembly leadership positions. POLL “The NWC noted with re­spect the outcome of the meet­ings held between the Presi­dent-elect and the leadership of the NWC. The NWC called for further and better consul­tation with necessary stake­holders in order to assure the support of the aspirants to the National Assembly leadership positions and members of the party nationwide.” The zoning arrangement re­ported to the NWC is as follows: Senate: Senate President – South-South, Senator Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom); Deputy Senate President – North-West, Senator Barau Jibrin (Kano). House of Representatives: Speaker, House of Representa­tives, North-West, Hon. Abass Tajudeen (Kaduna); Deputy Speaker, South-East, Hon. Ben Kalu (Abia). “We urge our party leaders, members and all Nigerians to continue to work for peace and progress of our country during and beyond the current period of leadership transition”, the party said. Senators-Elect Kick Against Zoning Plan, Insist On Producing Leaders Meanwhile, a group of sena­tors-elect across different politi­cal parties have kicked against zoning arrangement, insisting on producing their own leaders in the red chamber. Opposing the zoning ar­rangement by the APC, Sen­ator Osita Izunaso, said, “The most natural thing for the APC to do is to zone the office of the Senate President to the South- East. It is long overdue. If you are ever contemplating zoning to the South, it is a natural thing that it should go to the South-East. The zone has been part of the process. South-East voted for the APC. If you tell me that the South-East did not vote for the APC, I will tell you that you are not saying the truth. “Despite the pressure on the South-East regarding the Peter Obi’s candidature, we were able to deliver six Sen­ate seats and two governors. Labour Party has six senators while the Peoples Democratic Party has two. APC members in the South-East have done exceedingly well. South-East senators-elect met yesterday and we are categorical that the office of the Senate President should be zoned to the South- East in the spirit of justice, eq­uity and balance. “If we must achieve oneness and unity of Nigeria, the Sen­ate President must be zoned to the South-East. That is our stand point and personally I am not ready to step down for any­body. I’m running for the posi­tion of the Senate President.” Also speaking on the issue of Senate Presidency, the sen­ator-elect on the platform of the New Nigeria Peoples Par­ty (NNPP) from Kano South Senatorial District, Abdulra­ham Kawu Samaila, said, “We should follow the constitution. There is a clear and express provision in the constitution which allows members of the National Assembly to choose their presiding officers amongst themselves irrespec­tive of party affiliation, reli­gious or ethnic considerations. “Each of us has the qualifi­cation to lead the chambers as presiding officers in the Nation­al Assembly. “It is not a just cause that the Senate Presidency should go to the South because of religion. It is against the constitution and morally it is wrong. It is against the character of democracy. We are practising constitutional democracy and presidential system of government which provides for the National As­sembly, Executive and Judicia­ry. The parliament is an inde­pendent arm of government. The executive is detached from the parliament and judiciary. “Therefore, we are canvass­ing a situation where we will have true separation of pow­er. Let the executive led by Mr. President exercise its power to balance its positions. Let us as the legislature also exercise our powers. The executive can sug­gest but it is ours to do what the constitution provides. The head of the judiciary for instance, is from Oyo, the same geopolitical zone with the President-elect.” The senator-elect, repre­senting Delta North Senatorial District on the platform of the PDP, Ned Nwoko, said, “The de­fining issue for us is to have an independent National Assem­bly. We must be independent of the executive. As a third arm of government, we must hit the ground running. We should not have leaders that are imposed on us by the executive. “In this case, the issue of South-East must be taken into account. The overwhelming majority of the senators-elect are of the opinion that we must be independent. That is the only way we can take the execu­tive to account. The parliament is not meant to be pocketed by the executive. There are some of us that are already well es­tablished before we came here. So we are not push over. We are very independent minded.”