The Kwara State Council of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, SWAN (SWAN) has described Lotus Bank as a leading institution in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and corporate integrity, very much in the league of Allen Onyema’s Air Peace and BOVAS Petroleum who have gone beyond business interests to cater to needs of the public without asking for financial reward. The body of sports journalists made this declaration at the office of the bank in Ilorin while paying a courtesy call on the local branch manager and also presenting a letter of Commendation to the financial institution over its salutary role in the days of Naira redesign crisis that led to shortage of the common currency. “You rose to the challenge of the times,” explained Ayodeji Ismail, chairman, SWAN, Kwara Chapter, while at the office to meet the management of the bank on Thursday. Lotus Bank is a Non-Interest Nigerian Bank deeply rooted in ethical banking, committed to ethical investing and ethical prosperity. “At a time others in the business of providing monetary services in Kwara saw the cash crunch as an opportunity to milk Nigerians of their hard-earned money, you stood tall. “We are especially grateful to you because Lotus Bank office is located within the proximity of Kwara’s own sports city, the Kwara State Stadium, here in Taiwo. “The sporting community were first hand beneficiaries of life savings services of your money transactions. “Your ATMs were dispensing cash at the same rate,” said the SWAN chairman. POLL He said Lotus Bank operated during the weekends which eased cash flow within Ilorin, Kwara State capital adding that the sports community felt her impact immensely. “It was a life saving service to a grateful public,” explained Ismail, comparing it to glowing services of Allen Onyema of Air Peace and BOVAS Petroleum retail chain that rises to challenges during fuel shortages in the country. The sports writers guild boss also added, “Kwara SWAN is presenting this commendation letter to Lotus Bank because of her impact during the cash crunch. “We noticed Lotus Bank was the first bank to operate during the weekends before others followed suit. This is the reason why the association deems it fit to make the presentation on behalf of the sports community. Responding to the gesture, Head of Operations, Lotus Bank, Ilorin, Kehinde Ganiyu hailed Kwara SWAN for awarding the bank with a commendation letter. Ganiyu promised that the bank will continue to provide improved services for the community. He said, “On behalf of Lotus Bank nationwide, I want to appreciate the commendation letter coming from Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) Kwara State Chapter. It is not enough to do good work but it is also necessary that the work is appreciated by the populace. “I am assuring you that Lotus Bank will not rest and will continue to ensure that customers benefit from the services, ” he said.”