ABUJA – The Chairman of the House Committee on Water Resources, Sada Soli (APC, Katsina) on Sunday kicked against the House of Representatives’ upward review of the Ways and Means loan accessible to the Federal Government at the Central Bank of Nigeria from five to 15%. The House made the increase following the passage of a bill for an Act to Amend the Central Bank of Nigeria Act, 2007 at an emergency plenary sitting on Sunday. This came barely 24 hours after the Senate also at an emergency plenary sitting on Saturday, passed the CBN Act amendment bill raising the loan access by 15%. With the passage by both chambers of the National Assembly, the amendment may be transmitted to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent before the end of his tenure tomorrow. Under the CBN Act, the Ways and Means provision allows the government to borrow from the apex bank if it needs short-term or emergency finance to fund delayed government expected cash receipt of fiscal deficit. According to the principal CBN Act, the Ways and Means must not exceed five per cent of the previous year’s revenue. The CBN Act Section 38(2) & (3) states, “that Ways and Means shall not exceed 5% of the previous year’s revenue of the Federal Government.” During the consideration of the report on the CBN Act, 2007 amendment bill, standing in the name of the Chairman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency, Victor Nwokolo, Soli raised an objection to it via a point of order. POLL He said, “Mr. Chairman does it mean with this amendment that the CBN somehow advances to Government at 10 percent or is it a wake-up call at the twilight of this government we are changing this from five percent to 15 percent? “Can the Chairman, Banking and Currency kindly explain this not only to the National Assembly but to Nigerians. Does it mean the CBN granted this advances at 15 percent or what is going on? This is what we don’t know Chairman. “I’m a member of the Committee on Banking and Currency. I didn’t know when this discussion took place. I can stand on privilege Order 6 to call for an explanation as a member of this Committee, how we reached at this amendment, please?” But responding to the Katsina lawmaker, the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase who presided over the Committee of the Whole said the right thing was to pass the bill. Wase said: “Hon. Sada the only explanation I may attempt to give if I listened to you very carefully is this, the Chair has the right to commit after second reading any bill to the Committee of the Whole. “It is there contained in our Standing Order. It depends on the importance and the exigency of the moment. And in light of this I want to beg our colleagues to please consider this amendment and we pass it so that we have the right thing done,” Wase said. Similarly, the House passed a bill seeking to extend the implementation of the Capital Aspect 2022 Supplementary Appropriation Act from June 30 to December 31, 2023. The bill which seeks to approve the sum of N819 billion for capital expenditure and for related matters was considered at the Committee of Supply, thereby raising the budget deficit for 2022 to N8.17 trillion and deficit GDP ratio to 4.43 percent. President Buhari had in a letter to the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila late December last year, sought approval for a supplementary 2022 Appropriation of N819 billion. The letter read in parts: “I have therefore approved the supplementary 2022 Appropriation of N819,000,536,937, all of which are capital expenditure. “The supplementary would be financed through additional domestic borrowings and this would raise the budget deficit for 2022 to 8.17 trillion and deficit GDP ratio to 4.43 percent.” The House also at the emergency sitting, passed a bill seeking to repeal the Produce (Enforcement of Export Standards) Act, 2004. The bill intends to enact the Federal Produce Inspection Service (Enforcement of Export Standards) (Establishment) Bill, 2023 to provide for the Inspection and enforcement of Grades and Quality Standards of Produce and Commodities intended for Export from Nigeria at Ports of Shipment. Meanwhile, at the emergency session, the House deferred the consideration of a bill seeking to repeal the Revenue Mobilization, Allocation and Fiscal Commission Act, 2004 and enact the Revenue Mobilization, Allocation and Fiscal Commission bill. The proposed legislation plans togrant the Commission enforcement powers in the monitoring of accruals to and disbursement of revenue from the Federation Account and to bring the Act in conformity with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). Also, during the emergency session, the speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila read the defection letter of a member from Kwara State, Olododo Cook from the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC).