The immediate past Ambassador to Nigeria in Togo, Mr. Sola Iji has dissociated leaders of All Progressives Congress (APC) and the party in Ondo State from a statement credited to the state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu condemning the zoning of the leadership positions at National Assembly. He said the “opinions so expressed in the Press Statement do not represent the position of leaders and members of the Party in Ondo State.” The APC chieftain from the Southern senatorial district of Ondo State said there was no need for controversy over the zoning arrangement, saying the APC leadership reached the decision “after robust debates and wide consultations among our leaders, in the best interest of our great Party, and Country, Nigeria.” Condemning Governor Akeredolu for taking to the media to express his disagreement with the decision, the South West coordinator of AsiwajuTinubu/Shettima Coalition For Good Governance(ATSCGG) said he ought to have contacted the leadership of the party at the national level to express his opinions. Iji, in a statement he personally signed, described as an affront and disrespect to the leadership of party, the outburst of the governor on the zoning arrangement made by the party. According to the statement, a copy of which was obtained by INDEPENDENT in Akure, the Ondo State capital on Sunday, reads in parts: “The NWC of APC enjoys the constitutional mandate to act on behalf of the NEC of the Party in taking decisions in between the NEC meetings. Importantly, the NWC is the highest administrative organ of APC which deserves the recognition and respect of members and leaders alike. “His Excellency, Arakunrin did not only openly criticize the NWC for taking such decision on zoning, the Governor went ahead to reject the NWC decision, and commended those aspirants who were disappointed or disfavoured by the zoning for protesting and encouraged them to engage in an untowards insurrection against the party on account of the said decision on zoning.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “A highly placed and respected leader as the Executive Governor of Ondo State, should not be heard to make an outburst that is capable of oozing disparaging remarks about the leadership of our great party. POLL “As a matter of fact, such a matter should not be a subject of discussion on the pages of the newspapers. Rather, it should have been attended to pleasingly. In fact, the Governor, as a leader of the Party in his own right, has an unimpeded access to the leadership of the Party, including the National Chairman and other National leaders and members of the NWC, as well as the President-Elect, His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, with whom he ought to have had private discussions to articulate his misgivings about the NWC decision. Apart from his private access to the leadership of the NWC, His Excellency, the Governor, has a very close and known access to the National Secretary of the Party, apart from the fact that Ondo State is being represented in the NWC by Barr. D. I. Kekemeke, the National Vice Chairman (Southwest), of the Party. “In the circumstance, the Governor acted out of disrespect to the constituted authority of the Party, and the opinions so expressed in the Press Statement do not represent the position of leaders and members of the Party in Ondo State, and at best, are His Excellency’s personal opinion to which he is is legitimately entitled. “It couldn’t have been otherwise but a private opinion because leaders of the Party in Ondo State were never consulted on such a position which runs counter to a valued effort and decision of the NWC to ensure orderliness in the affairs of the Party as we prepare for the inauguration of the next APC Presidency and the leadership of the 10th National Assembly.” Iji, however, disclosed why the leadership of APC embarked on the zoning arrangement. He said: “It is in realization of the need to prevent a recurrence of what happened in the 8th National Assembly, wherein a group of members of the party almost made the National Assembly ungovernable for our great party, that our leaders at the center of our Government have adopted this unique zoning formula to assuage the fears of most members. This, without doubt, has truly positioned the party for a greater exploit going forward. “I am of the opinion that leaders of our party, no matter how highly placed, should work in concert with others to forge a common ground upon which issues can be resolved without necessarily causing an incitement that will result in a raging battle within the party.”