UMUAHIA – There was drama at the Abia State House of Assembly on Tuesday as two Speakers emerged in the 24-man assembly claiming legitimacy over the seat, even as the state governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu called for calm, asking the warring factions to shield their swords. Trouble started after a group of 15 legislators in the assembly said they have impeached Mr Chinedum Orji (PDP, Umuahia Central) as Speaker, replacing him with his kinsman, Mr Chukwudi Apugo (PDP, Umuahia East). The lawmakers led by the Deputy Speaker, Mr Ifeanyi Uchendu (PDP, Ohafia South) presided over the impeachment proceedings held at one of the Government buildings in Umuahia. The motion removing Orji as Speaker was allegedly moved by Hon Kennedy Njoku (PDP, Osisioma North) and supported by Hon Chukwu Chijioke (APC, Bende North). In the motion, the lawmakers accused Chinedum Orji, the son of Senator Theodore Orji who is representing Abia Central and the immediate governor of the state of financial recklessness and insensitive to the plight of other lawmakers and therefore reportedly impeached him. However, less than six hours after the impeachment saga, Chinedum Orji, with his group of nine members swiftly conveyed a sitting at the chambers of the Abia State House of Assembly where they in turn suspended nine of the assembly members who were seen in a video circulating in the social media. In a motion moved by Mr Jerry Uzosike (PDP, Umuahia South), the House suspended Ifeanyi Uchendu PDP Ohafia South), Kennedy Njoku (PDP, Osisioma North), Chukwudi Apugo (PDP, Umuahia East), Aaron Uzodike (PDP, Aba North), Thomas Nkoro (PDP, Obingwa West), Chikwendu Kalu, (PDP, Isiala Ngwa South), Okey Igwe (PDP, Umunneochi), Obinna Ichita (APGA, Aba South) and Chijioke Chukwu (APC, Bende North). The House presided over by Chinedum Orji used the opportunity to elect Mr Mandela Obasi (PDP, Ohafia North) as Deputy Speaker and subsequently set up a five-man committee to investigate the circumstances surrounding the reported impeachment, even as the Speaker directed the committee to submit its finding within one week from Tuesday.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Addressing the House, Orji requested the Commissioner of Police in Abia State and the Director of Department of State Security (DSS) to ensure that there was no breakdown of law and order in the assembly and by extension the state following his reported impeachment. POLL According to him, the report of the committee which will unearth whether it is legitimate for some legislators to carry out impeachment proceedings outside the assembly premises or not will be made available to the two security agencies when the committee submits its report. He accuse a Special Adviser to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of sponsoring the impeachment, stressing that his quietness should not be taken as a weakness.