LAGOS – Tonye Cole, Rivers State gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the just concluded general elections has said that unless the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu offers something compelling, he won’t drop his suit at the tribunal challenging the victory of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in that election. Cole in an interview on Thursday was asked if he was ready to drop the suit should Tinubu offer him an appointment in his government. He said, “It has to be something compelling. I don’t know if there is any deal that will settle the matter because such a position hasn’t been brought before me, so I don’t know if that position is on the table. He added, “What I do know today is that people died, what I know is that a mandate was stolen. What I am certain about is that we have enough evidence to overturn the result in court. “What I am sure of is that if the tribunal does what it should do and we have Judges of impeccable character, I will be the Governor of Rivers State. Cole added, “That somebody is offering me something that is different from this, it has to be compelling. But it must be really compelling to assuage the lives of those who died, to assuage those who felt deprived, that their mandate was stolen. I have not seen any deal on the table. Cole who said that he has a good relationship with Tinubu noted that there was so much impunity during the gubernatorial election and he was sure that Tinubu wouldn’t support that.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said, “There was no problem during the presidential election, it was during the governorship election that we began to see violence and intimidation. POLL “Nobody saw that during the presidential election but when it came to the gubernatorial election, all hell broke loose. They saw that there was an opportunity to bypass the Bimodal Voter accreditation System (BVAS) and do all kinds of things, mutilate the result sheet and so on. “My grouse is not with the first election, my grouse is with what happened during the gubernatorial election, when canes were used to flog people, open threats were made. People were told that if they would not vote for PDP they shouldn’t come out, and that was the problem and that was where people died,” he said.