LAGOS – Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor, has stressed the need for Lagosians to protect and adequately maintain infrastructure provided by the government as money for re-fixing could be used to provide additional infrastructure for the good of the people in the state. Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Dr. Kadri Obafemi, his Deputy made the call at the commissioning/handing over of the Jimoh Odutola Street Road in Surulere and Reeve Road/ Onilegbale Road in Ikoyi, Lagos. He said it is germane for the citizens to ensure they make good use of the roads and not allow people to turn it into mechanic garages/workshops. “My advice is for us to make sure we use the road well and we should not allow people to turn it into mechanic garages. So, as mechanics, please get a shop for your workshop. Don’t turn the road to the workshop and stop doing your work on the road and truck/container owners, we want you to do your business, but get a place as a park.” Speaking further, he said that the government will not accept people destroying or parking on roads in the state and is ready to enforce a law prohibiting parking on the roads. “The challenge we always have is that trailers will always park on the road. First of all as a government, we will not accept it and we will enforce it. So, let us just do the right thing by taking good care of our roads and other infrastructure in the state. The governor noted that by doing so, the government will have more funds to provide additional infrastructure across the state for the well-being of all the citizens. “Just make sure we protect it so that we can have more money to spend on other good things rather than fixing what we had done earlier. POLL He therefore called on all citizens of the State to join hands with this government as they begin a second term on May 29, 2023. Engr. Aramide Adeyoye, Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, earlier in her welcome address, said the completion of the Jimoh Odutola Street Road was undoubtedly a further attestation to the determination of the Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat administration to stimulate economic development by extending infrastructure development there by improving the living condition of people in every part of the state. She said that the completion of the road projects aside from impacting positively on the lives of residents, it will also mitigate flooding, and generally improve the quality of life of all users of the road. While appreciating the vision of the governor and the deputy governor to continue to provide sustainable road infrastructure development across the state, the Special Adviser urged the residents to take ownership of the projects and protect them for the comfort of all the users.