AUSTIN OBOH Some observers have noted that in all of Nigeria’s last 24 years of democracy, perhaps at no other time has the subject of transition or handover after a presidential election become as contentious as the present one. Controversies had, indeed, raged over every outcome, with the loser claiming to have been rigged out and then going to court while the eventual winner is sworn-in, which, of course, may have created moral difficulties for the court. But they note that rumours of plans to disrupt a presidential inauguration and threats from security and military authorities over the matter had not been as insistent as it is today. Since March 1 when Mahmood Yakubu, chairman of Independent National Electoral commission (INEC), announced the results of the election, giving it to Tinubu, there have been speculations of plots to disrupt the swearing-in ceremony from official and unofficial quarters. And tomorrow is the D-day yet the anxiety grows fat Moved by this, the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, on Tuesday night, reassured Nigerians of the military’s commitment to the growth of democracy in the country. Irabor gave the assurance at the Regimental Dinner organised in honour of President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja as part of the activities lined up for the May 29 inauguration ceremony. He said the military, in collaboration with other security agencies, would stop at nothing to ensure the country was adequately secured. “Our determination to uphold democratic growth is rock solid,” he said. But in more specific terms, the Department of State Services, on Thursday, said it had uncovered plans by some disgruntled individuals to disrupt activities lined up for a peaceful transition ceremony on May 29 while warning that it would not allow anyone to scuttle the handover ceremony in any part of the country. The agency, in a statement by its Spokesperson, Dr. Peter Afunaya, in Abuja, said the motive of those planning the trouble was to undermine security agencies’ efforts at ensuring peaceful ceremonies as well as creating panic and fear among members of the public. The body therefore asked Nigerians to remain calm and law-abiding, assuring that security agencies were on top of the situation. Part of the statement read: “It would be recalled that the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the Presidential Transition Council (PTC) on 18th May 2023 held a World Press Conference during which he announced activities for the Presidential inauguration. The major highlight of the activities is the swearing-in of the President on 29th May 2023 in Abuja. On the same date, new Governors will also be inaugurated in most of the States. POLL “The Service is, however, aware of plans by subversive elements to disrupt the programmes in parts of the country. The aim is to undermine security agencies’ efforts at ensuring peaceful ceremonies as well as creating panic and fear among members of the public. “Based on these, citizens, the media and Civil Society Organisations are advised to adhere strictly to security and civil protocols during the events. They are also urged to shun fake news, false alarms, skewed reportage/narratives and sensationalism that may likely inflame division, tension and violence prior to and after the exercises. “This is more so that such undesirable acts will serve no purpose other than destroy national unity and cohesion. Additionally, all unauthorised (and unaccredited) persons are warned to stay away from restricted and certain designated areas at the event venues.” Similarly, the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, also on Thursday, gave an assurance that, as part of security arrangements for a seamless inauguration of the incoming administration on Monday, May 29, 2023, “Adequate personnel have been detailed to protect the Presidential Villa; provide security at and around the Eagle Square.” He added: “Since the conclusion of the 2023 General Elections and the announcement of the President-elect, security has been beefed up throughout the country. “We have formed specific plans for the inauguration ceremony as contained in the operation order, which will provide enhanced protection while allowing invited guests well – meaning Nigerians, and International Community to witness the event. “We work hand-in-hand and collaborate with all levels of government, private sectors, the Nigerian Armed Forces, and other security agencies to ensure the safety and security of all citizens; and having a laudable and seamless inauguration ceremony on May 29, 2023. “The Nigeria Police Force is mobilizing its operatives to provide a comprehensive security arrangement. Amongst these operatives are men drawn from the NPF Special Forces (SF), Police Mobile Force (PMF), Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Special Protection Unit (SPU), Anti Bomb Squad (ATB), FIB-Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Special Tactical Squad (STS), NPF Medical, NPF Mounted Troops, and K9, among others. “Police and other security operatives will be located along routes to and from the Inauguration Grounds. “During the event, we will be taking rigorous safety measurements on the persons entering the venue, which include screenings and searches, and take charge of traffic control in collaboration with the protocol sub- committee of the transition committee to have seamless traffic flow.” Thereafter came, perhaps, the eventual message: “The Police, therefore, warn non-state actors or any aggrieved groups or individuals to follow due process and the rule of law in seeking redress in their cases as the law enforcement agencies will not hesitate to subdue any confrontational or act of insecurity.” The warnings are largely directed at basically the large army of youthful supporters of opposition parties that are, in any case, already in courts, especially as several of these have warned the Federal Government not to proceed with the presidential inauguration until the courts had ruled in the cases challenging the results of the election as announced by INEC. Recently, Igbo leaders, under the auspices of the Igbo Patriotic Forum, cautioned against the swearing-in of Tinubu before the apex court’s judgment, saying it might be an invitation to anarchy if done. The Igbo leaders advised that the judiciary be allowed to conclude hearing on the presidential election petitions before swearing in a new president. The forum made this known at a press conference presided over by its chairman, Chief Simon Okeke, in Abuja, and condemned what it called delayed tactics being employed by the presidential election petitions tribunal. Okeke said the constitution never said the president must be sworn in on May 29, arguing that the present administration should ensure that the right thing was done by allowing the judiciary to conclude its work before any swearing-in could take place. He said: “Following the controversial February 25, 2023, presidential and National Assembly elections and the consequent unprecedented tension and criticisms that trailed the INEC announcement of the presidential election results, the country’s judiciary is on trial. “Since INEC failed to meet most of its set guidelines including the failure to transmit votes as promised, from the polling units to fit central server, the announced presidential results have been challenged by five of the major political parties in the country including the Labour Party and Peoples Democratic Party. “We, therefore, call on the country’s judiciary to consider the general interest of the millions of Nigerians, as well as the cooperate existence of Nigeria in handling these electoral petitions to avoid a miscarriage of justice that may precipitate a serious crisis in the country. “Since the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) allows anyone aggrieved after the announcement by INEC of the general election result to go on appeal from the tribunal to the Supreme Court to determine the final winner of the election, it stands to reason that no one should be sworn in as the winner before the apex court pronounces who, in its opinion, is the true winner of that election.” Tinubu himself was one of those who first alerted the nation some time ago of an alleged plot by the opposition to stop his inauguration while wondering why those who had taken to the streets to protest his victory at the February 25, 2023, presidential poll were hell-bent on actualising an interim national government (ING). Tinubu who spoke through the director, Public Affairs and chief spokesperson of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council, Festus Keyamo (SAN), said it was baffling to imaging that the same persons challenging the results of the presidential poll wanted to be in the courts and on the streets at the same time. He had said: “We have watched with great concern the condemnable activities of some persons and groups who are desirous of truncating our democracy. “For reasons best known to them, these persons have remained embittered that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was declared winner of the 2023 General Elections. Repeatedly, but unfortunately, these misguided individuals have called for either the cancellation of the results or that the President-elect should not be inaugurated on the 29th of May, 2023. “We wish to reiterate and emphasise that these positions are not in tandem with our constitutional provisions or our electoral laws. We would have taken these as mere wishful thinking, however, because of their implications for national security and public order, we have therefore considered it necessary, if not expedient, to call them to order. “We are aware of the intentions of those engaged in these treasonable and subversive acts. We also know those involved in the many plots being contrived to undermine the transition in particular and democracy in general. They are fixated on an Interim Government. They have done it in this country before and it threw the country into avoidable crises for many years and they want to do it again. “They are bent on delegitimizing the new government. Some have made treasonable insinuations and openly called for military take-over. It is for these reasons that they are desperate to incite the people against the incoming Government. “It is perplexing to see that those contesting the results want to be in the courts and on the streets at the same time.” In recent days, some persons have also taken legal actions to prevent the May 29 swearing-in ceremony but these actions have largely failed and it is certain that the much opposed inauguration of Tinubu will take place tomorrow. Commentators are apprehensive, however, that there may be clashes of opposing groups, especially since the political agitations concerning the inauguration have since taken on an ethnic hue.