A suspect, Akinrotimi Taiwo, believed to be a principal member of a swindling syndicate specialised in stealing money from Point of Sales, POS, agents in Ilorin is currently being held by the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps, NSCDC, Kwara State command, after attempting to defraud an agent early Saturday morning. Luck ran out on Taiwo at Okekere, Ilorin, after attempting to swindle Zakariyau Amidu Oniyo, of Shop 32B Omodada Street, Okekere, a POS agent and airtime recharge card/phone accessory dealer, of N20,000 after asking to make a cash transfer of N26, 000. At about 10 am, it was learned, Taiwo walked up to Oniyo’s shop at Okekere, asking that a total sum of N26,000 be transferred electronically to another POS agent, Omo Mummy Ventures, at Oko Olowo, some kilometers away from Okeke Kere. Taiwo, operatives of NSCDC would later disclose, had approached the venture’s owner, Isiaka Abdulrazak, stating that he (Taiwo) is expecting a transfer of same amount to be made to Omo Mummy from which he would make a withdrawal and then pay the POS charges required. “The suspect apparently doesn’t want the fraudulent transaction traced to his account. “He wanted to make Abdulrazak the fall guy,” explained an operative of NSCDC after preliminary inquiry into the incident. Luck ran out on Taiwo when after the money was transferred to Omo Mummy, N20,000 from the initial deposit of N26,000 cash vanished from Oniyo’s table after the suspect distracted him with request to buy a phone battery. Raising the alarm, Oniyo managed to get neighbors to arrest Taiwo. POLL Within a short notice, other POS agent sent in information, complete with photos of the suspect stating that Taiwo has been on the prawl and has dumped several agents. “We have been on his trail for long time and have been warning our agents and members to be very careful of the suspect,” explained Ridwan Opakunle, coordinator of Kwara Association of Point of Sales Professional Agents, KAPPSA. Also speaking, Ayeni Olasunkomi, DSC, Public Relations Officer, PRO, NSCDC, said that the corp will have the full picture of the entire incident. “It is quite clear that it goes beyond this singular incident we have now,” he said.