SYLVESTER ENOGHASE May 1 is widely known as Labour Day, a day when nations across the world celebrate the contribution of workers worldwide. It is a moment for pride, celebration and hope. After three years of the COVID-19 crisis, followed by inflation, conflict, and food and fuel supply shocks, nations of the World badly need this. But the promises of renewal made during the pandemic, of ‘building back better’, have so far not been delivered for the great majority of workers worldwide. Globally, real wages have fallen, poverty is rising, inequality seems more entrenched than ever. Enterprises have been hard hit. Many could not cope with the cumulative effects of recent unexpected events. Small and micro-enterprises were particularly affected, and many have ceased operations. People feel that the sacrifices they made to get through COVID-19 have not been recognised, let alone rewarded. Their voices are not being heard clearly enough. This, combined with a perceived lack of opportunities, has created a disturbing level of mistrust. No wonder that the Director-General of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), Gilbert Houngbo, recently called for a Global Coalition for Social Justice and a reshaping of economic, social and environmental policies to create a more stable and equitable future. He said: “It doesn’t have to be like this. We are still the masters of our fate. But if we are to shape a new, more stable, and equitable world, we must choose a different path. One that prioritizes social justice. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I believe this is not only do-able but essential for a sustainable and stable future. So, how do we get there? POLL “First and foremost, our policies and actions must be human-centred, to allow people to pursue both their material well-being and their spiritual development in conditions of freedom and dignity, economic security and equal opportunity. “This approach is not new, it was set out and agreed in the aftermath of World War Two, when the ILO’s international membership signed the 1944 Declaration of Philadelphia. “This visionary document set out guiding principles for our economic and social systems, that they should not be turned exclusively to hitting specific growth rates or other statistical targets, but to address human needs and aspirations. “This means focusing on inequality, poverty alleviation and core social protection. The most effective way to do this is by providing quality jobs so that people can support themselves and build their own futures – ‘Decent Work for All’, as Sustainable Development Goal 8 terms it. “It means realistically addressing the long-term structural transformations of our time; ensuring that new technology creates and supports employment; pro-actively facing the challenges of climate change and ensuring we offer the jobs, skills training and transition support necessary for workers and businesses to benefit from the new low-carbon era; treating demographic changes as a ‘dividend’ rather than a problem, with supporting action on skills, migration and social protection, to create more cohesive and resilient societies. “We also need to reassess and refashion the architecture of our social and economic systems, so that they support this change of course towards social justice, rather than continuing to channel us into a policy ‘doom loop’ of inequality and instability. “We must reinvigorate labour institutions and organizations so that social dialogue is effective and vigorous. We must review laws and regulations affecting the world of work, so that they are relevant and up-to-date and able to protect workers and support sustainable businesses. To make all this happen, we need to recommit to international cooperation and solidarity. “We must enhance our efforts and create greater policy coherence, particularly within the multilateral system, as the United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres calls it. “This is why we need a Global Coalition for Social Justice. This Coalition will create a platform to bring together a broad range of international bodies and stakeholders. It will position social justice as the keystone of the global recovery, so that it is prioritized in national, regional and global policies and actions. In sum, it will ensure that our future is human-centred. “We have the chance to reshape the world we live in – economically, socially and environmentally. Let us take this opportunity and move forward to build the equitable and resilient societies that can underpin lasting peace and social justice.” Godman Akinlabi, the Lead Pastor of The Elevation Church, while speaking on the commemoration of the 2023 Workers Day, said that workers’ well-being must be prioritized. He said: “As we commemorate International Worker’s Day, I want to acknowledge and celebrate the dedication, hard work, and contributions of workers across the globe. “Despite the many challenges they face daily, they continue to make valuable contributions to the global economy and the sustenance of our society. “The past year has been especially challenging for workers as the fallouts of the COVID-19 pandemic have highlighted and exacerbated existing issues such as low wages, unsafe working conditions, and lack of access to healthcare. Despite these challenges, they have persevered and continued to provide essential services that keep our world running. “We owe them a debt of gratitude for their unwavering commitment to making our world a better place. He noted that as critical as workers are, many face significant challenges that hinder their ability to perform their duties effectively. “Issues such as unsafe working conditions and inadequate healthcare can negatively impact their productivity and overall well-being. It is imperative that workers have access to safe working conditions, fair wages, and healthcare. When workers are valued and cared for, they are more productive, and our society and economy as a whole benefit. “I urge governments and employers to prioritise the well-being of workers and make the workplace safer physically, mentally, and spiritually for them. ‘We must also recognise that many workers face discrimination and inequality in the workplace. As people of faith, we believe that all workers are created equal and deserve to be treated with dignity and respect, regardless of their race, gender, or any other factor. “I encourage young workers to never succumb to the pressure to amass material things by hook or crook but rather acquire relevant and marketable skills that improve their legitimate chances in the marketplace. “The world is now flat. Tremendous job opportunities are opening up for workers on a global scale. I urge you to build the capacity to take advantage of these opportunities. “At The Elevation Church, we provide workers in our community with life-changing opportunities to hone their skills and access relevant knowledge that position them for greatness in their careers through our dynamic work environment, our countless workshops and seminars targeted at building extraordinary, integrity-driven workers for the global market and the training curriculum by the Pistis Life and Leadership Institute (PLLI). “Even the economically challenged are not left out, our Pistis Empowerment Foundation(PEF) is dedicated to helping them in the areas of shelter, education, health, and more so that they are eventually able to stand on their own feet and contribute their quota to society. “On behalf of The Elevation Church, I honour the contributions of workers today and wish you a happy International Worker’s Day. May God bless all workers and their families.”