ABUJA  – Dame Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs, has com­mended the Convener, Global Crusade With Kumuyi (GCK) and General Superintendent of Deeper Christian Life Ministry, Pastor William Kumuyi, over his uncommon passion for chil­dren and youth development in Nigeria and across the world. Tallen made the commen­dation and recognition of Ku­muyi in a goodwill message at the ongoing Global Children and Youth Convocation with theme, ‘Stand Tall As Rising Stars (STAR)’, which started on Thursday, May 11, 2023 at the Main Bowl of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. Tallen, who was represented by the Principal Community De­velopment Officer, Federal Min­istry of Women Affairs, Julie Akharia, acknowledged the in­ternational evangelist’s humil­ity and spiritual leadership in shepherding the flock of Christ over the years, and appreciated the Leadership of Deeper Life Bible Church for putting togeth­er “this impactful programme aimed at producing and reori­enting our youth, while reposi­tioning them for a meaningful and impactful life ahead.” She said: “I express my appre­ciation to you all for the impres­sive turnout at this occasion. Let me first of all commend Deeper Christian Life Ministry for this proactive effort to chart a noble pathway for Nigerian youths. “I would also like to specially appreciate the General Superin­tendent of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry worldwide, Pastor Dr WF Kumuyi for his humility and spiritual leadership in shep­herding the flock of Christ these past years. “I am particularly elated by his vision as well as his demon­strated passion towards build­ing a youth population with strong moral persuasions and economic drives for inclusive growth and development. “The youths are both the leaders and owners of tomor­row. As we age, the expectation is that they step into leadership roles, manage the national re­sources in a sustainable manner to the benefit of all.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “In this regard, the requisite capacities/capabilities required to be successful in their future roles as leaders ought to be ac­quired now through effective informal learning/mentorship programmes such as this Glob­al Youth Convocation, among others. POLL “It is this reason that the Fed­eral Ministry of Women Affairs created a Gender Department to focus on issues relating to youths, women/girls and the vulnerable groups’ socio-eco­nomic development. “The Ministry’s approach has been identified and eliminate ca­sual factors to youth restiveness and defiant culture/behaviour as well as build their capacities for national development.”