Guinness Nigeria, a subsidiary of Diageo Plc, and one of the leading total beverage alcohol company in Nigeria has continued its impressive growth trajectory, posting a revenue of N172,478,412 for its third quarter period ended 31 March 2023, which represents an 8 per cent growth over the same period last year. The Company reported a Profit After Tax of N5,865, 691,000 in the period under review. The results which show an impressive performance, is testament to an unwavering commitment to meeting consumer demands as well as the company’s resilience in a challenging operating environment. Mr. John Musunga, Managing Director/CEO, Guinness Nigeria Plc, while commenting on the report, said: “In the first nine months of fiscal 23, Guinness Nigeria has delivered growth in the face of the challenging operating environment characterised by rising inflation, deteriorating foreign exchange situation, temporary cash scarcity, and election related anxiety and disruptions. “Total net revenue grew by 8 per cent, driven by category mix optimization, pricing and organic volume growth in mainstream spirits, supported by excellent execution of our route to consumer strategy.” “Revenue growth was particularly strong for the strategic focus categories: Premium Stout, Ready-to-Serve, and Spirits. We continued to invest behind our strategic growth priorities to remain top of mind and command a premium to consumers who chose our brands for the value they bring to their occasions” The released statement stated that the company’s Gross Profit grew 6 per cent, and its distribution expenses increased by 24 per cent, driven by a nearly three times spike in the price of diesel and other haulage inputs. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The costs of goods grew faster than net sales revenue due to inflationary pressures and the impact of foreign exchange depreciation ; and increased administrative expenses in the period are driven by payroll inflation (mainly performance-related) and one-off tax provisions.” Musunga further explained.