LAGOS – According to a government-led and UN-supported food and nutrition analysis carried out twice a year, about 25 million Nigerians are at risk of facing hunger between June and August 2023 (lean season) if urgent action is not taken. The report stated that this is a projected increase from the estimated 17 million people currently at risk of food insecurity. The reported also said that continued conflict, climate change, inflation and rising food prices are key drivers of this alarming trend, asserting that food access has been affected by persistent violence in the north-east states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe (BAY) and armed banditry and kidnapping in states such as Katsina, Sokoto, Kaduna, Benue and Niger. The National Emergency Management Agency disclosed that widespread flooding in the 2022 rainy season damaged more than 676,000 hectares of farmlands, which diminished harvests and increased the risk of food insecurity for families across the country. The agency said that flooding is one of the effects of climate change and variability impacting Nigeria, adding that extreme weather patterns affecting food security are anticipated in the future. However, the Chief Executive Officer of Green Gold Food and Beverages Limited, Mrs. Oluwatomi Olatoye, believes that Nigerians should not fold their hands and allow the situation to overwhelm them. She says every home can create a garden close to their homes and use the produce to supplement their food needs and sell the extra to make money. To reduce hunger in the country and increase the income of Nigerians, the company has initiated a project it calls OBE Garden. POLL The plan is to train and encourage Nigerians to start gardens in places around their homes. OBE means soup in Yoruba. She stated that the initiative will be spread across Nigeria, adding that the northern programme is tagged MIYA while the eastern part programme tagged OFE. Olatoye disclosed that all the words mean soup in different Nigerian languages. She stated that her organization has started training the trainers and intends to train 2000 trainers within the first six months who in turn will train others in the act of doing gardens across their homes. She posited that OBE Garden will help families earn extra income by selling excess produce in the neighborhood market.