Ahead of the June proclamation of the 10th Assembly of the House of Representatives, the hotly contested race might come with a lot of surprises, power-play and drama. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) having the majority members in the House will definitely produce a replacement for Right Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila. As the race for the Speakership has begun, all eyes are on one man, Muktar Aliyu Betara. Muktar Aliyu Betara is a Nigerian accountant and lawmaker. He was first elected to the House of Representatives of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2007 to represent the Biu/Bayo/Shani and Kwaya Kusar Federal Constituency of Borno State in the North-eastern region of Nigeria. The number of aspirants in the race is growing on daily basis as a result of the leadership of the ruling party not yet taking position on which geo-political zone the speaker will come from, but Betara a serious contender in the race has set everything in motion in becoming the Speaker of the 10th House. He joined the race on the conviction that whoever will work with the executive must bring tendencies together and unite all irrespective of tribe, religious and political backgrounds. Betara has a clear vision of what the leadership of the House entails, making him to embark on wide consultations with the major stakeholders in the party both at the State and National levels. For a House with different interests and ideologies, the Speaker must foster cordial relationships between the executive and legislative arms without compromising the rules and regulations of the House; Betara is well suited in such a position having become an active member of the House in the last four assemblies and all indications pointed at him as preferred among the contestants. The track records of Betara best positioned him ahead of others. Let’s take a look at the seven features that could work for the emergence of Betara as the 10th House of Representatives Speaker. POLL 1. Cognate Legislative Experience Betara emerging as one of the few members to have served in the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth assemblies in Nigeria, with the current and immediate past tenures secured on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is well prepared for the task ahead. He was first elected into the Green Chamber in 2007. He won the February 25, 2023 National Assembly Election making him a five times lawmaker by the time the House resumes in June. He entered the race for the House of Representatives on the platform of the All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) and got elected as the member representing the interests of Biu, Kwaya Kusar, Bayo and Shani Federal Constituency. Among the contenders for the Speakership race, Betara’s cognate Legislative Experience in terms of coordination, exposure, accommodating, Bills sponsored, Motions, oversight functions and brilliant contributions are plus to his aspiration. 2. Leadership Skills as Chairmen of House Committees Leadership entails the ability and capacity to accommodate divergent opinions, be democratic and respect other people’s opinions. Betara since 2007 has held different positions in the House and has proved himself as a result-oriented and goal-getter without stepping on toes. If Former Members of the House could throw their weight behind his aspiration, it shows his level of acceptability which could only be possible with good character and humility. Between 2007 and 2011, Betara acted as Chairman of the Sub-committee on NDIC, Banking and Currency. He also served as a member of the House Committee on Interior and was subsequently appointed as Chairman, Sub-committee on Customs, Immigration and Prisons Pension Office (CIPPO). At the seventh assembly (2011 to 2015), he was appointed as Chairman of House Committee on the Army, directly making recommendations to empower and sustain the activities of the Army against the rising insurgency in the Northern region of Nigeria. From 2015 to 2019, Betara served as Chairman of the House Committee on Defence. He is the current Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, presiding over all other committees regarding the appropriation process in the House of Representatives. 3. A Loyal Party Man Betara joined politics for one cogent reason, service to humanity. As an accomplished Accountant, blessed in all ramifications, ordinarily should be less concerned about his people but rather passionate about the welfare of his constituents. He believes in Progressive politics which made him join the All Nigeria People Party ( ANPP), a platform on which he was elected in 2007. With the merging of the party with the ruling APC, he has been a loyal party man that believes in the supremacy of the party. The choice of Betara by the leadership of APC will enhance a harmonious working relationship with the executive. 4. A Good Manager of Crisis In the game of politics, conflict of interest and ideas within the House is inevitable, but managing crisis requires a leader with wisdom and political will to take certain decisions to douse tension. Betara has what it takes to unite the House in the face of provocation and altercation. He has been lauded for his critical decision-making and crisis-management skills in the House. 5. Massive Support From Former Members of the House The coalition of former Members of the House of Representatives from the six geo-political zones for endorsement of Betara is a plus to his aspiration. They premixed their support on the determination to have someone with the ability and capacity to unify the country, competence and skills to drive an effective and productive legislature, build bridges between other arms of government. These set of former lawmakers have influence that can shape who becomes the speaker of the House. The former members cut across the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th Assemblies, mobilising support from their respective zones, selling the intimidating credentials of Betara with regard to his legislative prowess that will position the 10th Assembly as a formidable House. 6. Track Records/ APC Stakeholders Support In the contest that has no fewer than 10 people intensifying campaigns and lobbying the leaders and colleagues, Betara has taken it upon himself to comb every political nook and cranny of his party to solicit the support of the party’s stakeholders. For any leader to support and throw his weight behind a certain politician, they must have seen something unique about him or her. Betara’s giant strides and track record since 2007 as a federal Lawmaker have endeared some political leaders to him both at the state and national levels. He is currently the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations in the 9th Assembly which held its first session on 11th June 2019. Under his leadership, the committee has succeeded in having the June-to-June budget cycle changed to a preferable January-to-December one for more effective budget implementation. As a result, the Appropriation Act, 2022 and the Finance Act, 2021 have been passed and enacted respectively for the third consecutive year without failure, enabling all stakeholders to prepare adequately for any fiscal changes. His legislative interests include Youth and Women Empowerment, Developmental Governance, Health, Education, Social and National Security, as well as providing equal opportunities. He is believed to be responsible for the construction of 20 healthcare centres, 10 ambulances, a mini-stadium and the installation of more than 600 solar-powered street lights in his constituency. 7. Cordial Relationship with Colleagues One thing is for the leadership of the party to zone and another thing is to be in the good book of fellow lawmakers who hold the voting power on the Assembly floor. Betara is a man with serene humility, character and fear of God. His simplicity and accommodating nature make many of his colleagues respect his opinion. This singular act might work for him because people need a leader that is approachable with listening ears. Betara can count on the votes of his colleagues for the position of Speaker. Aside from these seven unique features that Betara is counting on, other factors will also work in his favour. He began his education at Biu Central Primary School in 1973 and obtained his First School Leaving Certificate in 1978. He proceeded to Biu Central Junior Day Secondary School, and then to Government Technical Secondary School Benishek, Borno State, where his leadership skills saw him becoming Head Prefect, and would eventually obtain his West Africa School Certificate in 1983. He advanced his education at Ramat Polytechnic, Maiduguri, where he obtained his Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Business Administration in 1986. He launched his professional career working as an Accountant with the Presidency in the Directorate for Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure (DFFRI) programme from 1986 to 1990. He returned to Ramat Polytechnic for his Higher National Diploma in 1990 and obtained an HND in Accounting and Business Administration in 1992. Betara observed his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme at Delta State Government House, Asaba. Upon completion of his service year, he joined the defunct Nigerian Telecommunication Limited (NITEL) in 1993 rising through the ranks to the role of Manager before his voluntary retirement in 2006 to venture into politics. As all the aspirants are awaiting the decision of the party on zoning, Betara has nothing to fear as the best man for the job of the House Speaker. With him, the incoming administration will enjoy robust engagement and working relationships that will stabilize our democracy.