 LAGOS  – The Christian community in Nigeria is in deep mourning. This is because one of the nation’s God’s General and Church Father has answered the last call to glory. He is no other person than the first Prelate of the Methodist Church, Nigeria, and a former President of the World Methodist Council, His Eminence, Dr. Sunday Coffie Mbang, CON. Mbang passed on to glory on Tuesday, May 16, 2023. Archbishop Mbang, whose death reportedly occurred at 86 died in the early hours last Tuesday after a brief illness. The Prelate Emeritus was also a former National President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). The Church announced his death through a statement issued by the Secretary of the Conference of the Methodist Church Nigeria, Dr Babatunde Taiwo. Dr Sunday Mbang was the first black President of the World Methodist Council. Details of his burial is yet to be announced by the Church. His Early Life Sunday Mbang was born in Akwa Ibom State. He studied in the Effoi Group School, Salvation Army School, Akai-Ubium, Government School, Eket, Methodist Boys’ High School, Oron, Teacher’s College, Uzuakoli, Trinity Theological College, Umuahia, University of Ibadan, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel and Harvard University, USA. Ministerial Life Mbang, became a minister in 1961. He had his theological education and training in Nigeria and overseas. POLL He became a Pastor and Minister of Religion in 1962 in Methodist Church, Nigeria, and rose through the ranks to be elected into the Episcopal rank, Bishop of Tinubu, Lagos State in 1979 and later was elevated to the position of Patriarch/ Prelate, the Administrative and Pastoral Head and Leader of the entire Methodist Church family in Nigeria in 1984, a position he held for 22 years. He worked for several years as Teacher, Evangelist and Pastor, and held a number of other positions outside that of Methodist Church Nigeria. The Late Prelate Mbang was the Co-chairman of the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council, and the Vice and Chairperson of the World Methodist Council for many years. CAN Mourns The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) is saddened to hear of the passing of His Eminence, Dr. Sunday Mbang, who served as the former President of CAN and played a crucial role as the pioneer co-Chair of the Nigerian Inter-Religious Council (NIREC). CAN, in a statement signed and made available to newsmen in Abuja, quoted its President, Archbishop Daniel Okoh saying that the late Emeritus Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria was a great leader and a unifying force in the Nigerian Christian community, and his contributions to the growth and development of the Church in Nigeria will always be remembered. The statement reads in full: “Dr. Mbang was one of the most forthright and courageous faith leaders of our time who meant well for his country, Nigeria; thus, dedicated his life to the service of God and humanity. His commitment to the gospel of Christ and his unwavering dedication to the unity of all Nigerians irrespective of our diverse reality as a people will always be remembered as a shining example to follow. “We extend our deepest condolences to his family, the Methodist Church Nigeria, and the entire Christian community in Nigeria. We pray that God will comfort and strengthen them during this difficult time. “His Eminence, Dr. Sunday Mbang will be greatly missed, but his life and legacy which we celebrate will continue to inspire us to work for the peace and unity of our nation and the world at large. “As we mourn the loss of this great leader, we are reminded of the words of Jesus in John 11:25- 26: ‘I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will live, even though they die; and whoever lives by believing in me will never die….’ We take comfort in the fact that Dr. Mbang is now in the arms of our Lord and Saviour, and his memory will forever be cherished.” Buhari Mourns President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the death of the first Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, His Eminence Sunday Mbang. In a statement by, Mr Femi Adesina, Buhari noted that the late Mbang “was indeed a spiritual colossus beyond the shores of his fatherland.” He acknowledged the deceased as the longest leader of the church, the first Methodist President of Christian Association of Nigeria and the first Black President of World Methodist Council, among other pioneering positions. He also noted that Mbang displayed “exemplary courage, forthrightness, wisdom, intellectualism and selflessness” in his over six decades of service to God and humanity. “Having retired as prelate in 2006, Mbang, until his transition at 86, remained an invaluable voice of reason and source of encouragement to many within and outside government, especially in his home state, Akwa Ibom,” he said. Buhari enjoined all those mourning the eminent statesman and church icon to take solace in the knowledge that he lived a life worthy of emulation by all. He prayed for the peaceful repose of the soul of the departed servant of God. Tinubu Eulogises Mbang The President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has joined the world in mourning the late Prelate Emeritus of the Methodist Church, Nigeria, Dr. Sunday Mbang who died at the age of 86. In a statement he personally signed, Tinubu noted that late Mbag was a man of great faith who gave his all to make the world and his country, Nigeria, better than he met it. His words: “He lived a fruitful and blessed life and passed on peacefully at 86. “Dr. Mbang fought for truth, justice, fairness and for the welfare of the people of Nigeria under a draconian military dictatorship even at great risks to his own life. “He was a man of great faith who gave his all to make the world and his country, Nigeria, better than he met it. He lived a fruitful and blessed life and passed on peacefully at 86. Peter Obi Adds His Voice Also, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party in the 2023 presidential election, Peter Obi, described the cleric as a man “sincere in words and actions,” a patriotic Nigerian and one who stood for what is right. Obi recounted how the late cleric condemned the atrocities committed during the 2003 gubernatorial election and told ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo that he (Obi) had won. Obi said: “He also spoke truth to power without fear or favour. In my own case, when I was rigged out in the Anambra Gubernatorial election in 2003, he was the first clergyman to publicly tell the President then, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, that I won that election. “I deeply appreciated my meeting with him in Akwa Ibom last December, where he said that God would use me to save Nigeria. His wise counsel, words of encouragement and fervent prayers gave me strength and courage through the electoral process. “The nation needs his prayers now than ever. He truly loved Nigeria. I send my heartfelt condolence to the Mbang family, the Methodist Church of Nigeria and the nation in general on the death of this patriotic Nigerian who lived an exemplary life. Ex-Governor Orji Uzor Kalu Commends Mbang Ex-governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, in his condolence message, described the death of the Emeritus Eminence as a huge loss to the Christian community and Nigeria at large. Kalu acknowledged the immense contributions of Mbang to Christianity across the globe. Kalu, while commiserating with christians especially members of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, urged religious leaders to emulate the remarkable leadership qualities of the former Prelate. He stressed that the late clergyman contributed to nation building in various capacities. He said, “ I commiserate with the Christian community over the passing on to eternal glory of the First Prelate of Methodist Church of Nigeria, His Eminence Sunday Mbang. The late Prelate lived a purposeful life dedicated to the service of God and humanity. He was a role model for his contemporaries and upcoming spiritual leaders. The deceased will be remembered for his good works in all facets of life. He will be sorely missed”. Kalu prayed for eternal rest for the clergyman. Others Reactions To Mbang’s Death Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, in a condolence message, issued by his Chief Press Secretary/Special Assistant (Media), Ekerete Udoh, said the passing is “deeply painful, but we thank God for the life of impact you (Mbang) lived.” Prelate of the church, Dr. Oliver Ali Aba, while describing the departed as a fearless man, vocal and voice of the voiceless, submitted: “He was someone loved and celebrated by the people home and abroad. While alive, he was fearless and vocal.”