GOMBE  – There was palpable tension in Jengre town, Bassa Local Gov­ernment Area of Plateau State, as women wearing black attires marched around the streets of the town in protest of the death of Audu Bako, Jengre Youth Lead­er, who allegedly died after being tortured in detention by officers of the Special Task Force (STF). The women, young and old, who carried placards demand­ing justice for Audu Bako, went around the town including the palace of the Ogomo Pengana, the Paramount ruler of the chiefdom. Since the news of Audu’s death on Monday 08/05/2023, the serene town of Jengre became charged which led to the deploy­ment of more security personnel to forestall the breakdown of law and order. A close associate of the de­ceased reported, “About a month ago, Audu was returning home in the night on his bike when the vigilante stopped him at the bend leading to his house just before the checkpoint at a place called Road-Block. “Like a joke, the scene led to a serious fight between him and the vigilante to the extent that his brother, Yakson had to buy into the fight. Before the case went to the Jengre Police Divi­sion, the vigilante had succeeded in beating him up with bamboo sticks. “It was at the DPO’s office in Jengre that the STF insisted that Audu must be taken to Jos for further scrutiny. Audu did not return to Jengre until after 10 days (01/05/2023) in detention and tortured, as he was accused of engaging in a fight with a vigi­lante at odd hours. “Upon his discharge from Jos, he returned home sick and had to be admitted at SDA Hospital Jen­gre and later referred to JUTH for further treatment as his case was worsening. “It was in JUTH that he died, which I suspect is a result of the extreme torture he went through. At the moment, some individu­als are calling for an autopsy to be performed on him before he is buried which I fully in support. Let’s see how the drama unfolds and God help them if what I am thinking turns out to be true,” Audu’s associate recalled bitterly. POLL Meanwhile, the leadership of Amo Nation have since written a petition to the STF commander demanding the immediate disclo­sure and investigation of officers who brutalised and manhandled the late Mr. Audu Bako. In their own release to the press which was signed by its national secretary, Micah Micah Junior, the Amo National Youth Association. (AMONYA) called for calm and restraint in com­ments and speeches. It said the leadership of Amo at all levels have been on top of the situation seeking justice. Already, Markus Y. Saleh (SAN) and Co, attorneys to the de­ceased family have petitioned the Commander, Special Task Force, Jos, Plateau State, demanding the immediate disclosure and investi­gation of officers who brutalised and manhandled Mr. Audu Bako. It also demanded a thorough investigation to be conducted im­mediately towards finding out the men behind the heinous brutali­ty, dehumanization, torture and agonizing treatment of Mr Audu Bako whose only sin/crime, it said, was becoming a youth lead­er in Jengre.