The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General YD Ahmed, has called on Corps Members to sustain the spirit of patriotism, hard work and resilience which they imbibed during the Orientation Course throughout the one-year compulsory service to their fatherland. Ahmed gave the admonition in his address which was read by the State Coordinator, Mrs Bamai Mercy, at the closing ceremony of the 2023 Batch ‘A’ Stream 2 Orientation Course held Tuesday at the NYSC permanent Orientation camp, old Macgregor College, Afikpo North LGA of Ebonyi State. The DG in his address expressed hope that the new Corps Members would strive to meet the expectations of Nigerians by contributing towards the progress and development of the country. “I enjoin you to perform your duties with diligence and be guided by the provisions of the NYSC Act and Bye-Laws as well as workplace rules and regulations. “In keeping with the objectives of the Scheme, you are expected to integrate into your host communities while also appreciating and respecting their cultures. “You must desist from meddling in their local politics. Furthermore, I enjoin you to undertake personal and group Community Development Service Projects that will help to uplift the living standard of the host communities,” Mr Ahmed advised the Corps Members. He urged them to avail themselves of post-camp training to complement the skills the entrepreneurial training conducted in Camp under the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme. “This will go a long way in empowering you for self-reliance. On our part, we will continue to liaise with financial institutions and other stakeholders with a view to providing start-up loans to enable you to actualize your business dreams. I assure you that Management will continue to explore avenues for optimizing the impact of the programme,” he added. POLL He cautioned them against acts that could endanger their lives as well as other security tips they strictly adhere to in the course of their service. “My dear Corps Members, as you proceed to your Places of Primary Assignment, I urge you to be security conscious at all times, as security is everyone’s business. You should avoid acts that can endanger your life such as staying out late, attending night parties, visitation of dangerous places, and acceptance of car rides and gifts from strangers. “On our part, we are committed to making adequate provisions for your security and general welfare in line with the policy thrust of my administration. Accordingly, we are in constant liaison with security agencies and other critical stakeholders with a view to ensuring your safety as well as addressing other essential needs for a fulfilling service year. “At all times, you should be good ambassadors of the NYSC as well as your families and institutions of graduation. Therefore, you must be wary of acts that can portray the Scheme in a bad light, especially drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime, advanced-fee-fraud and spreading of fake news, amongst others. “Also remember that your membership of the Service Corps does not confer on you immunity from the legal consequences of any wrongdoing. You are, therefore, enjoined to continue to be law-abiding while also serving as role models for the younger ones. “I urge you to avoid using social media for ethnic jingoism, rumour peddling and the promotion of hatred. Instead, your activities online should be targeted at self-improvement as well as the promotion of the unity, peace and development of our dear country. In the same vein, avoid being speculative on issues affecting the NYSC and, instead, visit our website, social media platforms and other official channels for clarifications. “At this juncture, I would like to warn you against unauthorized journeys. If permitted to travel, you must avoid night trips. Travelling at night will not only increase the risk of accidents but also make rescue difficult. You are, therefore, advised to always cut short your trips from six o’clock in the evening and pass the night at NYSC Lodges, military barracks and other locations officially designated as safe. Furthermore, you should board vehicles only at approved motor parks so as to avoid falling into the hands of criminals.” Ahmed further thanked the Federal Government and other relevant authorities for their unwavering support for the Scheme.