UYO – The leadership of the Niger Delta Youth Movement NDYM says it is in total support of Nigeria President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s preference for Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio’s Senate Presidency bid. The movement which declares Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio fit and proper to lead the 10th Senate, said he also has the capacity to properly guide the National Assembly to the actualization of the ‘Renewed Hope’ of the Tinubu-led administration upon her inauguration. In a release signed by the Ag. National President, Comrade Amutadi Uba Tega and National Secretary, Comrade Ediagbonya Joshua Osamuiyi and made available to newsmen in Uyo on Wednesday, the group declares Akpabio most qualified to lead the 10th senate. Further justifying its claims, the release states; “He understands the workings of the legislature since he had a direct relationship with it as a commissioner in the state executive council for 6 years, as an Executive Governor for 8 years, as a senator of the Federal Republic for 4 years and as a Minister of government for about 3 years. “As an Executive Governor, he was an achiever par excellence, earning the sobriquet as the uncommon Governor. “His landmark achievement as a governor are too numerous to mention. It was in his time as a Minister of government that the NDDC completed and moved to its permanent headquarters. “It was in his time that the forensic audit was started and completed, thereby positioning the commission for what it is enjoying today. His time as the minister brought peace to the hitherto volatile region. “Senator Godswill Akpabio is not perfect but he has a strong relationship with virtually every political office holder of note in Nigeria. POLL “More so, South-South has never occupied that position after senator Joseph Wayas of blessed memory more than forty years ago. “We urge the relevant players to be mindful of the sleight of hand that took place in 2015 on the day of the inauguration of the National Assembly leadership… The leadership of NDYM appreciates the President-elect His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for standing for equity especially as it relates to the leadership of the 10th senate, and pledged solidarity with the incoming government. “We appreciate the solidarity of the majority of the senators of the 10th senate and their solid rock resilience in supporting the choice of the president-elect in the candidature of Senator Akpabio. “We also appreciate all relevant stakeholders who have openly supported the candidature of Senator Akpabio irrespective of political party’s affiliations. “The leadership of the Niger Delta Youth Movement NDYM views the Senate Presidency of Senator Akpabio as a call to National Duty and as a call to the service of our fatherland,” the release stated.