Kia has been awarded two significant accolades at the iF Design Award 2023. The brand’s success in the prestigious iF Design ‘Company Branding’ and ‘Shop/Showroom Store Identity’ categories signifies the continued strength and effectiveness of Kia’s creative approach to customer engagement and its competitiveness in global design since the brand relaunch in 2021, a statement by Jimoh Olawale, the Marketing Department Manager, Kia Nigeria. The statement hinted that Kia’s ‘Movement that Inspires’ ethos and its ‘Opposites United’ design philosophy sit at the heart of every strand of the brand’s global corporate identity and showroom identity strategies. Combined with models such as the recently revealed EV9 all-electric flagship Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), they play a pivotal role in accelerating Kia on its rapid transition from a car manufacturer to a sustainable mobility solutions provider. ‘Movement that Inspires’ represents Kia’s determination to create spaces for customers to find value in every moment to become inspired and find more time to bring their ideas to life. Kia’s ‘Opposites United’ design philosophy takes inspiration from the contrasts found in nature and humanity, utilizing the character of one element to bring out the character of another. Contemporary Corporate identity The Kia logo symbolises Kia’s assured new brand direction and conveys ‘Movement that Inspires’ through three design concepts: Symmetry, Rhythm, and Rising. POLL Kia’s confidence in suggesting new customer experiences through providing futuristic products and services is captured by the symmetry of the logo. Rhythm represents the brand’s promise to tirelessly progress to meet customers’ demands and aspirations and provide continuous inspiration. Finally, the bold rising nature of the logo illustrates the brand’s ambition to deliver new values that truly encapsulate the customer’s perspective. Kia’s confident corporate color scheme features Midnight Black and Polar White. These two primary color schemes at either end of the color spectrum convey the values of Sustainability, Eco-Friendliness, and Smart Mobility. Projecting confidence through contrast, they depict the brand’s unflinching vision to pioneer and expand to new domains as a mobility service provider beyond physical mobility. Strong Showroom Identity Kia’s ‘Opposites United’ design philosophy inspires the confidence and vision required to combine elements that don’t traditionally go together. This ability to leverage creative contrasts to achieve a unique outcome is perfectly expressed in the groundbreaking global design of Kia’s showrooms, which feature visually opposing exhibition and customer zones. The futuristic exhibition zone features pronounced corners and achromatic colors, along with steel surfaces that subtly reflect each model to enhance visibility and a sense of space. By contrast, the customer zone relies upon round edges, beautifully lit wooden walls, floors and ceilings, and premium fabric-covered furniture to create a unique snug, and soothing ambiance where customers can relax and view the cars, almost as works of art in a gallery. A total of 133 design experts from 20 different countries gathered to judge the 3,572 projects that had made it to the shortlist after a digital preliminary round. The iF design award honors and celebrates winners in nine disciplines, including Product, Communication, Packaging, Service Design, Architecture, Interior Architecture, User Experience (UX), User Interface (UI), and Professional Concepts, in 81 categories.