The Office of the Education Quality Assurance of the Lagos State Ministry of Education has distinctively celebrated Read Aloud Lagos, among primary school pupils, with an introduction of mobile library, which would enable them to integrate the Read Aloud techniques to teach all subjects at all primary school levels. The Office of Education, Quality Assurance (OEQA) celebrated the Read Aloud Lagos programme on Thursday at the Lagos State Model Primary School GRA ikeja, to commemorate the annual Children’s Day Celebration. Speaking at the event, Director General of the Office of the Education Quality Assurance, Abiola Seriki-Ayeni, said that the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, has been magnanimous to ensure that the programme continues to educate the primary school pupils on vocabulary and pronunciation. It started in the year 2020 during the COVID-19 era, and had continued leaving no child behind to 2021, 2022 and 2023. She said that the office is hopeful to achieve more in the years to come and not to expand it only in terms of basic education, secondary education, but to as well bring in more stakeholders, teachers, school leaders and parents who would have ensured that we have had a holistic approach when it comes to literacy within the school. She stated further that it was the OEQA initiative, to have realised that there was a brilliant way to ensure that the children are reading better in schools and outside the school. However, she informed that a lot of confrontation and research have been done before it was actually started and allowed by the governor in year 2020. Seriki-Ayeni buttressed that the initiative was not just to sensitize the students but a model for teachers and enabling the pupils remain focused and ensure that they read for a minimum of 20 minutes everyday of the week for them to have fun in reading books in schools and with other students, so as to create an enabling environment. The director general took the students through a story book titled: “Anne Frank,” with a better knowledge of what a biography means. POLL She enlightened them more on what Mobile Library means, and described it, as where to visit to encourage them more in reading books, and showcase different ways about read aloud segment and good instructional place. While urging the students to get involved in the the Spelling Bee programme annually organised in Lagos State to enable them emerge One Day Governor of Lagos State, she advised them not to give up in spelling words rightly, saying that once they fail one, they should continue to try again. The Founder of I Read Initiatives, Funmi Ilori, coordinated the students in the area of poems and educative songs, and said in her address, that the Read Aloud programme was to mainly help the children to develop a habit of reading books and to celebrate them in commemoration of the Children day celebration. The Director of Planning Research and Statistics of Office of Education Quality Assurance, Remi Abdul, said that the office is trying to ensure that learners inculcate the habit of vast reading culture so as to enable them to acquire knowledge that would develop them to become good leaders in future. Abdul said that the office is also focusing on effective reading culture, and promoting the reading ability of learners in elementary and primary schools this time around, because they know that, to be a good leader, you have to be a good reader.According to him, “The inability to read leads to a misunderstanding and failure in some of the subjects being taught in schools.” He added that the ministry is always committed to ensuring that Lagos State teachers are well equipped to handle all learners, even with the people living with disabilities (PWDs) as we have another programme called explore Literacy Assessment, which is an artificially intelligent method that provides solutions, remedies to learners who are slow in reading and unable to catch up. The Primary 5A Student of the Lagos State Model Primary school, Miss Odusanya Boluwatife Dorcas, commended the host of the Read Aloud Lagos, programme, for teaching the pupils appropriately to learn that readers are leaders, as she has learnt a lot from what the Teachers have taught them, by reading, spelling and pronounce the words correctly of good English language, for the people to understand them.