The Governor-elect of Plateau, Barr Caleb Mutfwang has assured the outgoing governor, Barr Simon Lalong that he would not witch-hunt anybody when he takes over as governor of Plateau state on May 29th Tomorrow. The governor-elect stated this at the weekend at Jos Rayfilled in Government House during a State Banquet dinner Organized for the incoming administration by the outgoing government of the state. According to Mutfwang, in the areas where clarifications were required, he would handle such issues with the affected persons as a ‘family affair ‘. He promised that he would not be negligent on issues that affect the commonwealth of the state and would work toward improving on the welfare of the people. Muftwang said he hoped to build a new Plateau that would give a sense of belonging to its people, assuring that good leadership was critical to facilitate that. ‘’Those opportune to serve will be judged based on history,’’ he said. He called for cooperation from the Plateau people in the discharge of his duties and promised to improve on areas of need in the state including the public service. Mutfwang thanked Lalong for his service to the state and wished him well in his future endeavours. POLL In his remarks, outgoing Governor Lalong said that his administration has done its best for the progress of the state and hoped that the incoming administration would record more progress. ”We must always put the interest of the generality of citizens and the state above personal interests,’’he said. According to him, his administration was fulfilled on putting the interest of Plateau first which it demonstrated in continuing with old projects and initiating and completing new ones. Lalong said that he did his best in reforming the administrative bureaucracy to ensure the smooth and efficient implementation on government policies and projects. ‘’ Today the civil service has embraced technology and continues to respond to demands of citizens more robustly. ‘’On the issue of peace and security, we did our best in dealing with criminality and also establishing structures and laws to avert ethno-religious conflicts that riddled the State in the past. ‘” Despite our efforts and substantial progress, the criminals have continued to exhibit desperation for violence as seen in the recent attacks in Mangu,’’ he said. He hoped that the new administration would work with the citizens to tackle the security challenges and urged the governor elect to carry all segments of society along in governance. He said that ensuring security in Plateau involved embracing different groups in the state saying ‘no tribe is more superior’. He urged Muftwang to complete abandoned projects and encourage the establishment of Small Scale Enterprises in the state which was attracting investors to establish their businesses. Lalong advised Muftwang to put God first in all he does and do not be pressured by his associates, party members or religious leaders to work against the progress of the state. He thanked Plateau people for the opportunity to serve them and supporting in his discharge of duties, he also urged to forgive him.of his shortcomings as he is human. He said that he would continue to do everything possible to contribute to Plateau’s peace, progress and stability in any engagement he embarks on. Good will messages were presented by traditional rulers and elder statesman during the event which was rounded with Lalong and his Successor taking to dance floor to the delight of dignatories at the event.