Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State in this interview speaks about the state of security in Benue State, how insensitivity on the part of the Federal Government impeded the fight against insecurity, why he forgave President Muhammadu Buhari, why he would support the incoming administration of the Benue State governor-elect Hyacinth Alia, his readiness to support Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the President-elect, if he is sworn in, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: You said that the people of Benue State will hold President Buhari responsible for the killings in Benue State, he has also said that if people continue to disturb him he will go to Niger Republic, are you still holding grudges against Buhari who has asked everybody who he must have offended to forgive him? The Bible says that we shall know the truth and that truth shall set us free. Until we get to the level where every Nigerian will want to respect the truth and ensure that we have a constitution that ensures respect for the provisions of the constitution, then everything will work out. If we don’t do it, I am afraid things will get out of hand just like we have witnessed in the past. As a born again Christian, the bible says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, God will not hear me. If my brother sins and he asks for forgiveness, I shall be willing to forgive him. Our Lord’s Prayer for those of us who are Christians, I believe that the Muslims have the same instruction from the Holy Scriptures. “Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us”. So, there is a condition for God to forgive you. When you don’t forgive it means God too will not forgive you. For me as a born again Christian, I have forgiven President Muhammadu Buhari. He has taken us from top to bottom but that does not mean that we should continue to hold it on him. Thank God that the constitution says four years term and after four years, you can go in for a second term and after the second term another person will come. It is good that the incoming administration will provide succour, will provide security for people, will provide economic development, and will provide peace for our people. We have suffered for eight years. For me I have forgiven him because he doesn’t need to go to Niger. He should stay here with us and all of us will work with the incoming administration and by the grace of God we shall move again from bottom to top. I know that in 2018 when some of us had the privilege of serving with President Goodluck Jonathan, we were taking Nigeria from bottom to the top to a certain level, but now we are at the bottom. I will tell you the truth about the celebration of my defeat which was orchestrated by the Villa. It was unfortunate. Money was spent, and every day people talk about corruption. Corruption is from the Villa itself. I know how much was given to Benue State to ensure that I lost the election. God has permitted it, and I have accepted to move on. A few days ago you said that you will support the incoming All Progressives Congress (APC) governor of Benue State, is there any deal? I have accepted that if some other person comes I will support that person. If they need my support I will always be there and if they don’t I will go back to my farm. I will go back to my business. I can even be a freelance journalist with even Arise and any other media organisation. I will go back to my business where I resigned my position as chairman in 2015 when I became a Governor. Garba Shehu has issued a statement saying that you are a disgrace governor and that President Buhari has done a lot for the people of Benue State to ensure the security of lives and property, can you react to that? What you heard Garba Shehu say was a clear indication that they thought I was on their way, I was not on their way. All that I was trying to do was to ensure justice and equity. You can imagine in Benue State we have never had any religious crisis. We have never had any ethnic related crisis in Benue State. Under my leadership we have never had any of these issues because I believe in fairness, equity and justice. I believe in the rule of law and that was why instead of being lawless or working with the people to allow them, begin to kill herdsmen or commit atrocities, I said, no, let us work within the ambit of the law. The constitution provides that the state can enact laws that can provide peace and ensure good governance for the people, and that was why we brought the idea of forming a Community Volunteer Guard. In the law we stated it clearly that the Community Volunteer Guard will work with the Nigerian police, under their supervision, the arms were given to them and licensed by the police, and are in the custody of the Nigerian police. Anything that the Community Volunteer Guard does is within the ambit of the law that establishes it. I have forgiven President Muhammadu Buhari and I hope that the incoming administration will look at these issues passionately because we as citizens don’t deserve what we have gotten from the hands of President Muhammadu Buhari. Sycophants can tell you that yes, we have succeeded. Yes, he made milestones in certain areas but in the area of security, in the area of economic development, this present government has not been able to do well. Some of us who are bold who have sacrificed ourselves are seen as antagonistic to the government. It is not true. Since you inaugurated the 500 man Community Volunteer Guard last year to complement the efforts of the conventional security operatives, what has been the successes recorded because despite the fact that you said they are going to help with tackling insecurity in your state, we have continued to see attacks by armed herdsmen, even post inauguration, what has been the limitations? POLL In my assessment and the assessment of the Benue State executive council, the Community Volunteer Guard since inauguration has achieved a milestone. They were brought from various communities and so it is easy for them to support intelligence gathering. They provide information to conventional security operatives in Benue State, especially the Nigerian police who are their immediate supervisor. If you ask the police in Benue State they will tell you the complementary efforts that the Community Volunteer Guard has been providing. We have council wards, local guards and all these Community Volunteer Guards are there and they work hand in hand under the supervision of the police. The gross deficit in manpower in the Nigeria police has created a challenge in managing security in Nigeria. In Benue State these people are there and there are a couple of reports that they have succeeded even sometimes in arresting bandits, armed robbers, kidnappers, and other forms of local criminality that we witness in the society. Because they are everywhere within the communities it is difficult for the criminals to have their way without these people identifying them. So, they have succeeded in doing what should happen, it is unfortunate and that is what I have been saying since 2016 when I came in as the Governor of Benue State, that the federal government seems to be complicit in the manner the herdsmen are killing our people. I interfaced with the federal authorities. I have sat with the President and I brought these things before him, but his thinking was different from the way I thought that we should be able to handle this matter. The truth is that when you allowed the Fulani herdsmen to carry AK47 and didn’t allow the local people and even the Community Volunteer Guards. I think the most sophisticated weapon that they have is pump action. You know that a 100 Community Volunteer Guards with pump action cannot confront two persons from the Fulani herdsmen with AK47. These are automatic weapons. It was what led my state executive council to apply to the President and the Federal Government to also permit us to at least allow the Community Volunteer Guards to be armed with automatic weapons so that they can strongly confront these herdsmen who are creating terror. They are creating sleepless nights and pains in our people. If that was done I can tell you that we would have succeeded because these Community Volunteer Guards were trained by the army. They were trained by the police, they were trained by the Civil Defense Corps. They were trained by the Department of State Services (DSS). They are disciplined, these are able young men, with the capacity to do away with these terrorist Fulani herdsmen who have been creating terror, creating sleepless nights, nightmares for our people. Unfortunately we applied and the request was turned down. We are law abiding citizens, and since these weapons are prohibited for citizens to carry, they said that they cannot allow the licence. The challenge that I have with the Federal Government with the response to have automatic weapons for my Community Volunteer Guard, is, why are they allowing Fulani herdsmen to carry these weapons? Where have they arrested these Fulani men and taken them to court and prosecuted them? This is the challenge that I have. So, it is unfortunate that it is impossible for the Community Volunteer Guards to have dane guns, to have single barrel shotguns or pump action and confront these men who come in their numbers with automatic weapons and kill people every day at will and go back. So, this is the challenge. As a law abiding citizen I have never encouraged any form of lawlessness, or any form of purchasing arms for our people which are illegal because I know that allowing this level of illegality will bring lawlessness, and lawlessness will bring anarchy and when you have anarchy in the community people will continue to be killed. If there is anarchy in the society nobody will be safe. I will not be safe, the president will not be safe. I think that the federal government should have to think twice because these killings are not just going on in Benue State, they are going on in Plateau State. They are going on even in Mr. President’s home State. They are going on in Katsina State, they are going on in Zamfara State. The killings are all over the country. I think that we need to come together to work together. What is there for you in the immediate future, with the ease with which you quote bible passages, one would think maybe the plan is to become a pastor, you already talked about the possibility of going to the farm, be a freelance journalist. What is the deal with the APC government because you have been talking of support for Father Rev. Father Hyacinth Alia? Something is wrong with our system of politicking in Nigeria, but for me as a Christian, I believe that power belongs to God. He gives it to whosoever he will. You can imagine, I won election in 2015 as governor of Benue State with 23 Local Government Areas. In 2019 despite all the intimidations of the opposition against me, I still won with 23 Local Government Areas. I contested for Senate in Seven Local Government Areas and they said that I lost. I didn’t bother to go to court. Initially my people pushed me to go to court, but I withdrew the case. It shows you that I have the fear of God. Power belongs to God and in doing it as it is captured in Ecclesiastes chapter 9 verse 11, “The battle is not for the swift nor for the strong, nor the race for the fastest runner, nor success for men of wisdom, everything comes by time and chance” When God wants it, it doesn’t matter whether you are qualified or you are not qualified, you can be there. Just like in 2015 or 2019, I wasn’t the best candidate to be governor but God made it possible. So, if God says now it is not my time, why should I say no? If you go to Ecclesiastes chapter 3 verses 1 to 15 talk about time. There is time for everything. Maybe God wants me to do something else and am ready to do it. The bible says that we should pray for those in authority. Many people may think that I am an enemy to President Buhari. President Muhammadu Buhari remains my President until May 29, when somebody else will come there. My duty as a Christian, the bible instructs me to pray and not to insult and I have never insulted Mr. President. What I do is constructive criticism. If you ask him he can tell you that many times that he gave me the opportunity to speak with him. I was able to admonish him, counsel and encourage him on areas that I thought in my opinion could make things better for Nigerians and if he had listened to me the security situation that we have in Nigeria will not be where we are. I was branded as an enemy by overzealous people who are around him. I don’t hate Mr. President. He loves me and I also love him. I was the first governor that Mr. President took with him to South Africa when he became president in 2015. Also because we have a relationship between Tiv and Fulani. What we witness here is foreigners who have come to invade our peace. President Shehu Shagari did very well as President, and he was a core Fulani man, and till tomorrow Benue State has written his name in gold. He appointed four Ministers and many other appointments to the people of Benue State. President Yar Adua did very well, he appointed a Tiv the Attorney General of the Federation, the most powerful Minister in his cabinet. He did so well and we appreciated him. So, it is not about Fulani matters, it is about terrorists coming from Niger, Senegal, Mali, from other parts of the world to take over Nigeria. They are the ones creating these problems, and the government is not doing enough to stop them. That is the problem Are you planning to join the APC, are you looking for a Ministerial appointment if Tinubu offers you a Ministerial position will you take it? Let me tell you that is not on my table now. I am in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). I worked with a southern president because I believe in justice, equity and fairness. Bola Tinubu and Peter Obi are part of the Southern presidential candidates. I chose to work with Obi because I felt that the presidency should go to that place. I am in the PDP but I worked for the presidency of Obi. For the other candidates, I worked for them in PDP. Some lost and some won. I can be a PDP but will still work for the interest of this country to ensure fairness, equity and justice. What I am telling you is that if tomorrow Tinubu is sworn in, I will continue to pray for him and continue to support him to succeed as president of this country. The litigation is going on, let it take its course. It is part of the democratic process. Once the result comes out, whatever is the outcome, we will accept it and whoever is the president, I am going to support him. I am a PDP leader in Benue State. I am a PDP and I am still working there but that does not stop me from ensuring equity fairness and justice for all Nigerians, which I think is the only thing that can help us to be liberated in this country.