GOMBE – One of the vocal voices in the Gombe State House of Assembly, Mr Rambi Ibrahim Ayala, is now the acting chairman of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in Gombe State following the resignation of Eld Sammy Amos Filiya. Eld Sammy Amos Filiya, who was also serving in an acting capacity, had during the party’s review meeting assessed its performance during the 2023 general election, and verbally notified the party members of his resignation, citing old age, ill health and other personal reasons. However, during the meeting, the entire Member requested Eld. Sammy is to forward his resignation in writing for reference and documentation purposes. But speaking later, on behalf of nine out of the eleven Local Government party Chairmen of the NNPP in the State who endorsed Mr. Ayala, Tijjani Jungudo, the party’s Chairman in Gombe Local Government said they came to the conclusion following Ayala’s doggedness and track record in politics and contribution to the party. He said Rambi Ayala was chosen immediately because the position of the Chairman should not be left in a vacuum. “We followed all party rules and requirements because we called all those that matter in the party and these are, Chairmen and Secretaries in all Wards and Local Government Areas, more so, we have seen the resignation letter of Eld Sammy Amos. We sought the views of all the wards and local governments.” Responding, Rambi Ibrahim Ayala, a legal practitioner, who leads the minority caucus in the Gombe State House of Assembly, appreciated God and thanked the leadership and elders of the party for the confidence reposed in him to be the acting chairman of the party.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said, “We’ve just gone through elections and the party needs to be repositioned for greater achievement and be better prepared for the next elections. POLL “We’ve been a nightmare to both the PDP and the APC during the last election and my focus will be to reposition the party for victory in coming elections. We’ll also woo new members into the party,” he assured. He promised to lead the party into being an opposition to the core adding, “we’ll criticize where we have to do that. If the people of Gombe State don’t get their fair share, we will speak, but we’ll be a very responsible opposition with a view to spur Government to do the right thing”. Rambi will end his two term legislative duties on 29th May, 2023.