LAGOS  – Ring, one of the globally acclaimed brand in Home Security has made a debut in Nigeria following the announcement of an agreement between the leading home security device makers and TD Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa’s leading distributor of tech and lifestyle products. The agreement which allows TD Africa to distribute select Ring devices in Nigeria, will also see the pioneer bulk distributor in West Africa for a plethora of renowned global brands, leverage its growing network of channel partners and key resellers in extending the reach of Ring’s cutting-edge solutions to millions of potential users across Nigeria. At the Ring Products launch held at Yudala Heights, Victoria Island, Lagos recently, Ring devices were for the first time introduced in Nigeria, an indication that TD Africa and Ring can deliver home security solutions that are accessible and effective. Ring, an Amazon company, is globally known for providing reliable, easy-to-install DIY home security products that offer customers peace of mind as they protect their homes. While using devices like the Ring Video Doorbell (2nd generation), homeowners can see, hear and speak to anyone at their front door, from their compatible phone or tablet – even in the dark. In addition, Ring devices provide an extra layer of security, through a variety of features. With Ring Video Doorbells and Security Cameras, users benefit from Motion Detection, Two-Way Talk, Night Vision, and more, all controllable via the Ring app. Ring has put features in place across all its devices to ensure privacy, security, and user control remain front and centre. Features vary based on the device and may be subject to a Ring Protect subscription. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Mrs. Chioma Chimere, Coordinating Managing Director, TD Africa, said: “We are delighted to add Ring to a growing list of globally recognised brands we represent in Nigeria,” POLL “Through this collaboration, we are confident of bringing the Ring range of intelligent home security solutions to the homes of many Nigerians through our nationwide network of channel partners,” she disclosed. “At Ring, our mission is to make neighbourhoods safer. We reimagined home security with products like Ring Video Doorbell, Floodlight Cam Wired Pro, and Stick-Up Cams.”