The Federal Government has reminded insurance industry supervisors across the West African sub region of one of their key roles which is to minimising fraudulent activities in the insurance sector in accordance with the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) principles on Anti-Money laundering. The remark was made by Mrs Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, Minister Of Finance, Budget And National Planning at the just concluded West African Insurance Companies Association (WAICA) Educational Conference 2023 and Celebration of its 50th anniversary held in Lagos, Nigeria. According to her, insurance in the whole of Africa has been characterised by low penetration and poor contribution to most African countries financial growth, stressing that maintaining efficient, fair, safe and stable insurance market in the West African sub region must be promoted for the benefit of the policyholders and other stakeholders. The Minister, who was represented by Mr Sunday Thomas, Commissioner for Insurance at the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), noted that the Federal Government believes in a new dawn for the industry, which would be made possible by leveraging technological innovations, and a positive paradigm shift focused and poised to meet the anticipated surge in the demand and untapped side. She noted that in modern business environment, disruption plays an integral part of any business. Hence, the 2023 WAICA Educational Conference choice of theme: “Repositioning the Insurance Industry in West Africa for Global Competitiveness” could not have been more propitious in view of the overarching objective behind the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The AfCFTA, she said, is to accelerate intra-African trade by providing a single market for goods and services, facilitate movement of persons in order to deepen the economic integration and prosperity on the continent as well as boosting Africa’s trading position in the global market by strengthening Africa’s common voice and policy space in global trade negotiations. Ahmad further observed that the insurance industry, like other components of the financial system, is changing in response to a wide range of global social and economic forces, adding that in particular, insurance and insurance-linked financial activities are increasingly crossing national and sectorial boundaries. The finance minister, therefore, tasks insurers to leverage technological innovations and positive paradigm shift focused to meet the challenging times adding: “As an optimist, we are encouraged to believe in a new dawn, leveraging technological innovations, and a positive paradigm shift focused and poised to meet the anticipated surge in the demand and untapped side. POLL I, therefore, urge the delegates here present to deliberate and recommend ways of repositioning the insurance industry in West Africa for Global Competitiveness.”