Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will on Thursday flag off the dredging of the Oguta/Orashi waterways linking the Atlantic Ocean from Imo State as efforts by the Federal Government to designate that part of Imo State as an Oil and Gas Free Trade Zone gathers momentum. Last week, President Muham­madu Buhari granted another of Governor Hope Uzodimma’s request to declare the Oguta/ Ohaji/Egbema and environs as an Oil and Gas Free Trade Zone given the quantum of oil and gas deposit in the area believed to be the largest in the country. On Sunday after Mass at the Government House Chapel, Owerri, Governor Uzodimma disclosed that Vice President Osinbajo will be joined in Imo State by the Chief of Defence Staff, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Minister of Transportation, the Minister of Trade and Invest­ment, among other key federal government functionaries and urged Imo people to be part of the important event. The governor said that the “dredging has become necessary considering a lot of criminal ac­tivities going on in that area us­ing the axis as a hideout.” He explained that “consid­ering its negative impact on the image of Imo State government and its people,” his government has “decided to partner Nigerian Navy to clean up the channel from Oguta Lake to Orashi River up to the high sea as far as Degema.” He recalled that before the 1960s, bigger vessels were com­ing to Oguta town to collect pro­duce. “As a matter of fact, the ware­houses and the office buildings used by the Royal Niger Compa­ny in the 60s are still there,” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Governor Uzodimma main­tained that his government has a duty “to ensure security, reduce the spate of banditry and illegal­ity in that area. That is why we have decided to embark on the project, partnering with the Fed­eral Government.” POLL He said: “By the Grace of God, this administration will partner with Nigerian Navy in the funding and supervision of the project to ensure its success.” Highlighting the advantages, the governor added, “When com­pleted, it will boost the economy of the area and indeed that of the state and Nigeria in general.” He also used the opportunity to again appreciate and thank President Buhari who he said had given approval that the en­tire Orashi/Oguta area be des­ignated as an Oil and Gas Free Trade Zone. To maximize this opportu­nity, the governor assured that “the government of Imo State will establish an industrial clus­ter in that area that will be pow­ered by the gas deposits in the area considered as the largest in Nigeria,” noting that “Imo State government is left with no option than to leverage that gift of God to empower her people.” He then urged Imo people to come out en mass to “receive the Vice President, the Chief of Defence Staff, the Chief Naval Staff, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Trade and In­vestment and other federal and state VIPs at the flag off of the project.”