the United States Congress came together to enact a law that established the physician-associate profession. Today, the United States has more than 168,000 PAs across all medical and surgical specialties in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories, providing more than 3 million patient encounters per day. Anyone may ask, who are the physician associates? Physician Associates are mid-level medical professionals who are trained, using medical models to perform tasks such as obtaining patient medical histories, performing clinical procedures and clinical examinations, diagnosing diseases, and formulating medical management plans. PAs are trained to provide general healthcare services, similar to medical doctors, but with the supervision of a principal or supervising physician. PAs can practice in all specialties as long as a supervising physician exists and is available. A supervising physician can supervise as many PAs as possible. The supervising physician does not have to be in the exact location. The supervising physician should be a phone call away and be in the same specialty. Like medical doctors, PAs undergo rigorous medical education including didactic and clinical clerkship, and pass the board examinations before being allowed to practice. The preferred Nigeria PA program model shall adopt the United States’ 4-year bachelor degree then intense master-level education of 2 years, including didactic and clinical. Apart from the United States, several other countries have adopted the PA profession including the United Kingdom, Canada, Netherlands, India, Liberia, Ghana, South Africa, Australia, Saudi Arabia, Germany, New Zealand, Afghanistan, Israel, Bulgaria, Ireland, Kenya, and others. In fact, some of the $1.6 billion being spent on medical tourism only earned those Nigerian Medical Tourists, encounters with PAs abroad. If enacted into law in Nigeria, apart from providing a reliable workforce in the health sector, the PA profession will help establish a new profession for teeming youths who could not gain entrance to study medicine in universities nationwide. It is estimated that employment opportunities will be immediately created for hundreds of thousands of youths, who will be gainfully employed within the public and private sectors. Moreso, trained PAs including Nigerians, practicing outside the country, will be able to return home to practice their profession in Nigeria. The PA profession will help generate economic activities and transform Nigeria’s healthcare system. The PAs will readily work in the rural, primary, and secondary healthcare systems and underserved communities, improving access to healthcare services and reducing quackery in the healthcare sector. In 2022, this writer facilitated sponsorship of Bill HB 1966: Institute of Physician Associates of Nigeria Bill, 2022 through the 9th assembly of the Nigeria Federal House of Representatives but failed after the first & second readings and Public Hearing, on 08/12/2022 due to the opposition from the special interests. But as a pragmatic and dynamic leader, I am very confident that Your Excellency would see to the enactment of a bill for the downtrodden Nigerians who are not able to properly access healthcare services thus dying needlessly. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies in the United States of America. He is a Harvard Scholar, affiliated with Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas, Texas. He specializes in Internal medicine, Acute care and Emergency Medicine, Geriatrics, Psychiatry, and Surgical services.