ABUJA – A Nigerian leading renewable energy service provider, GreenPower Overseas Ltd, has been awarded the African Best World Class Quality Renewable Energy Company of the Year 2023. According to a statement to newsmen by the Chairman of the Company, Engr. Bamidele Faparusi, the renewable energy firm was announced winner of the coveted awards at an event last week Friday, which was well attended by stakeholders from power sector, industry chief executives, as well as captains of industries. The annual event was said to have been initiated to celebrate and engage professionals, practitioners and the government on the issue of quality culture and management in Africa. The secretary of AQAA general committee, Ifeoma Emeka noted that the award is aimed at identifying, recognizing and rewarding companies and products that apply quality culture and quality management best practices in achieving their corporate objectives. Emeka also emphasized that celebrating quality excellence in Africa by leveraging quality to develop creative solutions for the future is paramount. “As part of the event, we have the Africa Quality Congress (AQC), which is a forum of ideas dedicated towards driving quality agenda. The congress is said to be an informative and inspiring day of new ideas, and stimulating debates. It will provide delegates with a greater understanding of how operational effectiveness and efficiency is vital to organizational success,” she said. The ‘Quality Standards Journal’, a Pan African Magazine published by World Quality Alliance, with the support of African Quality Institute was also unveiled during the awards night. Speaking at the event, the Chairman of GreenPower Overseas Ltd, Engr. Bamidele Faparusi scored the organizer of AQAA high for giving companies a platform to showcase their products and services on quality at the award. POLL He noted that the impact of winning such an award by his firm, validates commitment to excellence, which provides a chance to engage with potential customers, partners, and industry professionals, as well as gather feedback and insights from the market. The energy expert said exhibiting at such events increases visibility and networking opportunities, which can be valuable for business growth and development. Dignitaries at the award night includes; Chairman Dubai Quality Group, Hazza khaifan Aineaimei; Chairman, Pan Africa Quality Infrastructure (PAQI) Celestine O. Okanya; and DG Mauritius Standard Bureau, Sandhya Boygah. Others are; Raymond Murenzi, DG Rwanda Bureau of Standards and Bernard.N. Njirani, MD Kenya bureau of Standards.