Elsie Ahamba Ezekiel is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of African Producers’ Network (ARIPNET), a cooperative comprising African and Nigerian producers. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, she said that she established the cooperative in order to help members increase their sales in the country and on the continent and on the global market place. Excerpts: What are the objectives of African Producers’ Network (ARIPNET)? We are a group of producers and our objective is to promote made in Nigeria and Africa products and produce. What led you to establish the cooperative? We had issues with Nigerian and African producers not making sales after producing and we wanted to change the situation; people were not buying into African products and it was a concern to me. I joined some organizations and I met some Nigerian and African producers and their complaint was that they were not making enough sales because people were not buying their products and produce and we decided to work on the products and improve them. We decided to look into the issue of why people were not buying African and Nigerian products and what we should do better to make people buy our products and produce. What did you do? POLL We started to improve our branding and packaging; we started to improve the content of our products. When we were done with all that, we looked at sales, our campaign; how do we convince the people to believe that African products can compete favourably with products from the developed world? That was how we came up with AFRIPNET; we said we needed to come together as an organization and speak with one voice. This way we will make more noise and more people will hear us and we will make a greater impact. When you say sell more products and produce, do you mean in Africa or in the international market? Our objective is to sell African products and produce to Africa and to the world. What has been the experience? So far we are getting the traction that we want but we want to gain access to the international market. Some people still believe that Nigerian and African products are not good enough, the number is decreasing; what is your comment on that? We have been able to build a niche to compete in the international market; AFRIPNET has bridged the gap in quality assurance on the products that we will be promoting. We are promoting products that we are sure can compete globally. We have created that niche in the cooperative for ourselves; so if you want to become a member of the cooperative, we will ascertain the quality of your products and you must meet the international standard that we have set for members. How will you describe doing business in Nigeria generally? Nigeria is a difficult place to do business; businesses face many difficulties operating here. For instance, NAFDAC presents its own set of challenges; the agency is not making it easy for SMEs to operate in the country and we are planning to call out the agency sometime in the year. People will have a product and want to package it in different stages and NAFDAC will want them to pay for the different stages and it is not a one-off payment. You do renewal of the products. Again the country is not implementing good policies that will enable small businesses to thrive and the environment is not favourable for businesses to make progress. There is a need for the government to ban the importation of some products that we produce in the country to help small businesses thrive. When the imported products are cheaper, people will want to buy them. Many Nigerian businesses import their raw materials because they are not available in the country and this makes their products expensive. The agency is making things more difficult for them. All these make it difficult for businesses to thrive in the country. What should the government do to make the environment better? It should make it easy for business people to access funds; financing is very important for a business to thrive. Banks do not give loans to small businesses in the country. The government should start a campaign to make people buy made in Nigeria products; the government should make it easy for people to get certification. What conditions should people meet to join AFRIPNET? You must be a producer; you must produce African or Nigerian made products; you must have some certification. Do you have a physical store? Before now, many of our members were stay at home moms, who run their businesses from home and people did not take them seriously because they did not have a physical store. They run their businesses online. We have decided to open a physical store which will drive our online stores and this will drive our visibility. The members must be ready to push themselves; you have to push your brand to where you want it to be. What is your advice to young people who want to become entrepreneurs? Entrepreneurship is not for people who are faint hearted; they must be passionate about what they want to do. What is motivating you to continue in spite of the challenges? I am passionate about seeing women thrive in their businesses because I have failed many times in different businesses; I have done several businesses and got frustrated out of them. So, I know exactly where the shoes hurt. So I put them together to encourage them to thrive. If you do not give up on your dream, it will become a reality. This is my motivating factor and when people say no to me, it becomes a big motivation to work harder because I have seen that the dream can become a reality if you work hard. That is my motivation.