ENUGU –  Mrs Juliet Chiluwe, Chief of Office, UNICEF Field Office Enugu says access to quality education must be equitable and inclusive for all children in Nigeria She stated this during the Advocacy Meeting with Critical Education Stakeholders held at Bayview Hotel, Independence Layout, Enugu. She said UNICEF is collaborating with the Federal Ministry of Education to ensure access to education for all children noting that “ lack of consistent access to quality, education is impacting children’s learning and life chances in Nigeria She said “ 10.2 million children remain out of school at the primary level and an additional 8.1 million remain out of school at the junior secondary levels. In addition, school closures due to insecurity in the 2020/2021 academic year affected over 1.3 million children in 11,000 schools. “Estimates predict that these school closures will result in 3.4 billion USD in unrealized earnings for these children over the course of their lives. In our 3 focus states, in Benue 58 children out of every 100, in Cross River 40 children out of every 100 and in Enugu 38 children of every 100 do not enroll in primary education at the school entry age of 6. Among those that enroll, 10 boys drop out at the primary; 13 boys and & 15 girls drop out at the JSS levels (MICS 2021) “There is lack of consistent access to safe, quality, inclusive education is severely impacting children’s learning and life chances in Nigeria. Approximately 50 per cent of students on average cannot read or write while only one in four children in Nigeria demonstrate foundational literacy and numeracy skills (27 and 25 per cent, respectively). According to these rates, there are at least 11.6 million children of basic education age who lack foundational skills‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “These gaps in foundational skills are cumulative across the lifecycle. Without foundational learning, students often fail to thrive later in school and are at a higher risk of dropping out. They also do not acquire the human capital they need to power their careers and economies once they leave school. In fact, Nigerian youths lack the digital and job-specific skills necessary for employment in an increasingly knowledge-based and technology-driven economy. POLL “This is evident in the youth unemployment rate, as only 37 per cent of youth are employed, and half of the employers cannot find appropriately qualified employees for the roles they aim to fill². Furthermore, these youths are less likely to be actively engaged citizens and to nurture healthy, prosperous families. “To support access to quality learning and skills development, UNICEF and the FME developed and deployed the Nigeria Learning Passport (NLP) (https://nigeria.learningpassport.org), an online, offline and mobile digital learning platform which supports learning and skills acquisition for children and youth, particularly the acquisition of digital skills. To date the NLP has reached key achievements, including: “Enugu is among the 13 states that have launched NLP (Bauchi, Benue, Kano, Katsina, Jigawa, Kaduna, Niger, Nasarawa, Kebbi, Edo, Enugu, Ekiti and Lagos) and additional 5 states (Adamawa, Borno, Sokoto, Yobe and Zamfara) for a total of 18 states. “More than 142,000 users enrolled on the platform, including 69,000 students,13,500 devices provided to poor and rural schools (Enugu received 400) 15,000 teaching and learning materials aligned to the national curriculum available on the platform, including skills development curricula and content that has been reviewed against agender-responsive verification tool, in four available languages of instruction (English, Hausa,Igbo and Yoruba), 670 teachers were trained in Enugu in 2022. “Professional development modules for teachers available, and about 30,000 teachers across 16 states reached with digital literacy and/or digital pedagogical skills: and 89 per cent of polled NLP users indicated the NLP has supported their education. “These are clear gaps that require urgent intervention. NLP provides a viable alternate pathway to certificated learning for our population,” she said Speaking earlier, the Director of Planning, Research and Statistics, at the state Ministry of Education, Chris Edenwatu said the Nigeria Learning Passport was created to help people to assess learning contents and virtually every subject that are taught in schools. Edenwatu who commended UNICEF for their intervention in the education sector assured the commitment of the state government to continue key into the Nigeria Learning Passport program in order to help people access quality education.