LAGOS – Barely 11 days to the end of this administration, the Federal Government has concessioned the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja and Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kamo for a combined 50 years period. The Ministry of Aviation has also changed its nomenclature to the Ministry of Aviation and Aerospace with immediate effect. A statement by Dr. James Odaudu, the Special Assistant on Public Affairs to Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, said that the concession of the two airports followed all the laid down rules and regulations. Sirika said that while Abuja Airport is concessioned for 20 years, Kano Airport is concessioned for a 30 years period. The concession is under a Public Private Partnership (PPP) scheme. The two airports were concessioned to the Corporacion American Airport Consortium. Sirika also said that the concession of the airports was in alignment with the Aviation Roadmap, approved by President Muhammadu Buhari on October 18, 2016. The statement hinted that the concession was also approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC).He said this achievement signified a notable milestone in the country’s steadfast commitment to revitalising the nation’s aviation sector.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The statement added: “Following a thorough and comprehensive evaluation process that commenced with the Request for Qualification (RFQ) advertised in local and international media on August 16, 2021, and subsequent rigorous evaluation of technical and financial bids, coupled with due diligence visits conducted from December 27 through 29, 2022 and January 9 through 10, 2023, the Corporacion American Airport Consortium has emerged as the preferred bidder.“The consortium, composed of The Corporation American Airports, Mota Engil Africa, and Mota Engil Nigeria, is globally recognized for its superior technical expertise in the design, construction, management, and operation of infrastructure.” POLL The statement said that Corporation American Airports, a New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listed airport operator, has a presence across three continents, managing 53 airports in six countries and serving approximately 82.4 million passengers in 2019. The concession of NAIA and MAKIA, Sirika would considerably enhance the operational efficiency and profitability of these airports, repositioning them to operate optimally and competitively. Besides, the Corporacion American Airport Consortium is committed to making upfront payments of $7 million for NAIA and $1.5 million for MAKIA. During the concession period, total projected nominal revenues accruable from the combined Concession of NAIA and MAKIA exceed $4 billion, while over 70 per cent of these projected revenues would be payable to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), thereby generating additional revenue sources for the Federal Government. Sirika declared the period is momentous for Nigeria’s aviation industry. The partnership with the Corporacion American Airport Consortium, he said, underscored the administration’s dedication to improving the standards of the nation’s airports, providing world-class services to all travellers and generating considerable economic benefits for the country. According to him, the concession would herald a new era of excellence in Nigeria’s aviation industry, saying that he eagerly anticipates a successful partnership with the Corporacion American Airport Consortium. In a related development, the Federal Executive Council had also approved the change of nomenclature of the Federal Ministry of Aviation to the Ministry of Aviation and Aerospace with immediate effect.The new nomenclature, Sirika said was in line with the nature of the sector, being under the exclusive management and regulation of the Federal Government.