..Recover Arms, Ammunition, Stolen Vehicles The operatives of the Delta State Police said they have made massive success in the war against crime in the State with the arrest of kidnappers, cultists and recovery of arms, ammunition and stolen vehicles. The Commissioner of Police in charge of the State, CP Wale Abass has also averred that the Command is committed to effective, intelligrnce-driven and community-based policing to ensure that Deltans sleep with their two eyes closed. Bright Edade, Police PublicRelations Officer (PPRO) who confirmed the arrest of members of the criminal syndicates Saud that sequel to the kidnap of Mr and Mrs Okutonye Efetobore on April 27, 2023  in Ughellli town and payment of ransom of N1million for their release,  the Commissioner of Police Delta state, CP  Abass directed the Command Decoy squad to embark on an intelligence led investigation and ensure that the kidnappers are arrested and brought to book. “In compliance with the CP’s directive,  on May 11, 2023, at about 2315hrs, operatives of the command Decoy squad, led by the commander, ASP Julius Robinson, while  acting on gathered credible intelligence, embarked on a sting operation and arrested one Emmanuel James a  32-yr-old man   of Otor-Udu,  Ughelli South Local Government Area of the Delta State, who is suspected to be the leader of the gang.” Edade, a Deputy Superintendent of Police added that on May 12,2023, at about 0230hrs, the suspect led the operatives to Ejewu community, Udu LGA  and arrested the syndicate driver, one Ejiro Peter, who   aged 25, a native of Kokori community in Ethiope East LGA. “They confessed to their involvements in series of armed robbery, kidnapping operations  in Ughelli and Warri which includes the kidnap of Mr and Mrs Okutonye Efetobore on April  27, 2023, at ughellli town  and  a ransom of #1,000,000.00 was paid  before the couple was released.”  ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The PPRO said that on May 12, 2023, the suspects led the operatives to another notorious member of their criminal gang whose real name is unknown but fondly called  “oh lord”  at Egbike area in Udu. POLL “The suspect, upon sighting the police,  engaged them in a gun duel and escaped through the ceiling of his apartment with bullet injuries. “When his apartment was searched, a bag containing a locally fabricated pistol and three  rounds of 7.62 AK47 live ammunition were recovered. Manhunt for the fleeing suspect is ongoing.” The police image maker disclosed that on May 5, 2023, at about 5.30pm, operatives of the Command  State Anti-Cult Unit (SACU),  while on a joint operation  with Dragon patrol, safer highway, raiders squad, RRS at Afisere /Ughelli. He said they  arrested the duo of Tega Precious (28)  and Ebi Marvelloveous  aged 27. He said that one revolver pistol, two live ammunition were recovered from them. “Suspects confessed to be members of Neo black movement (NBM) cult group. “The suspects led the operatives to their hideout, where two pump action guns, two double barrel guns, one single barrel gun, and sixteen live cartridges, were recovered. Manhunt for the other members of the gang is ongoing.” The Command, according to Edafe recorded another success on May 12, 2023 in Agbarho  when operatives of Agbarho Police station were on stop and search duty and sighted a red GLK Mercedes benz, flagged down the vehicle, but the  suspect on sighting the Police quickly alighted   from the Benz GLK 350 with reg. number WWR 441 MD and escaped into the bush. “The vehicle was recovered and taken to the station. When  searched was coducted in the car,  a phone number which turned out to be the phone number of owner of the vehicle was seen, and when he was contacted, he confirmed that the car was stolen from him at gun point on May 11, 2023.” Similarly,  he said that the same May 11, 2023,  at about 1pm, operatives of Dragon 19 and 20, while on stop and search duty along Ughelli-Patani expressway, flagged down a Toyota camry with reg no. ABC 810 DK. He said the suspect jumped out from the vehicle and escaped into the bush,  adding that the vehicle was recovered, and investigations so far revealed that it was snatched at gun point on May 10, 2023 in Sapele. Manhunt for the suspects according to Edafe was on-going. He said CP  Abass had assured residents  that the command would be working round the clock to ensure that anyone terrorizing the state will be arrested and brought to justice.