LAGOS – Looking ahead the lingering acute domestic price pressures amid the need to avoid public protests at the start of a new administration, analysts have advised policymakers of the in-coming administration to consider aggressive sectoral reforms to tame inflation and chart roadmap to Nigeria’s economic growth. The suggestion follows Nigeria’s Economic destabilising shocks with adverse effects on commodity markets, supply chains, inflation, and increasing prices due to elevated global uncertainties, sustained FX liquidity challenges, and tightening global financing conditions. They also cautioned both fiscal and monetary authorities to stimulate lending to the real sector to generate due to elevated global uncertainties, sustained FX liquidity challenges, and tightening global financing conditions, employment opportunities and encourage spending which would revitalize the nation’s economy. They told Daily Independent that the fiscal and monetary authorities of current government’s capital control measures and weak macroeconomic conditions impaired the growth contributions of Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI), Foreign Direct Investment (FDI),are the major factors making Nigeria less attractive investment destination compared to her peers blocks that will lead to the eventual removal of fuel subsidies. ernment has to initiate some building “Fuel subsidy must be removed earlier rather than later because it is not sustainable. We cannot afford it anymore. But we must do it in such a way that the impact of the subsidy is as much as possible, mitigated on the lives of ordinary Nigerians. “So, this will require looking at alternatives to the fuel subsidy that needs to be planned for and subsequently put in place. But also, what needs to be done to support the people that will be most affected because of the removal? We have a plan that we will start working on, putting the building blocks towards the eventual removal of the first subsidy.” It would be recalled that in recent United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) report, titled, ‘Trade and Development Report Update: Global Trends and Prospects’, for April 2023, the intergovernmental organisation said the scarcity affected the informal sector the most. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The report by an arm of the United Nations that promotes the interests of developing countries in world trade, stated that: “In Nigeria, a shortage of cash, triggered by the replacement of the highest denominations of the country’s currency, hobbled the economy, especially the informal sector. POLL “Meanwhile, the continuing decline of oil production, accompanied by large-scale oil theft, poses a main threat to strained finances in Africa’s most populous nation.” The UN also projected that the general African economy will expand by 2.5 percent, which is a drop from last year, and “at a pace insufficient to make a dent in poverty levels”. Like in other developing regions, the UN report explains, “weaker external demand and tighter financial conditions have made growth prospects gloomier for the region”. “In the case of commodity exporters, the fading of the initial effects of the 2022 price boom will add to the equation,” the report said. “Rising global interest rates have triggered significant capital outflows and have further constrained fiscal space, at a time when public finances were already severely affected by costly subsidy schemes aiming at contending the adverse effects of high food and energy prices.” The United Nations also said, with half of African countries recording double-digit inflation in early 2023, many are at risk of stagflation in 2023. Stagflation is an economic cycle characterised by slow growth and a high unemployment rate accompanied by inflation. According to experts, a stagflationary situation presents a dilemma for economic policy, since actions intended to lower inflation may exacerbate unemployment. ‘The risk of stagflation is a key concern for many African economies. In approximately half of the countries, inflation remained double digits in early 2023,” UN said. “In many instances, these recent inflation spikes relate to the continuing depreciation of several African currencies in early 2023 — often following a loss in 2022 of 10-30 per-cent of their value vis-à-vis the dollar. “Public debt, in many cases standing at levels not seen since the early 2000s, is another worry across the continent. Out of the 38 African countries that are part of the Debt Sustainability Framework (DSF) of the IMF and World Bank, eight entities are already ‘in debt distress’, while 13 are considered ‘at high risk’ of distress. Dr. Muda Yusuf, CEO Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE), in a chat with Daily Independent on how to sustain Nigeria’s projected 3.4% projection rate this year, said the declining Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI), Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), reflects the poor macroeconomic conditions in the last seven years by the fiscal authority, combined with Nigeria’s foreign exchange crisis (FX) and several capital control measures implemented by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) which negatively impacted foreign investors’ participation in Nigeria. “These outcomes of the government’s capital control measures and weak macroeconomic conditions are the major factors making Nigeria a less attractive investment destination compared to her peers”, he said. On the way forward, he said: “We suggest that the CBN should make the financial sector to be more willing to take more risk and lend to the real sector, thereby stimulating economic growth, while the Federal Government should focus on ease of doing business in the economy as their primary responsibility of achieving internal balance to open up the economy, a situation where the economy is operating close to potential and inflation is at a stable rate in the long run. “A forceful and wide-ranging policy response is required by our policy makers to boost growth, bolster macroeconomic frameworks, reduce financial vulnerabilities, provide support to vulnerable population groups, and attenuate the long-term impacts of the global shocks of recent years”. Chief Tunde Adetunji, CEO, President Africa Heritage Foundation, Marietta, Georgia, United States, in a chat with Daily Independent, advocated the need for diversification as a strategy for economic growth in the country. He noted that diversification of production and trade structure is a very important tool for the well-being of any economy, adding that lack of diversification often leads to increase vulnerability and shocks that can obviously undermine prospects for long term economic growth. He added: “To achieve a full diversification strategy, Federal Government has to restructure the economy where the movement of factors of production within and across the sector is towards higher productivity so diversification can be achieved in private sector investment, foreign investment, infrastructure RMB and so on. “If you drive down further, agriculture provides the kind of passive income for investors as there is a huge opportunity in the wholesale and in the retail segment of that value chain. “In the real estate as well; speaking to Abuja in particular, if you invest in land in Abuja, you will get a 25 to 40 percent return within 40 months which is remarkable.” An executive director of a new generation bank in Nigeria, who pleaded anonymity, told Daily Independent that the Central Bank of Nigeria should continue its intervention mechanism to deploy funds to output-stimulating and employment-generating sectors of the economy in contrast to the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) advice of slowing down its credit intervention programmes. According to the banker, “the CBN should not discontinue its intervention mechanism because of the likely market distortions it could generate on the economy in the long run. “We believe that there is the need to stimulate lending to the real sector to generate employment opportunities and encourage spending which would revitalize the economy. “We are of the view that this should be the focus on the financial sector, while the CBN and the Federal Government should focus on ease of doing business in the economy and their primary responsibility of achieving internal balance. The banker, who argued that across the world, soaring inflation remained unabated, causing apex banks to maintain their regime of monetary policy normalisation, said: “We firmly believe that, by achieving this, the financial sector would be more willing to take more risk and lend to the real sector, thereby stimulating economic growth”. They suggested diversification as a strategy for economic growth in Nigeria, adding that lack of same often leads to increased vulnerability and shocks that can obviously undermine prospects for long term economic growth They emphasised the need for the Federal Government to focus on ease of doing business in the economy as their primary responsibility of achieving internal balance that will result to a situation where the economy is operating close to potential and inflation is at a stable rate at the long run. The 2023 Annual CFO Outlook Survey by KPMG Nigeria has shown that while some Chief Financial Officers (31%) expect Nigeria’s economic growth to decline in 2023, 41% of the CFOs believe there would be no significant growth at all. Some of the reasons the CFOs gave for the lacklustre growth forecast include the delay in fuel subsidy removal, uncertain foreign exchange environment, high inflation rate, insecurity, and tax and regulatory posture. The survey report quoted Citibank Nigeria’s CFO, Sharafadeen Muhammed, to have said: “Fiscal policy has been under pressure recently and removal of oil subsidy would help greatly in providing headroom for the government coffers to enable the provision of development benefits to citizens.” 52% of the CFOs surveyed did not have great confidence in the prospect of growth for their respective industries as they identified inflation rate, global economic slowdown, and general economic uncertainty as reasons for the gloomy outlook. KPMG noted th at Nigeria’s headline annual inflation maintained an upward trend throughout 2022, reaching its highest level in almost two decades. According to KPMG, this was driven by persistent structural issues, rising international food and energy prices and other policy-related bottlenecks that impact the cost of doing business. CFOs advised the incoming administration to tackle the high inflation rate, insecurity, and instability of the foreign exchange environment to boost economic growth and increase investor and public confidence. KPMG identified some key trends that will shape Nigeria’s economy in 2023 as; fuel subsidy, inflation, global economic slowdown, 2023 general elections, tax and other fiscal policies, increased regulation, uncertain foreign exchange environment, emerging digital economy, power challenges and insecurity. The Annual CFO Outlook survey from KPMG offers insightful information on how CFOs and organizations view the prevailing business environment, their expectations of government/policymakers, and their responses to their business challenges. In the meantime, it seems the Nigerian government is not yet ready to implement the fuel subsidy removal policy. On Thursday, April 27, the federal government suddenly reversed its earlier decision to remove fuel subsidies in June 2023. According to the country’s minister for finance, Dr Zainab Ahmed, the decision was taken because the gov 