Ahead of the inauguration of Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori as the new Delta State Governor, and Sir Monday Onyeme as his deputy, the Chairman, Integrity Group of Delta ( IGD), Hon. Oke Idawene, has congratulated the duo. Integrity Group of Delta (IGD) is a formidable pressure group established some years ago by political actors of like-minds of different professional backgrounds with structures in the three Senatorial Districts, 25 Local Government Areas of Delta State. Hon. Oke Idawwne in a statement made available to the media appreciated the former Governor of Delta State, H.E, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan for his humility and immense support to Oborevwori’s, Onyeme’s emergence as Delta Governor and Deputy Governor. He also described Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as a visionary leader to have successfully produced his successor without rancour. Idawene noted that he is using this medium to Congratulate Rt . Hon Sheriff Oborevwori and his Deputy, Sir Monday Onyeme ahead of next tomorrow morning Monday, May 29 Inauguration in Asaba, Delta State. He said: “As Ambassadors of Oborevwori’s M.O.R.E agenda, I use this medium to rejoice with all Deltans ahead of Oborevwori’s inaugural ceremony as the incoming, new Delta State Governor. I thank all Deltans for their support to Oborevwori, Onyeme”. POLL “I, Hon. Oke Dawwne, hereby appealed to all citizens of the State, Deltans to support Oborevwori so as to take the State to greater heights, citizens to enjoy the dividends of democracy, also to ensure that he makes every sector of the State economy viable and as well or most importantly achieve his M.O.R.E agenda policies when inaugurated. He will do more, improve the economy of the State”. As a group, we are fully loaded with enormous preparation to work with the Government of Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori towards finishing stronger in his M.O.R.E agenda for all Deltans. No doubt, Oborevwori’s mandate, and emergence as Delta State Governor-elect is purely divine. As such, IGD group is determined in supporting his administration, the needed hundred percent support throughout Oborevwori’s regime”. Hon. Oke Idawene, an astute politician with decades of political experience, undiluted integrity, a seasoned political leader, public affairs analyst, and one of the longest serving Political Party Chairmen in Delta State stated that, with Oborevwori as the new Delta State Governor, Sir Monday Onyeme as new Delta State Deputy Governor, that a new Delta is berths towards the achievement of the needed sustainable, Socio-economic Development in Delta State.