….. provide affordable homes As the real estate industry continues to experience boom and radical growth, Footy Homes and Properties boss, Ola Muyiwa, has canvassed for deployment of technology to scale up the sector and help remove the barriers inhibiting its growth. Speaking at a media parley heralding the official unveiling of its Dream Gardens in Ijaye Moniya area of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, Muyiwa said the growth currently being witnessed in the sector needs to be well galvanised with adequate technology. With the global real estate space enjoying a torrent of investments over the years, with funding for commercial real estate rising to a whopping USD 1.3 trillion in 2021, Muyiwa noted that it was high time Nigerians embraced the possibilities enshrined in the sector. The CEO who is an ex-footballer, disclosed that he decided to delve into the real estate sector to harness investments in the sector through innovative residential, hospitality and commercial developments. He noted that Footy Homes Ijaye property will afford Nigerians the opportunity to become house owners and investors as the location is only 10 minutes from the Moniya train station and 15 minutes away from the proposed Dry Port. According to him the industry is one of many to have embraced technology, especially in property evaluation, development of online marketplaces, smart homes, prospecting, and marketing. Speaking further on how Footy Homes and Properties intends to revolutionise the sector through the deployment of technology, he observed his company would show that the era when a person interested in renting, leasing, or buying real estate would have to meet with an agent in person to assess the property was over. POLL “With the development we are bringing into the sector, we want to show the world that with a few clicks on your phone’s screen, you can access thousands of homes, shops, and more. Our website offers chat features that enable buyers and sellers to communicate directly without third-party interference,” Muyiwa said.