Mortein, one of the leading insecticide in the fight against malaria in Nigeria, has partnered with Spar Stores to further combat the spread of the malaria scourge in Nigeria. The management team of Reckitt, a leading global health and hygiene company, signed the partnership agreement with Spar Stores at its head in Ilupeju, Lagos. The partnership aims to raise awareness of the importance of preventive measures against malaria, a major health challenge in Nigeria. Mortein, which has been a champion in the fight against malaria in Nigeria, has been committed to eradicating malaria in the country. Mortein recently commemorated World Malaria Day by engaging communities at Obalende, a suburb of Lagos, where it enlightened the public on the need for preventive measures against malaria. In this partnership with Spar Stores, Mortein hopes to reach a wider audience with its message of eradicating malaria. This year’s World Malaria Day theme was “Time to deliver zero malaria: Invest, Innovate, Implement”. Mortein will engage shoppers a Spar Stores to make purchases with flyers containing information on preventive measures against malaria. This was revealed by the Head, External Communications & Partnership, Reckitt Sub-Saharan Africa, Cassandra Uzo-Ogbugh. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Uzo-Ogbugh, while speaking on the partnership,noted the brand’s delight to partner with Spar Stores to further the fight against malaria in Nigeria, revealing that Mortein hoped to reach more people with its message of the importance of taking preventive measures against malaria. POLL “At Reckitt, our purpose drives our brands and our CSR platform. Without the brand, there is no Purpose. The purpose of Mortein is to fight malaria in Nigeria. On Tuesday, World Malaria Day was commemorated by the World Health Organisation and Nigerian Federal and State Governments. “The essence of World Malaria Day is to raise awareness and educate people about malaria and Mortein is committed to this cause as well as reducing the incidence of malaria in Nigeria, and the partnership with Spar Stores is one of our efforts to ensure we achieve the zero-malaria goal. “Mortein has been the leading insecticide brand in Nigeria with 100 percent efficacy against mosquitoes. Spar Stores will be a key partner in the public awareness campaign on the importance of taking preventive measures against malaria. Shoppers who buy Mortein at designated Spar Stores will get another can for free”.