Bayern Munich are ‘looking for a buyer’ for former Liverpool attacker Sadio Mane, with Chelsea keen, according to Christian Falk. Mane joined the Bundesliga champions from the Reds last summer. It has been a difficult maiden season in Germany for the Senegalese winger, however. The 31-year-old has 12 goals and five assists in 35 appearances across all competitions but his strike against Mainz on April 22 was his first since the end of October. He has not only struggled on the pitch, but off it as well. Following Bayern’s 3-0 defeat at Manchester City in the Champions League last month, Mane reportedly punched teammate Leroy Sane in the face, which led to him being suspended for one game. Sane reportedly urged the club’s bosses to go easy on Mane, which is probably the reason the ex-Liverpool man was only suspended for a single game and handed a fine.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Despite the fact Sane and Mane kissed and made up, Bayern are reportedly looking to get rid of the latter at the end of the season. POLL With the 95-cap Senegal star’s future in doubt, it is believed that Chelsea are contemplating making a move for him. Chelsea – who desperately need an out-and-out striker and not another wide player – have spent an absolute fortune over the last year but are expected to be busy again this summer. As mentioned, a new striker is needed. Meanwhile, a holding midfielder will probably be high on the agenda. Football Insider reported last week that the Blues are ‘ready’ to make a ‘surprise’ move for Mane. And now Christian Falk has confirmed the West London club’s interest. Writing for CaughtOffside, Falk says Bayern are ‘looking for a buyer’ for Mane. ‘Chelsea are interested in signing Mane’ and the Bavarians ‘would be willing to negotiate if asked’. Bayern are hopeful they can include the Senegal hero in a deal with Napoli to sign Victor Osimhen, though Mane’s wage demands are expected to be too high for the Naples outfit. Mane’s ‘difficult’ debut season at the Allianz Arena has actually resulted in Bayern ‘cooling’ their interest in Tottenham striker Harry Kane. Kane turns 30 this summer, which is how old Mane was when he was signed last year, meaning there are fears the England captain would have similar struggles in Germany. Thomas Tuchel ‘would have loved to work with Kane at Chelsea’ and is also interested in signing current Blues midfielder Mateo Kovacic, Falk adds. Blues star Mason Mount does not get a mention here, though there are multiple reports suggesting that Tuchel wants to bring the player to Munich.