A chieftain of the Oodua Peo­ples Congress (OPC) in the Isheri Ojodu area of Lagos, Mr Rahmon Oyeyemi, 60, and three others, Abubakar Shettima 28, Tijani Musa,24, and Asuquo Udo, 48, has been arrested by the police and charged to Yaba Magistrate Court for the alleged murder of Muhammed Usman. On the 25th of December 2022, Muhammed Musa who worked as a security guard un­der Rahmon Oyeyemi went to demand his December salary as his other colleagues have been paid and Rahmon Oyeyemi told him that he only paid Chris­tians, not Muslims. It was also gathered that the deceased asked him when he started paying the salary of his workers based on religious af­filiation, yet he denied him his own salary. Muhammed Musa there­after met his friend, Mr Kara Muhammed and asked him to accompany him to plead with Rahmon Oyeyemi, maybe he would have a change of mind and pay him his salary. Muhammed who spoke to our reporter, said when they got to Rahmon Oyeyemi’s office he joined Muhammed Usman in pleading with him as it was on Christmas Day and that Oyeyemi slapped Muhammed Usman and ordered him out of his office. He said as he wanted to slap him for the second time the deceased held his hand and told him not to slap him again. At this point, he asked the de­ceased to forget about the salary since someone has already giv­en the deceased the sum of N3, 000.00 to buy rice and cook and they left Rahmon Oyeyemi’s office. Mr Kara Muhammed said after they have cooked and eat­en they both slept off and later in the evening Muhammed Us­man told him that he was going to resume work and he left not quite long after the deceased has left, Rahmon Oyeyemi came to ask for motor tyre and he told him that he did not see any mo­tor tyre. He then asked of the de­ceased and he told Oyeyemi that he had gone to resume work. Thereafter he ordered him to follow him to where the deceased was and he followed him. POLL Explaining further, he said on getting to where the deceased was he also asked him for the tyre but the deceased replied that he did not know about the tyre he was asking him and Oyeyemi ordered his boy to beat him and the deceased and as his boys were beating them he managed to escape and hide very close to the scene as it was night already. At his hiding place, he said he saw how the boys were using sticks and iron rods to beat Mu­hammed Usman, and occasion­ally they would pour local gin on him and Rahmon Oyeyemi was telling the deceased that even if he kills him nothing would hap­pen to him. Continuing his narration, he said, “Around midnight, I saw as they carried him on top of a motorcycle and I thought they have taken him to the hospital because blood was all over his body. Early in the morning, I came out of my hiding and went home to sleep later in the afternoon and heard that Mu­hammed Usman has died. Corroborating Kara Mu­hammed’s statement, Mali Mu­hammed, another friend of Mu­hammed Usman, said someone called him on his mobile phone and said they saw the deceased along the street with blood all over his body and that he was still breathing and he rushed to the scene and found him on the ground. At that time he could still talk; so he asked him what happened and he told him that he went to demand his salary and that Mr Rahmon Oyeyemi ordered his boys to beat him adding that as he was trying to reach his elder brother Umar Usman on phone Muhammed Usman gave up the ghost.” He said on arrival Usman Umar reported the case at Ish­eri Police Station and that the police arrested Abubakar Shet­tima, Tijani Musa and Asuquo Udoh. The trio was later trans­ferred to the homicide section state CID Yaba, Lagos State for further investigation. The police at state CID Panti later charged the three suspects to Yaba Magistrate Court for the murder of Mohammed Usman as the prime suspects Rahmon Oyeyemi and two others were on the run.