Police Recover Six Pistols, 11 Machetes, Live Cartridges YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Police Command has arrested no fewer than 22 suspects for armed robbery and cult-related activities in different parts of the state. The new Commissioner of Police posted to the state, Romokere Ibani, stated this during his maiden press briefing at the command’s headquarters in Yenagoa on Friday. According to him, the suspects, all males, were apprehended by operatives of the SWAT and Anti-Kidnapping Units between January and May, 2023, following tip-offs, response to distress calls, follow-up operations and search of hideouts, among others. He listed the items recovered from the suspects, who were later paraded, as six locally made pistols, one silver automatic pistol, one English-made pistol, 11 machetes, one walkie-talkie, one dagger, one face mask, four rounds of .9mm ammunition, one knife, two expended cartridges, three live cartridges, among others. Ibani, who formally resumed duty on May 2, said that a robust operation strategy put in place by the command, upon his assumption of office, had strengthened the tactical teams for effective delivery of police service. While noting that the command had recorded tremendous gains in crime fighting, he attributed the arrests and the various items recovered to the commitment of officers and the cooperation of the public. He said, “My leadership style will be anchored on the principle of Community Policing and intelligence-driven approach to solving crime. I will rejig to Command Control Room to ensure a coordinated response to distress calls. POLL “Police officers under my watch will be motivated to strive for professionalism and excellence in discharging their duties. I have also charged my officers and men to be firm and courageous in discharging their duties and to be civil and uphold the ethics of the police profession. “The command will work in synergy with other security agencies to ensure public safety and security in the state.” Ibani expressed the command’s readiness to partner with the media, the Police Community Relations Committee, non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations, youth and women groups and other stakeholders, “to surmount the daunting challenge of confronting armed robbers, cultists, kidnappers and other criminal elements in the state.” The police commissioner, therefore, warned criminal elements to flee the state or turn a new leaf because the command, under his leadership, would deal decisively with all forms of crimes and criminality in the state. He also solicited the continued support and cooperation of the people of Bayelsa to enable the command and other security agencies curb crime to the barest minimum.