Insist President Has Good Vision For Country ABUJA – The former Chief of Staff to ex-Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha, and leader of the Ugwumba Leadership Centre, Uche Nwosu, has expressed confidence in the ability of President Bola Tinubu, to carry every section of the country along. He also believes that the newly inaugurated President has a good vision for the country and is capable of leading Nigeria. Nwosu, who held a virtual phone conference with a select team of journalists, on Monday, said having studied the new administration’s programme outline, he was convinced that “the president has a good vision for the country and Nigerians. At least on the issue of Power, CBN and currency I think there is hope. “You can only commend somebody who has the courage to quickly bring up the issue of fuel subsidy and remove it. I don’t think his age will stop him from achieving whatever he wants to achieve. Although some of the countries we know now their presidents are over 90, they are doing well, it’s about us giving him encouragement and letting him do well.” The former Imo State CoS defended President Tinubu’s decision to use 60 days to appoint a team, noting that “I don’t think it’s late. We know in this part of the world, how we behave sometimes. “I believe that if it comes before 60 days, better for us but if it doesn’t come before the 60 days, he is the President, some of the agencies have Permanent Secretaries and they are almost like Ministers in their Ministries, so they should take charge till Tinubu makes his appointment. POLL The issue of 60 days is not actually a big issue; it will enable the president to do wider consultation and appoint more technocrats to handle the affairs of the country. In fact, I would have preferred Mr. President to have 60 percent technocrats than politicians to handle some of these ministries”. On the administration’s announcement to remove fuel subsidies, he added that the solution was creating “more refineries like that of Aliko Dangote,” as he insisted that the move would guarantee more fuel for export and consumption. “You know one problem we always have in this country is that we Nigerians always whenever there is a policy, they leverage on that to make some of these commodities scarce. “Whether we like it or not, few individuals cannot have money that can feed the entire nation, infrastructural wise, educational wise and other things we need to do with money. “These are things we don’t need in this country again. Now, we buy fuel for almost N250 per litre and some areas buy as high as N300 per litre. And they say when they remove fuel subsidies it is almost the same thing. What is fuel subsidy? Fuel subsidy is that all the money that goes to private individuals is not going to them. Among all these, whether fuel subsidy or not, is to have more refineries like that of Dangote in this country. If we have another three or four refineries, bet me we won’t be talking about fuel subsidies. We will have enough fuel to export and consume. It’s a right call, it’s overdue,” he underscored.