The Arewa Consultative Fo­rum (ACF) has dissociated it­self from the endorsement of Godswill Akpabio for Senate Presidency by the Coalition of Northern groups. Musa Saidu, a member of the ACF, said this in a state­ment on Sunday in Abuja. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Pres­ident-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinu­bu, had reportedly adopted the former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godwill Akpa­bio, as President of the Senate in the coming 10th National Assembly. But Saidu, also the leader of the Arewa Community in Southern Nigeria, said en­dorsing Akpabio for the Senate Presidency would spell doom for Northern Nigeria. “We hereby dissociate our­selves from the endorsement of Sen. Godswill Akpabio for the Senate Presidency by a coali­tion of Northern groups. “The coalition is not speak­ing for the North, it is just speaking for itself. “No true Northern group will want to endorse Akpabio for a sensitive position like that of Senate President because he is not friendly with the North.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We are the people who know Akpabio because we are residents in the South, we know those who are friendly with the Northern people and Akpabio is actually not one of them,” he said. POLL Saidu added that the coali­tion must have made the en­dorsement out of ignorance. “I want to condemn the en­dorsement in its entity because it was done out of ignorance. “It is also possible that the groups were given some inducement to endorse Ak­pabio. “I want to say that the North­ern people are not beggars that will be endorsing people who are not friendly with them be­cause of inducement,” he said. Saidu said the ACF would continue to fight or speak against injustice in the country. “Why should the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) be bent on zoning the 10th Senate Presidency to the South, when we have competent hands in the North? “The North-West gave the APC the largest votes in the February 25 presidential elec­tion, so why not consider some­body from the zone? “I think it’s time for the par­ty to reward the zone for the massive votes rather than start looking for somebody from the South as Senate President,” he said. A coalition of Northern groups had endorsed Akpabio for the Senate Presidency, say­ing he was best suited for the position. Apart from Akpabio, a for­mer governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, and Abdulaziz Yari, former Zamfara governor, have also declared their inter­est to be Senate President once the 10th Senate is proclaimed into existence.