ENUGU – Comrade Kennedy Iyere President/CEO of Youths Off The Streets Initiative (YOTSI) has expressed confidence that the Governor-elect of Enugu State, Peter Mbah, will run a people-oriented government. He stated this during the Enugu State Pre-Inauguration Investors Dinner Reception organized by Dr Peter Mbah. He said: “I want to assure everyone who works for the victory of Mbah, that the Governor will not run a PDP-based government but will run a people-driven government. “Mbah is a man of integrity as we all know capacity is not the ability to talk grammar, capacity is an action word and ability to deliver and make people happy and that is what Mbah is known for He described Mbah as a visionary and humble leader who will not disappoint the people. I want to assure that, we will come to the people of Enugu to count Mbah’s achievements after 100 days. “As investors, we want to do business in Enugu state, we want to open the door of wealth, we want to create money in Enugu state “I told Mbah after he won the election that I came before to campaign for him as a lamb but I am coming back as a businessman after swearing in because we must work to create money for Enugu state. “Enugu is a poor state so money must come into Enugu and that’s why we are here to bring in money to alleviate the suffering of the people POLL “We will bring in money into Enugu, we will create the wealth and people will go back into farming, people will go back into ICT, people will stop illegal business because they have a better way Also speaking, Mr Godson Azu, CEO Carter & Merger Consult United Kingdom says they are in Enugu as investors to bring developmental programs to the state. He said “We have so much capacity to deliver. We will partner with Dr Mbah on power generation, agriculture and so many other projects. “We will promote agriculture in Enugu state to serve as new money so that our people will not longer depend on oil money but see real money in agriculture,” he said. In her address, Miss Seun Bamidele, Founder and CEO Welcome2Africa United Kingdom, An agriculture and maritime investment company with over 10bn investment commitment in Nigeria in the first quarter of 2023 described Enugu state as a state with great potential in agriculture said “We are in Enugu to showcase the opportunity to the people. “We will partner with the government in different projects that will transform the economic development of the state as we are ready to work for the growth of the state.