LAGOS – The Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), says it’s considering turnaround time for issuing permits and licenses were reduced drastically to increase operational efficiency in the country. Gbenga Komolafe, Chief Executive, NUPRC, disclosed this when he paid a visit to the Exhibition Stand of Green Energy International Limited, at the recent Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) in Houston, Texas, U.S. He promised that the commission will continue to support indigenous oil and companies to grow, especially with the right policies and regulations. He added that the commission would continue to support companies, in the ranks of Green Energy International, with quick turnaround time for licensing and other necessary approvals needed to grow their business. He said that at a time that funding for oil and gas projects was becoming difficult due to policies around energy transition and a deliberate shift to renewable energy projects, the company was able to secure one. He said the ability of the company to secure funding for its various projects is a testament that it was on the right track and as such, needed all the right support to grow. ‘‘If you look at what the company has done. You will discover that they have tried to leverage in-country capability and that is in alignment with what NUPRC is doing. We have come here as a commission to give them encouragement and to assure the company that new will give them all the backing as a business enabler,’’ he added. Chairman, Green Energy International, Prof. Anthony Adegbulugbe, said the company which was incorporated in 2006 is the operator of the Otakikpo marginal field in Oil Mining Lease(OML) 11,said the mandate of the company is to create localised domestic markets based on small scale gas opportunities in its local host communities. POLL He added: ‘‘In 2010, the Federal Government decided to implement a World Bank study on Small Scale Gas Utilisation and the Otakikpo Marginal Field was awarded to Green Energy to undertake the pilot project. The implementation of this project will involve the installation of LPG processing and bottling plants”