ABUJA  – The Senate on Saturday at an emergency session amended the CBN Act to raise lending limits to the government, as it passed a bill to extend the implementation of the 2022 supplementary budget to December 31, 2023. The Senate has amended the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Act to raise the total advances the bank can make to the federal government from five per cent to 15 per cent. Sponsored by the Senate Lead­er, Gobir Abdullahi (APC, Sokoto East), the Bills enjoyed first pas­sage at the about one hour emer­gency plenary. Laying the foundation for the debate on the Bills, the Senate Leader argued on the necessity to raise the loan limits of the CBN to the Federal Government. He said that it would enable the government to meet “future obligation in the approval of the Ways and Means by the National Assembly”. “This amendment is very con­sequential and it needs the sup­port of us all. This is to enable the federal government to embark on very important projects that will inflate and rejig the economy”, Senator Abdullahi argued. Speaking further, he disclosed that the bills titled “2022 supple­mentary Appropriation Act (Amendment) Bill, 2023 (SB.1124) and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Act (Amendment) Bill 2023 (SB. 1125) were read the first time and adopted after which they were passed for second and third reading respectively before they were approved. According to him, it was nec­essary to extend the implementa­tion of the budget because some “significant amounts of funds remain with MDAs”. POLL He said it is better for the Sen­ate to extend the life span of the supplementary budget in order to avoid situations of abandoned projects. “Your Excellency, you would recall that the National Assembly extended the implementation of the 2022 Supplementary Appro­priation Act from 31st December 2022 to 31st March, 2023. “This was to allow full im­plementation of the budget, es­pecially in light of the 2022 Sup­plementary budget approved in December 2022 the extension had allowed MDA’s to utilize a large proportion of funds released to them. However, significant amounts of funds remain with MDAs and will require a further extension to be fully expended,” he added. “Given the critical importance of some key projects nearing com­pletion, requesting a further ex­tension of the expiration clause in 2022 Supplementary Appropri­ation Bill and the Long Title and Explanatory Memorandum is ex­pedient to avoid compounding the problem of abandoned projects, given that some of the projects were not provided for in the 2023 Budget,” he added. The Sokoto East Lawmaker stressed, “I, therefore, urge my colleagues to give their full sup­port to this Bill to allow full util­isation of the Capital releases in order to help reflate the economy while I move that the two bills be referred to the committee of the whole for clause by clause con­sideration.” Under the CBN Act, the Ways and Means provision allows the government to borrow from the apex bank if it needs short-term or emergency finance to fund de­layed government expected cash receipts of fiscal deficits. The Senate had on Wednesday 3 May approved a request by Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari to re­structure the N22.7 trillion loans the CBN extended to the federal government under the provision. The Buhari administration had relied heavily on the CBN to finance its expenditure pro­grammes via Ways and Means, whose balance as of December 19, 2022, stood at N22.7 trillion. The federal government had said the loan will be repaid with securities such as treasury bills and bonds issuance. The 2022 supplementary bud­get of N819,536,937,813 was passed by the Senate last December to finance some unplanned situa­tions that occurred as a result of flooding and other events with a mandate to end the implementa­tion on March 31, 2023. President Muhammadu Bu­hari in his letter to the Senate while seeking approval of the sup­plementary budget last year said it would be financed through “ad­ditional domestic borrowings.”