A group known as the North-East Elders and Youths Peoples Forum NEYPF has endorsed the candidature of the member representing Biu, Bayo, Shani and Kwaya Kusar constituency in Borno State,Hon Muktar Aliyu Betara for the position of speaker of the 10th National Assembly. The National President of the Forum Alhaji Salihu Magaji who made the appeal during a Press conference in Bauchi, said that the Elders , Youths and Peoples Forum declared their support for a Speakership position in the north east and endorsed Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara for the position. “This shows that the amount of love in our hearts for this great personality is dormant. Hon. Aliyu Betara, a leader and elder, Organizer and Mobilizer. Betara has the encyclopedic knowledge of the house and the country at large and also has the capacity and knowledge to steer the leadership of the 10th House of Representatives very well “ “The Forum appealed to the party to zone the speakership to the North , in particular north east, in order to balance the zoning structure and we endorsed Betara for the following reasons” “Betara has vast knowledge in legislative appearances and leadership. As a chairman on appropriations, he succeeded in having the June-June budget cycle changed to a repairable January to December one for a more effective budget implementation” “He created job opportunities to over 4,500 beneficiaries across the nation and relates with people in respect of religion, ethnicity or tribe. Nigeria is indeed lucky to have person like Betara who is a detribalized Nigerian and a leader with vision and passion for the development of Nigeria” ” Nigerians are always happy with Betara’s decision and crises management skills in the house .Betara as a young man with talent, has proved his worth in societal development. Nigeria needed a team player like Betara as the 10th speaker of the house, to build on the achievement of Femi Gbajabiamila, the speaker of 9th Assembly. We are confidence that Betara has the ability to carry all lawmakers along in spite of political and party differences because a lot of new members will be coming into the house”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Therefore, Betara will be a perfect fit as the country’s next speaker because of his long legislative experience, We have studied the lawmaker closely by monitoring the activities and legislative duties and development in the house for more than two decade, which Betara excelled” he said POLL Magaji described Betara as one of the unapologetic believers in the grand ideas of His Excellency Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, adding that Hon. Mukhtar Betara Aliyu is an accountant and lawmaker, first elected to the House of Representatives of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2007 to represent the Biu/Bayo/Shani and Kwaya Kusar Federal Constituency of Borno State in the North-eastern region of Nigeria. “He is currently the Chairman, House Committee on Appropriations in the 9th Assembly which held its first session on 11 June 2019. This marks his fourth tenure as a member of the House of Representatives. The current election victory will mark the re-election of Hon. Betara to the House for a record 5th term in the history of the constituency. The Lawmaker is regarded by observers as one of the front runners for the seat of Speaker of the incoming House in June 2023” he said