A group of new members-elect waiting for inauguration into the 10th Assembly of Nigeria’s House of Representatives have formed a caucus aimed at getting the endorsement of President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu to support Mukhtar Aliyu Betara as Speaker in the Green Chamber. Spokesman for the group, Ismail Dabo (APC, Toro Federal Constituency Bauchi State), who addressed Journalists in Gombe after some members of the group met, said their membership spans over 270 across all political parties and regions in the country. He said, “We know politics is all about consultations not intimidation or confrontation. We are going to work with the new Government most especially the President-elect Sen. Bola Tinubu to support him in actualising his dreams to reform Nigeria. “Nigeria is in a critical stage and we need people who matter to pilot the affairs of this country. Having good knowledge of Betara’s antecedents, we are convinced that being a speaker, he is capable to make the NASS work, make good budget for the nation and pass the budget on time as well as embark on critical oversight functions and to also make laws that will bring sanity to the country”, he stressed. According to him, the group which goes by the name “New Vision, New Nigeria” has unanimously agreed to support Aliyu Betara who is not only competent, but is capable of providing the desired leadership change in the House of Representatives which will in turn reflect on a better living standard for Nigerians. He said, “Who is not suffering in Nigeria today? Who is not losing wealth and money ? Even Dangote is reducing, he is no longer having what he has because of the crisis. “We all understand, that is why we all have to support leaders that are competent, that is why you see all of us here and everyone understands this now, and wants change. People are suffering and we the new members of the National Assembly are out for the masses,” Ismail Dabo stated.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said, “New vision” will continue to function as a body in the National Assembly and will serve the interest of Nigerians. “This is one of our agenda, we have alot of agenda that we will present to the executive to make reforms. Our agenda is to make sure we produce most competent leader then we look at others to work on”. POLL Asked if they have observed the power sharing favouring the Northeast and Borno State particularly, having the Vice President and the Speaker from the same place, Ismaila Dabo said, “Nigerians are after results, competence, they are after good representation and not issue of zoning or where you come from. “Our economy is destroyed you can check the level of inflation in this country neighbouring countries are performing better than us. Nigerians should be talking about good representation not issue of region or where you come from, we should face our problems head-on and resolve our problems”, he pointed out. The group, “New Vision, New Nigeria” Dabo stated earlier, had visited South East and South West stakeholders and are now in the Northeast to continue the consultation for the Speakership of the House of Representatives.