HarvestPlus, a global agricultural organisation known for its regular campaign on consumption of healthy and biofortified foods has stressed the importance of eating such in order to tackle malnutrition in the country. Olatundun Kalejaiye, Nutrition and Post-harvest Manager, while speaking in Kaduna where about 5000 women were mobilized for training to promote the consumption of biofortified crops described biofortification as a “food system approach that nutritionally enhanced food crops that are developed and grown, using modern biotechnology techniques, conventional plant breeding, and agronomic practices”. She said that most of the major staple foods in the country such as; cassava, maize, sweet potato, rice, beans, yam, plantain, and millet, were vitamins and mineral deficient. She said that HarvestPlus is working with breeders using conventional means to naturally increase the nutrient and vitamins content of the staple crops, adding that the organisation was promoting the consumption of biofortified Vitamins A cassava, maize, and orange flesh sweet potato in the state as part of efforts to address malnutrition. Kalejaiye, noted that the strategy is to make the biofortified crops available such that women will be able to buy, process them into household meals and consume them, stressing that this will enable women to meet the nutritional needs of their family, thereby preventing malnutrition. She said that the organisation had established a Women-led Extension Platform where women were reaching other women and that more than 5,000 had been reached in the last three months. She explained that the women were made up of those with business potentials and those that were interested to make extra income for themselves. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Speaking further, she said the women would be trained on how to make money from biofortified crops by making them available to households for consumption, stating that another category of the women were women cooperatives dealing with maize processing who would be trained on how to introduce biofortified varieties into their businesses. POLL She noted that the women would be driving nutrition education and information at community level, targeting the women in households. “This is very critical for the women and community members to know the value of the nutrient and vitamins enriched crops for their nutritious wellbeing. The essence of engaging women to reach out to women is to ensure that women know the available biofortified crops and buy them for their family nutrition whenever they go to the market. “There is also the market angle to this where we trained women on how to process these crops into products that they can sell and make money from it,” she said. Kalejaiye also said that the women were also being trained on how to process the crops to ensure that the nutrients were retained. She said that HarvestPlus was leveraging the fact that when women knew the right thing, they would do it and pass the information to their daughters and other girls around them.