The feat was performed after three (3) previous failed attempts by then presidential candidate Buhari under sundry political platforms before finally defeating then sitting President Goodluck Jonathan on the fourth attempt after being aided by Mr. Tinubu who was instrumental in the formation of the formidable All Progressives Congress, APC, which was widely seen as a party of strange bedfellows that has defied the logic of the expectations that it would disintegrate owing to its runaway success and the differences in ethnic and regional agendas of the legacy parties that formed it. Apart from his significant role in returning Nigeria to democratic path in 1999, it may be recalled that the current President-elect, Tinubu, had also dexterously masterminded the unprecedented feat of getting four (4) leading opposition political parties between 2013/14/15 (ACN, CPC, ANPP, APGA) to collapse into one mega political platform, APC, with the sole intent of dethroning then ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. Such an incredible accomplishment of getting a coalition of opposition parties to go into an election as one party to win a common foe had never happened in the annals of Nigerian politics. Rather, it was often the case that after slugging it out at the polls, the various parties thereafter united to form unity government. As such, adroitness is considered to be one of the mettle that defines President-elect, Bola Tinubu, and which foretells the type of positive developments in democratic governance that should be expected from the in-coming government from May 29, when he takes over the reins of power, all things being equal. Understandably, owing to the tension that has been generated by the post elections rhetorics that border on samba rattling particularly from the likes of Mr. Bayo Onanuga and my good friend, Femi Fani-Kayode (spokespersons for the President-elect), who have been accused of fanning the embers of tribal hate to the extent of rattling some members of other ethnic nationalities, particularly the Igbos in Lagos that it rubbed off very badly, some Nigerians are entertaining the fear that the incoming regime may be autocratic to the point of stifling opposition. While one can understand the reasons for the worry, but the fears should be allayed by the fact that there is nothing in Mr. Tinubu’s leadership credentials that suggest that he is an authoritarian or not a democrat. On the contrary, the president-elect is known to have always resorted to abiding by the rule of law as reflected by his resort to the law court for redress when former President Olusegun Obasanjo, OBJ, withheld the allocation of federal funds to Lagos State under Mr. Tinubu’s watch as governor. As it may be recalled, Tinubu had unilaterally created local government development areas to the chagrin of then President Obasanjo who felt that the governor contravened the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with respect to the creation of additional local government areas. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ And it is on record that at the end of the legal battle that ensued, Mr. Tinubu and Lagos State triumphed over OBJ and the Federal Government in the court of law. POLL As a policy wonk with a rich pedigree in the private sector particularly as one time treasurer of Mobil Oil Producing company in Nigeria, the ex-Lagos State governor, Tinubu, now president-elect is renowned for having a knack for identifying and selecting talents from both the public and private sectors to work with for effective service delivery. He did so when he was governor of Lagos State and his cabinet was populated by a formidable pool of talents drawn from both within and outside of Lagos State, Yoruba land and even extending to Igbo land. Some of the benefits of his keen eye for talents are evidenced by the fact that a record number of former members of his cabinet (1999-2007) have moved on to become vice president of Nigeria- Prof. Yemi Osinbanjo, former Commissioner for Justice; ministers and governors in Lagos and Osun states – Mr. Babatunde Fashola, who is the current Minister of Works and Housing, also ex-governor of Lagos State and Mr. Rauf Aregbesola, present Minister of the Interior and ex-governor of Osun State; as well as Mr. Lai Mohamed, currently the Minister of Information that has been angling to become the governor of his home state, Kwara, so far without luck, and not forgetting Mr. Sunday Dare, who is the current Youth and Sports Minister. As governor, Asiwaju Tinubu was so good at generating revenue for development through tax in Lagos State, that President Muhammadu Buhari upon becoming president in 2015 practically conscripted Lagos State tax tsar, Babatunde Fowler, to lead the revenue generation effort at the Federal Government level. Thus, Tinubu ‘loaned the Lagos money making machine’, Mr. Fowler, to the Federal Government as Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS, boss. In fact, the word on the street is that it is the superb development paradigm introduced by Mr. Tinubu that successive administrations since he exited the seat of power as governor of Lagos State in 2007, has been leveraging to seamlessly build upon to attain the current lofty heights that the state has reached. That is part of the reasons that Lagos State is currently rated as the 5th largest economy in Africa after Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt and Tunisia. And the former Lagos State governor, now President-elect Tinubu’s political prowess and business savviness are the feat that his admirers reckon would be deployed at the national level when he is sworn in as the next president of Nigeria on May 29, 2023. And he is not unfamiliar with fighting insurgents and militancy. It may be recalled that under OBJ’s watch as president (1999-2007) there was the rise of the group known as Odua Peoples Congress, OPC, which was basically a pan-Yoruba ethnic nationalist organisation. They were dreaded in Lagos by criminal elements, but sometimes they crossed the line of decency and acted like terrorists to innocent Lagosian from time to time. That prompted the need to rein them in and the rest is history as OPC threat paled significantly and the menace melted away from Lagos State including the entire Yoruba land without much hoopla. That is simply because a soft approach was applied, as opposed to the resort to only sheer brute force as has been the case with dealing with Boko Haram insurgents and other criminal elements in the north and separatist movements and sundry malfeasance in the East. There is every likelihood that a similar approach of getting to the roots of the matter may be adopted for dealing with insecurity currently ravaging our cherished country may be adopted by the incoming president. It is disappointing that President-elect, Tinubu’s tried and tested approach to conflict resolution is quite in contrast with the realities exhibited by the current leadership of our country at the centre, Abuja, whose policies and programs seems as if they are not based on any clear cut strategy, as evidenced by the fact that the Federal Government lacks actionable development plan, hence governance has mainly been driven by knee jerk policies. As such our country’s leaders seem to have been fumbling, even as our nation has been stumbling and tumbling from one leadership and administrative calamity to another. Although, the outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari has taken advantage of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan which is a period of penance for Islamic faithful and the celebration of Sallah that happens at the end of the fasting period, to in the spirit of reconciliation appeal to Nigerians to forgive him for any shortcomings of his administration as he exits Aso Rock Villa. It is a gesture he reportedly made penultimate Friday when Abuja residents visited him in Aso Rock Villa as part of the traditional Sallah homage. But as Adam Smith, the Scottish economist and philosopher, posits: “Mercy to the guilty is cruelty to the innocent”. However, Nigerians that are known for often being pragmatic are likely to defer from the philosopher Smith’s harsh judgment which may be deemed as a binary way of looking at things. In fact, the masses that the outgoing president is seeking forgiveness from are likely to take into consideration the fact that President Buhari, unlike most African leaders who tweak with their country’s constitution to elongate their tenure in office, is literally in a hurry to exit Aso Rock Villa as soon as he completes his second term on May 29 which is quite commendable. Earlier on, Mr. President had been boasting that he is leaving our country better than he met it nearly eight (8) years ago. That claim must have been very difficult for most Nigerians to process and digest as our country under his watch in the past eight (8) years has sunken into the worst socioeconomic turmoil that it has ever experienced since the civil war (1967-70). And it is one of the reasons that skeptics are doubting that the presidential candidate of the president’s party, APC, that failed the Nigerian people spectacularly could win the presidency. But from historical experience in politics all over the world, except in the event of very serious disasters occurring very close to an election period and in which the president and party are adjudged to have failed to act with dexterity in the management of the crisis arising therefrom, merely performing below par hardly results in a ruling party or incumbent president not being re-elected. Of course, the exceptions are catastrophic events such as the Iran hostage crisis whereby the US was unable to rescue Americans held hostage in Iran in 1980— a year to the end of his first term that compelled President Jimmy Carter to end his presidential career as a one term president. The other causes are catastrophic events such as COVID-19 pandemic that presumably got mismanaged by then incumbent president of the US, Mr. Donald Trump and he lost his re-election bid in 2019/20. Otherwise, broadly speaking, sitting governments hardly lose elections in the US and advanced democracies unless calamity struck without commensurate response. Although the non-transparent manner in which the elections 2023 results were collated and announced has cast doubt on its veracity and integrity, most Nigerians appear to have elected to eschew the dog-in-a-manger attitude which a vocal minority had adopted. As earlier noted, the assertion above is reflected by the good tidings issuing from the mouths of respected traditional, iconic cultural and revered faith leaders in our country in this season of love for both Christians and Muslims alike. To be frank, it would have been better that INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, did not promise to transmit election results from polling units directly to its servers for public viewing in its Independent Results Viewing (IReV) portal. But he made that confidence building promise and failed to deliver on it, hence the shadow of doubt that has been cast on the authenticity of the results. At best, it is an own goal by INEC and the negative consequences have rubbed-off very badly on the declared winner of the presidential race whose victory is now believed to be tainted by a good number of Nigerians and foreign elections monitors/observers alike. But a cure or remedy for the negative impressions or the doubts that had been cast on elections 2023 results is already manifesting in the course of the ongoing presentations at the Presidential Elections Tribunal by a coterie of attorneys representing INEC, President-elect, Tinubu, and the aggrieved presidential candidates, ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar of PDP and Mr. Peter Obi of LP that have commenced making their cases before our lordships in the temple of justice. And there is a high level of possibility that a fruitful resolution may be in the horizon at the end of the one hundred and eighty (180) days adjudicative window for the exercise during which it is expected that the attorneys and the jurists in the election tribunal might have been able to produce a complete and clearer picture after piecing together the seeming jigsaw puzzle which elections 2023 had been looking like immediately after the exercise ended. Hopefully, the erudite attorneys from all the contenders for the office of president that are at the elections tribunal seeking justice may be able to demonstrate convincingly to skeptical and cynical Nigerians that the declared winner and losers in the elections are truly deserving of their victory or otherwise. In the interim, it is gratifying that most Nigerians have elected to allow peace to reign so that the only country that we all can call our own would not be made to go up in conflagration. And the glory for a crisis free transfer of power from the outgoing to a new political leadership on May 29 can only go to God, the Almighty. • Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, development strategist, democracy advocate, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, sent this piece from Lagos. For continuation of the conversation, please visit www. magnum.ng.