Nigerian aviation unions have been tasked to emulate their counterparts in Europe, America, Asia and other African countries who used their position to boost the Gross Domestic Products (GDPs) of their nations. Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, stated this last week at the 2023 Aviation Unions’ Strategic Leadership Conference held in Lagos. Speaking at the three days retreat with the theme: ‘Re-Inventing Trade Unionism for Sustainable Growth and Development in the Nigerian Aviation Sector,’ Sirika who was represented at the occasion by Mrs. Nkechi Nwokocha, the Director, Human Resource Management, Federal Ministry of Aviation ,said that unions in other climes had used their position to galvanise workers in contributing positively to the economic developments of their countries, saying that Nigeria could not be an exception. Sirika insisted that it was pertinent for the unions in the industry to adopt another pragmatic and effective ways of sustaining industrial growth in the country, rather than embarking on industrial unrest. He also expressed that the Federal Government was not unaware of the welfare issues among workers in the sector, promising that the government would continue to improve the standard of living of the workers. He said: “Here in Nigeria, our peculiarities and seemingly intractable aviation environment have stirred introspective discourses on the need to adopt more pragmatic approaches to sustaining industrial growth and development. Your roles as trade unions require a paradigm shift from the status quo to a more engaging and impactful partnerships with Civil Aviation authorities. “Distinguished Comrades, permit me to state that government is not unaware of current challenges in the provision and improvement of workers’ welfare and critical infrastructure in the Nigerian aviation industry.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Suffice to state at this juncture that much as government regards the unions as critical partners in the conception, formulation and implementation of enduring policies for the betterment of the sector, it is our core belief that such kind gesture shall be reciprocated by the leadership of the trade unions in equal measure. This, we believe, is the surest way to rapid socio- economic growth and development as being propounded in the theme for this occasion’s discourse.” POLL Besides, Sirika opined that rather than embark on incessant strikes to press home their demands, the unions should embrace dialogue and other oriented approaches to resolve all industrial relations matters. According to him, the adoption and application of the current roadmap would further ensure the development of the Nigerian aviation industry in the sub-Saharan African region. Also, Godson Ogbuji, the Deputy Director, Federal Ministry of Labour & Employment in his paper, ‘Reconceptualisation of Roles and Responsibilities through Strategic Trade Unionism in the Aviation Industry: The Way Forward,’ said that the participation of trade unions in the aviation industry was intrinsic and critical in fixing the underlying challenges crippling the sector. Ogbuji also hinted that the unions were useful in addressing the long-term sustainability questions of growth and development of the sector and urged them to broaden their perspectives and participation through networking as a way of building knowledge and leveraging on global support. The Deputy Director cautioned that it was necessary for the unions to adopt paradigm shift in addressing the sector challenges, especially with the advent of technology, competitiveness, climate change and the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the global economies.