Barely a week to the end of the current dispensation, Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau state over the weekend, in Niger state said he is capable of handling criminals and will end the reign of terror in communities across the state before leaving office. Governor Lalong, a recipient of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU), Lapai’s Honorary Doctorate Degree of Administration (Honoris Causa), spoke shortly after the 4th Convocation ceremony of the university. Commenting on the series of attacks in communities by gunmen, the most recent which left about 117 people dead, several others injured and over 20, 000 displaced, said the criminals have resurfaced, but will deal with them before he takes his exit from office. “In the past eight years, I have tried to ensure there is peace, unfortunately I am taking my exit and the criminals are beginning to rear their heads again. I am capable of handling them before I take my exit and I will continue to pray for peace in the Plateau state”. On the measures taken so far to end bloodletting, the Governor said, “We have nipped insecurity in the bud. Our security agencies are already addressing the recent issue. The IDPs are being taken care of and we have jets flying over the affected communities and local government areas”. Meanwhile, Governor Lalong has expressed his appreciation to Niger state government for honoring him and others with the prestigious, Doctorate Degrees, assuring that they will be good ambassadors of the institution in upholding themselves with dignity, integrity and excellence. Earlier, Niger state Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello said IBB University, Lapai is working towards addressing the mileage of challenges, including personnel gaps needed in several critical sectors especially the medical field in the state. While appreciating the Plateau state Governor and the Chairman, BUA Group, Alhaji AbdulSamad Isyaka Rabiu for their generosity towards the growth and development of the university and its students, Governor Bello expressed plans to improve their skills so that the graduates will create jobs for themselves instead of relying on non-existing white collar jobs.