That is why l have elected to acknowledge and celebrate the cheerful giver,Chief Mike Adenuga’s largesse to me,so that l would not be like the nine (9) lepers that failed to go back to their healer to show gratitude. So,while recognizing that l risk making the extremely shy,humble and enigmatic birthday celebrant a bit uncomfortable,l apologize for the indiscretion unreservedly. At the same time,l have rationalized my action by terming it ‘good offense’ in the manner that the American civil rights activist and member of House of Representatives,John Lewis of blessed memory,dignified dissent as ‘good trouble’ back in the days of the struggle for black voting rights activism in company of the great Dr.Martin Luther King, MLK in the United States of America,USA. In my reckoning,it is better l ‘offend’ a bit the extraordinarily benevolent giver in the mold of Santa Claus (Father Christmas) and mother Theresa combined than act like the nine (9) healed lepers that failed to return to Jesus Christ to show gratitude, earlier referenced. Although, my action of spreading the unique and awe inspiring favors dolled out to a myriad of folks is in contravention of the rule of the man with the heart of love of God-as Chief Mike Adenuga may be equated to modern day David whom God referred to as the man after His heart,according to the Bible narrative in Acts 13:22, but the philanthropist extraordinaire prefers to stick to the original injunction of God:give in complete secrecy. As things currently stand,it appears as if Chief Adenuga Jnr has no choice but to forgive his legions of friends and associates that have exposed his well guarded secret of doing good and keeping it under the radar. Put succinctly, one is encouraged by the fact that a deluge of beneficiaries comprising of thankful men/women of influence and indigent Nigerians alike, have also erred by breaking the humble and cheerful giver’s ‘code’ of being his brothers keeper without ado. Certainly,since as the saying goes: a gold fish has no hiding place,the culture of spreading the milk of kindness that Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr has obviously democratized by extending his compassion to both the needy and not so needy,no matter their tongue,tribe or creed,was bound to become an open secret,sooner or latter. POLL And it is against the backdrop of the human milk of kindness that has percolated from the top to the bottom of Nigerian society and indeed in Africa through sheer acts of charity via support for stakeholders in the sports,arts and culture space that the 70th birthday of the man that most of his admirers fondly refer to as Chairman- derived from the fact that he has founded and is currently chairman of multiple firms that have attained the status of unicorns-has unsurprisingly triggered. Chief Mike Adenuga’s birthday has generated so much emotions from Nigerians from all works of life with such great aplomb to the extent that folks hitherto known to be taciturn have voluntarily chosen to become voluble in sharing life changing experiences that the man of the moment and altruist has inspired or positively wrought on their lives. At this juncture,l would like to crave the indulgence of readers to allow me share how I was first introduced to the man whose 70th birthday has got millions of tongues wagging -no porn intended. I first met Chief Adenuga in 2003,two(2) decades ago when he was in the process of launching his game changing and wave making telecommunications firm, GLOBACOM. The meeting was facilitated by Hon. Nduka Irabor, journalist par excellence and ex member of National Assembly,NASS that represented lka federal constituency of Delta state. At that time,l was a manager in charge of corporate communications in the defunct Continental Trust Bank,CTB owned and managed by my friends and brothers,Mr Ike Nwabuoku and Mr Tony Elumelu amongst many other investors. I was interviewed for a job to head the corporate/ public communications department of the first indigenous GSM telephony firm founded and managed by my benefactor Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr which has now become the wave making GLO network that is the number two (2) network in Nigeria in terms of subscription. Despite being offered the job after the interview ,l opted to remain in CTB with my friends at a time that the bank was floundering under the yoke of the Central Bank of Nigeria,CBN sanction for foreign exchange,FX infractions. Being a loyalist and a man that can not jump from one ship to another in times of trouble,I tarried with the hope that the dire situation would be sorted out and the bank would be salvaged. But the ailing bank was not rescued. Instead,it got gobbled up by a rejuvenated Standard Trust Bank,STB that was being driven by Mr Elumelu who had exited CTB/MBCOM arrangement by deciding to tread a new path that culminated in his ultimate acquisition and turnaround of then ailing, United Bank for Africa,UBA which is currently amongst the five (5) first (1st) tier banks in Nigeria and changing the financial landscape of Africa. As the saying goes,the rest is history because l had to quit the job at CTB and after a short intervening period during which l was an entrepreneur having secured the franchise to be the exclusive partner with JVC electronics company of Japan for the importation and distribution of their products in Nigeria. Thereafter, l was lured back into banking by another friend,Mr Fidelis Tilije (currently commissioner for finance in delta state government) who was managing another fledgling financial institution ,Fortune bank which is also currently defunct. But my sojourn in Fortune Bank was only for a short period before l was finally headhunted by my friend,brother and mentor in politics,Chief James lbori,then governor of Delta state who invited me to join his cabinet in his second term of office in 2003. The next time l was lucky to encounter Chief Adenuga Jnr who has become a sort of fairy godparent,and also fondly referred to as the GURU was with my new boss and brother ,Chief Ibori then governor of delta state at Heathrow airport, London,United Kingdom,UK. It is Chief lbori that helped deepen my closeness to the man whose businesses have empowered millions of humans not only in Nigeria but across the African continent via provision of employment to many and as source of business to suppliers of sundry goods and services to the numerous firms in his conglomerate. And the business czar Chief Adenuga,who has the memory of an elephant that never forgets,(he remembers everything) which is why he has committed into his memory all those who have facilitated the favors that he has received in the course of managing his very private life that has seen him conceiving,birthing and nurturing his plethora of humanity touching and life changing business concerns that span the subregion of the African continent Despite my not working for him in his then emerging telecommunications firm some twenty (20) years ago,Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr’s GLO that has become a sort of telecommunications behemoth dominating African landscape with a strategic submarine cable,GLO 1 that renders services to other telecommunications services providers; l have been adopted as an ‘Aburo’ translated as younger brother in Yoruba parlance. It is a measure of the depth of the goodness of his heart that as he clocks the platinum age of seventy (70) that the Good Samaritan is being saluted by a broad spectrum of Nigerians and indeed humanity,because his influence is not just local to Nigeria,not even only pan African,but it extends to Europe,the Americas and Asia ,perhaps less so. Over the past few years,l have had the privilege of being a guest in the numerous dinner parties that he has hosted in his palatial home: Bellisima At The Waterfront in Banana island,Lagos to welcome or send-forth a plethora of diplomats from all parts of the world to Nigeria. And by being in the company of Chairman Adenuga,l have had the privilege of my palates being treated to sumptuous seven (7) course meals and my taste buds have also been savoring fine liquors that can be as rare as forty (40) years old single malt whisky that costs as much as four thousand (£4,000) Uk pounds per bottle. That is not all, as I have also been opportune to sit at tables where the man with uncommon knowledge about our country’s evolution from cradle to the present socioeconomic and political situation,yet remains very apolitical,has shared his fascinating and inspiring experiences in the course of his evolution from a young and restless undergraduate student in the United States of America,USA working hard to eek out a living by combining academics with being an entrepreneur at the same time. Apparently,these are traits he inherited from his parents-father who was a school teacher and mum that was a trader. By and large,it can be surmised that it is from his parents that he inherited the talents that have propelled him into becoming an institutional colossus that he is today. Did l mention that his majestic and palatial abode in Banana island,Lagos that occupies an entire close which is a very expansive strip of water front property named: Bellisima At The Waterfront is apart from having residences and offices ensconced in the private enclave,is complete with a magnificent chapel for worshiping God and a huge banquet hall? Amongst other accoutrements,the banquet hall features a stage for live shows and it is certainly the most gorgeous and the smartest purpose built banquet hall in a private home that l have seen in Nigeria. In my reckoning,it is only the ball room in Mar-a-Lago,Palm Beach,Florida,US resort/home of the 45th president of the USA,Mr Donald J Trump that surpasses the size and decor in Bellisima At The Waterfront,Chief Adenuga’s magnificent manor. What else can one say about the man who has internalized God’s injunction: ‘whatsoever you do to the least of your brothers,that you do unto me’ (Mathew 25:40) than to give him a shout out on this auspicious occasion of his platinum birthday. Happy birthday to the Yoruba man also known by some of his friends who are lgbos as ‘Nnam Ukwu’ translated as my big boss in lgbo dialect. In Nigeria of today where ethnicity is occupying left and center as it has become a polarizing factor being weaponized by nefarious political actors,it speaks volumes about how detribalized Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr is . Chairman,please accept my Seventy (70) gun salutes in commemoration of this epochal occasion of your very significant birthday. The Bible tells us that God allocated three scores and ten (70) years to us as humans to dwell on Mother Earth and by His grace you have attained and surpassed that age. My prayers is: may it please the almighty God to grant us the favor of being around to give you one hundred (100) gun salutes to mark your 100th birthday in thirty (30) years time before our time on earth is done. • Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, development strategist, democracy advocate, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts,USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, sent this piece from Lagos. For continuation of the conversation, please visit www. magnum.ng.