The Lagos State Government has approved the deployment of an e-call up system for the Lekki- Epe Free Trade Zone corridor to avert severe congestion caused by articulated trucks accessing the port corridor. The State Government made this known at a Stakeholder’s Meeting held recently, which had in attendance top government functionaries from the Ministry of Transportation, representatives of Lekki Worldwide Investment Limited, Lagos Free Zone, Lekki Deep Sea Port and Messrs. Call up Technologies. A statement by Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, Commissioner for Transportation said that this was based on the urgent need to implement a sustainable, effective and technology driven solution of truck movement in the Lekki-Epe Corridor. Oladeinde stated that the application of e-call up system would help synchronise movement of trucks assessing the Lekki Deep Seaport and other industries within the corridor, starting from Eleko junction to Lekki Free Trade Zone. The commissioner also shared the State and Federal governments’ plans on road network expansion and inter-modal transport systems at an initial meeting held with the five chairmen of Local Government Areas (LGAs), and the Local Council Development Areas, (LCDAs) in Epe Division, Lekki Worldwide Investment Limited, (LWIL), representatives of Dangote Industries Limited, Nigeria Union Of Petroleum And Natural Gas Workers, (NUPENG), Federal Road Safety Corps, (FRSC), and the Nigeria Police Force, (NPF). He further mentioned that an interim arrangement was also being put in place to decongest the roads through evacuation of all illegal tankers from the red zone by a joint taskforce of the state, LGAs/LACDAs, security agencies and stakeholders. Also speaking at the meeting, Sola Giwa, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, who analysed the challenges in Apapa and Tincan.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He opined the need to prevent a similar occurrence in the Lekki-Epe axis, hence the urgent need to deploy a truck queuing management system. POLL Giwa explained that the e-call up system was an effective way to manage the movement of trucks from holding bays to the pre-gate, before entering the port premises, adding that six holding bays had been identified between Alaro City and other nearby towns in Epe and its environs, which are currently under consideration for certification.