Manchester United will be hoping they can continue their push for UEFA Champions League (UCL) football when they take on Bournemouth today by 3pm. While this will be the penulti­mate weekend of the 2022/23 Pre­mier League season, Manchester United still have a busy end to the campaign, with three left to play. However, this is their last away game of the campaign. After facing Wolves at Old Traf­ford and travelling to the Vitali­ty Stadium, Man Utd then host Chelsea in a rearranged fixture due to the Red Devils’ progress in the FA Cup, before ending the campaign against Fulham. Man Utd are fourth, just one point clear of fifth-placed Liver­pool in the race for the top four but Erik ten Hag’s men crucially have a game in hand (against Chelsea). The Red Devils aren’t in the best of form, losing to both Brighton and West Ham without finding the net, before beating Wolves, but they will be hoping they already have enough in the bank to secure Champions League football. Bournemouth will having but pride to play for, having secured their stay in the top flight, reward for their decent form under Gary O’Neil. It wasn’t too long ago that Bournemouth were among the favourites to be relegated from the Premier League, thanks to a run which saw them lose 11 of 15 games, winning just two to be stuck bottom of the table. But revival started with a 1-0 win over Liverpool and Bour­nemouth have now won six of their past 10 Premier League games, also winning 3-2 at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium and picking up crucial victories over Leicester and Southampton. Man Utd will be thankful that they are spending most of the season at Old Trafford, because their away form hasn’t been the best in recent times. Going into their final away match of the sea­son, Man Utd are without a win in their past four road matches, losing to Sevilla, Brighton and West Ham while also drawing against Tottenham. POLL The Red Devils won 16 points from their nine Premier League away games between August and December this season (W5 D1 L3), the second most in the division. However, in 2023 they’ve won just eight points from nine on the road (W2 D2 L5), with only six sides winning fewer so far this calendar year. Any action in this game is likely to come after half time, as both sides are slow starters in comparison to how they end matches. Bournemouth have scored 17 goals in the first half of their Premier League match­es this season compared to 20 after half-time, while Man Utd have netted 21 before the break compared to 28 in the second half.