Delta State Governor-Elect and Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori has inaugurated the Transition Committee that will enable the next government to hit the ground running. Inaugurating the transition Committee on Tuesday, May 2nd, 2023, at the Unity Hall, Old Government House, Asaba, the Governor-elect said that the formal inauguration of the Transition Committee heralds the journey to the commencement of a new administration come May 29, 2023, and expressed his profound gratitude to the good people of Delta State for their vote of faith and confidence in him and the Peoples’ Democratic Party. “It is incumbent on us to reciprocate this mandate by modifying a smooth transition process that will enable the next government to hit the ground running. Naturally, the expectations of the people are high given the overwhelming support that we received, winning in 21 out of the 25 Local Government Areas. For emphasis, this is a mandate for consolidation and growth, investment and economic reform, and for making the youth the centerpiece of our policies and programmes. Clearly, our people believe in our M. O.R.E agenda, which is designed to advance the State in all aspects of infrastructural and human capital development, as well as economic wellbeing”, he said. According to the Governor-elect, the men and women appointed to the Transition Committee possess the requisite knowledge, wisdom, capacity, and experience, essential for the assignment, saying; “They have been part of this journey, and understand that the incoming administration needs to start on a sure footing. Their task is to put in place the necessary structures and means that will enable the incoming administration to effectively implement its policies and programmes from day one”. Rt Hon Oborevwori said that arising from interactions with the people of the State during electioneering campaigns, and building on the solid foundations that have been laid by the current administration, it was necessary for a transition process put in place that will provide strategic direction for the next administration. The Committee, he stated, is to submit presentations in the following thematic areas: General Administration and Strategy, Fiscal policy and public finance, infrastructure and utilities, human capital development, social development and creative industry, entrepreneur and job creation, peace and security, media and communications, agriculture and industries, environment, water resources, and human settlements, energy, oil, and gas. “Suffice it to say that the Committee is expected to set short, medium, and long terms targets for the administration and accommodate any other critical sector that may have been left out as it relates to the M.O.R.E agenda”, the Governor-elect said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He expressed appreciation to the State Governor, His Excellency, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa for his wisdom and counsel and for always pointing “us in the right direction”, describing him as a man with exceptional leadership qualities. POLL “To the Committee, I expect you to complete and submit your work within the next 21 days. I eagerly look forward to your recommendations for the successful take-off of the next administration. With God’s grace and enablement, we shall do MORE to ADVANCE Delta State”, he stated. The Governor-Elect thereafter inaugurated the Transition Committee as follows: Prof. Emmanuel Nwanze, Chairman, Prof. Hope Eghagha, Secretary, and 86 others as members. Responding, the Chairman of the Transition Committee, Prof Emmanuel Nwanze promised that they will carry out the assignment diligently, saying that “You have chosen wisely”.