ABUJA – Presidential candidate of the Democratic Alternative (DA), Victor Okechukwu Vishnay has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to cancel the recent general elections and conduct a fresh one. Okechukwu hinged his calls for the cancellation on institutional failure, especially on the part of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) which he said conducted an election that was marred by irregularities as acknowledged by the international community. He criticised President Muhammadu Buhari for describing the recent general elections as transparent and fair enough, saying he (Buhari) couldn’t be speaking from an informed perspective. According to him, the recent statement attributed to the President of Nigeria calling on Nigerians to forgive him where he may have erred, was enough justification for the polls to be cancelled outrightly. The Democratic Alternative Presidential candidate while addressing a press conference on Saturday, in Abuja, equally noted that the President cannot be asking for forgiveness when he singlehandedly influenced the outcome of the elections by revealing his ballot papers while casting his vote in the recent presidential polls. He said, “I want Nigerians to join me in calling on the President, Muhammadu Buhari to cancel the 2023 general elections because it failed the integrity test, hence INEC and the judiciary are not trustworthy. “Beyond this, institutional failure led to the exclusion of our party the DA in the conduct of the elections. The President cannot be asking for forgiveness because on that day he cast his vote, he singlehandedly influenced the outcome of the elections when he revealed his ballot papers.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Democratic Alternative (DA) Prince Frank Ukonga has revealed that the party is mulling court action against INEC. POLL He accused INEC of playing a double standard by enlisting the Youth Party in the polls and ignoring 74 others earlier deregistered by the electoral umpire for no reason. Ukonga argued that a multi-party system was the best for Nigeria as all party structures had one or two contributions to the polity. At the press conference, in Abuja, he said, “We may challenge the exclusion in a court of competent jurisdiction basking on the recent Supreme Court Judgement in favour of Youth Party, which was among the 74 political parties illegally deregistered by INEC. “In the 2023 general election, DA wrote to INEC to participate in the 2023 general elections and we conducted our primaries and convention and on the 7th and 8th of June 2022 and INEC was duly informed and the list of candidates elected to contest the polls were forwarded to INEC. “Subsequently DA was excluded from the 2023 elections and we notified INEC in our letter dated 3rd March 2023 through our legal team, expressing our dissatisfaction in the exclusion of DA Presidential candidate Mr Victor Okechukwu Vishnay, Vice Presidential Candidate Mrs Hafsatu Abubakar including our logo from the general election. “This judgment of Apex court SC/CV/677/2021 of INEC Vs Youth Party delivered on the 3rd of December 2023 becomes the new authority of stair disisis on the matters of party deregistration. “We call on the INEC to obey the Supreme Court Judgement of INEC vs Youth Party to relist DA and the other illegally deregistered political parties and allow multi-party democracy to flourish in Nigeria”.