IBADAN – A Member of the House of Representations, Honourable Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, has assured Nigerian workers of more vibrant representation, that will prioritize their welfare, by the leadership of the 10th National Assembly. Akande-Sadipe, who represents Oluyole Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, in a congratulatory message to workers, on Workers’ Day Celebration said the harsh condition under which workers hustle, calls for concern. The ranking member of the House of Representatives said it is essential to reflect on the challenges faced by Nigerian workers and improve on them. While she acknowledged the significant contributions of workers to the country, Akande-Sadipe said workers often work under unfavorable conditions, with little or no job security, and inadequate compensation. “Many workers have lost their jobs due to the harsh economic realities and then the COVID-19 pandemic, some have lost their lives, some their mobility due to various job-related disabilities and poor working conditions, resulting in increased hardship and suffering for families across the nation”, she wrote. Her statement read further, “With the incoming government of President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the leadership of the 10th Assembly the welfare of the Nigerian workers will be a priority, Laws to encourage improved and adequate compensation, job security, and better working conditions will be priority. The statement also read in part: “Happy Workers Day Nigeria! Today, we celebrate the strength, resilience, and contributions of the Nigerian workers who have tirelessly, against all odds. worked to develop the economy of Nigeria. This day is a time to appreciate the efforts of workers who have made countless unimaginable sacrifices through trials and toils to ensure that our society functions.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As we mark this day, it is essential to reflect on the challenges faced by the Nigerian workers. Despite their significant contributions to the country, workers often work under harsh and unfavorable conditions, with little or no job security, and inadequate compensation. POLL “Many workers have lost their jobs due to the harsh economic realities and then the COVID-19 pandemic, Some have lost their lives, some their mobility due to various job-related disabilities and poor working conditions, resulting in increased hardship and suffering for families across the nation. “Also, on this day, I cannot but mention the essential role played by labor unions in advocating for workers’ rights and welfare. “In conclusion, as we celebrate Workers Day, I wish all Nigerian Workers a restful day and encourage all to keep the torch going. “As we also remember the sacrifices made by the Nigerian workers and advocate for their welfare, we must recognize the importance of creating a conducive working environment that promotes productivity, job security, and fair compensation. Together, we can build a more prosperous and equitable society for all,” Akande-Sadipe concluded.