ABUJA  – Prince Clem Agba, Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, has congratulated His Royal Majesty, Omo N’ Oba N’ Edo, Uku Akpolokpo­lo, Ewuare II, Oba of Benin on the return of stolen artefacts. The congratulatory mes­sage was contained in a letter dated May 10, 2023, written by the minister to the Oba, enti­tled: “Letter of Congratulations on the Return of Stolen Arte­facts.” Part of the letter reads: “My family and I wish to felicitate His Royal Majesty, Omo N’ Oba N’ Edo, Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, the Government of Edo State and the good people of Benin Kingdom on the his­toric formal decision of the Federal Government via an official gazette to domicile re­patriated Benin artefacts at the royal palace of the great Benin Kingdom, thus affirming His Royal Majesty as the legitimate custodian of royal Benin arts. “I am highly delighted to identify with the generous outpouring of joy and happi­ness by all true Benin sons and daughters, both at home and in the Diaspora on this historic development. “The wisdom, sincerity, and calmness of His Royal Majesty throughout the period leading to the final decision of the Federal government is unpar­alleled and unprecedented. “The return of all the arte­facts, when completed, will be a great balm and relief to every­one as historically, Benin had no formal system of writing other than the stories told in cast brass and carved ivory. “Art was the kingdom’s cul­ture, its wealth, its literature, and its memory. When these artefacts were pillaged, it left behind only ashes where pal­aces and temples had stood for centuries.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I am also elated that the returned artefacts will be do­miciled in a new museum on the premises of the great Benin palace which will elevate Benin City into a global destination for art and culture, much as Frank Gehry’s spectacular mu­seum helped revive the fading industrial city of Bilbao, Spain. POLL “New hotels would rise; new businesses would flourish. Underemployed young people would discover productive fu­tures in art, archaeology, tour­ism, and other services and the trauma of the past would be converted into resources for the glory of all Edo people and the entire citizens of Nigeria. “I take this opportunity to commend His Royal Majesty for his genuine love, commit­ment, and total dedication to the welfare of his subjects, the good people of Edo State, which has brought great hon­our to all Edo people. “I wish to affirm that His Royal Majesty, over the period of my assignment as the Min­ister of State for Budget and National Planning, has been a great pillar of support, and his majesty’s wise counsel and prayers have given me strength and inspiration, leading the country into a sure path of greatness under the leadership of President Muhammadu Bu­hari, GCFR.” Meanwhile, when accosted by journalists, following his tweet of the congratulatory message on his verified social media handles, on what the Federal Government was do­ing about the housing of the artefacts, the minister said that the government, through the National Commission on Museums and Monuments, had made provisions in the 2023 budget to the tune of N1.9 billion for housing the artefacts in the Royal museum.