The Lagos State government has unveiled activities for the inauguration of the governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, for a second term in office. Gbenga Omotoso, Chairman, Media and Publicity Sub-Committee of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu/Dr. Obafemi Hamzat Second Term Inauguration Ceremonies, unfolded the 11-day activities, during a briefing on “The Pre-Inauguration Press Conference,” held in Alausa, Ikeja, on Friday, At the event, Omotoso said:“It is my privilege, as Chairman of the Media and Publicity Committee, to brief you on the activities that we have lined up to celebrate these gentlemen who have performed excellently in office in their first term, with the promise of an improved performance with A Greater Lagos Rising.” According to him, the Inauguration activities, to commence on 21st May 2023, which is Day One, will feature “A Youth Carnival and Robotic competition,” in which People Living With Disability (PLWDs) will participate. This event, Omotoso said, will hold simultaneously in all the Lagos divisions as follows: Ikeja Division: JJT Park, Alausa- 10.00 amBadagry Division: Badagry Grammar School, Badagry- 10.00 am; Ikorodu Division: Ikorodu Town Hall Premises- 10.00 am; Lagos Island: Muri-Okunola Park, Victoria Island – 10.00 am;Epe Division: The Recreation Centre, Epe- 10.00 am. On Day Two (23rd May, 2023), the Chairman said that there will be a public lecture to be delivered by Prof. Adigun Agbaje, former Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, with the title: “The Making Of A Beacon – Lagos And The Consolidation Of A Democracy That Works For All.” Omotoso noted that same day will also feature book launch and photo exhibition, stage drama performance, which will be held at the Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos, adding that all the events will start from 10.00 am on that day. POLL According to Omotoso, on Day Three (24th May, 2023), there will be the commissioning of projects inAjeromi/Ifelodun, Alimosho and Ikeja. He noted that on Day Four (25th May, 2023), there will be the commissioning of projects in the Kosofe area of Lagos State. On Day Five (26th May, 2023), Omotoso said that there will be the commissioning of projects atEti-Osa, Lagos Island, Lagos Mainland and Surulere. The commissioner said that Day Six (27th May, 2023) will feature Children’s Day activities/Novelty Match, adding that “Children’s Day event will hold at the Police College in Ikeja while the novelty is expected to hold in five divisions of Lagos as follow: “Campos Square for the Lagos Island Division, Lagos State House of Assembly for the Ikeja Division; Badagry Grammar School for the Badagry Division; Ita-Elewa Mini Stadium for Ikorodu Division; Magbon Alade High school, Ibeju-Lekki for Epe Division. Day Seven (28th May, 2023), according to him, will have the Pre-inauguration rehearsal. He said that Day Eight (29th May, 2023), is the inauguration Day. Omotoso said that on Day Nine (2nd June 2023), there will be a post-inauguration Jummat Thanksgiving service, which will hold simultaneously in all the five divisions’ Central Mosques as follows: Ikeja Division, Badagry Division, Ikorodu Division, Lagos Island Division and Epe Division. According to him, on Day 29 (3rd June, 2023), there will be a cultural display at Mobolaji Johnson Sport Arena, Onikan, Lagos between 10.00am to 3pm. He added that Inauguration Dinner at Eko Hotel is scheduled to start at 7pm. On Day 11 (4th June, 2023), Omotoso said that there will bePost-inauguration church service, which is to hold simultaneously across the five divisions in Lagos as follows: Ikeja Division: Archbishop Vining Memorial Anglican Church; Badagry Division: Freeman Methodist Cathedral Church opposite Akran’s Palace, Ikorodu Division: Methodist Church, Ikorodu, Lagos Island: Cathedral Church, Marina, Epe Division: St. Patrick Anglican Church, Epe Ikeja: Christ The Light Chapel, CBD, Alausa, Ikeja. He added that the “Central working committee, has through some of the sub-committees, made adequate arrangements for a hitch-free and seamless inauguration ceremonies.”