The House of Representatives has mandated the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) to clean up its system of dead and fictitious registered voters. The resolution of the House followed a motion brought under a matter of Urgent Public Importance titled ” Issue: Urgent Need for Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) To Develop Mechanism to Clean Up Its System of Dead and Fictitious Registered Voters”,sponsored by Hon. Leke Abajide. The Lawmaker noted that the Independent National Electoral Commission’s register is full of millions of people who are dead and non-existent persons According to him, “That in the last General Election, it was glaring and crystal clear that people that were long dead had their names still displayed in the voters’ register. Even my own deceased Father who passed on long ago still has his name displayed on the Board”. Hon. Abajide further noted that apart from dead voters there are millions of fictitious voters who do not exist anywhere on this planet earth but have their names on INEC registered of voters. Again, Abajide said that it was believed that the clogged system came to being as a result of double or multiple registration by Nigerians who had or have intention of rigging elections but the advent of Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) and the faceless individuals can no longer vote anymore. He resolved that INEC should conduct vigorous public enlightenment for all Nigerians to be much aware of what makes the voters register bogus which is the numbers of dead and fictitious persons.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “That INEC should develop a mechanism or software Application where families who lost their loved ones can report the demise of a particular PVC number so that it can be duly deleted from INEC register, Polling unit, and Ward. That whoever does not vote in two election cycles back to back be deleted from INEC register as non-existing human beings. POLL The House while adopting the motion also mandated the House Committee on Electoral Matters to ensure compliance. The Motion was amended to read that INEC should include voter verification during continuous voter registration to identify those on the register who are still alive as well as fish out those with fake registration.