TONY EZIMAKOR; BOLU-OLU ESHO ABUJA / AKURE  – The zoning of leadership positions in the House of Representatives may have stoked a major crisis in the ruling party as Deputy Speak­er, Idris Wase, on Wednesday, led some speakership aspirants and ranking representatives elected on platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on a protest visit to the party’s national headquarters. The party members who reg­istered their grievances during a meeting with members of the APC National Working Committee (NWC), led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, said they were shocked to read that the various leadership positions of the 10th Assembly have been zoned and micro-zoned to individuals without necessary consultation as promised by party. They lamented that those who were aspiring for different posi­tions were not even invited to the meeting where the decision was taken by the party hierarchy to support some of the candidates. The deputy speaker said the action of the party amounts to betrayal and breach of trust, and demanded that the whole matter be revisited. He was equally embittered by the decision to micro-zone two principal offices to North-West while denying the North-Central geopolitical zone of any office. Recall that the APC had on Monday, this week, endorsed Ta­judeen Abbas (Kaduna) for speak­ership and Ben Kalu (Abia) for dep­uty speakership position, decision the other aspirants kicked against.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Both men were earlier today introduced to the President-elect before he jetted out to Europe. POLL Wase decried the rumoured criteria for the nomination of can­didates for the House Speaker, won­dering when PhD and the number of bills passed have become quali­fication criteria for those aspiring to lead their colleagues in the green chamber. The Plateau State-born law­maker said he was particularly irked that when he confronted the current Speaker, Femi Gba­jabiamila, over the issues, he vehemently denied that he was propping a particular candidate for speaker against time tested ranking arrangement. He accused Gbajabiamila of allegedly misleading the Presi­dent-elect, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinu­bu, while plotting to produce the speaker and deputy speaker of the 10th Assembly. Wase argued that assuming he (Wase) is not qualified to succeed Gbajabiamila, same cannot be said of Doguwa, the Chief Whip, and Betara, the House Appropri­ation Committee chairman, both of whom he said have served the party at high levels. “As I speak to you sir, I want to say categorically that none of us here was approached or consult­ed even for a second to find our opinion and thoughts on what was going to be done or what has happened. First, we say on social media any plan could come up. “Unfortunately, while watching television, we saw the spokesman of our party confirming that there was negotiation or consultation and that was why those lists were produced. It is unfortunate. This is a party that the crux is hope, is a party that have been leveraged to the country. This is a party that we’re expecting, galvanising and bringing us into one entity called Nigeria to serve better. “Your Excellency, sir, that is the crux of the matter and we feel betrayed by that action. We feel as if our contributions are not rec­ognised, we feel as if we are not members of this family. We feel that we have given our best but now the best is no longer needed. “And unfortunately, amongst the criteria that were issued for the emergence of the persons is a number of bills, PhD, we don’t know when National Assembly has turned to that. We don’t know when criteria of such had been set and it may interest the chair­man and members of working committee, while we are doing the campaign, an attempt was made by the speaker to call us, we respectfully went there, we sat and when he said he wants us to come up with consensus and build with him we said yes, fine. We’re willing to do that. We took pictures, we sent to the world and we agreed. But af­ter that meeting, there was another meeting and in that meeting, Your Excellency I made bold to tell the speaker we are told you are root­ing for this particular person but he swore to us and swore to God that it was not so. I said, no, it is in the public domain. He said no, it’s not true. “Speaker (Gbaja) alone, Your Excellency, cannot produce speak­er and produce deputy speaker. I came into the National Assembly in 2007, by the grace of God, I’m into my fifth term. I came in as a member of AC to ACN to now APC. I’ve ran election on opposi­tion without governor, without councilor. And I think I’ve seen it all in terms of resilience and I dare say, perseverance conquers difficulty. “We have persevered to keep unity. I want to tell this congre­gation sir about what I asked the speaker in one of our meetings with him, when the whole team was released. I said to him, what makes you think that what you have done will stand the test of time? I don’t know. I think I’m a better person in touch with leaders of Asiwaju family because I came under AC from 2007 until when we had the merger. “I’ve served you as deputy lead­er of the House, and now serving you as deputy speaker of the House. If you are going to do any­thing, what makes you think that we are not qualified? And if you’re going to look to the sideways, what makes you look and think that Ado Doguwa is not qualified? Having served as chief whip of the House for four years now, leader of the House for four years, and then you think hierarchy can be destroyed. Not in parliamentary practice. “It’s never done anywhere. And I say to him, you are misleading our leader, because the leader we know is not what you are trying to show and I’m referring to the President-elect. And I don’t want to believe up to this moment that the President-elect is the one be­hind this. I don’t want to believe it. And I said to him, you’re going to do this, you have the chairman of Appropriation in ranking after the leadership… “What is making you to think that you cannot go and pick Betara. Did you work and succeed and you succeeded alone as person, Femi Gbajabiamila. “It is because we’re able to stom­ach a lot of things that we didn’t al­low the House to go on rancour. So we have sacrificed. We have worked assiduously for the party. “We are here to protest and to appeal to you to go again to look into this matter. That what had been issued out, will not stand. And we are disciplined party people. I have demonstrated that when, in 2015, my brother lost I was elected chief whip, and then issues came they asked me to step down for my brother and Doguwa was given the chief whip, I did that and I sacrificed for the system. “I’m not a selfish politician. That did not stop there. I want to say too in 2019, Your Excellency, I was go­ing in for speakership, I was pretty sure I was going to win. Leaders of the party called me including the president and appealed to me to step down for Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, I did that and that was how I came in to take the position of the deputy speaker. “I want to say that what has hap­pened I think that they are taking us for granted. Sir, I don’t know whether the na­tional publicity secretary was doing that on his own or he was doing it on behalf of National Working Committee because we should save ourselves from embarrassment”. Wase reminded the party of the Tambuwal revolt and the issues that led to the emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki as Senate President, warning the party not to be arro­gant, especially because APC does not enjoy the majority stake in the House of Representatives. In his response, Senator Ab­dullahi Adamu, the APC National Chairman, assured his visitors that the party will take a second look at the endorsement and get back to the House members. Adamu said the matter is tricky and would require the buy-in of all stakeholders of the party. “This is a controversial subject matter, every National Assembly regime has always been a contro­versy. For those who have been fol­lowing the history, it is a matter of us to sit and take a very good look at what is going on and be honest to ourselves, honest with the country and to our party, and we hope to get to the promised land. We lost time because we could not talk of shar­ingpowerintheNationalAssembly level without our President-elect. “He is the person who’ll run the government that we are inaugurat­ing on May 29 and it’s only fair that we wait for him. He was out for five weeks and he got back a day before we had this meeting. So, I assure you we would do all the consulta­tions and we would get back to you”, he assured. Akeredolu Condemns Party’s NASS Leadership Zoning Formula Meanwhile, the just-concluded arrangement on zoning of leader­ship positions by the ruling party, the APC, has been condemned by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, describing it as skewed. He said the zoning arrangement would reinforce injustice and en­hance inequity in the federation. This was contained in a state­ment personally signed by the gov­ernor on Wednesday in Akure, the Ondo State capital. The statement read inter alia: “It is with great concern, and indeed, with a huge burden that I read in the news of the purported zoning arrangement released by the Na­tional Working Committee of our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), as regards the leadership po­sitions in the yet-to-be inaugurated National Assembly. “Aside the unpretentious ambi­guity in the purported press state­mentissuedbytheleadershipof the APC, the contents, intentions and motives of the zoning formula rep­resent early signs of steps aimed at attempts to cabin the hard-earned presidency for our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, by a few in­dividuals with eyes on Aso Rock power buttons. “It is trite to aver, that, it stands logic on the head that one geo-po­litical zone, North-West in this regard, will be favoured with two presiding officers positions out of four while North-Central suffers the consequences for its innocence and shrewd loyalty by having none. “It is an insidious permutation that North-East will be deprived in the face of the unsavoury generos­ity dispensed through two slots to a particular geo-political zone. It is self-repudiating for one to argue, therefore, that the speaker of the House of Representatives cannot also emerge from the North-East. “Therefore, the move to zone the National Assembly leadership posi­tions on the behest of interested per­sonalities with perceived closeness to the President-elect manifestingly lays the dangerous foundation of distrust, needless suspicion even as it structures nothing but a com­bination of booby traps. We must avoid all these. “Let the North play a stronger, more robust and all-inclusive roles in the emergence of the positions zoned to the region, especially the speakership. “Furthermore, it strikes a huge ingratitude that the role of the Progressive Governors Forum ap­pears unimportant. As leaders of the party in their respective states, there cannot be a greater disservice to them that a consensus was yet to be reached when the NWC hurried­ly released a dangerous tool for the opposition in the guise of a zoning formula. To me, even on this note, it’s unacceptable. “Does it not also exude a serious discomfort that the aspirants to the speakership were not consulted, ap­proached and effectively engaged before the purported zoning formu­la? It does, and clearly so. “It is in this regard that I salute the courage of the speakership as­pirants for their show of solidarity, companionship and applaudable love for the party in their rejection, resentment and objection to the bra­zenly teleguided zoning arrange­ment that is skewed and targeted against some zones and identified individuals. Their action is com­mendable just as they are urged to ensure they pursue this to a logical conclusion. This is an unworkable arrangement that reinforces injus­tice and enhances inequity; and I join them in rejecting this zoning formula.” The Chairman, South-West Governors’ Forum, however, called on the national leadership of APC to allow justice and equity to reign supreme in its dealings. He also called on the Presi­dent-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to look into the arrange­ment and rectify the lopsidedness. He said: “I call on the NWC of our great party to follow the path of purity and justice. It is perhaps expedient that Mr. President-elect interrogates this skewed arrange­ment and give direction that reflects ourcollectivecommitmenttoequal­ity and fairness. “In this particular case, and for the purpose of avoiding a repeat of untoward situations, it is advised that the APC NWC immediately summons the National Executive Committee (NEC) after robust national caucus/stakeholders par­ley to agree on terms that would strengthen our great party.”