AHMED MUSA; JOY ANIGBOGU President Bola Ahmed Tinu­bu has mourned the death of Daar Communications found­er and owner of African Inde­pendent Television, Raymond Dokpesi, saying he would be sorely missed. Dokpesi died on Monday afternoon at an undisclosed hospital in Abuja. Dokpesi, who was a chieftain of thePeoplesDemocratic Party (PDP), died at the age of 71. Tinubu’s condolence mes­sage was contained in a state­ment issued in Abuja by his media officer, Abdulaziz Ab­dulaziz. The president described the death of the media mogul as a huge loss to the Nigerian me­dia industry and the country. He said, “The death of High Chief Raymond Dok­pesi is a blow to the media industry where he has played pioneering roles in private broadcasting. His pacesetting investment in the industry is an inspiration to many who come after him. “The history of the evolu­tion of the Nigerian media industry will be incomplete without prominent mention of Dokpesi and his giant footprints on the media land­scape.” POLL Dokpesi’s Death Painful, Shocking — Ibori Former Delta State gover­nor, Chief James Ibori, has ex­pressed sadness over the death of Dokpesi. In a statement he person­ally signed, Ibori, who said he received the news of Dokpesi’s death with shock, said his pas­sage was a monumental loss to the nation, the media industry and the PDP family. According to him, as one of the pioneers of Nigeria’s media industry, Dokpesi’s vi­sion, doggedness and diligence transformed and inspired a generation of media entrepre­neurs in the country. He said as a loyal and de­pendable member of the PDP family, Dokpesi who served as the Deputy Director-General, Technical and Systems of PDP Presidential Campaign Council for the February 25, 2023 presidential election contributed immensely to the entrenchment of democracy in Nigeria. Ibori prayed the Almighty God to be with the deceased’s family, associates and staff and grant them the fortitude to bear what he described as a huge and irreparable loss. I’m In A State Of Shock Over Dop­kesi’s Death— Atiku Speaking at the 14th com­mencement of the American University of Nigeria (AUN), Atiku Abubakar, former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 election, said he was shocked when he received the news of the death of the media mogul. “Oh my God! I am in a state of shock. I am in Adamawa, scheduled to return midweek before I received this shat­tering piece of news,” Atiku was quoted in a statement by Tunde Olusunle, his media aide. “You shouldn’t have left us on a date like this, Ezomo. But what can we do? As we say in Islam, from God, we came and to Him, we return. “My everlasting and deep­est condolences to his family, associates and admirers. May God forgive his sins and grant him paradise.” Opposition Parties Mourn Dokpesi Similarly, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has expressed sadness over the death of the chairman and founder of AIT/Raypow­er FM, High Chief Raymond Aleogho Anthony Dopkesi. In a statement signed by CUPP spokesman, and House of Representatives member-elect representing Ideato North South Federal Constituency, Hon. Ikenga Ugochinyere, the opposition parties described Chief Dop­kesi as a patriotic Nigerian, courageous democratic fight­er, advocate and soldier of free speech who would be sorely missed. Ugochinyere said CUPP received the news about the death of the media entrepre­neur with shock, saying that he has left a vacuum in the Nigerian media industry. While noting that the oppo­sition will lower their flags in his honour, Ugochinyere sent the Coalition’s heartfelt con­dolences to the AIT/Raypow­er family, people and govern­ment of Edo State, especially the people of Weppa-Wanno kingdom. He said: “Chief Dokpesi will be missed. As a pioneer in the media industry, High Chief Dokpesi used his array of me­dia houses under the Daar Communication, including the Africa Independent Tele­vision (AIT), Ray Power FM and Faaji FM to promote ac­cess to information, enhance good governance, educational activities, private entrepre­neurship as well as showcase the rich cultural heritage of our nation, Nigeria and Africa in general to the world. High Chief Dokpesi was a global citizen and his death is a huge loss to our dear nation and hu­manity at large.” The media mogul died on Monday at a hospital in Abuja, after he reportedly suffered a stroke shortly after the Rama­dan fast this year. Dokpesi’s son, Raymond Dokpesi (Jnr), announced his death in a statement on Mon­day, saying: “It is with deep sadness and heavy hearts that we announce the passing of High Chief Raymond Aleogho Anthony Dokpesi (Ezomo of Weppa-Wanno Kingdom) who passed away on May 29th, 2023. “High Chief Dokpesi was a beloved husband, father, grandfather, and friend to many. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. “The Dokpesi family is grateful for the outpouring of love and support during this difficult time. We ask that you keep us in your thoughts and prayers as we mourn the loss of our patriarch. We also ask for privacy during this time as we grieve together as a family.”