AKURE – A popular chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State, Hon. Bode Obanla and some strong stalwarts of the party on Monday defected to All Progressives Congress (APC). Accompanied by their support group from the northern senatorial district, Obanle described his defection as an uneasy one because of his contribution to the development of PDP in the state. Dismissing the rumoured that his defection from his supporters was because they were wronged by some party leaders, he said he and his group were most privileged in PDP from the Ward to the national level. The state Coordinator of the PDP Support Group (PSD) said he had been in opposition for about 15 years. We have come to add value to APC. Stating this during a press briefing at NUJ Press Centre, Alagbaka, Akure, the Ondo State capital, Obanla said: “I must confess that the decision to move was not a very easy one to the fact that I will be leaving behind a political party that own to love and cherish, coupled with the fact that I shall now say goodbye to some very fantastic personalities with whom I eat moments and for whom I still have profound respect. “Contrary to insinuations, I and my team are not moving because we’ve been wronged by any of our leaders or the entire leadership or shut the party. If anything, we held the ace. We were still able to decide in conjunction with other stakeholders on what side the PDP pendulum swings in the state. “In fact, we are the most privileged. But there comes a time in the life of a man when he must begin to think not for himself alone but for posterity. I have come to that road where I must think not just alone myself but must in terms of the impact I can wrath in my space, for my home town, my local government, my senatorial district and my state at large. “I have come to the conclusion that I must now come to the progressive fold, that is currently in power at every strata of government indeed, I wish to contribute to the development of my people. I have n the opposition here in the state for close to 15 years now. POLL “However, we have carefully studied the antecedents of the progressive, we equally watched the activities of a born progressive who has paid dues as a progressive, Engr. Ade Adetimehin the State chairman. It is in that our ethical leanings and political philosophy aligns. “As a lover of development and progress, I have decided as part of my contribution to the wheels of progress that are rolling in my state to join these wonderful progressives in government as they continue to move the state forward. “It is very obvious that the Asiwaju presidency is going to be a breath of fresh and soothing air and I want to be part of the instrument of that succour.” Present at the press briefing are all ward leaders of the party from the four local governments in Amoko, including Chief Deni Akerele, Adelilewa Fafunmilade, Prince Gbenga Olanipekun, Chief Fola Oniye, Chief Adeniyi Ogunsakin and Olatubosun Olusi.