Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President Aviation Round Table (ART), in this interview with OLUSEGUN KOIKI, speaks about the performance of the Federal Government in the aviation sector in the past eight years, expectation from incoming government and the role of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) since its foray into the sector in over a decade. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the Federal Government in aviation in the last eight years of this administration? In the last eight years, the agenda set were very clear. What we did at the Aviation Round Table (ART), is that we tried to measure their performance with indices of our breakfast meetings. We took topics on each of the six roadmaps, but we focused on about four of them. For instance, we did some things on the national carrier, we recommended options to national carrier. We focused on airport concession, hub creation and how to finance airport. We focused on maintenance facilities, training and manpower development, corporate governance. We shouted on the appointment of Board members for agencies, which is at the prerogative of the minister, according to the Acts setting up the agencies. By the time we appraised all the indices, we tried to tick any of our voices that were hearkened to, but regrettably, those voices went down into the drains. All the efforts of eight years, I think we scored the government about 40 per cent performance. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ We expected government to have done at least 60 per cent and leave the rest to politics. To us at ART, following our indices, we scored the administration below par. We didn’t see the national carrier. POLL We started acquiring non-profitable airports from State governments and some State governments still want to develop their own. And we said no. How about the existing ones that is unprofitable? The Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos that is supposed to be our number one airport has been neglected. The one added by the Chinese, recently, some foreign airlines rejected it. How can we deliver a facility that operators don’t want? So, who is delivering facilities for who? No airline growth, no airport growth because I didn’t see a hub developed. Maintenance hangar of Aero Contractors, I don’t know how much savings we have been able to achieve from taking our aeroplanes there. NCAA should be able to tell us for instance that within a certain period, maintenance figure came down to a certain amount of money because of the facilities of Aero. Foreign airlines non-remittance has reached all figure high of $718m. We are 44 per cent of the entire world’s debts on non-remittance of funds to foreign airlines as at the end of March, 2023. So, Nigeria is almost the half of the world. What the airlines are now doing is that they started withdrawing their seats from Nigeria. They can sell the seats from Ghana, Lome, US and elsewhere and board here. When they board here, ticket sales charge that NCAA enjoys is not there anymore. That is what we call Point of Sales (PoS). And that runs to millions of dollars yearly. Our travel agents are losing business; they are firing staff. In this month of April, booking figure has collapsed by 50 per cent. Go and check the figure of Wakanow and other travel agencies. The seats are not available to sell. In the late 1980s or early 1990s, Scandinavian Airlines, Iberia, Swiss Air and other Brazilian Airlines left Nigeria because of this issue of trapped funds. And unfortunately, same thing is happening again. Sanctity of business is very key if you want to grow the country. When they sign business with you, it will be respected as such. What is your advice for the incoming government? The priority of the incoming government should be first, to pay all the trapped funds to the foreign airlines to zero if you want that sector to flourish so that all the inventories will come back. This is to prove that we respect international trade. Also, you cannot be begging the airlines to die. Where do you want me to get fuel to bring down my aircraft down here when all the money is kept in Nigeria? Do you expect them to go and borrow to operate their aircraft into Nigeria? Maintenance is due every six months, where do you want me to get the money from? Do we have maintenance facilities here in the country, which can force the airlines to do their heavy check maintenance in here? What is the capacity of the maintenance? And if I am lifting fuel in Nigeria, what capacity will I lift at a time? So, the government should pay the debts instantly to zero and tell the world that we are ready to shore up investors’ confidence. Sir Richard Branson of Virgin Atlanta is one of the successful airline operators in the globe. The airline succeeded in the United Kingdom with Virgin UK, Virgin US, Virgin Australia and Virgin Blue. Virgin came here with Virgin Atlantic, but it ran back. Why? It was because of sanctity of contract. Don’t sign what you cannot do. And why Branson was leaving, he issued a bad statement by saying ‘Nigeria is a business destroyer.’ We need to shore up investors’ confidence in Nigeria. This is key, and it is a foundation to progress in every sector of the economy. Sir, what is your say about the foray of the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) into the aviation industry? For me from day one, it was a misplaced judgment to put the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) as a turnaround manager of an airline. AMCON was set up to collect debts of banks. If you are to collect debts, how can you turn the business around? If you have to collect debts in the United State that is Chapter 11 of Bankruptcy. I don’t know whether we have that in Nigeria, but if you are declared bankrupt, that means debt is set aside. Bankruptcy does not mean you are dead. It means you set the debts aside. You are to pump in fresh funds and resuscitate the business. When the business comes back alive after some years, you can now begin to service these debts. That is what they call turnaround, but to ask AMCON to come and turnaround and at the same time to pay the airline debts, that is the consequence that you are seeing at the moment. They have not been able to deliver the airline of your dream, neither have they been able to sufficiently pay the banks’ debts. I flew on one of the airlines under AMCON receivership one day enroute to Ghana, but I won’t mention the name of the airline. Onboard, I was able to meet a senior official of AMCON and I asked if that was the standard they came here to deliver because I saw wires that can short-circuit and could cause fire breakout inside aircraft. That is safety measure and somebody is doing oversight on that airline. But, because it is a government affair, somebody turned away his eyes. As it is, we cannot afford to compromise safety. There is no straight cut assignment; ‘I must keep the operations going and I must collect debts.’ This is not possible and we are all seeing the consequence. They proposed a few years ago to merge Aero and Arik Air together as one flag carrier for Nigeria, but government officials started disagreeing with one and other. That means we are not cohesive in policy. What do you want to do with these two airlines? Set them bankrupt, get all the assets and let it float a strong airline for you and then, you will know you are making some progress. That progress will service the debts. That is the way out. Otherwise, if they continue with the way they are doing, they will end up killing the airlines and will have nothing out of them. I learnt that they met about 17 aircraft at Arik Air when they came onboard, but now, they have less than five. Is that a progress? Then, go and check the on-time departure of that airline. If an airline is doing 70 per cent delays, is that an airline? And our number airline in Nigeria today, Ibom Air is still above 50 per cent delays. So, none of them can say in terms of on-time performance, is good. So, we are not operating an airline business. A flight is supposed to depart at noon and it’s departing at 10p.m, what does that suggest? Operational reasons? No. It is simply inadequate service; they don’t have enough fleets or the fleets are frequently breaking down. When they breakdown, you cannot operate a flight that is not safe. So, you will continue to delay departure. How can you delay a flight for five hours? Maximum delay you can have should not be more than two hours. Just recently, NG Eagle that was being promoted by AMCON was said to have bene taking over by another investor and issued the Air Operator Certificate (AOC) by the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), what is your say on this? The question we should ask ourselves is who owns NG Eagle, AMCON? If I own a property, I should be able to sell it. The NG Eagle, Arik Air and Aero that government has taken over, they took them over legally. So, NCAA has done the right thing. I don’t know the name of the fellow who bought it. So, for me, it is correct. NCAA has done nothing wrong.