P/HARCOURT – The Movement for the Survival of Izon Ethnic Nationality in Niger Delta (MOSIEND), has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Security Adviser, Major Gen Babagana Monguno (rtd),for reappointing Maj General Tariye Barry Ndiomu (rtd) as the Interim Administrator, Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP). The group said the coming of the Interim Administrator would reposition PAP for both the Federal Government and all the critical stakeholders in the system. Amb. Kennedy Tonjo West, National President, MOSIEND, stated this in an interview in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. West noted that Ndiumo had saved billions of Naira for the government through his prudent efforts at tackling an anomaly in PAP in six months in office as Interim Administrator. The MOSIEND leader further noted that Ndiomu had also stopped shortchanging of beneficiaries of the programme in their monthly stipends during his short reign as administrator. Describing him as an astute and disciplined administrator, West said Ndiomu engaged all the critical stakeholders from the region and beyond on how best to balance the system. “One major milestone of the administrator is the partnership with Pan Niger Delta group, MOSIEND, by carrying out advocacy campaign on illegal oil thefts, pipeline vandalism, act of kidnapping and oil bunkering in the region. “There is now a new orientation and a paradigm shift in the system, thereby ending all manner of vices and criminality in the region”, he said. POLL West insisted that MOSIEND under his watch would continue to partner with the interim administrator of PAP towards ensuring peace, unity and progress of the country and the region at large. MOSIEND also appealed to all actors and critical stakeholders in the region to support the PAP interim administrator and give him a chance to succeed, noting that his success would bring peace and even development in the region and Nigeria at large. The group also congratulated the General on his 60th birthday celebration, describing him as a disciplinarian, diligent officer, public administrator, and a mass mobiliser.