Silverbird Film Distribution WA Limited, has premiered the 10th edition of the Fast and Furious franchise popular as Fast X. The highly anticipated movie which is also popular as Fast and Furious 10 premiered at the Silverbird Galleria on Wednesday, May 17, and is now showing in cinemas nationwide. Preceded by a colorful road show boasting fast cars, and exciting stunts from bikers and cyclists on Sunday, May 14th, the premiere proper didn’t fall short of expectations, as it confirmed the place of Silverbird Film Distribution as the lead in its industry. Kicking off at about 5:00 pm, youths dressed in the theme of the day (Street Wear) stormed the galleria for Fast and Furious 10, amidst a red carpet pre-event full of notable personalities. With popcorn and drinks courtesy of the host, the colorful big screen of the Silverbird Cinema confirmed all was set for the biggest event of the day. The sighting of Dominic Toretto, the lead actor in the movie elicited excitement from viewers, even as they stayed glued to the screen till late evening when the movie climaxed, with posers about what comes next in the series which has become synonymous with the movie buffs in Nigeria and indeed Africa. Speaking on the movie premiere, General Manager Silverbird Film Distribution WA Ltd, Rosana George-Hart said, “Fast and Furious has been a successful commercial franchise for over 21 years, and the expectations are higher. The movie is fast and racy, it’s a cinematic delight. “Over many missions and against impossible odds, Dom Toretto and his family have outsmarted and outdriven every foe in their path. Now, they must confront the most lethal opponent they’ve ever faced. Fueled by revenge, a terrifying threat emerges from the shadows of the past to shatter Dom’s world and destroy everything — and everyone — he loves. No doubt, it would be a huge box-office success. “Silverbird Film Distribution has earned a reputation as a trusted partner in the film supply chain services industry. We continue to be the resource for some of the most invigorating voices in modern cinemas. Our quest is to engage an ever-expanding audience with a rich variety of films that range from box-office hits to Academy award-winning dramas and comedies,” George-Hart noted. POLL Key Account Manager, Silverbird Film Distribution, Moses Agochukwu noted that the premiere was all about Fast and Furious. “We are here to promote the title as much as possible. We are urging all action movie lovers to go and watch the title. As part of the program for the premiere, we have partnered with Infinix, JAC Motors, Nescafe, and Small Chops to bring this entertaining and amazing moment to movie lovers. “Something that the Fast and Furious series has maintained is the action and the exciting moments. If you are an action lover, you won’t want to miss this one. If I were to rate it from 1 to 10, I would give it a 20. I kid you not, it’s so entertaining that you might be forced to just stand up on your feet and shout, it’s so thrilling.” Further, Agochukwu stated; “We are pioneers in movie distribution in West Africa. We started the game before others came into it. We are proud to be the pioneer of this sector of entertainment. “We project to get at least a billion Naira from the Box Office. Though we understand that it’s a dynamic market, we are hopeful that we will get our target. Fast X is a Nigerian thing, a lot of people want to see the title and so we are confident that we will hit our target.” On the other titles soon to be distributed by the film distribution company, he added; “We are bringing more blockbusters to the screen this year, we still have Transformers coming out, we still have Mission Impossible coming out, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle, and a whole lot of action movies.” On his part, Nescafe Category Manager, Jean-Pierre Duplan said, “The Fast and Furious franchise appeals to the youth as it were, and as you know, Nescafe is a brand for the youth. We are here to sample and to get people to partake in coffee and get the excitement that coffee brings as well. There are a thousand people here and we hope that as they come in they can sample a cup of coffee, enjoy what we have to offer and they can buy more eventually. At the same time, we are also here to have fun and watch Fast and Furious 10 as well. People have been waiting for this for a while, me personally as well.” Wale Odenusi, Digita Lead for Rite Foods who added his voice to the narrative about the movie explained the reason Fearless partnered with Silverbird Film Distribution on Fast X. “Today we are sponsoring Fast and Furious 10, and the reason why we are doing this is because Fearless is audacious, Fearless is daring and explorative. One of the things you find out about this movie is that it is also a daring movie, it’s Fast and Furious. It’s for the fearless, it aligns. This year, the campaign we are throwing out is ‘Embrace the Thrill’, it’s about going out to far places and doing extreme stuff, that you won’t do on a normal. We hope to meet our target audiences where they are, we know that the Fearless people will be here and we need to be here for them. They are our target audience and we go out to meet them where they are to give them the Fearless experience. “This edition of the series is about doing something unique, daring, and fearless for the one you love. That is why it sits with our brand because we go all out for our target audience, the people we love,” he concluded.