Similarly, after the removal of petrol subsidy which is due next month, it is being predicted that the pump price of the commodity may also spike up to the region of N350-N500 per liter. The immediate consequence of the anticipated spikes in prices of Foreign Exchange and petrol that are essential services with high level impact on the masses would be that the inflation rate in our country that is currently 22.22% (which is a seventeen (17) years high based on National Bureau of Statistics, NBS report) could become double of the current level. And that would spell more misery for the critical masses of Nigerians of which over thirty (30) million of our compatriots are said to be living below poverty line. Given the doom and gloom picture of the economy and country that the incoming president would be inheriting, a faint hearted president-elect would have balked at the enormity of the challenges ahead. But the incoming president, Asiwaja Bola Ahmed Tinubu, also known as the Lion of Bourdilon by his fans and foes alike is not a faint hearted leader. Evidence of his lion heartedness is reflected by his determination to throw his hat into the ring for the presidency despite all the odds stacked against him. With his famous quip, ‘emi lo kan’, translated to English language as ‘it is my turn’, Mr. Tinubu has been intentional about realizing his dream of becoming president of Nigeria, willy-nilly. Prior to this time, the president-elect had weathered an equally severe challenging storm when as Lagos State governor, he was denied access to the federation account allocation amounting to billions that was supposed to accrue to the state monthly under the regime of ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, OBJ, who withheld the funds on the ground that then Governor Tinubu unilaterally created local government councils in the state which OBJ deemed as a breach of the 1999 constitution and he took it upon himself to sanction him and the state. POLL Remarkably, it was while the state was being starved of funds by OBJ that as a survival strategy, aggressive and effective collection of tax money from Lagosians to enable the governor keep government afloat became a necessity. Notwithstanding the grim scenario of the economic, political and social turmoil that he would be inheriting from his predecessor as earlier highlighted, the president-elect appears to be poised to rise to the occasion by, as it were, taking the bull by the horn one more time, especially because he has passed through similar leadership adversities in the past. That doggedness is reflected by the belief that Mr. Tinubu might have already started tackling the gargantuan challenges even before receiving the baton from the outgoing president Muhammadu Buhari, hence he is currently in Europe on business drive. Arising from the above it is not surprising to his close watchers that after consulting with the National Working Committee, NWC, of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, on how to zone key positions to ranking senators and members-elect that would drive the tenth (10th) National Assembly, NASS, thinking that the bridge had been crossed, the President-elect Tinubu would jet out to Europe to woo investors back to Nigeria in order to move our ailing economy out of the current sick bay where it is located. But his jet had hardly soared into the sky on his way to Europe to tackle the next item on the agenda of his imminent presidency which apparently is the resuscitation of the economy before he was surprised by the rebellion within his party as the process of selecting NASS leadership has gone awry since it stirred up a nasty political storm. By all indications, the political firestorm is already looking like it would be of the dimension reminiscent of the circumstances that led to the emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki as the Senate President in the 8th Assembly (2015-2019) with the support of the opposition parties and to the chagrin of the ruling APC leaders. Surely, the aftermath of the sharing of office amongst incoming lawmakers is clearly testing the capacity and ability of the President-elect Tinubu to manage internal crisis. But then again, as a two-term governor of Lagos State he had faced similar rebellion by lawmakers in the state Assembly when he had a running battle with then deputy governor of the state, Mrs. Kofoworola Akerele-Bucknor when his University of Chicago or Chicago State University degree certificate controversy reared its ugly head and the legislators were being primed to impeach him. At the end of the spat, he triumphed. It is expected that like he did in the past, he would once again deploy his trademark sagacity in politics to calm the storm that has erupted in the APC. But, it appears as if in the interim, going on a mission to consult with potential investors with a view to convincing them to return Nigeria into their investment radar, supersedes all other considerations for Asiwaju Tinubu. That perhaps explains why he seems to have put behind him the furore raised by the choice of the senators and members of the House of Representatives that would steer the affairs of the lawmakers and left it for the party chairman, Senator Abdulahi Adamu, and Vice President-elect, Senator Kashim Shettima, to resolve. In the interim, he seems to have elected to focus his energy on the next task which is how to take our sick economy out of the Intensive Care Unit, ICU, where it is currently lying, more or less prostrate. That is what can be gleaned from President-elect Tinubu’s media handler, Bayo Onanuga’s announcement of his principal’s mission to Europe, earlier on the tenth (10th) day of this month, is business drive. So, in principle, the President-elect Tinubu’s current trip abroad is essentially aimed at reversing the ugly and alarming trend of dwindling foreign direct investment into our country which by some account has experienced about 80% drop. And he hopes to reverse the trend by persuading foreign investors that have fled from our clime due to inclement business environment in the past eight (8) years to return because a business savvy leader is about to mount the throne in Aso Rock Villa presidential seat of power. Clearly, reversing the relocation of businesses out of Nigeria and resuscitating the ones that have gone comatose would be the most efficacious panacea to the malaise of unemployment and the misfortune of economic stagnation besetting Nigerians. International Council for Investigative Reporting, ICIR, analysis indicates that Nigeria has suffered eight (8) recessions since 1960. Two (2) of the economic recessions suffered in our country in 2016 and 2020 which is less than a space of five (5) years, were under outgoing President Buhari. And both phenomena have left the ugly trail of massive job loss, business atrophy and the dragging of more Nigerians (5m by some estimates) below poverty bracket and multi-dimensionally than any other Nigerian president. Also, let us not forget the unprecedented migration of our youths abroad known as ‘japa’ a reverse of which President-elect Tinubu is probably desirous of and which he is trying to achieve by luring businesses back to Nigeria to create employment for our youths to stem the ‘japa’ syndrome. As the World Trade Organization, WTO, Director General and former finance minister of Nigeria, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, quipped during an interview on Arise New TV on the sidelines of the induction of the newly elected governors in Aso Rock Villa, ‘kapa’ is the reverse of ‘japa’ which is reverse migration of our youths which can only happen when we rebuild our economy and free it from the current debt trap which she cautioned the new governors not to worsen by continuing to be profligate. Invariably, it appears to me that it is the desire to save the economy and also have something tangible to show in the first 100 days in office that are the motivators for the President-elect Tinubu’s hurry to go to work quickly and as the saying goes, ‘hit the ground running’. That is the justification for his embarking on a trade drive in Europe even before officially receiving the baton of leadership from President Buhari which would only happen on May 29, all things being equal and which is less than a week away. And his assignment abroad is not only to convince the investors that have fled Nigeria’s hostile business environment, it also includes wooing new entrepreneurs, particularly those in England who are seeking new frontiers to expand into in the light of the fact that the country has recently decoupled itself from the 29 nations European Union, EU, market via a phenomenon known as BREXIT. And what President-elect Tinubu’s trip overseas to seek investors suggests to me is that he has identified unemployment, which KPMG estimates to be about 41% as at last month, as a major bane of Nigerian economy which he has to tackle frontally. That is more so as unemployment is high amongst the youth demographics who some experts estimate to also constitute as high as sixty (60%) percent of the unemployed in our country. Given that our youths have become a powerful political force as evidenced by the critical and pivotal role that they played in elections 2023 which puts in the front burner, a hitherto unknown quantity in politics, Peter Obi, the LP presidential flag bearer as a formidable contender, it would be understandable why President-elect Tinubu has to prioritize getting our youths to be productively engaged in value creation through gainful employment for their prosperity and that of our country. And the current unprecedented unemployment level in our country stems from the massive exodus of corporations from our land owing to inclement business environment. As BusinessDay newspaper noted in one of its surveys, over fifty (50) corporations have exited Nigeria in a relatively space of time. Also, according to another report by the Punch newspaper, the following firms that were based in Nigeria are reported to have specifically relocated since 2015: Berec Batteries; Exide Batteries; Okin Biscuits; Osogbo Steel Rolling Mills; Nigeria Sugar Company; Bacita; Tate and Lyle Sugar Company; Matches Manufacturing Company, Ilorin; Nigeria Paper Mill Limited located in Jebba, Kwara State; Nigerian Newsprint Manufacturing Company Limited, Oku-Iboku. That is not forgetting tyre manufacturing firms, Dunlop and Michelin that also relocated their operations from Nigeria to neighbouring country Ghana. Apart from manufacturing firms, service based businesses such as international oil companies, IOCs, — Chevron and Mobil from the United States of America, USA, have sold their assets in Nigeria to local entrepreneurs like Seplat Energy, HEIRS etc, just as ShopRite, a South African consumer goods retailer has also sold its chain of stores to Persianas, a local retailer owned by Mr. Tayo Amusan, a multiple shopping malls owner. Airlines such as British Airways, Emirates and Iberia, among others, are either operating skeletal services or have also exited Nigeria, citing lack of access to foreign exchange, insecurity and corruption as the reasons for folding up their operations in our country. Even then, the airlines that are still in operations in our clime are only accepting payments for tickets in dollars which is one of the reasons there is so much pressure on the naira and its rapid devaluation. Given Asiwaju Tinubu’s private sector background, having been a treasurer with Mobil Nigeria and being a US trained accountant, it is unsurprising that he would have a business mind set. That is an assertion that is validated by his focus on wooing back into Nigeria businesses that had taken flight out of our shores which has taken pre-eminence in his agenda to engender an economic rebirth in our beloved country. It is worth pointing out that the current trip is the second time that the President-elect Tinubu would be embarking on a retreat and confinement abroad, since 1st of April when the Independent National Election Commission, INEC, declared him the winner of the February 25 presidential contest. The first was when he traveled to France one week after the March 18 gubernatorial and state Houses of Assembly elections during which he was reported to have gone to recuperate from the stress arising from the grueling one hundred and eighty (180) days campaign period (September-February) that climaxed in victory for him. In my assessment, the strategic initiatives so far undertaken or addressed by the president-elect since he attained the status tend to suggest or point to the societal challenges that would be receiving his priority attention when he mounts the saddle of leadership in Aso Rock Villa in the next couple of weeks. While the date to end petrol subsidy has been set to happen in June as agreed in the Petroleum Industry Act, PIA, the devaluation of the naira has been ongoing slowly and surely to the extent that both the official and parallel market rates are looking like they would likely converge, if not before the incumbent administration exits, but sooner than later. A signpost to which direction Asiwaju Tinubu’s tenure as president would be heavily weighing in can be distilled from his two (2) terms tenure as governor of Lagos State, during which he engaged heavily in a lot of collaboration with the private sector. And since practically all Nigerians admire the giant strides that Lagos State had taken in terms of socioeconomic progress since 1999 that Mr. Tinubu laid the foundation for development, it may not be difficult for Nigerians to key into his agenda. So, the President-elect Tinubu is likely to replicate his Lagos State template while serving in the central government. Now, skeptics and cynics may raise issues with regards to state capture which is a tendency that President-elect Tinubu has been accused of exhibiting without concrete proof since he has not been indicted or convicted by any court of law in Nigeria for corruption. And on that score, it behooves of civil society to be vigilant to see if such alleged perfidy can be tracked and established against him in the event that it happens when he steps into the office of the president and commander-in-chief of Nigeria on 29 of this month of May. Remarkably, becoming the president of Nigeria has by his own admission been the lifelong ambition of the President-elect Tinubu. So, it is likely that the entirety of his brain and brawn would be geared towards proving skeptics of his “emi lo kan” mantra wrong by demonstrating to his critics that he is deserving of his victorious race for the presidency of Nigeria against all the odds stacked up against him as underscored by regional political calculus and permutations as well as the muck raked up against him to impede his long walk to Aso Rock Villa. • Magnus Onyibe, an entrepreneur, public policy analyst, author, democracy advocate, development strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, sent this piece from Lagos.