LAGOS – The Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) Agro Allied Group, has called on the incoming government to involve farmers in its policy formulation and implementation. Kola Aderibigbe, Chairman of the group made the call in an interview with Daily Independent, stating that many policies are being made without agricultural stakeholders being part of the policy formation He also noted that the lacuna has really caused lots of damages into the agriculture space. He said the government most times engages consultants who have not practiced farming in all their lives thereby putting round peg in square hole instead of putting round peg in the round hole. “Government always engage consultants who have not practiced farming in all their lives. There should be a round peg in the round hole; not the other way round. Consultant must be someone that has gotten through pitfalls of farming with vast experience in solution provision to various farm problems,” he said. Aderibigbe also said that with the current situation, with cost of farming, food processing, food availability, cost of food and distribution with high poverty level, the new government should focus on food security by declaring a state of emergency. He emphasised that the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), food security will exists when all people, at all times, have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food which meets their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life. He said the government should tackle food insecurity systematically in a way to inspire all stakeholders including cities everywhere in Nigeria to improve access to sufficient, safe, healthy, cost effective and sustainable food production for all citizens. POLL “Each local government should be segmented according to their comparative and competitive advantage in food production. With a better understanding of the geographic and socio-economic factors that drive food insecurity, cities can determine which neighbourhoods to prioritise. Local governments can then design policy solutions that address food security systems level. Aderibigbe said the new administration must tackle insecurity, stressing that it is no longer news on how farmers have been driven away from various farm gates due to high security risk. Speaking further he said there is the need to encourage more mechanization of farming among the small players by making available required machinery, tractors, and other small-scale equipment at various farm settlement areas, stating that this will in turn encourage the youth to embrace agriculture. “Bank of Agriculture should wake up to her role in making funds available at single digit rate to large/ medium scale farmers who intend to import heavy agric machinery. Speaking further, he said a standard agricultural laboratory is necessary and should be established at various local governments in Nigeria and that the government should avoid over taxing companies that are barely surviving. “Let there be tax holidays for the next 10 years for farmers. Farmers will utilize these tax credits for investment. There should be a mechanism to monitor this. This will also attract DFI in Agric space. He added that a robust financial policy or system should be put in place to avoid a repeat of the cash crunch experienced in the past few months which affected farmers, as many cash crops, processed foods, and chicken rot away due to no availability of cash in circulation.