As part of its contribution towards women’s socio-economic development in the country, Henkel Nigeria, the manufacturer of consumer products has launched a platform where issues affecting women are been discussed. Speaking at the launch of the platform tagged “Iyahenry”, transformation manager at Henkel Nigeria, Chidera Akwuba, said the stand would afford women the opportunity to discuss business, health and wellness, finance, relationship, and motherhood among others. Akwuba further explained that her organisation remains committed to the advancement of the welfare of women and girls in society, adding that her company’s advocacy of women’s development aligns with the 2023 IWD theme: “DigitALL: innovation and technology for gender equality.” “At Henkel Nigeria, we are passionate about women. We want to see them thrive and achieve great feats. In our dynamic world today, women have more opportunities to excel, and we are, therefore, glad for the establishment of ‘Iya Henry’, which provides a safe space for women to live up to their full potential,” she said. Akwuba noted that one of the cornerstones of Henkel’s global company culture is the incorporation of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in its operations. According to her, Henkel was one of the first German-stock listed companies to establish a dedicated global diversity team, adding that the company has established a wide DEI network, involving women, who work collaboratively across all departments and regions where it is operational. The company, she said is keen on its commitments to ensure that it is a more diverse, equitable and inclusive organisation, as it has taken it up as its social responsibility to mirror the gender parity of the global population and provide equal access to opportunities. “Also, as part of our commitments, we strive to achieve gender parity across all management levels by 2025, with a significant increase in the number of women in the top positions”, she added. POLL According to Rajat Kapur, Managing Director of Henkel Nigeria, the initiative was born out of the company’s dedication to the advancement of the socio-economic development of women in Nigeria. ‘We are dedicated to helping women and girls reach their full potential, whether at home, in business or the classroom. The initiative will equip participants with the skills they need to excel in their chosen fields,” Kapur explained. The programme will be open to female entrepreneurs, fresh graduates, and experienced professionals, Kapur revealed.  