Manta also expressed delight at the high profile intervention on joint Africa Tourism propelled by NANTA. Speaking at the sideline of the Tour Operators Union of Ghana (TOUGHA), held in Johannesburg, South Africa over the weekend, Manta explained that the determination of NANTA to bring about change to the narratives of intra African tourism resonated with the dreams of most African people, saying that the association’s contribution could not be underrated. He explained that collaboration, rather than individualism was the way to go in defining the prospects of intra African cultural tourism trade and business opportunities. He said: “We are certainly proud of NANTA for this collaboration with TOUGHA and which was endorsed by South Africa Tourism. At the embassy, we are always happy to receive Nigerian business trade groups, coming to South Africa to discuss business collaborations with groups here and by such efforts, we rekindle hope in the Nigeria and South Africa relationships, which over time has brought both countries and people together.” On the difficulty in obtaining visas to Nigeria, the ambassador explained that the process was being addressed and with the expected posting of more Nigerian immigration personnel to South Africa, the overwhelming pressure of visa requests by those wishing to visit Nigeria, would ease out over time. lots of visa requests that would require more hands to attend to, but assured that the issue would be resolved. He further described the NANTA initiative as octane to future trade professionals’ collaboration and partnership, stressing that it was difficult to deny visas to groups as suspicious profiling usually administered to an individual, will never be applied to collaborative and united efforts in the mould of NANTA initiative. He said: “An individual as against a corporate effort may arouse immigration detailed profiling particularly when the individual may have enough funds to channel his visit and to which such pecuniary luxury may attract immigration deep examination as against spending by groups to an economy or destination, which usually gets positive nods from host nations.” POLL He emphasised that the Nigerian embassy in South Africa, receives lots of visa requests that would require more hands to attend to, but assured that the issue would be resolved. He further described the NANTA initiative as octane to future trade professionals’ collaboration and partnership, stressing that it was difficult to deny visas to groups as suspicious profiling usually administered to an individual, will never be applied to collaborative and united efforts in the mould of NANTA initiative. He said: “An individual as against a corporate effort may arouse immigration detailed profiling particularly when the individual may have enough funds to channel his visit and to which such pecuniary luxury may attract immigration deep examination as against spending by groups to an economy or destination, which usually gets positive nods from host nations.”