The National Agency for Food and Drugs Adminis­tration and Control (NAF­DAC) on Sunday warned users/consumers against the use of PrimeZen Black 6000mg, a male per­formance enhancement capsule, recalled from the market. The agency’s recall is contained in a public alert with No. 015/2023, signed by its Director-General, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, and is­sued to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. Adeyeye said that Volt Candy is voluntarily recall­ing the one lot of PrimeZen Black 6000mg capsule alongside its 2000mg, due to undeclared ingredients they were made of by their manufacturer in America. “The recall followed the analysis of Food and Drug Agency (FDA) of the United States of America, an FDA, which found the PrimeZen capsules to contain unde­clared tadalafil and silde­nafil. “Sildenafil and tadala­fil are phosphodiesterase (PDE-5) inhibitors found in FDA-approved products for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction. “The presence of silde­nafil and tadalafil in PrimeZen Black 6000mg capsules renders them un­approved drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and, there­fore, subject to recall. “Risk statement, Pri­meZen Black 6000 capsules containing sildenafil and tadalafil may interact with nitrates found in some prescription drugs (such as nitroglycerin) and may cause a significant drop in blood pressure that may be life-threatening.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “People with diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or heart dis­ease often take nitrates. POLL “Among the adult male population who are most likely to use these prod­ucts, adult males who use nitrates for cardiac condi­tions are most at risk from these products,” she said. According to her, “The product details are as fol­lows: PrimeZEN Black 6000 male enhancement capsules, manufactured by Volt Candy, 324 S. Diamond Bar Blvd #212, USA.” The NAFDAC boss said that the lot Number: NPINPB 1003, UPC code: 728175521891, expiration date is Aug. 16, 2025 for PrimeZen Black 6000mg being marketed online as a dietary supplement for male enhancement and is packaged in a blister card with one capsule. Adeyeye added that the product can be identified by the card colour in black with the name on it Pri­meZen Black 6000. She said, “NAFDAC hereby implores members of the public in possession of the above product to stop the sale or use, as well as handover the product to the nearest agency office.” The DG appealed to those who have the falsified product, to “please do not use it.” “If you, or someone you know, have used the prod­uct, or suffered any adverse reaction after use, please seek immediate medical advice,” she advised. She also advised health­care professionals and consumers to report any suspicion of adverse drug reaction, substandard and falsified medicines to the nearest NAFDAC office. Adeyeye said that the public were also advised to report any adverse re­actions of the product to NAFDAC on 0800-162-3322 or via email: alert@nafdac. gov.ng” The DG also encouraged healthcare professionals and patients to report ad­verse events or side effects related to the use of me­dicinal product through the use of the E-reporting platforms available on the NAFDAC website “http:// www.nafdac.gov.ng/”