These ideas are with us, we only need to spot them. A few years back, when under-aged children sold water in polyethylene along Lagos streets, no one knew it was a big idea selling table water in sachets. For years, Ragolis sold table water, many didn’t know it was a big idea. Swan table water came on later and today it is everybody’s business, even multinationals like May and Baker, Nestle, Nigerian Bottling Company Plc, bottlers of Coca Cola range of soft drinks, etc. are churning in millions of naira selling table water. Today, investment in alternative energy is a big idea and it will be a wise business decision to go into it now. The industrial world knows and they are paying good attention to it. I was in Berlin January 2006 for an international agriculture fair and got to see the passion with which Europe is handling the issue of alternative energy. Amanda C. Kooser of the Entrepreneur online says “With unstable gas prices and increasing environmental awareness, an alternative energy business could put you on the road to success”. She cites the case of Justin Carven of Greasecar Vegetable Fuel Systems LLC. She explains “The 29-year-old founder’s Easthampton, Massachusetts, business makes conversion kits that allow diesel engines to run on vegetable oil.” Ultimately, it’s the rising fuel prices that are convincing people to get onboard,” says Carven. Greasecar sales have grown by more than 200 percent each year over the past couple of years… And the company is jumping into the commercial and municipal markets with enthusiasm.” She cites some major alternative energy growth areas as solar, hydrogen, bio-fuel, fuel cells and energy conservation technologies. Development, installation and creative application of these technologies are all possibilities for entrepreneurs, she says. For those who are interested in going into the business of alternative energy she has the following tips: Calculate the risks, get your funding together, be conservation-minded, go governmental, and be nimble. She explains as with any market, doing your homework is the important first step. For Kooser, an alternative energy can be both a rewarding and a difficult area to start a business in. For her, unless you have just the right funders, it’s hard to make it through that initial growth stage, new alternative energy sources are being tested and older solutions are undergoing improvement. This, according to her means that what is a hot source today can be old news in a year. The entrepreneurs who do well will be the ones who are best able to adapt to new trends and demands, she argues. Our scientists would want to tell us that there is nothing new in ethanol production. Agreed, but how serious are we regarding the production of this alternative fuel which Brazil uses as 100 per cent substitute for gasoline? Records show that we stopped producing ethanol in 2001 after cheap world market import and a difficult domestic feed stock situation had undermined the viability of the domestic sector. The total market volume in Nigeria for fuel ethanol is estimated at about 90 million litres, and we are told the large chunk of this is supplied by South Africa, Brazil and Spain. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The good news that must be drummed into everyone’s ears is that Nigeria has the capability to launch into ethanol production. Nigeria is world number one producer of cassava with an average production capacity of about 36 million metric tonnes, which could yield about 3.6 billion litres of fuel ethanol; (30 per cent of the annual national gasoline consumption of 10.9 billion litres among several key government agencies in the country. The fuel ethanol programme being driven by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is therefore a welcome move. The objective of the programme is to explore sources of bio-mass that can be used to produce fuel ethanol. POLL We need to look on to Brazil also which leads the world with a production level of 14 billion litres, enough on to replace about 40 per cent of its gasoline demand. As a world leader in fuel ethanol production, most new cars in the country are “flexible-fuel vehicles” that can run on either ethanol, gasoline or any blend of the two. We have cassava and sugarcane. We can expand our current production level. Good enough, NNPC is already taking good strides in this direction. Ethanol, as an alternative energy, is one big idea that must not be allowed to die. This piece from Archives Siaka Momoh, was first published over a decade ago.