…I’ll Go To Daura Far Away From Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has again spoken passionately about his filial relationship with his kith and kin in the Niger Republic, saying that he will get all the protection he needs should there be any form of retribution from fellow Nigerians when he leaves office. The President who seemed to be boasting about his relationship with Nigeriens, noted that he has built cordial relationships with neighbouring countries, and specifically said that should anyone disturb him in Nigeria,j his Niger Republic neighbours will defend him. He noted that he will relocate to his country home in Daura, which is far away from Abuja and closer to the Niger Republic, where he famously claimed that he has his cousins. Buhari made this disclosure at the official commissioning of Nigeria Customs Service Corporate Headquarters in Abuja on Tuesday. “I said these few things about my personal belief because I have only six more days to go. “And I try to plan to be as far away from Abuja as possible. I came from an area which is far away from Abuja. “I said if anybody with force moves, I have a good relationship with my neighbours. Niger people will defend me.” POLL He added, “If one does not secure the confidence of his neighbour, his or her grandchild will be in trouble. According to the President, he closed the border to prevent rice importation and the complaints that it would affect neighbouring countries that he should have a good relationship with. He added that in a bid to earn the goodwill of the Niger Republic, Cameroon and Chad, he had to visit them first upon assumption of office. Buhari said: “I think I am trying to make my point. Later Nigeria will appreciate it because it provides more jobs. “People went back to agric. We have the land and they will produce what we eat. And for people who think that our neighbours can be losers let’s continue to be with our neighbours. “That is why when I became the President, my first visit was to Niger, Chad and Cameroon because based on the neighbourhood on personal and national reasons if you don’t secure the confidence of your neighbour you are in trouble. “If you are not in trouble, your children and grandchildren will be in trouble. “So it is very good I established a good relationship with my neighbours,” Bihari said. He explained why he appointed Col. Hameed Ali (Retired) as the Comptroller General of Customs and pointed out that he (Ali) has the energy and competence to effectively supervise the over 1,600 km Nigeria land mass from Benin to Lake Chad.