LAGOS  – The Scientific Community in Nigeria have been called upon to adopt modern Molecular Biology techniques enhanced by Bioinformatics to solve major problems of Nigerian genetic resources in human, livestock, plant, and microbes. Professor Joy Okpuzor, Professor of Cell and Molecular Biology, University of Lagos (UNILAG) who is a keynote speaker made the call at the opening session of the Hands-on Training in Molecular Biology Techniques and Bioinformatics with the theme; ‘Repositioning Life Sciences Research and Industry In The Omics Era’, a training organised by the Biotechnology department, Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi (FIIRO) in collaboration with Inqaba Biotec West Africa and Zodel Biotec Limited. She said that scientists and researchers need to familiarise themselves with novel omics approaches used in biomedical research and that the responsibility is now on them to be equipped and reposition ourselves for the relatively new and evolving omics era. On application of molecular biology she said it enables to make advances in the area of agriculture, medicine and also on improvement of the food industry, consumer products, agriculture among several others. “The omics era will change a lot of things and the young people should key into this era of omics technology. It gives us the opportunity to interrogate our system either in agriculture or any other area. Dr. Jummal Tutuwa, Director General\CEO FIIRO who was represented by Dr. Dele Oyeku, Director Extension and Linkage said that the hands-on training is to impact knowledge of omics technology on the participants that this is the era of omics technology and that there are some innovative technology that needed to be learnt by experts in life sciences if not they will not be relevant. He said that the key goal is that at the end of the training, they must have learnt the techniques, the new and modern techniques in omics technology to be able to investigate biological systems in both plants, livestock and human with the manners that human life will be enhanced and plants will be for the benefits of humans. Dr. Adekunle Lawal, Director, Biotechnology FIIRO while speaking said that this is the third of its kind and that the Institute wants to equip and fortify the participants with basic tools needed in the era of omics. POLL He said it is hands-on training where participants will be exposed to different techniques and that the modules are well loaded and very intensive. “In the area of agriculture most of what we have had over the years that some crops cannot do well in some parts of the country particularly maybe because of environmental issues, with this kind of techniques, one can structure an improvement in the genres of those plants so that they can adapt to the environmental conditions, so that drought, lack of water that usually affect plant would have been in the genres and the crop will do very well. “It is an area that is very novel, we are looking at having crops that are actually resistant to diseases. Dr. Temitope Fadipe, Head, Molecular Biology Laboratory, FIIRO, said that the workshop came to be as a result of her interest and that of her team in increasing capacity development and expertise in molecular biology techniques and bioinformatics in Nigeria Fadipe, who is the convener of the workshop said that the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria brought molecular biologist to the limelight, that it does not mean that the field is only applied in medicine but it cuts across all fields in the biology and life sciences, biotechnology, agriculture, plant breeding. “We have about four plant breeders who have come to learn the techniques of cloning, DNA mutilation, pre-genetics which are part of the things that control genre expression in plants, cloning to breed for selective desirable traits in plants, it cuts across agriculture as well every areas in the life sciences that is why we target the omics technology which is an emerging field,” she added.