A legal Practitioner, Dr. Oludare Adigun Adesina Esq has called on the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to devote 40% of the annual budget of the country to youth development. Dr. Oludare made this call at the University of Ibadan on Saturday during the 9th Leadership Summit/Induction of Honorary Doctorate Degree Award of the Prowess University Delaware USA. Oludare who was the former Oyo State Commandant of the Nigerian Peace Corps, bagged the Doctorate Degree Award of Philosophy In Law (Honoris Causa) of the Prowess University Delaware USA along other eminent Nigerians also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to sign into law the Nigerian Peace Corps Bill. Oludare while speaking with journalists shortly after his induction said, ” I’m so honoured to be inducted as one of the award recipients of the Prowess University Delaware USA, though this is not the first Doctorate Degree I have received so far in my life, I have received from Edexcel University in Benin Republic, few years ago and this is the second one I’m receiving but what makes this one unique is that it is difficult to give people honorary degree in law, and because have practiced law in Nigeria and I have also practiced it in the United Kingdom and I believe my works in both jurisdictions is what fetch me this honour.” “Above all, if you look at all the awardees today I may be the youngest person, so it is an award is for the youth and I believe I’m receiving it on behalf of Nigerian Youths, youth development is something we should not play with, so definitely I’m going to continue youth engagement activities and also to see how we can develop our youths.” “There is a lot of opportunities that we Nigerian youth can do for this our great country, our youths have solutions to the challenges of this country.” Oludare said. While pleading to President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration on the need to sign into law the Nigerian Peace Corps Bill, Dr. Oludare said, “My advice to this administration which has only a few days in office, is that Nigerian Peace Corps Bill should be signed into law because this is a bill that has received an overwhelming welcome not only in Nigeria but all over the world.” “We believe that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is somebody that loves the youth and for the fact that he’s a grassroot politician who knows the importance of the youths, this incoming regime should put nothing less than 40% of the budget to develop the youth, because if you develop the youth in this country, the crime rate will reduce, it will go down, if you develop the youth in this country kidnapping for ransom will go down, if you develop the youth in this country creative ideas will emerge because our youths need an enabling environment to thrive, they will move the country forward,” Oludare said. POLL In his words, the National Commandant of the Nigerian Peace Corps, Prof Dickson Ameh Akoh said, “I think the later the better, I think the President is delaying so that he can sign it at the later and use it as a parting gift for Nigerian Youth. “We are in Abuja monitoring the development and it’s not as easy as people prescribed, because when a bill gets to Mr. President administratively at times some policy makers will have to review the bill before it go back to Mr. President for ascent, so it’s not just a situation of the National Assembly passing the bill and send it to Mr. President and Mr. President will just sign it, they have to look at the merit and the content of the bill, as well as the cost implication to the government whenever it accented into the law.” “We are so optimistic that Mr. President will sign the bill into law, the tension is needless because we known what is before Mr. President and we know that is very befitting in addressing or adding value to the security situation in the country.” Dickson said.