JOS – A group under the aegis of Platform of Justice for Naraguta B Electoral Ward B of Jos North Local government area of Plateau state has called on Election Petition Tribunal for Governorship and Assembly elections sitting in Jos, the State capital, to order for bye-elections at Naraguta Ward B. Naraguta Ward B is an electoral ward of over 200,000 voters with the opportunity to democratically cast their votes for candidates of their choice in the just concluded general elections. The Chairman of the group, Aso Usman Ahmad and Secretary Solomon Kaiwa in a statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday in Jos, said as the body of aggrieved voters, with verifiable membership covering the entire Naraguta B ward, Nigeria’s single most populated electoral wardwith over 200,000 registered voters, their votes should count in any democratic elections on the Plateau. They regretted that even though the general elections have come and gone, they are worried that the grave injustices committed against them during the election exercise in their electoral ward have not been addressed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and have left them disenfranchised in breach of their Constitutional rights. They recalled that political gladiators in Jos North LGA particularly the Jos North LGA INEC Electoral Officer collated and returned the results of the ward, even when the INEC officials of the ward went missing. “These and many more discredited gestures instigated the controversies that led to the avoidable, denial of our rights to cast votes in the critical elections.” According to them, “This ad-hoc committee was formed in the interest of deepening the message of peace by asking for redressing of the injustice through pleading with the Plateau governorship/House of Assembly petition Tribunal for another chance to also participate in elections through a bye-election in the ward.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ They commended the setting up of the Plateau State Elections Petition Tribunal and hinted that With the tribunal in place, “we believe there is a commitment and resolve to do justice to all those who are aggrieved because of one electoral issue or the other. POLL “In Naraguta B Ward, we suffered utter disenfranchisement, for reasons that are not our making. Brazen electoral crimes and offences were unleashed on the entire Naraguta B Ward, as BVAS machines and allied electoral materials were either stolen or diverted to unknown destinations, to the effect that elections could not be conducted in the Ward, in spite of the zeal and readiness of the voting population to participate and exercise their constitutional right.” They added that for reasons not known to them, alien but certainly strong partisan forces took more than a passing interest in the election and voting in the Naraguta B Ward. “These forces infiltrated the area and the voting centres and orchestrated hooliganism and brigandage to the extent that the atmosphere became chaotic and not conducive for free and fair elections. “ They demanded that In the spirit of fair play, equity, justice, and good conscience, they are pleading for the understanding of the tribunal order for a fresh conduct of the 2023 Gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections in the Naraguta B Ward.. According to them, fresh conduct of bye-election in their electoral ward would enable the needlessly disenfranchised electorates there to exercise their franchise and express their preference as to who should preside over their affairs. The group leaders said they are looking forward to justice being done in this regard. They advised and cautioned, with the benefit of hindsight, that alien political forces and actors should stay off their political space completely and charged; Jos North Local Government Authority to rise to their billing as elected leaders. They regretted that their experience in the last election in their electoral ward points to the anaconda mortgage plans of these hoodlums. They pleaded with the impartial tribunal to reverse the unarguably, compromised INEC decision on the Naraguta B.Ward polls, and call for a by-election in the electoral ward, stressing that, ‘” it is natural to demand that all elected officials and all other levels of leadership in LGA, must rise to the quest of accountability and creative action. “We stand for justice and fair play as we reiterate our call for fresh 2023 Gubernatorial and House of Assembly election in Naraguta B ward,” they stressed.