Nigeria’s national Under-20 team, the Flying Eagles are yet for leave Bueno Aires to San Juan, the venue of the Round of 16 against the host nation, Argentina. According to feelers reaching our correspondent from Bueno Aires, the team was informed that they will be departing in the morning but as at the time of filling this report, players and officials are yet to leave Sheraton Hotel in Bueno Aires for the venue of the match. Many see this as a plot to sabotage the team’s aim to book a quarterfinal ticket after being paired against host nation, Argentina. Nigeria gained the Round of 16 ticket after placing third in Group D of the ongoing FIFA Under-20 World Cup behind the group’s leader, Brazil and runners-up, Italy. Africa’s representatives at the competition Gambia, Tunisia and Nigeria will face tricky opponents in the Round of 16 following the conclusion of the group phase of the competition. Unbeaten Gambia finished top of Group F to progress to the knockout phase and they have booked against Uruguay who finished second in Group E with six points. Nigeria’s Flying Eagles have been booked against hosts Argentina in San Juan. Argentina finished top of Group A with a 100 percent record, winning all their matches. POLL Despite facing a possibly tough duel, head coach Ladan Bosso saif they will battle to ensure they get to the final. “We have to fight for the trophy. I think it is still open. Everybody can be there, and I believe we have the capacity to be there. We are into the knockout stage, and in the knockout stage, there is an approach, we can employ for it, and we hope we’d have our plans executed accordingly,” the tactician noted. Meanwhile, Tunisia who also progressed as one of the best third-placed teams will take on Group D toppers Brazil in La Plata in the round of 16. Brazil will play in Estadio Único Diego Armando Maradona, La Plata, also on Wednesday, May 31 whileThe Gambia will play Uruguay at Estadio Único Madre de Ciudades, Santiago del Estero, on Thursday, June 1.