The last may not have been heard about the ongoing reshuffles in the Nigerian aviation industry, which has consumed two Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) so far. Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation told journalists yesterday in Lagos that the re-organisation in the agencies was ongoing and would continue until May 29, 2023. Sirika stated this during the commissioning of the N2.2 billion expansion of the first phase of the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. Speaking with journalists, Sirika insisted that the removal of the CEOs received the approval of President Muhammadu Buhari, stressing that the government was continuum, irrespective of the time of removal of the CEOs. The government had over the weekend removed two CEOs in the aviation agencies. Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) was replaced by Mr. Kabir Muhammed, the General Manager, Abuja Airport terminal, while Mr. Matthew Pwajok, the Acting Managing Director of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) was replaced by Mr. Tayib Odunono. The removal of the two CEOs had received uproar among the stakeholders in the sector who felt the timing was wrong. But, speaking with journalists, Sirika said those who were removed have had their time. POLL He said: “The reorganisation approved by Mr. President is an ongoing process and it will continue to go on. There is nothing under the carpet if it is being approved by Mr. President. So, government is continuum; they had their timeline, tenure to come in and time to go. We all have our time to go. “This is governance and it is a serious business. Whatever action or inaction you are taking, you are taking it on behalf of over 200 million people. There has been a new Accountant General of the Federation, there has been a new Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Board, North East Development Commission (NEDC) and so many others. So, why me? Why is aviation the focus? What is the intention? What do you want to achieve? Why me?” Sirika boasted that the outgoing administration had improved the sector more than it met it, stressing that history would judge it right. According to him, the government had doubled the number of airlines, airports and quadrupled the number of passengers in the last eight years. He explained that the seriousness attached to the sector by the government, made the industry the second in the world to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic after Colombia. “Buhari has done extremely well in civil aviation. I don’t care when you criticise me. Whether you did the criticism well or not. If you do it, I am humble enough to look through. If you are wrong, I look at it and shine and if you are right, then, I shine again,” he said. Besides, Sirika at the airport, commissioned the expansion of the first phase of the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) and the cargo terminal at the Lagos airport. He said the projects were worth N2,2 billion. According to him, the GAT expansion, which was carried out by Messrs Glovesly Pro-Project Limited, would increase the capacity of the terminal from 254 to 1,054. The facility also comes with the complements of three standard departure halls, three VIP Lounges, two protocol lounges, three 3 lifts, four toilets, five office spaces and five staircases and others. He explained that the projects were conceived to address the decades-long limited capacity challenge of the terminal and cargo facilities in the industry.