Concerned Citizens For Justice And Inclusion In Kogi State (CCJIK) has stated that the Labour Party (LP) candidate, Barrister Okeme Adejo, is the people’s choice for the November governorship election in Kogi state. The organization highlighted that Adejo, as an effective and efficient Igala son and erudite lawyer, possesses the ability, capacity, compassion, and devotion required to turn Kogi state around if elected. According to a statement released to the press on Monday by the group’s head, Abubakar Haruna, Adejo is the olive branch poised to join the people with an extraordinary cord of brotherhood and love. The statement, however, said the candidacy of Adejo is not all about religious inclusiveness, but about sustaining the current trajectory of youths in governance, and above all about competency, capacity and commitment to the common good. “Labour Party candidate, Okeme Adejo is the choice of the broadest class of the Kogi state demography, the youths, he connects with Muslims, Christians and Traditionalists and he combines a great strength of character with a deep sense of humility and respect for Elders. “Kogi State as a Multi-religious state must now live true to what it says on paper. It is time for Kogi to give her Christians a true sense of belonging, and it is time for Kogi stakeholders and the political class to give the Christian population a hand of fellowship. “Our call is not only about religious inclusiveness, it is about sustaining the present trajectory of Youths in governance, and above all about competency, capacity and commitment to the common good. “Okeme Adejo holds the Labour Party governorship ticket, he is a foremost Obidient and a Leader in every sense of the word. Barrister Okeme Adejo is not only an Igala, he is an illustrious son of Kogi committed to building a Kogi state where all ethnicities have a true sense of brotherhood and belonging. POLL “He is a devout Christian with a huge commitment to building a great Kogi where the freedom of worship is sustained and members of various faiths are given the opportunity to reach their fullest potential. “Adejo is the question-mark on the conscience of a state that must do right. He is the olive branch ready to truly unite a state replete with people of variegated tendencies. He comes with an uncommon cord of brotherhood and love, and he will create a great Kogi where inclusiveness is primacy. “The great Confluence state of Kogi is on the March again, seeking a worthy and inclusive Governor as the Alhaji Yahaya Bello era winds down in a few months. This time the challenge before the people of Kogi state is the call for a broad-based Kogi where Christians are given a sense of belonging as well as Muslims and people of other religious beliefs. “We have witnessed a plethora of debates ranging from how many Igala people have governed Kogi to how many Ebira people or Okun people have governed Kogi. Sadly this debate has failed to address the major issues of Faith and Religion. “To Kogi state and a nation in dire need of Justice, Inclusiveness and oneness, Barrister Okeme Adejo is the answer and solution,” the statement said.