As the world is faced with di­verse challenges of climate change and biodiversity loss, the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) and other key stakeholders in the sus­tainability and environment space, will gather at the 21st Chief S.L. Edu memorial Lec­ture to discuss the theme, ‘Hu­manity and the Twin Crises of Climate Change and Biodiver­sity Loss’. The memorial lecture, which is scheduled for Tuesday, May 9, 2023 at the Nigerian In­stitute of International Affairs (NIIA), Kofo Abayomi Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, will be featuring Martin Harper, Vice President, Regions and Part­nership (Acting CEO Desig­nate) of Birdlife International as its Guest Speaker. Harper is an individual with over 25 years’ experience on conservation leadership. He will be delivering a lecture that will set the tone for a high-level discussion on climate change and biodiversity loss. Expected at the event are Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the La­gos State governor and other top personalities. Attendance to the event will be free, although registration is required through the NCF’s social media platforms. According to NCF, address­ing climate change and bio­diversity loss has wide range benefits that extend beyond environmental protection. Protecting biodiversity, it noted, can lead to improved public health, greater resil­ience to natural disasters and economic growth. The NCF urged the public to join the conservation on how best to tackle the twin crises of climate change and biodiversi­ty loss and their adverse effects on the planet. POLL NCF declared: “Ultimately, taking action to address these challenges is not only a practi­cal necessity, but also a moral and ethical obligation to save our planet and secure a sustain­able future for generations to come. “Hence, the need to speak up about the raging crises and take appropriate actions both as or­ganisations and individuals. “Climate change and biodi­versity loss are closely linked, as changes in one can have sig­nificant impacts on the other. “Rising temperatures and changing weather patterns are putting our planet’s biodiversi­ty at risk, which in turn threat­ens the vital ecosystem services that we rely on for survival.”