CHIBUIKE CHUKWU For the first time since Nigeria’s electoral years, there have been outright rejection and resentment from the majority of the citizens after results of the 2023 presidential election was announced. Since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) pronounced Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the 2023 election, utter disappointment, resentment and rejection have pervaded the country with only those whose visions are blurred by subjectivity and unalloyed party loyalty celebrating Asiwaju as the duly elected president. According to Igho Akeregha, a seasoned journalist and member of Nigerian Guild of Editors, while speaking in a monitored television Programme on Wednesday, he noted that Bola Tinubu is going down as the most unpopular ‘elected’ president of Nigeria on account of resentment and rejections that have trailed his declaration as the president-elect. “He is the first unpopular candidate elected because of certain revelations on how the election was conducted and the rejections that have followed his declaration as the president-elect,” he said. Meanwhile, while majority of Nigerians believe that the 2023 presidential election fell short of minimum standard, the revelation by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) might have helped in no small way to merely confirm what has been in the media space as the electoral umpire is alleged to have committed the highest electoral heist against the Nigerian public who were perhaps sold lies about the transparency of the 2023 poll anchored on instant transmission of results from the polling units where the minute-by-minute voting would be accessible to all Nigerians. Before the revelation by the BBC, Premium Times had, in a report titled: ‘REVEALED: Results on INEC portal show Peter Obi, not Tinubu, won in Rivers’ showed how Rivers State was manipulated in favour of the president-elect. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The global broadcast station, BBC in its investigation, unearthed and exposed how INEC, in connivance with the Rivers State government, displayed treachery by abysmally reducing the votes of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr Peter Obi, and added same to those of Bola Tinubu, a situation that made the president-elect won the state. POLL In the report, the BBC said: “We added up the voting tally sheets from over 6,000 polling stations in Rivers state, where many of the opposition complaints had been made. “While the official result in this state gave a clear majority to Bola Tinubu of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), our tally suggested that Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) had actually received most votes in the state by a wide margin.” While the BBC noted a widespread cheat and discrepancies in results released by INEC vis-à-vis the results obtained from the polling units, it mentioned two local government areas of Oyigbo and Obio Akpor as the worst hit. “The first was the Oyigbo local government area, where we found: The vote for Bola Tinubu was six times larger in the officially announced results compared with the BBC’s polling station count. Peter Obi’s votes had been cut in half. While the result declared by INEC in Oyigbo gave Peter Obi 10,000 votes and Tinubu 15,000 votes, the result calculated by the BBC put the figures as Obi having 20,000 votes while Tinubu garnered 5,000 votes. In Obio Akpo Council Area, the BBC said: “We found major discrepancies. The official result for Mr Tinubu was 80,239 votes, but we counted just 17,293 votes from polling station tallies. “The count for Mr Obi was announced officially as just 3,829 votes, but the BBC counted 74,033 votes for him on the tally sheets.” The BBC explained further how it came about the figures, saying: “As explained earlier, all the polling station sheets are collated at Local Government Area (LGA) headquarters. “We found an official election document with these collated votes for the Oyigbo area, signed by an election official and some of the party agents. “Several different photographs had been taken of it and uploaded on social media accounts. The numbers in this document closely matched our own tallies for the two leading candidates (Obi and Tinubu). This would have been one of the 23 collation sheets from LGAs in Rivers state taken to the state capital, Port Harcourt, for the official declaration. “Broadcast live on television on 27 February, in front of a bank of microphones, Oyigbo election official, Dr Dickson Ariaga, announced his name and that he worked for the Federal College of Education in Omoku. “On the recording, the word “Omoku” is indistinct, but there is only one Federal College of Education in Rivers State. Dr Ariaga then read out the results for each party in alphabetical order, including for all the smaller parties. “They all matched those on the collation sheet the BBC had obtained. But when he reached Mr Tinubu’s APC, instead of saying 2,731 as written on our photograph of the sheet, he read out “16,630”. Then for Mr Obi’s party (LP) the figure changed again – instead of the 22,289 seen on the sheet, he announced “10,784”, more than halving his vote.” Meanwhile, the worst was that the INEC and the Rivers Government deployed an unknown Dr Dickson Ariaga, who claimed to be a lecturer at the College of Education Omoku, but when the BBC went to verify the true identity of the Oyigbo REC, the school denied having such name on its payroll. According to analysts, the revelation is not peculiar to Rivers State as there were hue and cries all over the country of irregularities leading to the announcement of Asiwaju as the winner of the presidential election. There were widespread challenges in uploading the presidential result sheets whereas those of the National Assembly conducted the same day were easily uploaded. For instance, several presiding officers across the country were seen on video during the election complaining that they had been instructed to forward all result sheets to the states capital for transmission after they found it impossible to do the same at polling units. Julius Abure, the national chairman of the LP, during the election, decried the irregularities in Lagos State, saying INEC officials were not uploading results and that they were taking orders from unknown sources. To make it worse all around the country, BVAS and IReV were successfully deployed by INEC to upload the National Assembly election results, but in the case of the presidential election result, the same INEC rendered the BVAS and IReV dysfunctional, and consequently, the presidential election result was manually collated, thus enabling the perhaps compromised INEC staffers to rig the election as was seen in various distorted figures from the original form. While the APC members have written off claims of rigging and manipulation in the election, the heist perpetrated by the umpire did not go unnoticed by the international community. For example, the Financial Times (FT) of March 2, 2023, edition said: “Nigeria’s badly flawed election fails to set an example.” A Canadian news outlet was quoted as having a bold headline: “Depression, anxiety, uncertainty clouds Nigeria’s political space after flawed election.” According to popular saying, there is no election completely free of manipulation, the level of manipulations of the last election was so brazen. From Sokoto to Rivers, Zamfara to Lagos, Kaduna to Cross River, the 2023 presidential election was grossly flawed with INEC the major culprit by not complying with its own laws. According to a statement by the European Union Election Observation Mission in Nigeria (EU EOM), the elections were not free, fair, and transparent, and was grossly flawed. They said “there was widespread suspicion of vote purchasing and that incumbent political officeholders abused their influences to stifle competition. “The media extensively covered the three main campaigns, but on the election day, voters were unable to make informed choices because of false information. “The EU EOM observers’ are concerned that the results were not uploaded on the INEC Result Viewing Portal (IReV) portal as anticipated and promised by the electoral body,” noting that “INEC lacked efficient planning and transparency during critical stages of the electoral process.” Speaking on the BBC report, Iyobosa Uwagiaren, the editor of ThisDay (Abuja), while speaking on the revelation by the BBC during a political Programme on television said that the revelation was what Nigerians knew what actually happened during the election. He however called for caution as the matter is already in court. “BBC just told all of us what we knew already. Nigerians knew what happened particularly in Rivers State. But we have to apply caution here because the matter is already in court in order not to use utterances to affect court process,” he said. He however, said such probe should be extended to other states as the last election is obviously replete with irregularities. “I wish others will take it from here and extend the same investigation to other states because a lot happened at the last election.” Akeregha further applauded the BBC saying obviously INEC dampened the spirits of young Nigerians who came out to vote and hoped that their votes would count. “The revelation by INEC has a consequence; you know so many young Nigerians participated in that last electi Some Nigerians have posited that Governor Nyesom Wike who masterminded the electoral heist in Rivers State was a case of a working instrument on a poor or bad hand. To them, it is either the governor was out to disgrace Asiwaju with the very poor job executed in rigging the state, leaving glaring evidences and not clearing his track, or he was clever by half, had good intention of delivering the state to the APC but displayed the highest level of mediocrity and inexperience.