LAGOS  – As part of efforts to take Nigeria from the fifth to first exporting country in Africa and ensuring its agricultural produce and products are not rejected abroad, the Aviation Cargo Roadmap Committee visited some testing laboratories in the country. The objective of the facility tour is to understand the export process and the journey of the produce/product from the farm to the aircraft, which will help in the formulation of an all-encompassing document to drive the sector forward. The facilities visited are: Katchey Laboratories Limited, Ikeja, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) Central Laboratory Complex, Oshodi, and the Nigeria Agriculture Quarantine Service (NAQS) packhouse at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. The committee’s coordinator, Mr. Ikechi Uko, organiser of the CHINET Aviacargo Conference stated that part of why the government set up the team is to find solutions to the problems bedeviling the sector, as well as to improve and instill standards. He bemoaned the low acceptability of Nigeria’s farm produce abroad, despite being a leader in the production of so many commodities with available markets, adding that Nigeria wants to be the number one exporting African country in the next three years. His words: “Nigeria is the biggest economy with the largest population, but it is number five in aviacargo in Africa. Kenya is number one even though it doesn’t have the largest economy, population, airlines or airport. What are they doing right in Kenya? So, we are trying to understand why we are number five, why we should be number one, and how to get there. We want to be number one in the next three years. “We’ve done the airport assessment, we’ve seen NAHCO, SAHCO, and the cargo processes. Aside from the logistics problems, there are issues with the products/produce, one of which is rejection abroad and ban from exportation of many things. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The journey of the produce from the farm to the table has to pass through some places and we found out that there is a gap, which is in the labs, as the products need to pass through a lab. So, where are the labs that are supposed to certify them? Why do we have to take our products to Ghana to export? We decided to find out what the labs actually do, in order to institute them as part of the report we will give to the government, stating the necessity. POLL “NAFDAC, SON, NAQS have labs, so why are the products still being rejected? We decided to also come to a private lab (Katchey) to understand what you do here, and how it can be a major part of the template for export. We are number one in the production of so many products, but we don’t export any. The mango season is on and most of them are going to get rotten, but Mali is exporting tonnes of mangoes. What’s the difference? What are they doing that we aren’t? “I hear stories of how they are looking for Nigerian snails in China, hibiscus in America, African Rosewood plant (oha) and many others, but we can’t send. We need to be able to organise it in a way that there is a flow path. Part of our result will be to create that flow path – that exporters need lab certifications and other things to get their products out there.” Kate Isa, the Chief Executive Officer of Katchey Laboratories, an ISO/ IEC 17025 ANSI National Accreditation Board (ANAB) approved facility, pointed out the far-reaching implications of not exporting acceptable products to the country’s economy. According to her, concerned regulatory agencies should set standards and make sure farmers and their farms are accredited before they can grow produce for export, adding that those who run foul of the rules should be delisted. Mrs. Isa explained that for the country to achieve the desired results, everyone involved in the system must not compromise and adhere to these standards in order to come up with wholesome produce/ products. She said: “November last year when Fidelity Bank took a team out to try and find an export market for Nigeria, I spoke with Wanis, a leading UK food distribution chain and they told me that they used to import a lot of things from Nigeria. They will pay the supplier and when the containers get to the port in London, it will be held there, no matter the certificate that accompanied it, until they run their own test. If it passes, then they let it go. “The company had to pay demurrage and for the UK test. Because this was increasing their cost, they stopped buying from Nigeria. Instead, they went to Ghana, Benin Republic and other parts of Africa where things work, because the African market is booming.” While noting the importance of what the committee is doing, she stated that Katchey is passionate about making Nigeria the African export hub with zero product rejection, using cutting-edge technology. “We saw the gap in the African continental trade, that there is nobody in the private analytical lab sector and want to exploit it. If we are not prepared and ready, we (Nigeria) will miss that opportunity, seeing that Nigeria’s oil production has further fallen, according to OPEC. “What the committee is doing is very important and urgent to make sure we can export and there are no rejections. Because if we don’t export, then we are finished. There is no oil; we have to export, and without rejection. “Exporters must ensure that their produce is up to the required standard. When the customer tells us the country of destination, we analyse and compare with the specification of that country. If it doesn’t meet their standard, then we let you know it cannot go, so that when we eventually certify your product, it won’t be rejected.” She advised that Nigerian agro product exporters must have dedicated vehicles that only handle food produce and not mix them with other goods to avoid contamination. On his part, Dr. Charles Nwachukwu in charge of the NAFDAC Central Lab said that the DG of the agency is seriously concerned about the rejection of Nigerian commodities abroad. He pointed out that most farmers and exporters knowingly try to cut corners in order to make more profit, which then backfires, causing damage to the country’s reputation. “There have been a lot of enlightenment campaigns and most choose not to be aware and try to beat the system. Then when the products get abroad, it is rejected when tested and found not to meet the standard set. “The reason our commodities are taken to Ghana is for it not to be labelled Nigerian products. Our exporters should know what is required from the country of destination and make sure it is met. Ngerians should learn to follow due process, as they will make more money, and the country’s name will be restored.” He advocated that extension workers in the Ministry of Agriculture should do the needful by educating the farmers on how to eliminate most of these issues right from the farm, since most of the products are agricultural-based.