LAGOS – In continuation to its contribution to the social economic development of Nigeria, MTN Foundation has revealed plans to boost and remodel about 40 Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) in different parts of the country. Oduayo Sanya, Executive Secretary, MTN Foundation, who disclosed this on Monday in Lagos during the unveiling of Phase Five of MTN’s “What Can We Do Together Initiative”, said the programme is designed to improve the quality of Primary Healthcare Centres in the country. She noted that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria and other parts of the world was a big eye-opener to the world on the importance of having a quality Primary Healthcare System in the country. Apart from the remodelling of 40 PHCs, she said the Foundation will also equip other PHCs with modern medical equipment and technology. She also said that the foundation has invested about N25 billion on different projects with N1 billion on the “What Can We Do Together Initiative”, since 2015, when the project was initiated. “For this phase, we focus on health and I’m sure you will all agree with me that Covid-19 exposed us as a nation and not only us, it exposed the best of nations. That just tells us that you can never go wrong with healthcare, investing in healthcare is very important, so this time around we’re still looking at healthcare, and what we’re doing this time is that we’re looking at remodelling 40 Primary Healthcare Centres. But in addition to those centres we’re also going to equip some other PHCs,” she said. A director of the MTN Foundation, Dennis Okoro said, this initiative is a way of investing in society and improving the lives of its citizens“Development is not just about constructing roads, skyscrapers or building flyover bridges, it is also about impacting the lives of market women who sit on the streets, selling bananas and groundnut. What we are doing here is building a human-centred project. I am calling on other organisations to follow suit,” he said.