The Ogun State Police Command has invited the Special Assistant to Governor Dapo Abiodun on Students Affairs, Comrade Azeez Adeyemi, over an allegation of attack and stabbing of some former leaders of the National Association of Nigerian Students, NANS, Ogun State axis, on Sunday. The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, while speaking with the Independent over the alleged attack in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital threatened to arrest the Governor’s aide should he fail to honor the invitation. The PPRO, a Superintendent of Police told the Independent that Adeyemi was being expected at the Eleweran Headquarters of Nigeria Police before the close of work on Tuesday. The PPRO who revealed that a formal complaint has been lodged against the Governor’s aide explained that nobody is above the law, adding that Adeyemi also has the right within the law to defend himself. “The person so mentioned has been invited by the police, we are expecting him before the close of work today, failure of which we will go after him and get him arrested. “The invitation has been extended to him, nobody is above the law and the police is duty bound to listen to such allegations, and the person so alleged also has the right to defend himself.” Adeyemi, a former National Public Relations Officer of NANS, was on Monday alleged to have led attack on former NANS leaders in Ogun State, at a public place where they had gone to hold a meeting. He was alleged to have personally stabbed some of the leaders while leading about 100 thugs to the venue of the meeting.Adeyemi was accused of vandalizing vehicles belonging to the former students’ leaders while some properties were allegedly carted away during a melee on Sunday. POLL The former Union leaders who appeared at the Ogun State Secretariat of Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Ogun State Council, with varying degrees of injuries, provided both video and picture evidence of the attack. He was alleged to have personally attacked the trio of Olasunkanmi Falola Ahmed popularly called Stainless, Bamgbose Tomiwa popularly called Tommy T, and Olasunkanmi Adetoye Ijaduoye, all former Chairman of the Joint Campus Committee, JCC, Ogun State They also accused Adeyemi of masterminding kidnappings of some student leaders in the State, calling security agencies to investigate the incident and bringing to book the perpetrators of the dastardly acts. According to Falola, a former Chairman of the Joint Campus Committee, JCC, Ogun State, Adeyemi has become a ‘killer of dream’, alleging that he (Adeyemi) harbors cultists at legislative quarters, against the directive of the Governor on cultism.Falola explained that they were at the hospitality center to discuss the progress of their associations when Adeyemi allegedly stormed the place with sporadic gunshots before they were descended upon. “Some Comrades of the association were kidnapped and no one was traceable to kidnaps except Comrade Adeyemi Azeez, the SA to the Governor. Comrade Azeez is spoiling the name of our dear Governor. “Two days ago, the Governor addressed elder statesmen in the State that he had declared cultism, gangsterism, and thuggery as a terrorism act in Ogun State, but the reverse is the case if the SA to the Governor is still harboring cultists at the State Legislative Quarters, an apartment given to him at Abeokuta. “Yesterday, I and other former NANS Chairman in Ogun State gathered to discuss the affairs of our dear organization; NANS, National Association of Ogun State Students, NAOSS. We told them NANS and NAOSS tenures in the office are just one year, but under the SA, Students’ Affairs to the Governor, Comrade Adeyemi, has elongated it to three and five years respectively in Ogun State. “We stakeholders were deliberating on the issue when he, Adeyemi, came around with his thugs, they spoilt our cars, and we were beaten to a stupor. Our lives are presently under threat. He promised to take us to hell anytime he comes across us. “Our families are no longer save and we are calling on the good people of Ogun state, we have pictorial evidence, we have video evidence, he is boasting around that Nigerian police can not do anything to him, he said he is an emissary of the Governor that anything he does, is ‘kill and go’. “We have been to the Nigeria Police; no help is coming from far and near. We have been to many quarters, and all they are telling us is that he is a state boy, is this true? Can the Governor be talking about eradicating cultism while still harboring cultists? In his own account, Bamgbose who is the immediate NANS Chairman in the State, and a member of the Ogun State Judicial Panel of Investigation of Police Brutality, alleged that over 20 of the thugs, led by Adeyemi, descended on him and stabbed him several times. “Yesterday was a very bad day for me because I experienced the unexpected, it was an unimaginable experience. In fact, the psychological trauma as a result of yesterday’s experience, I am not sure if I will ever recover from it. “Yesterday, the former students’ leaders in Ogun State gathered ourselves at Leme to discuss the state of our dear organization which we left behind. It is very disheartening to know that our organization has been turned into a state of shambles. “While trying to rectify these abnormal acts, Comrade Adeyemi Azeez, the current SA to the Ogun State Governor on Students Affairs, led over 100 thugs to the venue of our meeting yesterday. “My freedom of association was truncated yesterday by the act of Comrade Adeyemi Azeez, who personally led over 20 thugs on me where he stabbed me with a bottle, leaving me with a lot of injury.” When contacted, Comrade Azeez, denied comment on the allegations.