SAMUEL OGIDAN The 2023 presidential election witnessed so many narratives described as unprecedented in the history of Nigeria elections. According to political analysts, it was brazen, it was desperate, it was hard to believe that the nation, instead of improving to catch up with other advanced countries, is retrogressing to say the least. The election witnessed so much destruction including bloodbaths. Instead of jubilation when a winner was announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at the wee hour of March 1, 2023, there was silence everywhere. Shakespeare captured the graveyard silence that greeted the announcement when he said, “When beggars die, there are no comets seen.” This quotation aptly captured the announcement by the INEC, there were dearth of jubilation. Aside the graveyard silence that greeted the announcement, the election was widely condemned and discredited both at home and abroad. Few weeks to the inauguration of the president-elect however, there are still doubts in the minds of many. Some political watchers, analysts and other concerned groups have raised their voices to the despondency that greeted the election and why people reacted the way they do. The promise made by INEC to conduct free, fair and credible elections failed to materialise. The commission did the opposite of what it promised before the election. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had at a meeting with Vice-Chancellors of federal universities, on the 9th of February, insisted that the 2023 general elections would hold as scheduled and would be the best ever. POLL Also in November last year, the INEC Chairman, in a statement said it would not reverse its decision to use the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) and the INEC Result Viewing Portal (IReV) for the 2023 general elections. Mahmood said the introduction of BVAS and IReV, a technology to upload election results in real time, was to ensure a free, fair and credible election. But unfortunately, the commission did the opposite of what it promised, a development that created an atmosphere soaked with disbelief, anger and pains in the hearts of the electorate. In his piece on a topic, “Go To Court,” one of Nigeria’s legal luminaries, Mike Ozekhome (SAN) described the election as the worst since the history of Nigeria. He said: “The last Presidential, National Assembly (NASS), Governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections were the worst I have ever witnessed in this contraption called Nigeria since the amalgamation of the Northern and Southern Protectorates by Lord Frederick Lugard (22nd January, 1858 – 11th April, 1945), on the 1st of January, 1914, to found Nigeria. If you do not like this opinion of mine, go to court.” With all the arguments, debate and otherwise trailing the election, President Muhammadu Buhari last week robbed it on the faces of the people, describing the election, which many condemned as among the best. President Buhari, who had at an international fora called on the world leaders to focus on strengthening election processes in Africa and prevent interference to influence the process and outcomes of elections, didn’t see anything wrong with the election conducted by his government, even with the hues and cry of aggrieved Nigerians, who said that 2023 election was the worst, gave kudos to INEC and derided the opposition’s claims that the election was a sham. Endorsing the presidential election while receiving members of the Progressive Governors Forum led by their chairman, Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, at his official residence in the State House, Abuja, Buhari insisted that the opposition lost the election for obvious reasons. According to him, while the APC worked hard to retain power in the 2023 general elections, opposition political parties lost due to overconfidence. He argued that a blend of overconfidence, complacency and poor tactical moves cost the opposition their desired victory and sank them into a post-election crisis. “Our party blended confidence with caution, we worked hard and won. Now, their overconfidence is creating more problems for the opposition than anyone else,” he said. Disagreeing with Mr. President on his assertion that the APC won the election because of hard work, Ozekhome said, “No sir, Mr. President. I humbly disagree, sir. The last elections were neither free, fair, transparent, honest, respectable, nor imbued with any iota of integrity and dignity. They represented an abysmal retrogression into Australopithecus stone-age election farce. “The elections were clearly shambolic, unsystematic, mismanaged, violent, vicious; highly compromised; and drained of any local or international respect and recognition. The outright rejection of, or at best, very lukewarm tolerance of (not wholesome acceptance or embrace) by the international community, speaks volumes of the elections’ lack of rectitude and honour. Any final emergent product of the fundamentally flawed presidential election will have a moral burden to contend with – even if court judgments were to favour him. “The moral burden will hang like an albatross, on his neck throughout his entire tenure of office. It will be more like an ignoble trophy or diadem. I shudder to conjecture the ricocheting effect and dire consequences this forebodes for Nigeria. I am not a seer or clairvoyant, but I can tell Nigerians categorically to brace up for harder times ahead. If you are not comfortable with these humble views of mine, then go to court.” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has, however, taken President Buhari to the cleaners over his comment that the opposition lost because of overconfidence. The angry PDP described Buhari’s comment as unfortunate, reckless, presidential conduct and sub judice, which is already causing apprehension and capable of destroying the corporate existence as a nation. Demanding international sanction and travel ban against President Buhari and his family after May 29, the party said that Nigerians and the International Community were appalled, horrified and scandalized by the careless, unguarded and subjudice comment by President Buhari in which he attempted to justify the rigging of the February 25, 2023 Presidential election by the APC under his watch. According to the party, the statement revealed the utter disregard that President Buhari has for the constitutional democracy, judiciary and the Will of the Nigerian people as expressed at the February 25, 2023 Presidential election. “It is, to say the least, reprehensible for Mr. President to posture and gloat over the trampling of the Will of Nigerian, blame the opposition for being overconfident and, according to him, for not being ‘tactical,’ perhaps enough to outwit the violence, brutality, threats, suppression of voters, rigging and election manipulations by the APC and the government which he heads. “It is unpardonable that President Buhari, who swore to uphold the laws of our country and made several commitments to the world to ensure free, fair, credible and transparent election, is rather in approval of election rigging through manifest compromise of INEC system and wide-spread alteration, falsification and switching of election results in favour of his rejected party, the APC,” the party said. President Buhari, according to PDP is practically gloating over the undermining of democracy by INEC which refused to transmit directly results from the Polling Units to its Server/Website and announce same, in total violation of the express provisions of Section 64 Sub-section 4 (a) (b) of the Electoral Act, 2022. “More distressing is that after superintending over the rigging of the election, President Buhari, by his subjudice comments apparently seeks to bully, blackmail and influence the judiciary and the outcome of the petition pending before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, so as to allow his Party, the APC and its candidate to ‘grab, snatch and run’ with the people’s mandate,” PDP said. With all the darts and arrows firing from nooks and crannies of the nation’s political space against and for the election, moral burden is hanging on the incoming government led by Bola Ahmed Tinubu to convince the people that the election that brought him on board met the yearning and aspiration of the people.