ABUJA – Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has stopped the planned Annual General Meeting by Seplat Energy PLC scheduled to hold on May 10, due to a case pending before the court. Consequently, Justice Ekwo has ordered parties in the suit marked FHC/ABJ/PET/8/2023, not to tamper with the res (subject matter) until issues in the suit are resolved. The ruling was made by the court following a suit filed by Boniface Okezie, Hon Bright Nwabuogwu, John Isesele, Okonkwo Timothy, and Augustine Ezechukwu, against Seplat Energy PLC; company CEO, Mr. Roger Brown; Board Chairman, Mr. Basil Omiyi, as well as Independent Non-Executive Directors of the company, Dr. Charles Okeahialam, Prof. Fabian Ajogwu, Rabiu Bello, Mrs. Bashirat Odenewu, Emma Fitzgerald, Mrs. Edit Onwuchekwa (Company Secretary/Legal Adviser), and the Corporate Affairs Commission.The ruling was handed at the hearing of a Motion on Notice for interlocutory order restraining the directors (INEDs), being the Respondents in the suit, from holding the AGM slated for May 10.However, upon learning that some of the Respondents were yet to be served, the court directed that they be served before the matter could be taken.The implication is that the AGM could no longer hold until the next adjourned date, which is 31st May 2023.In the order dated May 2, 2023 but sighted by DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday, Justice Ekwo held: “Parties are hereby ordered not to tamper with the res until issues are resolved.“Case adjourned to 31st May, 2023 for Respondents to show cause”.Making emphasis on the order not to tamper with the res, Justice Ekwo stated, “Chief Olanipekun (Counsel for Seplat), when the parties have submitted to Court, it is something you teach always that parties should hold themselves, restrain themselves from doing anything that will affect the res until the issues are resolved”.Justice Ekwo made the order after listening to Kalu Onuoha, Esq. of Counsel for the Petitioners; Wole Olanipekun, SAN, of Counsel for Seplat; Matthew Burka, SAN, of Counsel for Roger Brown (who held brief of Dr. Hassan Liman, SAN) of Cousel for Rabiu Bello and Emma Fitzgerald, Uzoma Azikiwe, SAN, of Counsel for Basil Omiyi, O.A. Omonuwa, SAN, of Counsel for Dr. Charles Okeahialam and Prof. Fabian Ajogwu, and Prof. Taiwo Osipita, SAN, representing Mrs. Bashirat Odenewu and Mrs. Edit Onwuchekwa.Earlier in the proceeding, counsel to the Petitioners/Applicants, Kalu Onuoha Esq., had told the court that the matter brought by his client was “timeous” and therefore, sought an order restraining Seplat and other Respondents from overreaching the subject matter.“In the circumstance, we apply for an adjournment, but we urge the Court to warn the Respondents because our application is time bound.“The 2nd to 9th Respondents are in the process of convening an AGM. “We urge the Court to warn them not to do anything to overreach them”, he stated. END.