…Writes party, 109 Senators The race for the leadership of the 10th Senate got heightened on Sunday, as Senator-elect from the Imo North Senatorial District, Engr. Patrick Ndubueze threw his hat in the ring to compete for the position of Senate President. Ndubueze also made his intentions known by officially informing the party through a letter to the APC National Working Committee (NWC) including writing all the 109 Senators-elect personally about his ambition. The Imo born politician was first elected member of the Federal House of Representatives representing Okigwe Federal Condtituency in Imo state in 1992. In a notification letter to the party, a copy made available to reporters in Abuja, Ndubueze thanked the national leadership of APC for the immense support availed him to emerge as the Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress of the Imo North Senatorial District. Recall that since the emergence of Ahmed Bola Tinubu as President elect, there has been subtle pressure on the ruling party to zone the Senate leadership to the South East. In the letter indicating his interest, he noted that the Nigerian Senate has grown into an icon of national democratic trajectory and had, overtime, shown a capacity to rise and fulfil the huge expectations of Nigerians across the nation. It reads in parts “Now, in respect of current realities in this time which requires sensitive leadership in the Senate in the moulds of: A focused Leadership, A Leadership that is people’s centric and A calm and supportive Leadership. POLL “Having been persuaded of my track record as a ranking legislator, a politician of more than 35 years standing and a personal character that had stood the test of time for integrity and commitment to the people, I, Engr. Patrick Ndubueze, being a ranking member of the National Assembly, do desire to offer myself to contest the office of the Senate President of the 10th National Assembly strongly believing in my capacity to stand in the roles of the leadership required at this time. “Sir, I trust that you will bless my aspiration as declared with your active support through appropriate counseling, advices and networking, to ensure that this noble cause sees the light of the day! “While, I await your kind acceptance of my declaration of intention, sir, please, accept, the assurances of my esteemed regards.” While canvassing for the support of his colleagues in a letter addressed to individual Senator-elect, Engr. Ndubueze said in the last 32 years, he has remained committed to the good cause of the Nigerian project, adding that he has been on a consultation frenzy with critical stakeholders across the length and breadth of the country to positive acclaim. “Distinguished Senator, over the last 32 years, I have remained committed to the good cause of the Nigerian project. And had always been persuaded that our sovereign advancement inclusive of the desired progressions of millions of Nigerians is better enabled through the instrumentality of appropriately engineered legislations which are superintended by a knowledgeable and motivated political head of the National Assembly who is equipped for thoroughness, moderation and a vision-driven compassion. “It is for these reasons, and their fulfilment, Distinguished Senator, that I have decided to declare my intention to contest the office of the President of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I do not treat this declaration lightly, Distinguished Senator. I, indeed, have been on a consultation frenzy with critical stakeholders across the length and breadth of our country to positive acclaim. “This letter to your good self is in continuation of the consultation I had embarked upon, by which, I am of the hope that you will avail me a time to physically meet with you, even as I now canvass for your support and advice as we head to the day of the election of the principal officers of the National Assembly. “While thanking you, profusely, for the opportunity of this engagement, Distinguished Senator, please accept my highest regards for your good self”.