PORT HARCOURT – Apparently bewildered by the statement credited to his former political ally, the former Chief of Staff, Rivers State Government House, Chief Tony Okocha has faulted the allegation that the President-elect, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu was pelted at the Port Harcourt International Airport in 2015 when Rotimi Amaechi was the Governor. It will be recalled that the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party, SDP, in Rivers State, Senator Magnus Abe had alleged that some of Tinubu’s current allies were the ones that stoned him when he came to Rivers State to campaign for the candidacy of Muhammadu Buhari in a countdown to the 2015 general elections. Debunking the allegation, Okocha, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, while speaking at a press conference in Port Harcourt, the state capital on Monday said as a Chief of Staff to Rotimi Amaechi then, he was in charge and in the position to know everything, saying that such ugly incident never took place. Okocha challenged Abe to show proof that Tinubu was stoned, pointing out that what happened was an incident that took place when Buhari visited Rivers himself. “I read the report and I was surprised. The truth is that Tinubu was never stoned in Rivers State. “Abe should show proof that the people he referred to sponsored or stoned Tinubu. As Chief of Staff then I was in charge. I can tell you that some people were booed at the Port Harcourt Airport when Buhari came to campaign here. “If you remember, there was gunshots and some persons were injured. Buhari even visited some  injured people  in the hospital.” Similarly, Okocha also faulted the Governorship candidate of the APC in the state, Arch Tonye Cole that Tinubu was on a private visit when the President-elect paid a 2-day working visit to commission some iconic projects in Rivers State. Cole while speaking on national television last week also alleged that the State Governor, Nyesom Wike did not invite members of the APC in the state for the visit of the President-elect. POLL But Okocha said when lies are told and allowed to fester, they will necessarily become truth if you don’t counteract the lies so spoken. “Tonye Cole was just blabbing. The President-elect visit Rivers State what the world knows is that he was here on a two-day working visit. “It was a state function by Governor Wike and he invited the President-elect and he (Tinubu) obliged Rivers State. It was a state visit, including the banquet. So, for Tonye Cole to say that the visit of the President-elect was private was a blatant lie. “It is also very wrong for Cole to say the APC wasn’t invited. The APC in Rivers State was not only informed, we were members of the planning committee. “We (APC) were part of the Colour Party mounted to receive the President-elect at the Airport. The acting chairman of the party and some executive members were there.” He explained that another reason Wike invited Tinubu was to show the latter the level of neglect the state has suffered from successive federal administrations and would want the incoming government to consider the state in its scheme of things. Okocha alleged that Cole, like his master, Ritimi Amaechi contributed nothing to Tinubu’s mega campaign in Rivers, adding that the duo were absent at the rally held at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium in Port Harcourt because they were working against Tinubu all the while.