Of the truth, according to Daniel 2: 21, it is God who controls the course of world events; He removes kings and sets up other kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to the scholars. On this note, I heartily congratulate Your Excellency for emerging victorious in the most keenly contested presidential election since the return to democracy in Nigeria. Your emergence is a divine mandate ordained by God as revealed to me by God several times and which is all over the public domain. As you take charge of steering the destiny of the nation in these challenging times in various spheres of the lives of Nigerians, may God Almighty endow you with all the necessary tools, good health, and wisdom to enable you to lead the nation into greatness in all ramifications. His Excellency sir, I write this open letter to you not only as a prophet of God but as an authority who has a degree in Political Science and a Master’s in international Law and Diplomacy to be objectively ready to tackle Nigeria’s greatest challenge of insecurity, widespread corruption, and a general sense of dissatisfaction among citizens and as well, meet the expectation of the people. I call on you to tackle the problem by unifying the country and solving major socio-economic, religious, and ethnic problems confronting the country as a father of the nation. I want to remind you that Nigeria is a heterogeneous country battling crises of insecurity, kidnapping, and extreme poverty. Since no one will expect you to tackle all the crises at once, Nigerians will be expecting you to dedicate your administration to genuine renewal work, at least to let Nigerians see and feel the difference, however little. As a unifier, don’t step out as a vindictive leader. Rather, bring all warring parties on board to objectively discuss the way forward to a better Nigeria. POLL It is an open secret that Nigerians are yearning for good governance as past administrations have left an open sore in the hearts of the citizens with bad governance and broken electoral promises. His Excellency sir, I am very sure you are aware of the loopholes of these past administrations which I believe should be your target. Addressing loopholes is not tantamount to fighting the past; rather, it means you should learn from the past administration, which, of course, you’re part of, to address the crises now for a better Nigeria. It is not too much to say that you have a lot to do to convince huge numbers of the youth who have shown dissatisfaction with the performance of your party in the past eight years. Also, I want to plead on behalf of Nigerians and that is, you should do anything in your capacity to end the insecurity that is ravaging our country. The hydra-headed menace has undermined the propensity of our beloved country for progress. No country develops in chaos. That is why you should, as the first step to renewing the hope of a country long trapped in hopelessness, pay attention to its security situation and not play politics with the appointment of service chiefs. Aside from that, it is obvious that Nigerians voted on their religious and ethnic affiliations, rather than on the policies and qualifications of the candidates. His Excellency, I salute your capacity to put up with criticism from religious leaders. However, I urge you to exercise patience, wisdom, and tolerance with religious leaders be they pastors or Imams, and treat them with respect. Any leader that witch-hunts religious leaders are digging a pit for his downfall. Personally, when I see the persecution of religious leaders, I speak up. I will not keep quiet. As a unifier, I beseech your administration to handle their issues with wisdom and preserve national harmony. Also, as a unifier, I will appeal and suggest that His Excellency should forgive and release Nnamdi Kanu. Furthermore, as a barrier breaker and a line crosser, I beseech you to implement your objective which is to foster a new society based on shared prosperity, tolerance, compassion, and the unwavering commitment to treating each citizen with equal respect and due regard I want to remind you of your 10-point agenda which formed your manifesto during the campaign: His Excellency sir, as a prophetic voice to nations who stood out as a lone voice of truth in the wilderness to declare your emergence as revealed by God since 2021, I will stand as a watchman to ensure you don’t derail in your God-given assignment and if you do, I will not hesitate to pen you an open letter like this to guide, correct and rebuke if necessary. May God Almighty support your administration for the desired growth of Nigeria.