JOY ANIGBOGU Group of concerned Nigerians have continued with the struggle to check what they described as fast decomposition of the nation’s democracy and are seeking the support of other Nigerians to ensure that the country’s democracy is saved. Prominent among them are former President of Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), Comrade Shehu Sanni, Amb Nkoyo Toyo, Prof. Udenta Udenta, Salisu Mohammed, Olawale Okunniyi and others, who on the platform of Citizens’ Democratic Movement in the Defence of Nigeria’s Democracy have called on the judiciary, as the final Arbiter, to ensure that the malfeasances of the powerful individuals and their corrupt allies who have threatened democracy will not be rewarded but rather, they will be discredited and punished. They have also called on the NBA and Nigerians to join hands with them to defend the nation’s democracy. The group made the call in the text of a press conference by citizens’ democratic movement in the defence of Nigeria’s democracy and in solidarity with the Nigerian workers, which took place at Labour House in Abuja. The text reads, ”The 2023 General Elections have taken place but its ripples and aftermath for our promising democracy have been worrisome and frightening. “Some of us, who are architects of Nigeria’s current democratic experience, being human rights leaders, political rights advocates, progressives, civil society and labour movement activists that fought the military for the restoration of democratic governance in Nigeria, have watched with utter astonishment, how the processes and procedures meant to consolidate our 24 years of democratic wins have been greatly eroded through the 2023 general elections. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We entered this season of elections with a strong consensus by Nigerians that the new Electoral Act 2022 will improve the level of electoral accountability and that the huge financial investment of about N355 billion in electoral processes (involving the deployment of Bi-Modal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Result Viewing Portal (IREV) technology), will make a marked difference to the elections. POLL “Sadly, the 2023 general elections became an anti-climax, dashing the hopes of Nigerians for credible elections and denying citizens the emergence of qualitative political leadership across Nigeria. “Clearly, INEC in cahoots with some members of our political class have driven a death nail into the democratic experience of most Nigerians thus leaving the electorate despondent to resort to self-help in their effort to salvage whatever is left of their vibrant political engagement with the 2023 elections. “Unfortunately, majority of Nigerians, especially the youths who fought with patriotism to reset their country through the ballot box, are now wondering if elections have not become the tool for legitimizing the corrupt takeover of Nigeria. “This dark cloud of angst arising from a terribly mismanaged 2023 general elections has jolted the confidence and hope of many Nigerians, thus propelling us as “Citizens of Conscience” to take the bold step of beginning to resist and mitigate the intended and unintended crisis looming over our dear country. “We recall the hard-earned democratic reputation of many seated here today, who organized in the early 1990s through actions of coalitions of citizens’ groups, labour and human rights organizations for an end to military dictatorship. Their voices held sway as they resorted to citizens’ actions, demonstrations, strikes, global solidarity action and other civil resistance measures to compel the regimes of Presidents Ibrahim Babangida and Sani Abacha to concede to the wishes of the citizens. “From all indications, the 2023 general elections has become a rude reminder of how quickly things can degenerate and that the emergence of what was then termed ‘gun powered democracy’, through which incumbent military regimes manipulated political processes to transmute themselves into ‘elected democratic’ governments, has given way to corrupt money powered imposed ruler ship, using the trajectory of democratic processes and elections to capture and perpetuate themselves in power. “In what we see as a democratic redemptive mission. We the vanguards of concerned citizens and democrats; with a front seat in the history of democratic transitions in Nigeria, are committed to ensuring that political leadership is not foisted on the country at the expense of the democratic gains made so far. “As a first step, we have decided to signify our public displeasure at INEC and those behind the political coup against the well-laid out and established electoral norms and standards contained in the 1999 Constitution and the Electoral Act 2022. “Therefore, we condemn the outright manipulation of the electoral process and abdication of responsibility by INEC as it has not only destroyed trust in the democratic process, but has rewarded wrongdoing, making it possible for persons of stupendous wealth, who lack legitimacy, to become the real beneficiaries of our electoral process . On Pre-election Concerns: “Prior to the 2023 general elections, INEC showed early signs of inconsistency by shifting electoral deadlines, which favoured the ruling party. INEC also discouraged new voters from registering through an abrupt decision to halt the Continuous Voters Registration (CVR). And as if that was not enough, INEC deployed technical personnel manning sensitive positions to non-technical roles, thereby interrupting the seamless and effective deployment of technology in the elections. “As a decoy, INEC initially displayed a high level of preparedness during off season elections in Anambra, Ekiti, and Osun States governorship elections. INEC’s use of technology in those elections gave Nigerians reason to believe that technology will apply in the subsequent 2023 general elections thereby causing Nigerians to be caught off- guard. “Though not unexpected, INEC and security agencies failed to act when in some areas, such as Lagos, attacks on non-indigenous groups wanting to vote were unleashed by the ruling party. Similarly, the use of hate speeches and other criminal behaviours were treated with levity, thereby incentivizing the subsequent use of electoral violence, brigandage and outright impunity during the 2023 elections. “To give one graphic example, the Labour Party senatorial candidate for Enugu East was brutally attacked, set ablaze and murdered a few days to the February 25th presidential and National Assembly elections with little or no consequences. On the Election Day concerns: “On 25th February as well as 18th March 2023, INEC operations were poorly carried out (see reports of various observer groups) as deployment of election materials to polling units witnessed deliberate lapses, while security personnel could not contain the criminal activities of well-armed thugs that took over some strategic polling units in violation of the Electoral Act 2022 and the 2023 Election Guidelines. “These weaknesses were further worsened by huge and open enticement of voters with cash and gifts by political party operatives in the full glare of security operatives. “Additionally, the speed with which INEC and its officials were willing to disregard the provisions of sections of the electoral act 2022 and their own electoral Guidelines to hurriedly announce election results, not minding the fact that the processes were severely undermined, gave grounds for deep concerns. “For instance, Section 60(5), and 149 of 2022 Electoral Act and Clause 38 of INEC 2022 Guidelines and Regulations for Conduct of the 2023 general elections were ignored and manual accreditation of voters for both the presidential and governorship elections were endorsed thus opening the floodgate for the destruction of the sanctity and credibility of the 2023 elections. “The most phenomenal failure by INEC was her refusal to upload the presidential election results from BVAS unto IReV at real time as stipulated by the Electoral Act 2022, as contained in INEC Guidelines for the 2023 elections as repeatedly espoused by the INEC chairman. “This happened even as the NASS elections conducted at the same time and on the same day were seamlessly uploaded, while INEC was unable to upload results of the presidential elections as required by the law. These blatant inconsistencies by INEC in applying different electoral standards in conducting same day elections for presidential and National Assembly elections point to a deliberate manipulation of NEC’s well publicised Guidelines, which INEC mindlessly replaced, opting for administrative arbitrariness. “In summary, Nigeria suffered a monumental reversal in her electoral and democratic gains through the criminal mismanagement of the electoral process by the INEC and security agencies, who both compromised their duties and donated their power of election refereeing and law enforcement to unscrupulous politicians bent on imposing their self-will over and above that of the people. “A brazen and most shameful example was seen in Adamawa State, where INEC emboldened by its many earlier infractions, decided to go for broke, by declaring Senator Binani as winner of an unconcluded governorship election. On Charting the Course Forward “As Vanguards of Nigeria’s democratic heritage, we are calling for a return to a rules based democracy in which Nigerians can remain hopeful that their sacrifices of participating in elections will ultimately count. Therefore, affected individuals and parties resort to the court as the main conflict resolving mechanism. We hope that the judiciary, as the final Arbiter, will ensure that the malfeasances of those powerful individuals and their corrupt allies will not be rewarded but rather, they will be discredited and punished. “It is in the light of this hope, that we are calling on all Nigerians to believe again (not in INEC, not in the Executive but in the Judiciary) and give the Judiciary the benefit of doubt. “In the same vein, we are calling on the Justices of the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court to rise up to the occasion by restoring the people’s confidence in the processes that were abused by INEC and also stem the deep decline of our democracy. “In the meantime, we are aware that should the judiciary fail to act expeditiously, it will amount to a denial of justice and an invitation to self-help and anarchy. “Our recent exposure to attacks on the media by agents of the ruling party and their resort to the National Broadcast Commission (NBC) for punitive measures against media channels, send frightening but real-life experience of an evolving future which is very ominous for democracy. To stop these menacing actions and attacks against the media and the civil liberties of individuals and youth groups, the courts must act now. “We also wish to state categorically that our duty as Vanguards of Nigeria’s democratic advancement is to speak out and alert Nigerians in clear conscience of these inescapable impediments. Nigeria’s democracy was earned on the blood and sweat of many of our colleagues who have paid the supreme price, but for those still here with us today, we celebrate and appreciate them as we remind ourselves of the sacrifices of our forebears and democratic champions. “Our calling is to stay focused as citizens with a vested interest in the survival of a healthy democracy. We are drawn from the Nigerian civil society, labour movement and many other progressive constituencies with nationalistic conscience, fully conscious of our historical experiences and with strong tie with the new generation of activists and youths, who are willing and ready to rally behind the recent electoral reforms as contained in past and recent Electoral Act. “This new push for holistic popular and judicial rescue based on democratic principles shall not be dimmed by what we see as thwarting tendencies facilitated by State Actors. We believe it is our responsibility to protect and uphold the democratic gains our country have made and by standing up for a rules based democracy as required by the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Electoral Act, 2022, we shall preserve that which we have laboured to build in the past 24 years. “Our belief is firm that with these democratic principles, we can continue to resist through peaceful means, the heinous dangers of allowing compromised, discredited and flawed elections to subvert our common destiny and a prosperous future of Nigeria, for which we all badly yearn. “To this end, we wish to announce in collaboration with the NLC, the TUC, human rights organisations, citizens and youth movements and allies in like-minded political organisations, we have decided to serve as an alert mechanism for the Conscience of Nigerians and Defenders of Nigeria’s Democracy by engaging our key national institutions, especially INEC, the judiciary, legislature and the security services squarely to resist the vicious and corruptive pressure from those state operators and political class, who insist on a total takeover and control of these relevant state organs. “We are quickly reminded that in the Arab Spring, the affected countries had constitutions, laws, courts and democratic institutions, yet the people arose and took to the streets to express their dissatisfaction for the lack of connection between what was happening in practice and what was stated as legally binding instruments and laws. “We are in a similar season of such broken trust in Nigeria, and it will be risky to replace mistrust with empty promises. We believe that there is need to fight for and achieve tangible democratic consolidation within legally binding premises. “As Vanguards for the Defence of Nigeria’s democracy, we will strive to protect our collective democratic aspirations and ethos as a country; with our immediate goal being to hold a watching brief over the judiciary and its actions. We are therefore soliciting the cooperation of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and lawyers for democratic justice, to partner with us to re-awaken the consciousness of the judiciary to its constitutional responsibility of defending our frail democracy through the enthronement of justice. Finally, in the words of Nelson Mandela, we wish to remind Nigerians that “the theft of an election is not just an attack on the people’s right to vote but on their dignity and humanity.” Consequently, we wish to call on all Nigerians to stand up, join us and be counted in our renewed struggle for the Defence of Democracy and Rule of Law in Nigeria. Recall that a few weeks ago the leaders of thought, legal icons have called for the live broadcast of election petition cases and judgment before May 29th An eminent group of leaders of thoughts and legal icons in the country have called for live broadcast of the upcoming election petition cases in country and for judgments on them to be delivered before the scheduled date of the swearing in of newly elected political officers. The position of the group was contained in a press statement signed by its Media Executive, Olubori Obafemi. Consequently, the group has invited Nigerians to sign up an appeal on comonvoiceng; a non-partisan online platform, created to enable citizens express their views and mandate on issues concerning public governance and their wellbeing. In statement issued in Lagos by Anthony Kila, a Professor of Strategy and Development and CIAPS Director, the platform observed that “the recently concluded 2023 elections have left Nigeria in a gravely divisive state with a part of the country considering the elections as fair, arguing that elections results reflect the wishes of the people, while a significant bloc of the country views the elections as highly flawed and considers the results unacceptable” stressing that “this dualism is presently generating tension in the country.” Kila noted further that “as concerned citizens, we believe that one of the best ways to douse the tension in the country, restore unity and legitimize the incoming government is to make sure that all parts of the country get a convincing, transparent and timely adjudication of the electoral cases that will give all sides in the country a sense of satisfaction and justice in bringing to an end the burgeoning political acrimony and tension over the 2023 elections. To this end, the group is appealing to the Chief Justice of Nigeria to use his powers to ensure that the lectoral cases in court are made truly public by ensuring accredited media coverage of proceedings. That the electoral cases in court, especially the Presidential Elections Petitions, are adjudicated and dispensed with before the swearing in date of 29th May 2023 Recall also that a Leading human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN), National President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Yakubu Maikyau and key leaders of thought of Project Nigeria Movement, PNM, a body of eminent leaders of thought in the country led by Prof Ben Nwabueze, SAN, among others have already backed calls for live broadcast of the proceedings of the Presidential Election Tribunal and for final adjudication on the Presidential Election Petition before the swearing in date.