Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has been showered with royal blessings as he commissions a 16.71km hybrid road project for the people of Obot Akara Local Government Area of the state. Unleasing the Royal Blessings at the commissioning of the project in Obot Akara on Tuesday, the Paramount Ruler of Obot Akara, Akuku Uwa Umo Adiaka assured Governor Emmanuel of God’s abundant blessings for wiping the tears and once again opening up economic gateways of the people. The Royal Father who confessed to having doubted the possibility of completing the project within the present administration, described Governor Udom Emmanuel as a sympathetic leader who has the best interest of the people at heart “Our dear governor, you are sympathetic to people. You saw this road, it was impassable. Since you came and saw this road, you promised to fix the road and you have done so and beyond. “It will be well with you for constructing this road for us, for wiping our tears and giving us food to eat. This road is used to transport food day and night. We have not lacked food since you constructed this road and we will never lack again. You and your family will not lack,” he stated. Inaugurating his parting gift to the people amidst fanfare, Governor Emmanuel said he embarked on rural internal road projects to impact the economic lives of the people, before stepping out of office on May 29. Emmanuel stated that the infrastructural development of the rural area was in fulfillment of his second-term promise to the people and encouraged them to protect the projects.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He commended the people and especially the youths of the area for supporting the contractor to execute the job and assured them he was indebted to the people for their support and loyalty to his government. POLL In his words “I said during our second term that we would do a whole lot to impact on the economic lives of the people within the rural area, and this is one of them. “Even in the rural area, we are doing asphalt drains up to 2.1km and we are doing roads up to 17km even in this rural area and there are still a whole lot especially towards Amamiong that we are yet to commission. “If you drive through this road, you cannot believe that it is an internal rural road. All with side drains, a standard that can carry any form of traffic. “A whole lot of food and palm produce from this area would be able to get to the urban markets and that will also improve the economic lives of the people. “Some people, especially those who deal with palm kernel and other farm produce can in ten or fifteen minutes get to the town to sell their products. That is the essence of infrastructural development, it is to develop on the economic lives of the people. “We came to serve and we will continue to serve the people. The number of projects we have completed and commissioned speaks volumes,” Presenting a background of the project, the State Commissioner for Works, Prof. Eno Ibanga said the road was a hybrid project consisting of two roads and assured that the project will stand the test of time. Prof Ibanga said the project opens up the community to the town and meets all international standards. “This project is a hybrid project, there are two projects together. One of the projects started from Abak ifia to Ikpe Mbak Eyop, and the other project is from Nko to Ikpe Mbak Eyop. “The first project is 4.2km and the second project is 12.51km. The road has a 150mm underlay of laterite, a 150mm stone base, and a 50mm asphaltic overlay. “This project has drains in the whole 16.71 km with two asphalt drains. The level of this road has met all international standards and would stand the test of time. You don’t expect any potholes in any of our projects because we have taken care of the sub-structure before the final overlay. “This is one of the projects designed to open up the local communities to the main town and lead to high-security coverage,’ he explained.