YENAGOA – Ijaw youths under the umbrella of the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) have stated that the governorship election in Bayelsa, Imo and Kogi States scheduled for November 11, 2023, will be the litmus test for the democratic credentials of the incoming administration of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu. National Spokesman for the IYC, Ebilade Ekerefe, stated this during a press conference held at the Ijaw House in Yenagoa, on Tuesday, as a part of activities to mark the 2023 Isaac Boro Day. According to him, many Nigerians are not convinced that Tinubu is the right choice but having been declared winner, the president-elect has a burden to win the trust of the people by ensuring free, credible and transparent off-cycle governorship polls in the three states. Ekerefe said, “The coming elections in Imo, Kogi and Bayelsa will be a litmus test of what the Tinubu government will turn out to be. Just as (late president Umaru Musa) Yar’Adua admitted that the election that brought him to power was not credible and did everything possible for electoral reforms, we expect Tinubu to realize that the vast majority of the Nigerian people believe that he was not their choice. “But having been declared as president, he needs to win back the confidence of the people by ensuring that free, fair and credible elections are conducted in the aforementioned states. As Ijaw youths, we will remain vigilant as we cannot allow anybody, no matter how highly placed, to subvert the will of the people during the November governorship election in Bayelsa.” He also said that Ijaw youths were looking forward to a new partnership between the Niger Delta people and the incoming administration of the president-elect. The Ijaw youth leader said, “We believe that Asiwaju Tinubu, as a former activist and democrat, will understand the plight of the people of the Niger Delta more and accede to the genuine desire of our people and our development. “When the issue of infrastructure development and impact of intervention agencies such as the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) for the region is raised, the thoughts that come to minds are interim administrators, unstable management pattern, decline in standards, deterioration in interventions, controversies and lack of proper funding of the intervention agencies. POLL “While the current PAP administrator, Major General Barry Tariye Ndiomu (retd), has shown capacity despite the daunting challenges, the newly inaugurated management of the NDDC, after seven years outcry, led by Dr. Samuel Ogbuku is still waiting for proper funding to ensure clear cut interventions in the region. We demand a permanent status for the PAP administrator and call for the release of funds owed the NDDC. “Moreover, the quality of roads constructed by the Federal Government in our region is generally considered poor. The East-West road is a death trap for people of the region. The Infrastructure deficit in our region is huge while the cities are not adequately connected. Growth sectors are not enhanced and optimized. The burden of constructing federal roads such as the Nembe-Brass road and the Yenagoa/Oporoma road have become a state burden.” Ekerefe explained that the commemoration of the Isaac Boro Day 2023 was aimed at bringing about “a common narrative of demands that speak to our developmental aspirations as a people.” He added: “The creation of Rivers and Bayelsa states is a direct product of the martyrdom of the late Isaac Boro. It creates a historic significance for the Ijaw nation and its development, a place where important deliberations and consensus were reached in the golden age of the Niger Delta struggle.”