A postural (occurring with voluntary maintenance of a position against gravity) or kinetic (occurring during voluntary-movement) flexion-extension tremor that is slow and rhythmic and primarily affects the hands, forearms, head, or voice with a frequency of 4 to 12 Hz Older patients tend to have lower-frequency tremors, whereas younger patients exhibit frequencies in the higher range. May be familial, sporadic, or associated with other movement disorders. Incidence and prevalence increase with age, but symptom onset can occur at any age. The tremor can be intermittent and exacerbated by anxiety, emotional or physical stressors, fatigue, and caffeine. The system (s) affected include neurologic, musculoskeletal, ear/nose/throat (ENT) (voice). EPIDEMIOLOGY Essential tremor is the most common pathologic tremor in humans. Can occur at any age but bimodal peaks exist in the 2nd and 6th decades. Incidence rises significantly after age 49 years. The overall prevalence for essential tremors has been estimated between 0.4% and 0.9% but is increased in older patients with an estimated prevalence of 4.6% at age 65 years and up to 22% at age 95 years. ETIOLOGY AND PATHOPHYSIOLOGY POLL Suspected to originate from an abnormal oscillation within thalamocortical and cerebello-olivary loops, as lesions in these areas tend to reduce essential tremor. Essential tremor is not a homogenous disorder; many patients have other motor manifestations and non-motor features, including cognitive and psychiatric symptoms. Positive family history in 50–70% of patients; autosomal dominant inheritance is demonstrated in many families with poor penetrance. Twin studies suggest that environmental factors are also involved. A link to genetic loci exist on chromosomes 2p22–2p25, 3q13, and 6p23. In addition, a Ser9Gly variant in the dopamine D3 receptor gene on 3q13 has been suggested as a risk factor. COMMONLY ASSOCIATED CONDITIONS Can be present in 10% of patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD); characteristics of PD that distinguish it from essential tremor include 3- to 5-Hz resting tremor; accompanying rigidity, bradykinesia, or postural instability; and no change with alcohol consumption. In order words, mild alcohol consumption reduces the frequency of tremors, unlike Parkinson’s disease. Patients with essential tremors have a 4% risk of developing PD. Resting tremors, typically of the arm, may be seen in up to 20–30% of patients with essential tremors. Although action tremor is the hallmark feature of essential tremor, it is also commonly found in patients with PD. DIAGNOSIS Core criteria for diagnosis: Secondary criteria include positive family history and a beneficial response to alcohol. PHYSICAL EXAM Tremors can affect the upper limbs (~95% of patients). Less commonly, the tremor affects the head (~34%), lower limbs (~30%), voice (~12%), tongue (~7%), face (~5%), and trunk (~5%). DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS: PD; Enhanced physiologic tremor; Wilson disease; Hyperthyroidism; Multiple sclerosis; Dystonic tremor; Cerebellar tremor; Asterixis; Psychogenic tremor; Orthostatic tremor Drug-induced or enhanced physiologic tremor (amiodarone, cimetidine, lamotrigine, itraconazole, valproic acid, SSRIs, steroids, lithium, cyclosporine, β-adrenergic agonists, ephedrine, theophylline, tricyclic antidepressants [TCAs], antipsychotics) DIAGNOSTIC TESTS & INTERPRETATION Diagnostic Procedures / Other: Test Interpretation Posture-related tremor seen on exam TREATMENT: MEDICATION Pharmacologic treatment should be considered when tremor interferes with activities of daily living (ADLs) or causes psychological distress. First Line Propranolol 60 to 320 mg/day in divided doses or in long-acting formulation reduces limb tremor magnitude by ~50%, and almost 70% of patients experience improvement in clinical rating scales. There is insufficient evidence to recommend propranolol for vocal tremors. Single doses of propranolol, taken before social situations that are likely to exacerbate tremors, are useful for some patients. Primidone 25 mg at bedtime, gradually titrated to 150 to 300 mg at bedtime, improves tremor amplitude by 40–50%. The maximum dose is 750 mg/day, with doses >250 mg/day typically divided into BID or TID. Low-dose therapy (<250 mg/day) is just as effective as high-dose (750 mg/day) therapy. Propranolol and primidone have similar efficacy when used as initial therapy for limb tremors; both carry a level A recommendation. 30–50% of patients will not respond to either propranolol or primidone. Second Line Topiramate at a mean dose of 292 mg/day demonstrated a significantly greater reduction in Tremor Rating Scale (TRS) compared with placebo (7.70 vs. 0.08; p< .005; baseline TRS = 37.0) in a small study combining results of three double-blind, randomized, controlled trials following a common protocol. Use is limited by dropout rates as high as 40% due to appetite suppression, weight loss, paresthesias, and concentration difficulties (2)[B]. Gabapentin up to 400 mg TID (3)[B] Sotalol, nadolol, and atenolol are alternative β-blockers; each has less evidence than propranolol to support use. Clonazepam and alprazolam should be used with caution because of potential abuse. Clozapine has shown efficacy at doses of 6 to 75 mg/day but is recommended only for refractory cases of limb tremor because of a 1% risk of agranulocytosis. The American Academy of Neurology (AAN) indicates that insufficient evidence exists to support or refute the efficacy of clozapine for chronic use. In a pilot study using doses up to 40 mg/day, Memantine showed significant benefit in a small subset of the study group. Adverse events at this dose included dizziness, somnolence, and poor energy. Pramipexole, at a dose of 2.1 mg/day, demonstrated moderate efficacy in reducing the severity of tremors in a pilot study of 29 patients. Immediate- and extended-release formulations were equally effective. Levetiracetam and 3,4-aminopyridine are probably ineffective at reducing limb tremors and should not be considered according to the AAN. Other medications that have been evaluated for the treatment of essential tremor, with limited data to support their use, include acetazolamide, clonidine, flunarizine, methazolamide, nimodipine, olanzapine, phenobarbital, pregabalin, quetiapine, sodium oxybate, and zonisamide. Alcohol may provide transient improvement in symptoms, but its brief duration of action, subsequent rebound, and associated risk of developing alcohol addiction make it a less attractive option for longer-term treatment. Alcohol may be an appropriate option for short-term, situation-specific improvement in symptoms. Botulinum toxin A injections should be offered as a treatment option for cervical dystonia (level A recommendation from AAN) and may be offered for blepharospasm, focal upper extremity dystonia, adductor laryngeal dystonia, and upper extremity essential tremor. Limited data support its use for head and vocal tremors. SURGERY/OTHER PROCEDURES Deep brain stimulation provides a magnitude of benefit that is superior to all available medications and may be used to treat medically refractory limb tremors; it has fewer adverse effects than thalamotomy. Bilateral thalamic ventral intermediate nucleus stimulation is effective in reducing tremors and functional disability; however, paresthesias and dysarthria are possible complications. Unilateral thalamotomy may be used to treat limb tremor that is refractory to medical management. Bilateral thalamotomy is not recommended because of adverse side effects. There is growing interest in the development of external neuromodulator devices for the treatment of essential tremors including exoskeletons, orthosis, and biomechanical loading. Currently, evidence for these devices is limited, and of low quality and further research is needed. COMPLEMENTARY & ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE Physical therapy may be considered for strengthening and training in the use of weighted utensils to help offset tremors. Although strength training has not been shown to have an improvement in functional ability, no negative effects have been reported. ONGOING CARE DIET; Avoid caffeine. PATIENT EDUCATION Although essential tremor can cause significant impairment in daily functioning, it does not decrease life expectancy. Also, there is no proof of intellectual deterioration. PROGNOSIS Tremor tends to worsen with age, increasing in amplitude. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with Parkland Hospital, in Dallas, Texas. He specializes in acute care and emergency medicine, internal medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics.