BENIN – The Tinubu/Shettima Ambassadors (TSA), Edo State Chapter on Sunday awarded Hon. Johnson Oghuma as the best performing lawmaker ever produced in Etsako Federal Constituency of Edo. Presenting the award to the recipient, the Edo Coordinator of the group, Comrade Attakhiru Abdulganiyu said Oghuma standout as the best lawmaker ever produced from the constituency since 1999 till date. According to him, “The Edo state chapter of Tinubu/Shettima Ambassadors through the approval of the national body have awarded the legislator representing the good people of Etsako Federal Constituency with an excellent award based on his unbeatable track records in the history of Etsako federal constituency after the return of democracy in 1999 in terms of performance. “We are demonstrating this through the records and data made available and also in line with the recent National Assembly award to Hon. Johnson Oghuma as the most valuable parliamentarian in the 9th assembly based on the assessment and performance evaluation through bills, motions, dividends of democracy attracted to the constituency. “This dividends are in the area of education, training/empowerment in confectionaries, cosmetology, animal husbandry, fishery, GSM repairs, aluminum fabrication, electrical/mechanical tools, farming equipment amongst others,” Abdulganiyu said. Abdulganiyu also said that the few mentioned projects singled Oghuma out as the best performed House of Representatives lawmaker from the constituency since 1999, adding that the records are visible and verifiable. “Some of the projects with competitive advantage are the bill for the upgrade of Auchi polytechnic to City University of Technology and the citing of Federal College of Forest Resources Management Fugar.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Others are construction of school buildings across the constituents, street light projects, construction of boreholes, construction of skill acquisition centre, construction of markets and employment of youths in various ministry, parastatals and agencies amongst others. POLL “We think Etsako constituents, the leaders and all categories of persons will agree with Tinubu/Shettima Ambassadors with the few ones mentioned here and the ones not mentioned that are very known to our people,” Abdulganiyu said. Receiving the award on behalf of Oghuma, Hon. Alhassan Idaro thanked the group for finding Oghuna worthy for the award. “This excellence award to Hon Oghuma is a deserved one due to his quality representation to the people of the constituency. “On behalf of Hon Johnson Oghuma I must say thank you to the group and he pledged to continue to provide dividend of democracy to the people of the constituent. Mr Mathew Atsebaomho and Hajia Lawal Bello who spoke at the event said Oghuma performed far better than any other persons that have occupied the position. They however, applauded the lawmaker for providing purposeful leadership in the constituency and wish him well in his endeavour.