The Arole Oduduwa, Ooni of Ife; Ooni Adeyeye Babatunde Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II (CFR) has made an appeal to all Nigerian across the country regardless of their party affiliation to sheath their swords and work together with the President-Elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the progress of Nigeria. Ooni Adeyeye made this call in Lagos while hosting a high delegation sent by Kenyan President His Excellency; William Ruto headed by Kenya’s Chief of Staff and Head of Public Service, Francis Koskie also Chairman Dangote Groups Alhaji Aliko Dangote, CEO of Propetrol Harry Ebohen, Governor of Ogun State; Prince Dapo Abiodun and Fintech Guru Kunmi Demuren who met with the president Elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu at his Lagos residence where series of discussion was held on how Africa can synergize to bring about national development; creating a platform for prosperity through African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) while creating an innovative future for our young people. Ooni said; ‘Nigeria remains Africa’s largest economy, most populous nation, and a political powerhouse. During my last visit, the Kenyan President assured me of his government’s unwavering determination to improve its nations’ and businesses’ footprints in Nigeria. Africa is the world’s engine, and we must remodel its priceless natural resources and safeguard its age-old wealth for our progress. After the meeting with the Kenyan Government representatives and Nigeria’s business communities, Asiwaju Tinubu also showed his readiness to partner with other business leaders in his quest to transform Nigeria’s economy and also transit Nigeria from a consuming dependent economy to producing economy. Making recourse to Alhaji Aliko Dangote’s $20Billion Refinery which is set to commence operation fully by the end of the month. Asiwaju also committed his readiness to partner with East Africa most especially Kenya by creating a more robust partnership; rejigging its long relationship which will help both governments grow astronomically in trade, cultural exchange and intergovernmental development. Ooni also averred that as the country transitions to a new government, it’s best for all hands to be on deck regardless of candidate choice and party affiliations as the election has gone and governance and putting Nigeria on the right path to greatness should be a collective effort. “As the presidential inauguration approaches, I beseech you all, young and old, Obidients and Atikulates, hopeful and weary, amiable and passionate, to lay down your arms. There is no reason to waste time looking back; all we have is today and the future. Now is the time to embrace our diversity and uniqueness. We may differ in opinions and approaches to achieving a better Nigeria, but we all want a nation we can be proud of. Let us come together to support the vision of Asiwaju Gbogbo Ile Oodua.’