Those who are poised to work against the success of the re­cently proposed Imo Charter of Equity may be doing so at their own peril as the traditional rulers in Imo State have taken the idea to the gods of the land, asking them to deal mercilessly with overt and covert saboteurs. The monarchs also asked the gods for yet another thing – to sup­port the reelection of Governor Hope Uzodimma with everything within their reach. Led by the Imo State Chair­man, Council of Traditional Rul­ers, HRM Eze (Dr.) Emmanuel Okeke, the monarchs assembled on Thursday, May 25, 2023, at the Government House Roundabout where they poured libation in support of the Imo State Charter of Equity and the re-election bid of Governor Uzodimma and more importantly, against any person or group of persons, that will go contrary the charter. The traditional rulers said Governor Uzodimma has per­formed above expectations, ini­tiating and completing many Federal and State projects in Imo, and therefore deserves to be re-elected. Eze Okeke told the media, “His Excellency, Senator Hope Uzodim­ma, has performed creditably well to the admiration of the entire state and especially, to the tradi­tional rulers and their spouses.” He added that the libation and prayers they came to offer were their own way of endorsing the unanimous agreement of Imo State Council of Elders and all stakeholders in the state who support the full implementation of the Charter of Equity. According to Eze Okeke, it was also an opportunity for them to pass a vote of confidence in Gov­ernor Uzodimma “having seen all the good works he has done in the state.” Eze Okeke was joined by his brother monarchs in charge of the three zones in Imo State to pour the libation and offer prayers. POLL They were HRH Eze Thomas Obiefule (Orlu), HRH Eze Goddy Okeke (Okigwe) and HRH Eze Os­uagwu Akujobi (Owerri). The zonal monarchs in unison with all their colleagues prayed against any individual or group of persons that would oppose the Imo Charter of Equity or work against the reelection of Gover­nor Uzodimma. The Chief of Staff to the Gov­ernor, Barr. Nnamdi Anyaehie and other top government offi­cials witnessed the occasion.