EJIKEME OMENAZU, OYENIRAN APATA LAGOS  – As Nigerians look forward to the May 29 inauguration an All Progressive Congress (APC) chieftain and the National Chairman of the Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu Support Group (AATSG), Otunba Abdulfalil Abayomi Odunowo, has attributed the group’s success of the mobilisation of over 50 million voters for the Tinubu/Shettima ticket during the presidential election to its deployment of necessary human and material resources leading to the polls. Otunba Odunowo, who made these in an encounter with Sunday Independent, noted that the AATSG, a foremost campaign group that vigorously worked for the success of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and other elected APC leaders in the recently concluded general elections, was able to effectively carry out grassroots mobilisation by utilising its solid structures of 10 people per polling unit, which had already been put in place across the nation’s 176,460 polling units during the electioneering campaigns. Odunowo who spoke through Seyi Shodipo, his Special Adviser on Media, explained how the group mapped out strategies that successfully ensured the involvement of the would-be voters, got them well enlightened and made them understand the reasons for their support of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and other APC candidates 2023 elections. Odunowo further stressed that the campaign group’s idea of door-to-door engagements using the HumanGenie Mobile App and the development of another Mobile App, the Jagaban, which was among the tools used to influence the people’s thoughts on social media, effectively contributed to the group’s actualisation of the five million voters. The Apps, he disclosed, were directly downloaded from the Google Play Store and the iOS Store. He maintained that the AATSG door-to-door campaign focused on efforts that delivered five million voters on election day for the Tinubu/Shettima ticket. AATSG, he stressed, knocked on a minimum 10 homes per polling unit. Odunowo explained that with 176,846 polling units in Nigeria, this will give us a total of 1,768,460 homes across the country. He stressed: “We projected an average of three voters per home, which will put total voters contacted at 5,305,380 reached. The door-to-door campaign achieved additional objectives. POLL This he explained as follows: Defining and propagating the Tinubu/Shettima presidential Renewed Hope manifesto and getting the voters commitment to vote for the ticket. Providing authentic information and verified data about the candidates, their ideology, their commitment to all Nigerians and their readiness and unmatched experience to provide the leadership needed to build a greater Nigeria for all. The AATSG, he said, all gathered feedback from the voters so that a document for the candidates’ consideration will be published and submitted for their use. This, he added, would also be a road map for executives to use for quality and honest decision making that would have a direct impact on the generality of Nigerians. “AATSG discovered that we needed to work on the issue of misinformation on social media. We, therefore, decided that our best option was to create a robust social media platform that would be the authentic source of information that translated into the development of JAGABAN Mobile App. “While also brainstorming, we realised it would be difficult to monitor the activities of our executives in all the 176,420 polling units of Nigeria and we also thought of the idea of developing a mobile App that would be geo- fenced and data must be got real-time HumanGenie came online, this was very instrumental to our great success,” said AATSG Chairman Otunba Odunowo He further said that his group also used the President – elect’s achievements in Lagos State as part of its campaign strategies, stressing that in the group’s billboards, posters and advertorials, mentions were made of Tinubu’s achievements such as his ability to turn Lagos into the 5th largest economy in Africa and one of the safest places to reside in Nigeria. The AATSG National Chairman, reiterated his group’s trust in the leadership qualities of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and his unblemished track records, strongly informed AATSG’s promotion of the aspirations of the President-elect, based on its independent assessment and concluded that Asiwaju Tinubu is the best candidate for the nation’s presidency. Odunowo also added that the exhaustive contributions of the entire members of the Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu Support Group (AATSG) who sacrificed commendable time/ effort to aggressively canvass for Asiwaju Tinubu’s election, went a long way in the APC wins at the polls. He noted Nigerians were appreciative of both the human and material resources deployed by the AATSG members in promoting the candidature of Asiwaju Tinubu, including other APC candidates during the various elections. “We couldn’t have achieved this monumental feat without the steely commitment and dedication of all the state, the local, and the ward executives; especially their unsolicited hard work and financial commitment put into the campaign for the success of the Tinubu/Shettima ticket with a single minded focus. “Every member of AATSG stood solidly on the Mandate Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu to be the president of Nigeria. We knew that Tinubu would win – prayer answered, and also certain that the efforts of all members will not be in vain.” Also instrumental to the group’s success story, according to Odunowo, was the group’s structures spread across the 36 states, and Abuja – comprising of 14 National officers, six zonal officers per zone, six State officers per state, six local government officers, five ward officers and finally 10 polling unit officers, which gave it a very formidable structure, close to two million members across Nigeria. Odunowo, the AATSG National Chairman, further noted that the group was very excited to note that the strategies developed and implemented are capable of mobilising 50 million voters. He added: “However, we must declare that issues surrounding the just-concluded elections, which were acknowledged by many voters as too punitive, very unfriendly monetary policies, mitigated against achieving such a high target during the just concluded election period. Nevertheless the structure is now in place to reach 50 million Nigerians on a moment’s notice.” Odunowo stressed that the group’s various success stories couldn’t have been possible without the support of the members of the AATSG Advisory Council which he described as distinguished Nigerians of the highest reputation, standing, as well as elder statesmen such as Dr. Dalhatu Sarki Tafida, Chief S. D Lot; former Senate President Ameh Ebute, Dr. Keneth Madiebo, Chief Sam Emeka Eke, Otunba Abimbola Davies, and Chief (Mrs) Comfort Chigbue, among others. Odunowo also commended efforts of the AATSG Board of Trustees (BoT) members, including the Vice President-elect, Senator Kashim Shettima as Chairman; Senator Tanko Al-Makura, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, Hon Farouk Adamu Aliyu, Senator Magnus Abe and Senator Andy Uba. According to Odunowo, others who contributed to the success of the campaign group included Special the AATSG’s Grand Patron, Mrs. Folashade Tinubu Ojo, Senator Adeshina Akanbi, Hon Kunle Soname and Dr MKO Abimbola (Abogun) from the South-West, retired Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mike Okiro from the South-south, and Dr. Mala Saina from the North-East, Hon. Bernard Ochepa for the North-Central, and Engr. Fakuma from the South-South. “Members of the AATSG National Executive Council are – Hon. Zarah Bukar (National Woman Leader), Alhaji Hf Dauda MoiSoro (National Organizing Secretary), Hakeem Onitiri (National Treasurer), Hon Adedayo Adeyemi (National Youth Leader), Miss Chinwe Amarachukwu Okpala (National Legal Adviser), Hon. Sampson Antasia Oburu (National Publicity Secretary), Hon William Anan (National Contact and Mobilisation Secretary), and Barrister Abayomi Siwoniku ( National Secretary). The zonal executives across the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria, who contributed to the success of the team, he stated, included Abbas Mohammed (National Vice Chairman – North East), Alhaji Hussein Adamu, (National Vice Chairman – North West), Mr Ayorinde Adedoyin, (National Vice Chairman – North – Central), Mr Osondu Ofochebe (National Vice Chairman – South East), Elder Anam (National Vice Chairman – South South), and Alhaji Tunde Atoyebi, (National Vice Chairman – South – West) with comprehensive state executives for each of the 36 state plus Abuja, 774 LGs 8,813 wards, and 176,846 polling units across Nigeria. “All of the AATSG executives and officers were also highly instrumental in realising the huge success of Tinubu/Shettima at the polls,” Otunba Odunowo stressed. He further explained that AATSG is a properly structured group with 12 National executives, 36 Zonal Executives, 222 State Executives, 4644 Local Government executives, 44,060, ward executives and 1,768, 460 polling unit officers, totaling 1,818,088 committed standing army that helped to achieve the group’s required objectives The AATSG National Chairman, who used the opportunity to felicitate with Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, Senator Kashim Shettima and all APC Governors-elect on their inauguration, noted that the real work of nation building had started and the tasks ahead were enormous, assuring that Asiwaju Tinubu, as a transformational catalytic politician, leader and now President, would make indelible, enduring and life-changing positive difference in the lives of Nigerians in general. The Ogun State APC chieftain appreciated Asiwaju Tinubu for his years of meritorious service to the nation and humanity. He prayed for God’s continued support, long life and good health for Asiwaju Tinubu to enable him achieve a successful tenure as he takes over the mantle of the nation’s leadership as President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Odunowo said: “On behalf of myself and the entire members of the Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu Support Group (AATSG), spread across the length and breadth of the country, I say hearty congratulations to our dear Asiwaju on his inauguration as the nation’s 16th President. We in the AATSG are confident in his ability to turn around the fortunes of the country in every sector to the extent that Nigeria would become the envy of other nations.” Concluding, Odunowo said: The ‘Renewed Hope is Here’, and AATSG is excited to be a partner in the march to build a great Nigeria for all. Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu – On Your Mandate We Stand!”