Following Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s approval of the E-call-up system for effective traffic management along the Lekki-Epe corridor, the Lagos State Government has sought the cooperation and collaboration of all Stakeholders’ for the successful implementation of the process. The State Government solicited the cooperation at a Stakeholders’ engagement meeting on Tuesday at the premises of Lekki Worldwide Investment Company in Victoria Island, Lagos. Speaking at the meeting, the Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde said for seamless execution of the E-call-up process, there is a need to brainstorm with all relevant Stakeholders’ carrying out business activities within the Lekki-Epe axis, especially with the emergence of Lekki Deep Sea Port, upcoming Dangote refineries amongst other industries. Oladeinde reiterated the need to understand the dynamics of each business operator for effective integration into the Call-up procedure, adding that the pilot operation is projected to start in June this year for a period of two weeks. The Commissioner further stated that the essence of the pilot scheme is to test the robustness of the call up application, and to ensure it is free from all encumbrances, thereafter, live operations will commence by mid June. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Hon. Sola Giwa opined that Lagos State has the highest vehicular density while noting the increase in the establishment of new industries in the Lekki-Epe corridor, hence, the need for the introduction of the electronic process to manage traffic within the axis. Giwa added that the State Government is mulling the implementation of barge operations for Lekki Deep Seaport to reduce the movement of cargo via the road, soliciting the support of all Stakeholders for the seamless execution of the process. Also, Engr. Abiola Olowu, Special Adviser to the Governor on Commerce and Industry stated that the administration of Governor Sanwo-Olu is keen on creating a conducive environment across the State for businesses to thrive with special focus on the Lekki-Epe corridor due to industries springing up in the axis. POLL He also mentioned that in order to fast-track the implementation of the E call-up system, the cooperation of all Stakeholders’ is needed. Also in attendance at the meeting, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation Engr. Abdulhafiz Toriola, stated that the E-call up system application could not have come at a better time, saying Lekki- Epe axis is fast becoming a commercial area and it behooves the Government to plan ahead to forestall traffic menace in the region. He applauded the State Government for being proactive through strategic planning on traffic management of the corridor, not neglecting the safety and security of citizens while enhancing the business atmosphere. The Chairman of Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Mr. Abdullahi Sesan expressed delight at the approval of the E-call-up system by the Governor, stressing that truck count moving into the corridor is enormous hence the need to put in place a proper system to manage in and out of trucks. He admonished the Stakeholders’ to improve in their community relations, citing a situation where truck accidents occurred and truck owners failed to visit the families of victims. Messrs Call Up Technology Services made a presentation of how the E-call up system will be implemented and the firm was directed to get necessary input from respective Stakeholders for successful integration and implementation of the System. Stakeholders present at the meeting include; the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA), Dangote Refineries, Lekki Free Zone, Lekki Worldwide Investment Company, Lekki Deep Sea Port, Top Government functionaries from the Ministry of Transportation, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Ibeju-Lekki and Epe Local Governments, Pinnacle Oil and Gas amongst others.