….As CEO bags OSHAssociation’s Fellowship The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), African Union Development Agency, Princess Gloria Akobundu has advocated for the establishment of modern strategies to promote the culture of safety in organisations. Speaking at the OSHAssociation’s Network Forum of the Safety and Health Expo in London, Akobundu explained that this became imperative in order to achieve global standard practices in public and private sectors. AKOBUNDU, demonstrated the important of occupational safety and health in every work environment after she was honoured  with OSHAssociation UK International Fellowship Award, held at ExCel London. Princess Akobundu, who is also  the National Coordinator of the Agency  explained that safety was a  key and important  factor in all we do on the daily basis. Therefore, she enjoined investors and  employers of labour to imbibe the safety culture by  developing  strong collaborations with their  counterparts who have kept a track record of safety excellence in their workplaces. Akobundu hoped that the  lessons from the  workshop would  create a  headways on the need for individuals and organisations to increase proactive measures on strategising measures to embrace a culture of safety excellence. The AU coordinator said  “the theme, Strategies of Establishing a Culture of Safety Excellence, I believe, has been chosen by the organisers because of the need for a better safety management structure in organisations where the issue of safety is taken seriously across the public and private sectors. “Distinguished guests, ladies, gentlemen, Fellows and delegates from various countries, following the above theme, know that safety is always key and major factor in all we do on the daily basis, therefore this workshop should mark a new dawn in your organisations as you research and take up new and world-class strategies needed to establish an effective safety management system and build a proactive  workforce that values the culture of safety excellence. POLL “As an employer and safety leaders, endeavour to develop strong collaborations with counterparts who have kept a track record of safety excellence in their workplaces and appreciating the networking opportunity brought to us by the Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHAssociation) to learn more and share ideas that triggers the safety consciousness in us. “Safety connotes freedom from danger and it is usually associated with injury and ill health that reduces the productivity and efficiency of workers. Therefore the strategy of managing and controlling machinery and work equipment; handling of dangerous substances, condition of the structure of the work environment and provision of personal protective equipment (PPE) amongst others, is very key to help us active excellent safety best practices. “It is expected that this networking workshop will dig up new insights into emerging trends in the field of occupational health and safety and realise the objectives of “promoting safety and saving lives”. Akobundu said. She further appreciated OSHAssociation for the conferment of the Fellowship Award on her and promised to be a great Ambassador of the Association; also further thanked the Association for the great job they are doing in promoting the information of safety in all sectors and globally.