…As 60 Members-Elect Joins Condolence Entourage ABUJA – A leading contender for the Speakership of the 10th House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Muktar Betara Aliyu on Sunday in the company of about 60 colleagues stormed Jalingo, the Taraba State Capital, North East Nigeria on a condolence visit to the late Member-elect, Hon. Ismaila Yushau Maihanci who passed away last week. Out of deep compassion, Betara placed the deceased son on scholarship as a way of lessening the family’s burden. Recall that Maihanchi who was elected to represent Jalingo, Yorro, Zing Federal Constituency of the state in the just concluded general election, died in the early hours of last week Saturday in Abuja following a brief illness. Hon. Betara who is the incumbent Chairman of House Committee on Appropriations in a statement issued by his media campaign team expressed grief over the ugly incident. He described the late member-elect as “a brother and friend,” On the visit to the family the lawmaker said “Earlier today, myself, and the team of my colleagues paid a condolence visit to the family of our beloved colleague, late Hon. Isma’ila Yashua Maihanchi”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I want to sincerely appreciate the over 60 Honourable Members of the House of Representatives who took out time and accompanied me, despite their busy schedule. POLL “I was indeed touched by their depth of sacrifices and show of love, as we had to fly through Yola and took a voyage of about nine hours to Taraba State, while it was raining cat and dog in some axis as we travelled.” “During my condolence message as we visited the wife of the late, and his biological parents, I promised them, that his son shall be placed on scholarship from primary education to any level he desires to attain henceforth” “Once again, my heartfelt condolences to the wife and the entire family of the late Honorable,” Betara said. Consequently, the lawmaker described the move as a step in the direction and the time to show love to the deceased family in company of over 60 returning and newly elected members and offered prayers for the repose of his soul. Betara who represents Biu/Bayo/Shani/Kwaya Kusar Federal Constituency of Borno State, also met with the late lawmakers wife who is an expectant mother as well as the deceased aged parents, assuring them of his support and scholarship for the child’s education. Late Hon. Maihanci, left behind a child and an expectant wife and aged parents. The leading aspirant has since returned to Abuja with his colleagues.