…As FAAN Harps On Increased Partnership To Mitigate Challenges ABUJA – Nigeria’s aviation industry is currently being bedeviled by too many problems such as incessant picketing by labour unions, constant demolition of structures encroaching the aviation spaces and high increases in air fares among others, Biodun Olujimi, the Chairperson Senate Committee on Aviation, has said. Olujimi, who stated this during the 2nd edition of Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, National Conference, with the theme: ‘Sustainability of the Aviation Industry in Nigeria, held on a Monday, in Abuja, expressed hope that the conference would provide an opportunity to address the challenges. According to Senate Committee Chairperson, while the recurring picketing by the unions are sad reminders of the past, the incidences of continuing encroachment show that officials are not being proactive, stressing that encroachment may undermine the safety of the sector. “I think this is an opportunity for them to be able to address that because the industry will suffer if there is this astronomical increase in airfares. Yes, there are reasons why the airfares go up, but there is also a need for us to have a balance for many people to embrace the aviation industry and that is key to the development of the sector. “Picketing is what I find very unnerving in all of this because there should be a way whereby the NLC and workers’ associations can settle all their grievances without bringing it to the fore. And most of the issues that were put on the front burner were already settled and sealed by the various agencies. There was no reason to stop the aviation industry to put in a very bad stand with their counterparts abroad by ensuring that people did the work of flight didn’t take off. I think the time is right for the NLC and the work unions to know that there are certain industries where picketing cannot be allowed and aviation is one. “The aviation industry, as you know, comprises various activities that are strategic, not only for its potential for economic growth but also its crucial role in international development and integration. The most important contribution aviation makes to the economy is through its impact on the performance of all our industries of our civilization. “The aviation industry is part of the transport infrastructure on which many parts of our economy are dependent. It contributes to economic growth, it facilitates multi-trade by providing consultations. However, the industry has been damaged in the recent past. Too many problems, some of them, of which I will highlight and I am praying that this gathering will look into it. One of them is picketing. The NLC and the Union all called picketing in the aviation industry. That is not good for this industry. POLL “Another is the constant demolitions and destruction around the airports. This is due to the fact that people are encroaching on the facilities in the airport. Government should be up and doing and make sure that encroachment is constantly looked at and stopped before it gets out of hand. It is time for NLC and the workforce to start setting the issues right and to ensure that when issues are resolved, they are resolved properly. It is also important that safety should be taken care of. I also want to suggest that it is time for me to start setting the issues right behind us and to ensure that issues are resolved properly. It is also important that safety should be taken care of”, she said. Olujimi, while highlighting the economic and international benefits of the aviation sector, urged the Federal Government, to as a matter of urgency, halt further encroachment of airport facilities which, according to her, it is having a negative toll on the growth of the sector. Describing the fuss between the Federal Government and the Nigerian Labour Congress, NLC and other workforce as unnecessary, she called aggrieved parties to resolve their differences behind closed doors. Also speaking at the event, Rabiu Hamisu Yadudu, the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), said the conference was aimed at furthering partnership and sustainability, as part of efforts to mitigate challenges hampering the aviation sector. He said: “This conference would continue to serve as an open market, or meeting point for the private sector to tap into a world of opportunities to invest and generate incredible returns on their investments. We are happy that some State Governments and private investors, who participated at the maiden edition of this conference are already taking good advantage of the business opportunities available in the industry, and are already positioning their States and organisations strategically for greater productivity and profitability. “Theoretically, the term Sustainability speaks to progress, endurance, stability, capacity, and consistency. Practically, Sustainability is a function of progressive standardization and consistency. In other words, before an industry or organisation can be aiming at Sustainability, it must first stabilise and standardise. Sustainability aims at the future, while not neglecting the present, because it is the present that will ultimately give birth to a prosperous and desired future.” Also speaking, Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, represented by Dr. Emmanuel Meribole, the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary, maintained that under the Buhari-led administration, the Ministry has achieved remarkable growth in the aviation roadmap. “It is no news that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari under which I am privileged to superintend aviation is winding down in a couple of days. It is however pertinent to reiterate that at the onset of the administration, a robust roadmap was developed to chart a new course in the aviation industry and this we have pursued with all vigour to implement. “Undoubtedly, we have met with lots of brick walls and bureaucratic bottlenecks, yet we forged ahead decisively and now all the components are at the finishing lines, the foundation having been solidly laid. This is evident in the numerous projects embarked upon; from several runway construction and rehabilitation projects to new international terminals completed and commissioned, world-class safety and security equipment and facilities procured and deployed to our airports, recruitment, training, and capacity building for our staff, amongst numerous others”, he said.