A Group under the auspices of All Progressive Congress (APC) Support Groups from Northern Nigeria has endorsed Hon Muktar Aliyu Betara, the member representing Biu, Bayo, Shani, and Kwaya Kusar constituency, Borno state for the position of speaker in the 10th House of Representatives. Hon Murtala Garba, the National Coordinator Coalition of APC Northern Support Groups made the appeal at a Press conference of the coalition held in Abuja. He said that the leadership of over 38 APC Support Groups from Northern Nigeria has declared their support for a speakership position in the northeast and endorsed Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara for the position. “Our support for Hon Muktar Aliyu Betara shows the love in our hearts for this great personality. Hon. Aliyu Betara as a leader, elder, organizer, and mobilizer, has an encyclopedic knowledge of the house and the country at large. It is a statement of fact that the composition of 10th national assemblies represents a robust gathering of lawmakers in their prime who are positioned to ensure quality representation in the Assembly” “Therefore, it beholds that the APC which consists of the majority in the house, should ensure changes that reflect the urgency of now. The coalition of northern APC Support Group is thereby appealing to the party to zone the speakership to the north, in particular, the north-east in order to balance the zoning structure” “We, the coalition of APC Support Group are gathered here today to endorse Betara, as the 10th speaker of the House of Representatives whose reasons are as follows. First, Betara has vast knowledge of legislative appearances and leadership. As a chairman of appropriations, he succeeded in having the June-June budget cycle changed to a repairable one from Jan to Dec for a more effective budget implementation” “Also, he facilitated the provision of job opportunities for 4,500 beneficiaries across the nation and relates with people in respect of religion, ethnicity, or tribe, Nigeria is indeed lucky to have a person like Betara. He has been lauded for his decision-making and crisis management skills in the house as a young man with talent where youths are the backbones of any societal development.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He stressed that Nigeria needed a team player like Betara as the 10th speaker of the house, to build on the achievement of Femi Gbajabiamila, the speaker of the 9th Assembly, saying “We are confident that Betara has the ability to carry all lawmakers along in spite of political divide because a lot of new members will be coming into the house” POLL “Therefore Betara will be a perfect fit as the country’s next speaker because of his long legislative experience. We have studied the lawmaker closely by monitoring his progression and development in the house for more than two decades now”, he said. Garba described Betara as one of the unapologetic believers in the grand ideas of His Excellency Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.