The Delta State Government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Federal Government to host the National Youth Games (NYGs) for the next four years. The ceremony which took place at the Government House Asaba saw the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Chief Sunday Dare, signed the dotted lines while Governor Ifeanyi Okowa signed for the state government. Speaking during the ceremony, the minister who was excited said Delta State had become the hub for sports development, praising the state for doggedness in developing talents. “Delta State undoubtedly has become the home of sports in Nigeria and they have contributed immense to sports development in Nigeria. “I am happy to say that in the last four years, the Delta State Government has contributed to sports development and in the last NSF, they proved that they are serious in doing that by organizing very robust games. “Delta graciously agreed to host the National Youth Games for the next four years. Delta is a talent hub for our sports and it is a beacon for development of sports. “You know unless you nurture them, they won’t blossom. This is why we are very proud of Delta. I am happy that in the next four years, our young talents will find succor in Delta State with the signing of this MoU and I have the belief that our sports will be great through this,” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Speaking at the occasion, Governor Okowa thanked the minister for his commitment to sports development, saying the state is happy to host t he National Youth Games for the next four years. POLL “I thank God for what we are seeing this morning and thank you (minister) for the great job you have been doing to improve sports in the country. “We thank you for the partnership you have with Delta. We are happy to sign this MoU to host NYGs in the next four years and we thank the Hon. minister for encouraging the youth games. “We are happy to host this games for the next four years because we believe in ‘catch-them-young. “Sports is a good way to develop the minds of our young ones and we are passionate about developing our youths to realize their potentials because we believe catching them young is the right way to go. “We thank you for this offer for Delta State and we can say that we will continue to develop for our youths in order for them to develop.”