LAFIA – The Nasarawa State House of Assembly, on Wednesday, held a valedictory session to mark the end of the 6th assembly with pride that about 59 bills and 47 resolutions had been passed in the last four years. Rt. Hon Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, the Speaker of the House stated this during the 6th Assembly valedictory session in Lafia the state capital; said that the bills and resolutions passed have direct bearing on the lives of the people of the state. According to him,” The State House of Assembly had within its four-year life span, passed a total of 59 bills made up of 50 Executive bills and 9 private member bills. We have also passed 47 resolutions,”he said. He noted that the achievements of the House and of the state government were as a result of the good working relationship between the legislature and the executive arms in the state. ” Hon. members, let me also in a very special way appreciate all of you for the wonderful co-operation which you gave me in the past four years,” he added. The Speaker appreciated Gov. Abdullahi Sule for the support he has given to the House in the last four years. ” I want to thank the state government for providing us with funds to actualize the goals, the hallowed chamber of the legislature was renovated and fitted with state -of- the art equipment. As it is , the State Assembly Chamber stands out as one of the best in the country. ” The Office of the Rt. Hon Speaker and the Executive Room were refurbished and equipped to meet daily administrative and legislative duties,” he said POLL He also commended the traditional rulers across the state for working tirelessly to complement the efforts of the various arms of government to foster peace and harmony in their communities. Abdullahi said that his administration has initiated a deliberate policy of dialogue with the Executive arm of government with the view of absorbing casual staff working in the House into core civil service. ” I am happy to note that the process of engaging them as permanent and pensionable employees have nearly been finalized following the approval of His Excellency ” I also want to add that the House under my watch have cleared all the wardrobe allowance due to staff of the legislature, ” he said. The Speaker urged the staff of the assembly to appreciate his efforts by being loyal and dedicated to their duties. Members during the valedictory session showers encomiums on Speaker Balarabe for his leadership qualities and prayed God to bless him abundantly. They also sought for forgiveness among themselves, people of their constituents and the state at large even as they shared in their experiences at the House. In a similar vain, the House has passed four bills into law for the overall development of the state. The Speaker announced the passage of the bills into law during the House proceedings today in Lafia The bills passed into law are A Bill for a Law to Repeal the Nasarawa State Bureau of Statistics Law No.84 of 2012 and Re-Enact Same 2022 and Other Matters Related Thereto. A Bill For a Law to Amend Nasarawa State Customary Courts Law and Other Matters Connected Therewith A Bill For a Law to Repeal and Re-Enact the Nasarawa State House of Assembly Service Commission Law and Other Related Matters. A Bill For a Law to Provide For the Supply and Sanitation of Water in Nasarawa State and other Matters Connected Therewith. Earlier, Hon Umar Tanko Tunga( APC- Awe North), the Majority Leader of the House moved a motion for the bills to scale third readings. Hon Abel Bala ( PDP- Nassarawa Eggon West), the Minority Leader seconded the motions The House unanimously passed the bills into third readings.