LAGOS – UNCTAD Secretary-General, Rebeca Grynspan has reiterated the organization’s call for a more balanced approach to global data governance for the benefit of people and the planet. She made the submission during the recent sixth session of UNCTAD’s intergovernmental group of experts on e-commerce and the digital economy in Geneva. She noted that the world currently has a global data governance system split in three, with some countries relying on the private sector for data management, others on citizens and others on the state itself. Ms. Grynspan, said global efforts towards a more balanced approach should “enable data to flow as freely as necessary and possible, while being able to address various development objectives.” “To ensure an inclusive process with representation of all developing countries, she said the United Nations needs to play a key role in the process, which should be “multilateral, multisectoral and multi-stakeholder. “Since 2015, the number of internet users in the world has increased from 3 billion to 5.3 billion, Ms. Grynspan noted. According to Ms. Grynspan , mobile broadband subscriptions have surged from 3 billion to almost 7 billion. And global internet protocol traffic – a proxy for data flows – has tripled from 46,000 to 150,000 gigabytes per second.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Ms. Grynspan, said we have gone from a world where digital data is mostly shared by text (on Facebook), to a world where data is mostly shared by image (on Instagram), to a world where data is now mostly shared by video (on TikTok, YouTube). POLL “And these are still early days in the data-driven digital economy,” she said. With the spread of 5G, the growing number of Internet of Things devices and greater use of artificial intelligence (AI), data and data flows will continue expanding rapidly. “But, as captured by UNCTAD’s latest Digital Economy Report, data flows are deepening already existing digital divides. The US and China are the frontrunners in harnessing data, according to the report. “Many developing countries remain mostly providers of raw data to global digital platforms, while having to pay for the digital intelligence generated from their data. “While in some countries 80% of internet users shop online, in many developing countries this figure is less than 10%. Further, within countries, there are significant divides between rural and urban areas, as well as between men and women. “But, countries such as India are narrowing the gap and turbocharging development through data-driven digital technologies. “India’s digital public infrastructure programme has added almost 9 million new taxpayers in the last five years and made digital payments almost universal. “Thanks to the programme, India has opened almost 500 million bank accounts in both urban and rural areas and lowered data costs by 90%”