….. VC CUICI, USA University, Says, H.R.M Prof Dr Micheal Puzzolante Has Contributed Immensely To Global Socio-economic, Sustainable Development ….Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu Says Italian Born, France Bred Professor of Philosophy, Metaphysics, Technologist, Development Expert Is A Versatile Educationist, Administrator. Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu, UNESCO Laureate and Vice- Chancellor, Crown University Int’l Chartered Inc., USA with its teaching and research hospital campuses located at Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, Sprain, Brazil in South America, also in India with official partners constituent campuses at government regulated universities Worldwide and online operation, has said that the Monarch of the Kingdom of Atlantis, H.R.M, Prof Dr. Micheal Puzzolante has contributed immensely to global socio-economic sustainable development as he endorses him to bag Honorary Doctorate Degree in Government Administration from Crown University International Chartered Inc (CUICI), USA. The media learnt this from CUICI VC, World Acclaimed Distinguished Universities Research Professor Sir Bashiru Aremu in a press statement personally signed by him, which was made available to some group of Journalists in Asaba, Delta State capital by his Executive Assistant on Media, Publicity and Communication Matters, Comrade Sir Bieni Victor Emenike today being on Tuesday May 16, 2023. UNESCO Laureate stated that, H.R.M Prof Dr. Michael Puzzolante, Italian born, France bred has contributed immensely to 21st century global humanitarian services, higher education, world advance civilization and technological advancement, Government and administration, property development & intellectual property, trade, International & diplomatic relations. CUICI VC, Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu noted that, he endorsed the Chairman of the Board, SFI UNIVERSAL Pte Ltd, H.R.M, Prof Dr. Micheal Puzzolante for the University’s Honorary Doctorate Degree in Government Administration owing to his versatility in all fields if studies and contributions to the growth and development of humanity. According to him, H.R.M Prof Dr. Micheal Puzzolante has been learning and working for the past 40 years. Puzzolante has 6 Ph.Ds and 4 Masters Degree in different field of studies. Puzzolante has been studying and practicing Metaphysics for the past 35 years. He is versatile and had lived and work in different countries of the world such as Switzerland, USA, Syngapore, Indonesia, Miami and others to mention but a few. Prof Aremu stated that, CUICI USA is a global recognized private University that offers vocational training and higher education. Crown University International Chartered Incorporated is licensed, has global accreditation with International Accreditation Agencies, Joint National Accreditation Bodies to serve as an autonomous global recognized University, offering education and practical skill in the courses taught at its official partners constituent campuses at government regulated universities worldwide and online operation. According to the VC, Crown University International Chartered is an entity duly Incorporated under the International Laws of 1704, 1776, and 1787 of United States of America with chartered file number: 7594662 as a worldwide recognized teaching and research University logo with International trade mark number receipt number:668383, customer number: 270163, United States of America.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The VC, CUICI, USA is the World Grand President, International Chartered World Learned Society (ICWLS), he is the World Acclaimed Distinguished Universities Research Professor and Editorial Board Member, Cambridge Publishing, United Kingdom. He is known as World Acclaimed Distinguished Universities Research Professor of Computer Science, Information Communication Technology in different global and Nigerian Universities such as Novena University, Ogume, Delta State, Ambrose Ali University, Ekpoma, Edo State, Imo State University, Imo State, Kaduna State University, Gregory University, Uturu, Abia State. POLL UNESCO Laureate is the Pioneer Member Board of Trustees of Minaret International University, Ikurun, Osun State, Nigeria to mention but a few. And other Global Universities such as West Coast University of Science, Technology & Arts, Bharat University, India. CUICI VC, is also a World Acclaimed Distinguished Universities Research Professor at Pradesh, Mandsaur, Mother Theresa Women University, India, World Congress of Arts, Sciences & Communication, as had served as Deputy Director-General for Africa And Research Professor at International Biographical Centre. Prof Aremu is cited in the World recognized publications by Famous Marquis Who’s is Who in the World. The statement by CUICI VC, World Acclaimed Distinguished Universities Research Professor of Computer Science, Information Communication Technology reads in parts: “As the Vice-Chancellor of Crown University International Chartered Inc CUICI, USA, I, Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu use this medium to commend H.R.M Prof Dr. Michael Puzzolante for his learnings, contributions to global sustainable development, the highest academic feats he has attained, experiences acquired over the years to rule his country, The Kingdom Of Atlantis”.