iLOT Bet being a premium brand always gives bettors the opportunity to gather best odds andmake winning simple. Championship remarkable achievement with Vincent Kompany pickingup Ninety points, twenty-six wins, twelve draws, two losses, and the cherry at the top of the cake– Premier League promotion, all as of match day 40. At the beginning of the Championship season in June 2022, when the sudden announcement of rookie Anderlecht manager – Vincent Kompany was made, all these seemed a dream beyond the wildest imaginations of any Claret supporter. His appointment was met with mixed reactions by the fans and their anxiety was heightened dueto a slow start to the season- winning just six of his first 15 league games. Amazingly, a changein fortune has seen the newly promoted side drop just nine points since this torrid run.The 4-2 away victory against Sunderland in October 2022, at the Stadium of Light for VincentKompany – who was gradually becoming the subject of scrutiny, marked the turning point forthe Lancashire team. By October 25th the Clarets had reached the top of the table, and from there they never looked back. A run of 25 games ramping up 20 victories, 4 draws, and just 1 defeatwas all that was needed for the Belgian legend to be tipped as one of the best managers inChampionship football history. Kompany’s initial task for Burnley was to set out a clear rebuild. A total of 16 players wererecruited by Kompany in the summer, five of those on loan, as the new boss set out to drasticallyreduce the average age of the squad, intending to generate a youthful, vibrant, competitive andambitious culture. His blueprint worked, even if a pocket of supporters initially needed moreconvincing than others. Kompany adopted and implemented tactics that he learnt under the tutelage of Pep Guardiola atManchester City. He created a system that stresses using the wings and inside channels toconduct their attacks. The team’s defenders are also encouraged to go for long balls, a notableadjustment Kompany made from the set-piece-orientated style Burnley are renowned for. The presence of flair and technically gifted players in the likes of Nathan Tella, Benson Manueland Anass Zaroury has also contributed to building a new identity for Burnley, now renownedfor attacking, fast-paced and most notably, entertaining football.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL Kompany has been intentional with retaining Burnley ‘old guard’ in the likes of Ashley Barnes,Jay Rodriguez, Josh Brownhill and Jack Cork, whose influence on and off the pitch can’t beunderstated. Their experience in achieving promotion served as a vital tool to guiding the youngplayers to the Promised Land. Why not bet on newly promoted boys Burnley on iLOT Bet and cash out big when they play at their fortress home Turf Moor.