 Shaken Baby Syndrome, also known as Abusive Head Trauma (AHT), is the leading cause of fatal head injuries in children younger than two years. Shaken baby syndrome is a type of brain injury that happens when a baby or young child is shaken violently. When this happens, the brain can bounce back and forth against the skull, destroying a child’s brain cells and preventing his or her brain from getting enough oxygen which can cause bleeding, bruising, and swelling. CAUSES Newborn babies have underdeveloped neck bones and muscles. So, if the baby is handled recklessly or shaken forcefully, their weak brain inside moves back and forth repeatedly which may cause swelling, bruising, or even bleeding since the organs are already fragile, tender, and underdeveloped. Gentle bouncing of the baby on parents’ knees is considered okay, but anything more should be strictly avoided. RISK FACTORS The following things may increase the risk that parents or caregivers are more likely to forcefully shake a baby and cause shaken baby syndrome: Unrealistic expectations of babies‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Young or single parenthood POLL Stress Domestic violence Alcohol or substance abuse Unstable family situations Depression History of mistreatment as a child Men are more likely to cause shaken baby syndrome than are women. SIGNS & SYMPTOMS Symptoms vary and are caused by generalized brain swelling secondary to trauma. They may appear immediately after the shaking and usually reach a peak within 4-6 hours. The following signs and symptoms may indicate shaken baby syndrome: Not smiling, babbling, or talking. Extreme irritability. Poor appetite or feeding problems. Lethargy (extreme tiredness, lack of movement, and/or an inability to stay awake). Pale- or blue-colored skin. Bruises on their arms or chest. A large head or forehead. A bulging soft spot on the top of their head. Inability to lift their head. Widened (dilated) pupils. Inability to focus or follow movement with their eyes. Tremors. Altered level of consciousness Drowsiness accompanied by irritability. Coma Convulsions or seizures Dilated pupils that do not respond to light. Vomiting Posture in which the head is bent back and the back arched. Breathing problems and irregularities Abnormally slow and shallow respiration Cardiac arrest Death. Effects of Shaken Baby Syndrome on a Baby. Shaken baby syndrome can cause severe medical issues, including: Subdural hematoma: A collection of blood between the surface of your child’s brain and their dura (the tough outer membrane surrounding their brain). This can happen when the veins that bridge your child’s brain to their dura are stretched too far, causing tears and bleeding. Subarachnoid hemorrhage: Bleeding between your child’s brain and arachnoid (the web-like membrane surrounding your child’s brain). Direct brain trauma can occur when your child’s brain strikes the inner surfaces of their skull. Brain damage: Brain damage can result from a lack of oxygen if your child stops breathing during shaking. Brain cell damage can occur when injured nerve cells release chemicals that add to the oxygen deprivation in your child’s brain. Retinal hemorrhages: Bleeding in the back of your child’s retinas. Neck and spinal cord damage: Injuries to your child’s cervical spinal nerves. Fractures: This may include skull fractures as well as fractures to your baby’s ribs, collarbone, arms, and legs DIAGNOSIS Medical Examination includes Retinal hemorrhages, Closed head injury bleeding (subdural, epidural, subarachnoid, subgaleal), Lacerations, Contusions, Concussions, Bruises to the face, scalp, arms, abdomen, or back, soft tissue swelling that may indicate a fracture to the skull or other bones, Abdominal injuries, Chest injuries, abnormally low blood pressure, Tense fontanel (soft spot). Diagnostic Studies include: PREVENTION Interventions by neonatal nurses include giving parents information about abusive head trauma, normal infant crying, and reasons for crying, teaching how to calm an infant, and how to cope if the infant was inconsolable may reduce rates of SBS. Never shake a baby or child in play or in anger because even gentle shaking can become violent shaking when you are angry. Do not hold your baby during an argument. If you find yourself becoming annoyed or angry with your baby, put the baby in their crib and leave the room. Try to calm down & Call someone for support. TREATMENT Treatment involves monitoring intracranial pressure (the pressure within the skull). Treatment occasionally requires surgery, such as placing a cerebral shunt to drain fluid from the cerebral ventricles, and, if an intracranial hematoma is present, to drain the blood collection. There’s no medication to treat shaken baby syndrome. In severe cases, surgery may be required to treat bleeding in the brain. This may involve the placement of a shunt, or thin tube, to relieve pressure or to drain excess blood and fluid. Eye surgery may also be needed to remove any blood before it permanently affects vision. PROGNOSIS The prognosis depends on the severity and can range from total recovery to severe disability to death when the injury is severe. One-third of these patients die, one-third survive with a major neurological condition, and only one-third survive in good condition; therefore, shaken baby syndrome puts children at risk of long-term disability. The most frequent neurological impairments are learning disabilities, seizure disorders, speech disabilities, hydrocephalus, cerebral palsy, and visual disorders. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is a Harvard Medical School scholar affiliated with Parkland Hospital, Texas, United States. He specializes in internal medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com