AUSTIN OBOH Nigeria’s 10th National Assembly will be inaugurated on Tuesday, June 13, 2023, but uncertainty lingers up till now concerning the method through which the officers will emerge. Ironically, the intervention of the nation’s president-elect, Bola Tinubu, in the matter when he returned from a month-long vacation last week had given stakeholders, especially the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), some relief after a charged period of doubts and inexactitude. Expectedly, the opposition now appears set to turn the dilemma in its favour in the lower chamber, given its temporary advantage of 180 to 178 membership. The National Working Committee of the APC, contrary to expectations, failed to take a decision on the zoning of the senate presidency and speakership of the 10th National Assembly during its meeting in Abuja on Wednesday. The National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, disclosed that the NWC could not take a position on the zoning arrangement without the input of Tinubu, the president-elect, who was away in Port Harcourt to inaugurate some projects executed by the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, at the time of the meeting. The four-hour meeting, which started at about 1 pm was presided by Adamu with no fewer than 18 of the 24-member NWC in attendance. The parley was expected to lay to rest the speculations about the zone that would produce the principal officers of the 10th National Assembly. While the South-East and South- South lawmakers believe it is equitable to award the Senate Presidency to their zones, their Northern counterparts are insisting that consideration should be given to competence and experience. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Addressing newsmen after the end of the parley, the chairman disclosed that the party leaders had a meaningful deliberation thus giving the impression that they were united on the issues for consideration. POLL Adamu said: “The outcome of our four-hour meeting: We came out more formidable and united than anything. The zoning of presiding officers of the National Assembly that some of you are asking about is not what today’s meeting is all about. When we want to do zoning, we don’t just go alone as a party. “Zoning is to take along the person who has the mandate of the country, the president-elect, in the person of Ahmed Bola Tinubu. We have to take him along. He travelled after the elections and came back only last week. We have to carry him along. “Also, we cannot stop those who are ambitious with zonal, individual or institutional interests. We cannot deny them. For as long as that is there, we have to find a persuasive manner to get some level of consensus. That is what we are working on. It is not a one-day affair.” Similarly, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Felix Morka, re-echoed the sentiments of the chairman when asked about the outcome of the NWC meeting. When asked to explain why the ruling party was delaying the decision on the zoning of the senate presidency, speakership, and other principal offices, Morka noted that it wasn’t deliberate as was being speculated. He added: “We are not wasting time. There is no timeline to do so. The zoning is something that the party does. It is a mechanism by which the party is able to make decisions and afford those who are interested in competing for power in the leadership of the 10th National Assembly to do so seamlessly with a minimum rift and rancour. “So, there is no timeline to that. We are not in a hurry. We want to do it right. You also heard the chairman say it required very exhaustive consultation. Not just from the leadership of the party but also from those who are aspiring so that whatever the party comes up with, by way of formula, will be acceptable with minimum friction. It is important that the consultation is done and it is done properly. That is what is going on right now.” Multiple sources who provided more insight into the party’s plans for zoning of National Assembly offices explained that the APC was planning to plead with ambitious aspirants to settle for the consensus option. Opposition Makes A Move Meanwhile, the opposition caucus in the House of Representatives has stepped up its plan to upstage the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) by fielding a candidate for the position of Speaker. The caucus, under the aegis of ‘Greater Majority’, rose from a crucial meeting at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, on Tuesday night with a resolution to field candidates for the position of Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the 10th National Assembly. The membership of the caucus is drawn from the main opposition parties: the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Young People’s Party (YPP), the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), and the Labour Party (LP). The opposition parties have the majority in the Green Chamber with 180 representatives, while APC has 178. Two seats, one in Akwa Ibom and another in Ondo states, are pending. As part of the strategy to upstage the APC, the caucus resolved to set up an 11-man committee “to scout for credible and acceptable candidates that would vie for those offices, and then actively seek the unification of Nigerians along ethno-religious lines.” “The Greater Majority with more than 180 elected members (being over 50% of the elected members) will remain one, indivisible coalition during the 10th National Assembly, with the interest of the country as its driving force,” the opposition stated in a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting. Speaking further on Thursday, the Secretary of the Greater Majority, Efosa Imasuen, said: “We are more than prepared. As we said in our communiqué, we have more numbers than the APC. We even have some members of the APC who are ready to align with us. “Yes, we have people from the APC that are ready to align with us because of our style of leadership, our style of governance, our approach to people, and the country. People are in tune with what we are doing. “That gives us the impetus to think and know that if we vie for this office, we can get it and give Nigerians what they truly want – a sincere government.” On if they can remain united when the APC tries to divide the opposition, the lawmaker said they are ready for the ruling party’s machinations. On the anticipated zoning by the ruling party, Imasuen said: “We don’t have business with APC’s zoning. We get to understand certain things and how they are not sincere with a lot of things that they say and do. We remember when they said they zoned their presidential ticket to the South but had people like Ahmad Lawan running, and he was even declared the candidate of the APC at a point. “So, at this juncture, we can’t even take them seriously when they say they are going to zone, it is a fallacy. They keep on deceiving people with that zoning thing. “So, if you want to zone, be fair. If the APC is talking about zoning, their track record about zoning has not been realistic and is not something that somebody will hold onto,” Imasuen added. Reacting, the Chief Whip, House of Representatives, Mohammed Tahir Monguno (APC Borno), said what the opposition is planning is a fruitless effort that will fall like a pack of cards. According to him, despite the number of seats held by the opposition, they will never come out with a single voice and cannot produce the Speaker or Deputy Speaker in the 10th National Assembly. “Even if they field candidates, it will be fruitless because the APC members are united and will work together to produce the Speaker, the Deputy and the other positions. “Whatever is happening now is the usual political moves to rally around the various candidates before things are finalised. I am telling you, we’ll come out with one voice as the ruling party before the elections. “We’ll bring out our candidates before the elections as we did during Femi Gbajabiamila’s election. “We’ll bring out the candidates and we’ll unite because we are still the majority. So, even if they field their candidates, they are not going to win. By law, they are allowed to field candidates. “The only exception is that a first-time member cannot contest. It is only a ranking member that can contest,” he said. Another Emilokan Emerges Against this backdrop, the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhassan Ado Doguwa (APC, Kano) has formally declared for the speakership of the 10th House of Representatives billed to be inaugurated in June this year, saying it is his time for him to preside over the affairs of the House. Doguwa, who spoke with newsmen on Wednesday at the Transcorps Hilton Hotel in Abuja, said it was his turn because he had stepped down for the current Speaker, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, and had paid his dues in the party. He promised to stabilise the House and ensure a cordial working relationship with the executive and judiciary arms to nip in the bud the avalanche of challenges bedevilling the country. Doguwa said: “By the special Grace of God, I stand out as the oldest serving member from the North-West zone in the House, and with the support of my colleagues, I am the Leader of the North-West and the Leader of the APC Caucuses in the House. “God willing, I will be the Speaker that would see through the implementation of the Renewed Hope 2023-Action Plan for a better Nigeria anchored by our amiable and tested President-elect, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Fast forward to 2019-2023, 9th Assembly, in keeping faith with the convention of the House, when the speakership position was zoned to the South-West, it was only natural that my brother and good friend, Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, the then Majority Leader, was the only one adopted for the speakership position, the rest is now history. “Just like our Speaker, I am also serving out my 5th term in the House. I have served as Chief Whip, House of Representatives 2015 to 2019, and currently, Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, working harmoniously with my Speaker.” Regardless, a group under the auspices of Defenders of Constitutional Democracy (DCD), on Thursday, alleged that the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, and his deputy, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, were secretly plotting to alter the subsisting Senate Standing Order and Rules on ranking to facilitate the emergence of a non-ranking senator-elect as Senate President in the 10th National Assembly. The National Convener of DCD, Mr. Aliyu Abdullahi, yesterday, warned that such a move would backfire as it is unconstitutional and alien to best democratic practices. Abdullahi said: “We want to inform distinguished senators-elect and indeed all Nigerians that we have uncovered an unholy, secret and insidious plot by the outgoing Senate President, Ahmad Lawan and his Deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege to amend the Senate Orders and Rules, which provides that only ranking senators shall be elected as presiding officers. “We have reliable information that the duo (Lawan and Omo-Agege) are working in cahoots to impose a puppet on the 10th Senate as president. “It is unthinkable that the Senate’s president and his deputy would want to indulge in such an act just to spite a particular senator who has an overwhelming capacity and whose pedigree the president-elect is comfortable and willing to work with. “We want to state categorically that this move cannot stand because it is a clear violation of Section 311 of the 1999 (as amended, Fifth Alteration, No. 8), which has provided that only the standing orders and rules of a subsisting Assembly shall be used in the election of principal officers at the state and National Assembly. “Recall that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fifth Alteration) (No.8) Act, 2023 alters Sections 54, 96 and 311 of the Constitution to stipulate a quorum of at least two-thirds of members-elect for inauguration or first sitting of the Senate, House of Representatives and State Houses of Assembly, respectively and also mandates the use of existing standing orders of each legislative house at the inauguration. “As Defenders of the Constitution, we have already taken steps to seek judicial intervention by filing an originating suit at a Federal High Court. We are waiting for a date for the commencement of proceeding. “We warned that nobody should surreptitiously alter or produced any fake aspect of the standing orders without approval and adoption by members. “The amendment to Section 311 of the Constitution now provides that the standing orders of each house before its dissolution will be used for the first sitting of a new assembly and may be modified within reasonable time after the inauguration and first session of the assembly.” “Our dear Nigerians, this amendment has finally and effectively put a nail on the coffin of any amendment of the standing orders of the Senate before the inauguration of the 10th Assembly. “Since the subsisting orders provides for a ranking senator to be elected as president or deputy president of the Senate, there is no room for a fresh senator-elect to emerge as Senate’s president and we warn that anybody thinking of such should desist from forthwith because we will not allow such illegality to stand. “We, therefore, advise Lawan and his deputy, Omo-Agege and their co-travelers to perish the thought of foisting a first-time lawmaker as the presiding officer of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria when we have eminently qualified senators from the South-south who can function effectively as the presiding officer of the 10th Senate. It is illegal, unlawful, unconstitutional and unacceptable. “The intendment of the ranking provision in the Constitution is to tap from the experience of lawmakers, engender proper legislative processes, which new lawmakers may not be exposed to. “It is, therefore, undemocratic for outgoing legislators who benefitted from the ‘ranking’ provision to now be planning to scuttle the implementation of such a beautiful piece of legislation.” “Section 311 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria states (1) the provisions of this section shall have effect until the National Assembly or a House of Assembly exercises the powers conferred upon it by section 60 or 101 of this Constitution as appropriate. “The standing orders of the Senate established under the former Constitution shall apply in relation to the proceedings in the Senate established under this Constitution. “The standing orders of the House of Representatives established under the former Constitution shall apply in relation to the proceedings in the House of Representatives established under this Constitution. “The standing orders of a House of Assembly established under the former Constitution shall apply in relation to a House of Assembly of a state established under this Constitution. “The standing orders of the former legislative houses referred to in subsections (2), (3) and (4) of this section, shall apply in relation to a legislative house with such modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Constitution.” Despite the arguments for or against the qualification of non-ranking members, senator-elect and governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, on Tuesday informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to vie for the office of president of the 10th Senate. The South-East Question Speaking after meeting Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Umahi said “justice, equity and fairness” must guide the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) when zoning the principal offices of the 10th National Assembly. His visit to Buhari followed similar ones by former governors, Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom) and Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara), both of whom are also seeking the senate presidency seat. “I think that every region clamouring for the presidency of the Senate to be zoned to it is the right of such people. If you look at the true reflection of our society, you will agree with me that the right thing to be done by our leaders without prejudice to their rights and thinking is that the South East deserves the number three position. “This is very important and I have always said that you can deliver somebody by the reason of the majority votes of particular regions but you also need the cooperation of the minority people to have a holistic nation to govern. “So, for inclusiveness, unity of the country and for everybody to be carried along, the South East deserves the position and so far, nobody has been able to say this is the reason why the South East should not be given that position and I am pleading for that,” Umahi said. The governor, who said the South East made considerable contributions to the victory of the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, advised the party against gauging its choices of candidate by vote contributions alone. According to him, the candidate to emerge must be one who gives the APC a fighting chance in the June election. “I know what effort we made as a people for the unity of the country. I know the way we were regarded and we understand that we are stronger while we are together and we made vows to our people while we were campaigning for APC, we assured them that we belong to an equitable and fair Nigeria. “Now, it has come to a point where that position we took should be put to practice and that is what we are begging for because the chain is as strong as the weakest link and it is time for healing, inclusiveness as well as the time to move this country forward,” the governor said. On his campaign to have the Senate rules changed so that a new member can emerge as the president, he said despite being a fresh man, he has enough experience in the public sector as a two-term governor and from the private sector as a businessman, to lead the 10th senate “If you check my pedigree, you’ll find out that I am a man who has handled his businesses from scratch to multi-billions. I was dealing with people. I was not dealing with sticks. That is experience. “I was a party chairman twice for up to five years. I have managed a state successfully for almost eight years. I have all the experience, humility, honesty and integrity,” the governor added. On a note of caution, a pro-Bola Tinubu presidency group, Renewed Hope Advocates, RHA, has cautioned contenders for leadership positions in the 10th National Assembly to avoid religion and ethnicity-based campaigns as it is counterproductive. Director-General of the group, Olufemi-Daniels Agbaoku, in a statement, said the direction the campaigns for the office of the Senate president and House speakership had assumed was becoming disturbing because of the deliberate move to bring religion and ethnic cards into it. He said: “One of the greatest takeaways from the election of the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is that it has defeated religion in the politics of our nation with his Muslim-Muslim ticket, and all we have to do now is sustain that effort and take out that enemy of Nigeria (religion) from her politics. “After all, this is not the first time we are having same faith leadership at the National Assembly and heaven did not fall. In fact, the Muslims never made a fuss of it. But the Christians cannot continue to stoke religion politics, because it is nothing but defeatist. “In our not-too-distant-history, we had a David Mark and Ike Ekweremadu head the National Assembly leadership and both were Christians, who held their grounds without pandering to sentiments. We have to move past this and the 10th National Assembly provides the opportunity for that.” Agbaoku continued: “If we recall, running a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket appeared the biggest challenge for Asiwaju Tinubu, but the man held his ground, because he knew what damage religion has done to the fabric of our politics and God eventually used him to kill that monster in our politics. “The election of the 10th National Assembly is part of the 2023 run and the federal legislature is not an appendage of the executive but a distinct and complementary arm of government. It should be allowed to choose the best of them in the overall interest of the nation. This is part of moving past primitive religion and ethnic politics,” he added. This advice may, however, go unheeded as the ruling party insists on having Tinubu’s input in the entire process of electing presiding officers of the federal legislature, and this means largely imposing officers on that organ of government. Nonetheless, the process of leadership emergence in the lower chamber appears to hold more interest for observers who are eager to see how the opposition is able to bring its weight to bear on the process.