ABUJA  – Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) says that it is not about to stop the use of technological solutions in correcting urban planning problems in the Nation’s capital. Making this known, director of the Department of Development Control, Murkhtar Galadima, said technology remains a major means of developing the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to an acceptable standard. Galadima, said through technology all challenges of developing a city will be identified and corrected without creating more trouble. This comment is a reaffirmation of an earlier promise by Minister of the FCT, Mohammed Bello on his administration’s commitment to the FCT master plan. Bello had revealed during the maiden retreat organised for the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) Board members and the Executive management committee on the need not to deviate for the masterplan. But, Galadima stated earlier in the week that the FCTA was exploring technical processes to ease the pressure being put on the city by illegalities against the planned development to return it to a modern Federal Capital. According to him, during the planning of the territory, there was low technology to use in correcting some irregularities but with the advanced technical knowledge most of the violations caused by the residents are being checked. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said the planning of the territory since it became the nation’s capital provided room for flexibility because of the certainty and changes, and that the challenges in context can only be addressed with the use of technology. POLL “In developing a world-class city, there are dynamics of city development because nothing is constant, changes are inevitable, so the good thing about Abuja master plan is that it provides room for that flexibility, so we are using technology to achieve results. “The Abuja master plan was prepared during the military era and most of Abuja life was governed by the military, there were some areas that were considered not developable but now with the advent of advanced technology you could develop them. “Looking at the population explosion people rush into Abuja for economic reasons, which is putting so much pressure but we are identifying the challenges and making proposals on how to manage them so that the master plan will be respected,” he said.