ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party has explained why it insisted on a live broadcast of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal. The party said that live telecast would enhance transparency and boost citizens’ confidence in the judicial process. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday in Abuja, the spokesman of the party, Hon. Debo Ologunagba restated the party’s confidence in the ability of the Judiciary to discharge its Constitutional duty dispassionately based on the evidence before it. The party said: “As you are aware, the pre-hearing session in our petition before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal commenced today (yesterday), Tuesday, May 9, 2023. “At the Pre-hearing Session today (Tuesday), our legal team announced the filing of a motion on notice before the PEPT requesting a live broadcast of the proceedings of the court. “This application, which is innocuous, is in the interest of openness which is an essential ingredient of participatory democracy especially as Nigerians are desirous of being directly involved at every stage of the electoral process. “The PDP and Atiku Abubakar have a water-tight petition. Our facts and body of evidence are incontrovertible. Our party restates its confidence in the ability of the Judiciary to discharge its Constitutional duty dispassionately based on the evidence before it.” Congratulating the Osun State Governor, Ademola Adeleke over his victory at the Supreme Court on Tuesday, the presidential candidate of PDP, Atiku Abubakar said that his victory is a testament of unwavering dedication and perseverance. POLL “I am excited to extend my heartiest congratulations to Gov Ademola Adeleke on his recent affirmation by the Supreme Court as the Governor of Osun State. Your victory is not just a testament to your unwavering dedication and perseverance, but it also symbolizes the trust and faith the people of Osun State have vested in you,” Atiku said. He said that his journey to this monumental accomplishment has been characterized by tenacity and a staunch belief in the democratic process, adding, “Your success at the Supreme Court reaffirms the robustness of our judiciary and the strength of democracy in our nation. “I wish you every success in your endeavours as you continue to lead Osun State into a promising future. Congratulations once again on your well-deserved victory.” The PDP governors under the aegis of PDP Governors Forum, described Adeleke’s victory as confirmation of truth over falsehood. The Governors’ Forum, in a statement by its Director General, CID Maduabum, also described the victory as a vivid affirmation of the will of the Almighty God in the affairs of Osun State, and without fear or bias, sealing the choice of the people of Osun State whose determination has finally seen light at the end of the tunnel. “This judgement reflects the will of the people of Osun State and a triumph of democracy and due process in Nigeria; and for which we commend the five-man panel of the Apex Court for rightfully setting aside the erroneous judgement of the Election Petitions Tribunal, and for consolidating on the Appeal Court’s earlier verdict. “The news of the apex court verdict did not come as a surprise because of the massive support that Governor Adeleke received and has been receiving from the people and residents of Osun during and after the Governorship Election; and for this, the Forum celebrates the people of Osun State for their dedication and steadfastness which is even more evident in the total support given the PDP at the February/March general elections which saw the party clinching most of the seats at the National and State elections. “The Forum prays for wisdom and God’s favour in the life of Gov. Ademola Adeleke as the affirmation of this mandate has cleared the path for him to settle down in the enormous tasks of rendering selfless services to his people and taking Osun state to greater heights. “Once again, congratulations on this memorable day!” the Governors said.