Foursquare International Church has spread its evangelical net to Trinidad and Tobago while appointing a Nigerian, Dr. Osaren Emokpae, as the pioneer president and National Leader of the Church in that country. According to reports made available to Sunday Independent, Foursquare has concluded plans to formally establish its first Church in Princess Town in the multi-island country. Emokpae is an astute publicist and Chief Consultant, at Mindshare Communications Limited. His election came shortly after a successful International Mission Conference in Trinidad. Emokpae said at his maiden address after his election that the covering cast over Trinidad and some other Caribbean countries is about to be destroyed by the Holy Spirit. He stated that as leader of the Foursquare Church in that country, he would focus on the inclusive ministry of total man on the word of God, prayer, and institutions. According to him, “Good news will be accompanied by good works. We will take the gospel to the homeless, youths, and those without hope, showing them that God loves them. “ Emokpae said further that he plans to build the Foursquare brand as a recognisable mission throughout the country and establish a Theological seminary along with a campus of the Ed-John Institute of Management and Technology. POLL The institute will train young people to be entrepreneurs. They will thereafter be given micro-grants to set up micro-enterprises and also help poor women to get out of poverty. To facilitate the work in the country, Emokpae will ordain Pastor Turnel Hendrickson along with his wife as Pastor-in-Charge of the first church in the country. Apart from establishing the first church in Trinidad and Tobago, the Conference inaugurated the first National Board of Directors that included Emokpae as the National President, Pastor Turnel Hendrickson as Director for Home Missions and Pastor Samuel Olubode as National Secretary. Since his appointment and installation, a number of notable individuals both within and outside the church have been sending congratulatory messages to him. Among the many messages is that of Foursquare Associate Director for Global Expansion and Coordinator of Foursquare Caribbean, Pastor Jonathan Hall. The General Overseer and National Leader, Foursquare Gospel Church Nigeria, Rev. Sam Aboyeji, President International Refreshing Ministries Chicago, Rev Dr. Olu Farombi and Mr. Nixon Winter have also sent goodwill messages. Also on the list of those who wished Emokpae well are Rev. Dr. Richard Oloidi, the Group CEO of Insight/Troyka group, Mr. Jimi Awosika, Founder of Lapo Group, Dr. Godwin Ehigiamusoe and High Commissioner to Trinidad & Tobago, His Excellency Abubakar Ibrahim.