LAGOS  – The Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV),Lagos State Branch has lamented the increase in quackery in the profession even as it says efforts are being intensified in addressing the worrisome development. Esv. (Mrs )Olabisi Demola-Alade, the Chairman of the institution, stated this in an address she delivered at the Hope Harriman Series of Lectures at the Yaba College of Technology, Yaba to mark this year’s estate week. According to her, this worrisome development has over the years, brought into disrepute, the image of the profession. She was quick to add, that all hands are on deck to ensure that the incidence of quackery was brought to the barest minimum. Demola-Alade said that now is the time to fully and seriously confront the issue of quackery frontally,noting that as her tenure comes to an end in less than two weeks, She admonished the incoming executive to bring to the front burner the issue of quackery in the profession. She said the idea of the Hope Harriman Series came to her when she was barely two months in office. According to her, she wondered that if the National body could celebrate the first estate surveyor and valuer,Esv.John Ekpeyong, what stops the Lagos Stste Branch from also honouring its first Chairman, Hope Harriman. POLL This she said culminated in the maiden edition of the series which held in the same venue last year. A Guest Speaker at the event, Engineer Omolola Adetona said that the issue of building collapse has been trending for the wrong reason. According to her, every professional body in the built environment is guilty of the incidence of building collapse in the country. She added that genuine professionals in the construction industry should endeavour to address the issue holistically in order to reduce the incidence to the barest minimum. Another Guest Speaker, Esv. Dotun Bamgbola advocated that estate surveyors and valuers should imbibe new technologies in order to up their game in the profession. According to him, there is the need for the profession to be regulated as a way of reducing the incidence of quackery. Bamgbola, a Fellow if the institution and a past Chairman of the branch also, advocated what he calls collaborations, pointing out, that leveraging on each other’s strength would further enhance competence and career growth in the profession. He said: “We need to improve our profession, encourage collaboration; everything should not revolve round an individual. “We should be able to delegate functions and trust our subordinates to deliver on our behalf without bring afraid of misrepresentation