IBADAN – Oyo State Governor, Engr Seyi Makinde has promised to redou­ble his effort to complement his past achievements, particularly in the area of provision of qual­itative education by returning over 50,000 out-of-school chil­dren to classrooms through tar­geted interventions in the next four years. Governor Makinde said the decision to return 50,000 out-of-school children was hinged on the blueprint for Oyo State Roadmap for Sustainable De­velopment 2023 – 2027, which refocused on four pillars: the Economy, Education, Health­care and Security. Makinde disclosed this during his inaugural address at the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium on Monday shortly after he was sworn together with his Depu­ty, Barrister Bayo Lawal by the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Iyabo Yerima. According to him, ”Another policy that will remain in place is the 15-20% budgetary allo­cation to education. We must urgently continue to reduce the infrastructure deficit in our public primary and secondary schools. So, we shall focus on building classrooms and other needed facilities in underserved areas in the State”. The Governor said during his first term in office under Omituntun 1.0, over 50,000 children were returned to the classrooms, through targeted interventions, such as maintain­ing the no-fees in public schools policy, adding that he planned to return another 50,000 to the classroom in the next four years. While expressing appreci­ation to the people of the state for their overwhelming votes re­corded during the last election, Makinde noted that the votes were far greater than what he got in the 2019 election. ”Four years ago, I took an oath before God and you, the good people of Oyo State. I pledged to put aside my self-in­terest to serve you to the best of my ability. Today, I stand before you to renew that pledge and reaffirm these solemn words, I will always put your interests first. ”And as we usher in Omitun­tun 2.0 on this day, I see another opportunity to reflect on our first term in office, recall our promis­es made and promises kept, and renew those promises you have given us another opportunity to keep. POLL “We have worked hard to stimulate and accelerate eco­nomic and social development in Oyo State. As promised, we have extracted value from once-moribund facilities and abandoned projects in Oyo State.”