The first biennial International Maternal Newborn Health Conference (IMNHC2023) in Cape Town, South Africa ended last Thursday with an urgent call for African countries, including Nigeria to invest in building a strong health system with improved data for planning to lessen newborn deaths. The call came as experts at IMNHC bemoaned that progress in reducing the number of maternal, newborn, and child (MNC) deaths worldwide in recent years is marginal and inadequate to meet the global United Nations (UN) SDGs targets. A new report released at the conference estimated that there were a combined 4.5 million maternal, and neonatal deaths and stillbirths in 2020, worldwide. However, on maternal mortality, the report revealed that there was a decline of 34 percent since 2000, but stagnation from 2015 to 2020 as maternal deaths stood at 287,000 in 2020. The latest estimate was contained in the progress tracking report by the WHO, UNICEF, and the UNFPA was launched on Tuesday at the just-ended IMNHC 2023 released last Tuesday by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The report, titled, “Improving Maternal and Newborn Health and Survival and Reducing Stillbirth: Progress Report 2023,” revealed a stall in progress in Maternal, Newborn, and Child Health (MNCH) worldwide, especially in African countries, such as Nigeria. Concerning Under-5 and neonatal mortality, the decline continues in the region, but some slowdown (2.3 million neonatal deaths), the WHO report noted. However, on stillbirths, there were 1.9 million deaths in 2020, down from 2.4 million in 2010, according to the report developed UN Inter-Agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation, titled, Levels and Trends in Child Mortality. Decrying the trend, the report said that the figure sub-Saharan Africa has the highest and increasing share of the mortality burden being driven by a slower decline of mortality rates, and increasing share of births in the world. POLL In Nigeria alone, a new global maternal mortality report by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) showed that 82,000 women die from pregnancy and childbirth-related complications every year. Over the past five years, Nigeria’s infant and under-five mortality rates have remained steady in Nigeria, at 74 and 117 deaths per 1,000 live births, respectively, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). Further, Nigeria, the most populous country in Africa, is currently ranked second after India, the report showed. According to the report, 788 women and children died “per thousand” in India, while 540 perished “per thousand” in Nigeria in 2020. In the same year, India accounted for 17 percent of all maternal, neonatal, and stillbirth fatalities worldwide, whereas Nigeria accounted for just twelve percent. Eight other countries with high maternal, neonatal, and stillbirths are Pakistan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Bangladesh, China, Indonesia, Afghanistan, and the United Republic of Tanzania. Reacting, Dr. Koki Agarwal, Director, MOMENTUM Country, and Global Leadership, lamented that the world was moving at about one-fourth of the pace needed to reach the health-related SDG targets before Covid-19, whose impact has further reduced that prospect. We were off track to reach many health-related SDGs before the pandemic – and we are even more off track now, Dr. Agarwal told Press Fellows during a press briefing that heralded the IMNHC conference. She added that the impact was more in sub-Saharan Africa, with the exception of southern Africa. But, many programmes, including those serving the health needs of women and newborns, were deprioritised or paused due to a focus on, and disruptions from, the COVID-19 pandemic. Global trends that are impacting maternal and newborn health, including, urbanisation, food insecurity, conflict, digital transformation, and climate change, the physician and seasoned public health practitioner noted. Similarly, IMNHC experts stressed the need to invest in the building blocks of our health system, including better data to improve planning, monitoring, and evaluating the health system and a well-equipped workforce, especially with more midwives. Indeed, participants at a panel held at the opening plenary of the IMNHC 2023 titled: “Exemplars of Country Success in Improving Maternal and Newborn Survival,” demonstrated that high maternal and newborn deaths are reversible and preventable across the world. These include celebrated personalities, Dr. Zulfi Bhutta, Founding Director, Sick Kids, and Dr. Nana Twum-Danso, Senior Vice President, Institute for Healthcare Improvement. Others are, Dr. Sudha Sharma, Former Secretary, Ministry of Health and Population, Nepal CIWEC Hospital and Travel Medical Center, and Dr. Meseret Zelalem, Maternal, Child, and Adolescent Health Director, Federal Ministry of Health Ethiopia. They noted, there is a need to connect the dots between women’s health and what underpins it, including promoting and protecting gender-related issues. Women’s access to sexual and reproductive health services, including family planning, is a fundamental right. Together, the world can avert 30 million maternal and newborn deaths and stillbirths worldwide by 2030, including more than 15 million in Africa alone. Unarguably, investment in building strong health systems with improved data for planning among other things would lessen newborn deaths in Sub-Saharan countries such as Nigeria. The time is now.