ABUJA – Some elected members of the incoming 10th National Assembly on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), have said that the party reserves the right and final say on what zone produces presiding officers of the Assembly. This was a common view expressed by the former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Sen. Godswill Akpabio and the spokesman if the outgoing 9th Assembly, Hon. Benjamin Okezie Kalu, while speaking on the sidelines of the ongoing induction programme for elected members and Senators in Abuja on Monday. Reacting to a question regarding the expected zoning of presiding officers’ positions by the ruling party, Akpabio who’s been named as the party’s choice for the seat of President of the Senate said aggrevied colleagues would eventually see reasons with the party and join forces with its choice to move the country forward. He said talks about whether he will do well as the Senate president doesn’t bother him as he believes it’s God who gives power and that He would use his colleagues to support his aspiration according to His will. “It is a normal thing for people to move one direction or the other. I am not worried about anything because I believe that the will of God will be done. In terms of being the Senate President, it is in the hands of my colleagues, the Senators elect. They will take the decision and the will of God will be done. “The lawmakers are the ones choosing the Senate President. But I believe that there should be cooperation between the lawmakers and the party. Once the leadership is out in place, there should be cooperation between the leadership and the administration,” Akpabio said. Also speaking on the issue of zoning, Hon. Kalu, (APC, Aboa), who has gotten the nod of the party to become deputy Speaker to Hon. Tajudeen Abbas toed Akpabio’s line, saying that party plays a key role in determining who emerges Speaker or deputy in a “democratic environment like ours.” According to him, cohesion would lead to consolidation of the House and by extension the National Assembly in order for the party and incoming administration to succeed. POLL “A more consolidated House is better for the incoming administration if the objectives set by it is to be achieved. We must work as a formidable front towards confronting the hydra headed problems confronting us as Nigerians. “In a democratic clime like ours, the ruling party play a key role in setting up the structure of government. For some of us who believe in the supremacy of the party, we will always tag along the position of the party. My ambition was to be the Speaker of the House of Representatives. It is the party that gave me the platform to come to the House of Representatives. “Consider the reasons I advanced for wanting to be in that position which is the absence of a south easterner in that position for 40 years and the fact that we have men of capacity and competence that will be able to handle the responsibility of that mandate effectively. But at the end of the day, the decision will be reached by the party that gave us platform to be winners and be here. “I heard that a decision has been taken by the party and we are waiting for that pronouncement. We are also ready to go along with what the party wants in the spirit of being a true party man. That is the only way we can have cohesion in our party, the only way our party will be respected,” he said. Kalu also emphasized the importance of lobbying and canvassing for votes from colleagues beyond the party’s endorsement, saying, “in a democratic system, people lobby for votes. It does not end with the party saying this is the direction we are going. You have to reach out to the minority parties and groups made up of people fo different orientations. It is up to them to align with the philosophy that best capture their interest. So, we have work to do. To say the minority groups should be ignored will be living in fools paradise. To say they will remain as they are and not join the APC in the quest to produce the presiding officers will not be as expected in any democratic system where you have the majority…” He expressed optimism that the APC will close ranks with key opposition members to ensure that the party’s position is realized and sustained in the life of the administration. “I am very confident that my party will bring many of them on board in our aspiration to lead the house. You don’t expect a government to be formed and the oppositions give you presiding officers. If they give you Presiding officers, it would mean that you are going to depend on the opposition to move policies of government and that will be a headache. We are working hard because we know their importance and relevance. But we have to work extra hard to bring them to our fold. It is a power play, but we will get into the field to get the work done.” Both Senator Akpabio and Kalu, as well as Speakership hopeful, Tajudeen Abbas have all been named as the party’s choices for Senate President, Deputy Speaker and Speaker respectively.