The contest for honours in the annual sports and cultural festivals competition organised by the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has kicked off at the zonal levels nationwide. Speaking at the flag-off of the South-west zone holding at the Gateway International Stadium, Sagamu, the Ogun State NYSC Coordinator, Mrs. Winifred Shokpeka, in her welcome address, welcomed athletes and officials from the Osun, Oyo, Ondo, Lagos, Kwara, and Ekiti states to the competition. She said, “I am highly delighted to welcome everyone to the Zonal competition of the NYSC 2023 Sports and Cultural Festivals, holding in Ogun State. “I wish to thank God on behalf of everyone for arriving at the venue safely and pray that at the end of this epoch-making event, you shall all return to your destination in peace.” Shokpeka commended the Ogun State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Dr.Kehinde Oluwadare for his love toward the Scheme and lauded his interest and participation in its programmes and activities, saying such vested interest connotes his special and personalinterest in the development of youths generally. She added,” As we all know, sports in general, is an event that avails unity of interest with a focus on success. It is an event that brings all folks together despite religion,ethnicity, language and gender to actualize a goal. It is, therefore, a practical demonstration of Unity in Diversity. Also, she explained that the Cultural Festival “Is to appreciate our divergent social talentsand God-given resources in our corporate existence. “The rhythm and rhymes of our social heritage, and collective participation of everyone to gleanthe euphoria of love and unity.” POLL According to Shokpeka, “The NYSC Sports and Cultural Festivals anchor on these tenets”, saying all the participants are youths from different states, cultural backgrounds, different schools and religious backgrounds who have come together to demonstrate in a lively competition and relaxation. “ To the athletes, she said, “I enjoin you to have the spirit of sportsmanship during the competitions. Show more love amongst yourselves and make more friends.” Shokpeka thanked the NYSC Director-General, Brigadier-General Y.D Ahmed for his lovefor the youths and focus to enable them to develop their minds and spirits in a time like this when the nation needs to embrace love and unity to move forward. She expressed gratitude to the trainers, and officials and prayed for the competition to end well so that all will be happier, leave in peace and be more bonded as Nigerians.