LAGOS – Africa lost at least $86 billion and six mil­lion jobs between 2020 and 2021 in the tourism sector due to the out­break of COVID-19 pandemic, the Ghana Tourism Authority (GTA) has said. The continent also lost a huge decline in international tourism within the period. Speaking at the sixth edi­tion of Accraweizo with the theme: ‘Tourism Development Through Digitalisation,’ held in Accra, Ghana, Mr. Ekow Sampson, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Ghana Tour­ism Authority (GTA), said that the pandemic severely affected the growth of tourism develop­ment on the continent. According to him, in Ghana alone, international tourism arrivals declined by 68.5 per cent, from 1.130,307 in 2019 to 355,108 in 2020. Sampson explained that prior to the outbreak of the pandemic, the global tourism sector, which was nearly three times larger than agriculture, amounted to 10.3 per cent of the world’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), or approxi­mately $ 9.6 trillion. The statistics indicated that in 2019, international visitors globally, spent approximately $1.8 trillion, which represent­ed 6.8 percent of total exports, while the sector equally ac­counted for one-quarter of all new jobs created globally and made up 10.3 percent of all jobs, totaling 333 million. But, he lamented that the outbreak of COVID-19, made nonsense of all the gains in the sector, reducing its contri­butions to the global GDP by nearly half in 2020 and subse­quently recovering slowly in 2021 to a total global GDP con­tribution of $5.8 trillion. He added: “In 2020, over 62 million jobs were lost in the tourism sector, and spending by domestic and internation­al visitors declined by nearly 50 per cent and 70 per cent, respectively. POLL “Distinguished partici­pants, the COVID-19 pandemic situation in Africa and Ghana were not different from the global tourism perspective painted above. Before the global lockdown, 68.8 million people came to Africa as tour­ists in 2019. “These tourists and their spending power contributed to 6.8 per cent of Africa’s GDP and 25.48 million jobs to the continent. However, by the time the pandemic hit, almost six million jobs and $86 billion had been wiped out in Africa. In Ghana, International tour­ism arrivals declined by 68.5%, from 1.130,307 in 2019 to 355,108 in 2020.” Sampson, however, can­vassed for synergy and adop­tion of digital by players in the tourism sector in West Africa to remain current and relevant. He insisted that internet and information technologies are crucial on all operational, structural, marketing, and strategic levels to facilitate global communication be­tween suppliers, consumers, and intermediaries. This, he said allowed busi­nesses to increase their overall efficiency and effectiveness, stressing that the tourism in­dustry is being transformed by a number of key technol­ogies, including virtual and augmented reality, artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT), social media and others. Also, Dr. Mohammed Awal, Minister of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Ghana, reiterated that players in the tourism industry should adopt tech­nology for proper growth and competition. He noted that tourism players could use the power of digitalisation to create an environment that encourages innovation and competition, which also provides a platform for business to reach new cus­tomers and capture more of the existing market. “But, this transformation must come with safeguards to protect consumer rights. We must ensure that the right data is collected and stored se­curely, and that customers are informed about their digital footprints,” he said. Also, Mr. Ikechi Uko, the Convener of Accraweizo, in his welcome address, said that there are more than 400 million people in West Afri­ca, which makes it the most populous region in Africa, but observed that its tourism embrace was low.