The zoning of leadership positions in the House of Representatives may have stoked a major crisis in the ruling party as Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase on Wednesday led some Speakership aspirants and ranking Representatives elected under the All Progressives Congress (APC) on a protest visit to the party’s National Headquarters. The party members who registered their grievances during a meeting with members of the APC National Working Committee (NWC), led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, said they were shocked to read that the various leadership positions of the 10th Assembly have been zoned and micro-zoned to individuals without necessary consultation as promised by party. They lamented that those who were aspiring for different positions were not even invited to the meeting where the decision was taken by party hierarchy to support some of the candidates. The Deputy Speaker said the action of the party amounted to betrayal and breach of trust and demanded that the whole matter be revisited. He was equally embittered by the decision to microzone two principal offices to the Northwest while denying the North Central geopolitical zone Recall that the APC had on Monday, this week, endorsed Tajudeen Abbas (Kaduna) for the speakership and Ben Kalu (Abia ) for Deputy, a decision the other aspirants have kicked against. Both men were earlier today introduced to the President-elect before jetted out to Europe. Rt Hon Wase decried the rumoured criteria for the nomination of candidates for the House Speaker, wondering when PhD and the number of bills passed have become qualification criteria for those aspiring to lead their colleagues in the green chamber The Plateau State-born lawmaker said he was particularly irked that when he confronted the current Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila over the issues, he vehemently denied that he was propping a particular candidate for speaker against a time-tested ranking arrangement. He accused Speaker Gbajabiamila of allegedly misleading the President-elect, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu while plotting to produce the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the 10th Assembly. POLL Wase argued that assuming he(Wase) is not qualified to succeed Gbaja, the same cannot be said of Doguwa, the Chief Whip and Hon. Betara the House Appropriation Committee Chairman both of whom ue said have served the party at high levels. “As I speak to you sir, I want to say categorically that none of us here was approached or consulted even for a second to find our opinion and thoughts on what was going to be done or what has happened. First, we say on social media any plan could come up. ” Unfortunately, while watching television, we saw the spokesman of our party confirming that there was negotiation or consultation and that was why those lists were produced. It is unfortunate. This is a party that the crux is hope, is a party that have been leveraged to the country. This a party that we’re expecting, galvanizing and bringing us into one entity called Nigeria to serve better. Your Excellency, sir, that is the crux of matter and we feel betrayed by that action. We feel as if our contributions are not recognized, we feel as if we are not members of this family. We feel that we have given our best but now the best is no longer needed. “And unfortunately, amongst the criteria that were issued for the emergence of the persons is a number of bills, PhD we don’t know when National Assembly has turned to that. We don’t know when criteria of such had been set and it may interest the chairman and members of the working committee, while we are doing the campaign, an attempt was made by the speaker to call us we respectfully went there, we sat and when he said he wants us to come up with a consensus and build with him we said yes, fine. We’re willing to do that. We took pictures we sent to the world and we agreed. But after that meeting, there was another meeting and in that meeting, Your Excellency I made bold to tell the speaker we are told you are rooting for this particular person but he swore to us and swore to God that it was not so. I said, no, it in the public domain. He said no, it’s not true. “Speaker (Gbaja) alone, Your Excellency, cannot produce Speaker and produce Deputy speaker. I came into National Assembly in 2007 by the grace of God, I’m into my fifth term. I came in as a member of AC to ACN to now APC. I’ve run election on the opposition without a governor, without a councilor. And I think I’ve seen it all in terms of resilience and I dare say perseverance conquers difficulty. “We have persevered to keep unity. I want to tell this congregation sir about what I asked the speaker in one of our meetings with him, when the whole team was released, I said to him,what makes you think that what you have done will stand the test of time? I don’t know. I think I’m a better person in touch with leaders of Asiwaju family because I came under AC from 2007 until when we had the merger. “I’ve served you as deputy leader of the House, and now serving you as Deputy Speaker of the House. If you are going to do anything, what makes you think that we are not qualified? And if you’re going to look to the sideways, what makes you look and think that Ado Doguwa is not qualified? Having served as Chief Whip of the House for four years now, Leader of the House for four years, and then you think hierarchy can be destroyed. Not in parliamentary practice. “It’s never done anywhere. And I say to him, you are misleading our leader, because the leader we know is not what you are trying to show and I’m referring to the president-elect. And I don’t want to believe up to this moment that the President-Elect is the one behind this. I don’t want to believe it. And I said to him, you’re going to do this, you have the chairman of Appropriation in ranking after the leadership… “What is making you to think that you cannot go and pick Betara. Did you work and succeed and you succeeded alone as person, Femi Gbajabiamila. “It is because we’re able to stomach a lot of things that we didn’t allow the house to go on rancour. So we have sacrificed. We have worked assiduously for the party. “We are here to protest and to appeal to you to go again to look into this matter. That what had been issued out, will not stand. And we are discipline party people. I have demonstrated that when, in 2015, my brother lost I was elected chief whip, and then issues came they asked me to step down for my brother and Doguwa was given the Chief whip, I did that and I sacrificed for the system. ” I’m not a selfish politician. That did not stop there. I want to say too in 2019, Your Excellency, I was going in for speakership, I was pretty sure I was going to win. Leaders of the party call me including the President and appealed to me to step down for Hon Femi Gbajabiamila , I did that and that was how I came in to take the position of the deputy speaker. “I want to say that what has happened I think that they are taking us for granted.Sir, I don’t know whether the national publicity secretary was doing that on his own or he was doing on behalf of National work Committee because we should save ourselves from embarrassment”. Wase reminded the party of the Tambuwal revolt and the issues that led to the emergence of Senator Saraki as Senate President,warning the party not to be arrogant , especially because APC does not enjoy the majority stake in the House.of representative. In his response, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, the APC National Chairman assured his visitors that the party will take a second look at the endorsement and get back to the House members Adamu said the matter is tricky and would require the buy-in of all stakeholders of the party. “This a controversial subject matter every national assembly regime have always been a controversy. For those who have been following the history, it is the matter of us to sit and take a very good look at what is going on and be honest to ourselves, honest with the country and to our party, and we hope to get to the promise land.. We lost time because we could not talk of sharing power in the National Assembly level without our president -elect. ” He is the person who’ll run the government that we are inaugurating on may 29 and it’s only fair that we wait for him. He was out for five (5) weeks and he got back a day before we we had this meeting. So, I assure you we would do all the consultations and we would get back to you” he assured.