LAGOS – The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has encouraged Nigerian airlines to be on its International Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) registry in order to further boost the standard of their operations. This is as the United Nigeria Airlines (UNA) has promised to sustain its safety level, just as it plans to expand its operations to regional and international routes. Dr. Samson Fatokun, the Area Manager & Head of Account Management, West & Central Africa, IATA at the presentation of the IOSA certificate to United Nigeria Airlines at its office in Lagos, said that it was necessary for the country’s airlines, especially the scheduled operators to be on the IOSA registry· Fatokun clarified that IOSA was not competing with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) in entrenching safety in the industry, rather, it collaborates with the regulatory body to improve safe operations in the sector. According to him, already, there are six Nigerian scheduled operators on the IOSA registry, thereby making Nigeria the only country on the continent with such high number of operators on its registry. He further encouraged other operators to join the IOSA registry in order to further boost safety in their operations, maintaining that IATA would help the operators to continue to operate safe operations. Fatokun also lauded UNA for achieving the feat within two years of its operations, but enjoined the airline to sustain the tempo in order to be recertificated at the end of the present two years period when the certificate would be due for renewal.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “We have very few airlines in the West and Central African regions that are on IOSA registry at the moment and you are one of the few ones. For an airline that has just come onboard and within two years of operations, you are already there, that is good for the system and we hope you will be able to sustain that and that same determination that you have will continue so that you can keep on being there. POLL “In Nigeria, we have six airlines that are on IOSA registry. It is the only country in Africa that has this large number of IOSA members. There is no any other country on the continent that can boast of that, even South Africa can’t boast of it. We just want to congratulate the Nigerian operators. “IOSA come to support the regulator, the NCAA. We are working together to achieve just one goal, which is safety. Safety is our number one priority. Working with NCAA to achieve this, we can all see the result today in terms of safety on our flights and safety record. IOSA doesn’t come to take over from NCAA, but to support it.” Also, Mazi Osita Okonkwo, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), UNA said that it took the airline six months to complete the process. According to Okonkwo, the exercise was a rigorous one, but said the airline remained undaunted about the challenge and encouraged other indigenous carriers to take a cue from the airline. He emphasised that the IOSA registration was one of the steps the airline intends to take to further expand its operations on the regional routes. He said: “This thing is about safety and adherence to safety standards. It doesn’t mean that you are different from others. The reward for hard work is more hard work. This certificate will keep us awake and ready. We now have certified benchmark that we are working towards. More or less, you can say that we are now more alive to the responsibilities of operations. “Any advantage or benefit that are available for us, we are going to explore them. And we are not going to leave anything on the table. We will discharge our responsibilities and also ensure that we get our benefits.”