The Federal Government said negotiations are on-going with stakeholders over the five-day warning strike em­barked upon by members of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) on Wednesday. Fielding questions from newsmen in Abuja on Wednes­day, Director, Public Health, Federal Ministry of Health, Dr. Morenike Alex-Okoh, said the strike was of concern for government. “The situation with the doc­tors’ strike is of concern to gov­ernment and the negotiations have been on-going. “We will continue under the circumstances, so, I cannot give you any conclusive response now. “However, government, the leadership of the ministry and relevant stakeholders are meet­ing to resolve the situation as quickly as possible,” she said. NARD served notice on the Federal Government on Tues­day warning that it could not guarantee further industrial harmony should government fail to address issues raised be­fore May 29. NARD’s letter entitled, ‘Notice of Strike Action’, was signed jointly by its National President, Dr. Innocent Orji, and Secretary-General, Dr. Chikezie Kelechi.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ They stated that NARD had issued a two-week ultimatum to the Federal Government to resolve issues as contained in the ultimatum before its expi­ration on May 13. POLL Tuesday’s letter read in part: “Regrettably the issues have re­mained unresolved despite sev­eral attempts by NARD to get government to resolve them. “Rising from her extraordi­nary meeting on Monday, May 15, NARD’s National Executive Council resolved to embark on a five-day warning strike begin­ning on May 17.” The doctors are demand­ing an immediate increment in the Consolidated Medical Salary Structure to the tune of 200 percent of current gross salaries of doctors. NARD is also demanding the immediate withdrawal of the bill seeking to compel medical and dental graduates to serve compulsorily in Nige­ria for five years before getting full licences to practice. It also wants immediate domestication of the Medical Residency Training Act and a review of Hazard Allowance by state governments. Meanwhile, Sen. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment, had on Tuesday, relayed the Federal Govern­ment’s warning to the associa­tion to shelve the strike. He issued the warning shortly after receiving a letter of notification from the NARD executive on the planned strike. In a statement signed by Mr. Olajide Oshundun, Direc­tor, Press and Public Relations in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Ngige said the planned strike was illegal. “There is nothing like warn­ing strike. A strike is a strike. If they want to take that risk, the options are there. They have the right to strike. You cannot deny them that right. “Their employer has another right under Section 43 of the Trade Dispute Act, however, to withhold their pay for those five days. “If the NARD has strike funds to pay its members for those five days, no problem. “The health minister will instruct teaching hospitals to employ ad-hoc people for those five days and use the money of the people who went on strike to pay the ad-hoc doctors,” Ngige said. Ngige also said in the state­ment that upon receipt of NARDS letter, he contacted the Minister of Health, who told him that a meeting had been scheduled with the resident doctors for Wednesday. He advised the doctors to avail themselves of the op­portunity of dialogue with their employers, rather than embarking on warning strike, which is unknown to the law. Speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) President of NARD, Dr. Orji said that members were still awaiting the Federal Govern­ment’s call for negotiations. “I am still in my hotel room now and I have not received any call to come to the table to discuss the strike. “We also heard that govern­ment is planning a ‘no work, no pay’ strategy, but our position is that it should resolve issues raised because that is the only way to avoid escalation. “Issuing threats will defi­nitely worsen the problem. If no work no pay is implement­ed, our members will deter­mine how we will handle it,” he said.