LAGOS – Buba Galadima, a chieftain of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), and one-time close ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, has decried the President’s performance, as he winds down office, lamenting that Buhari has taken Nigeria 100 years back. Galadinma while speaking on Arise TV on Wednesday wished that Buhari would have left Nigeria the way he met it on May 29, 2015, stressing that Nigerians would have applauded and escorted him home to Daura on May 29. Reacting to Femi Adesina, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, who lauded Buhari’s achievements, saying that the President would not be leaving Nigeria the way he met it, Galadima said, “I think he was right when he said that the President wouldn’t be leaving the country the way he met it. I wish that he would have left the country the way he met it on May 29, 2015. We would have clapped for him and even escort him to Daura or wherever he intends to live. “The man set Nigeria 100 years back. He has divided Nigeria along religious and ethnic lines. He has left bad economic policies. When he took over the dollar exchanged for N157 per dollar and he is leaving it at nearly N800 per dollar, that is if you can see the dollar to buy. He added, “Insecurity was confined to the North-East except in some dark spots that it happened in Abuja, Kano and some few other places. Today, you cannot travel to any part of the country with your eyes closed. You have to spend the night praying that God delivers you. If that is the kind of Nigeria that Femi Adesina will want, then I pray to God to visit him with what the common people suffer daily in Nigeria. “He met the pump price of fuel at a certain figure and we know what it is today. A bag of rice sold at N7,000 but today it is N40,000 or N50,000. “There is nothing so critical to Nigerians more than security, more than food and more than the exchange rate. Once these three are down, what else would Buhari say that he has done? He hasn’t done anything to warrant being applauded,” Galadima said.