The Founder/CEO, of Chelsea Nwodo Foundation, Chelsea Chika Raphael Nwodo has, her NGO recently partnering with a Ghanaian NGO called Regal Connect Foundation According to the partners, their pet project is called “Operation Feed 5000 Nigerian And Ghanaian street kids” meant to foster children’s protection in international development. The seasoned Nollywood cum Producer made this known to newsmen today at her NGOs office today being on Monday, May 22, 2023, in Asaba, Delta State capital while fielding questions from Journalists spoke on the essence of the program. She noted further that, Chelsea Nwodo Foundation-Nigeria in partnership with Regal Connect Foundation-Ghana will host the event to be anchored on the theme: “Fan Flame Africa: Operation Feed 5000 Ghanaian-Nigerian Street Kids” as event is set to take place on July 20th to 22nd, 2023 at OSU Millennium School Field, Great Accra, Ghana aimed at bringing together both less-privileged Ghanaian and Nigerian children to feed, cloth, give them shelter, train and equip them with skills to survive in the society. Regal Connect Foundation-Ghana is a registered NGO in Ghana in line with the Companies Act 1963(Act 179) to provide humanitarian interventions, services, training and skill acquisition, outreaches and donations. Chelsea Nwodo Foundation-Nigeria is a duly registered NGO with corporate Affairs Commission whose aims and objectives are to provide social, educational and economic empowerment to women and children- especially disadvantaged and children suffering from ill-health in society. She noted that children are affected by all SDGs. According to her, SDG 10 supports protection for children with physical and mental disabilities as part of efforts towards reducing child abuse, exploitation, and trafficking and promoting freedom from violence as a priority in the international development agenda. She used the medium to appeal to other development partners to give their support in the areas such as: feeding, clothing, shelter, free medicals, skill acquisition and scholarships. The Founder/CEO of Chelsea Nwodo Foundation, Chelsea Chika Raphael Nwodo, therefore, reiterated her commitment to the welfare and protection of children in Nigeria, Africa and the rest of the world. POLL According to her, “our reputable Non-governmental Organization working in the thematic areas of empowering the vulnerable and disadvantaged Children, Women, Youths to promote, protect and guide their health, vocational, legal, socio-economic, educational rights in the society with the motto: “Keep Humanity Alive With Your Good Deeds” has will continue to support humanity, which is the best way to live on earth”. Chelsea Chika Raphael Nwodo is a development advocate who has over the years impacted positively on humanity. Chelsea Chika Raphael Nwodo is the National Deputy Secretary, the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN), a philanthropist to the core, a Movie producer/Filmmaker of global repute. Chelsea Chika Raphael Nwodo is an IMT graduate, a seasoned Nollywood Actress and the CEO of the Chelsea Nwodo Foundation.