Exactly one week to the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure, analysts said they will forever remember him as the leader with the worst performance in the economy in 24 years. Experts believe that the Katsina-born former military ruler did not hide his lack of interest in the economy consid­ering the calibre of ministers he worked with in the last eight years. “His performance was simply abysmal. It is reputed to be the government with no clear-cut agenda for the economy as the regime performed woefully com­pared with the other regimes since 1999”, said Moses Abiona, an economist and a university lecturer. Looking at performance and debts recorded since 1999, the Kat­sina-born retired general is stand­ing tall among others, they said. As of December 2022, the na­tion’s external debt stood at $41.67 billion from $7.35 billion inher­ited from the former President Goodluck Jonathan’s adminis­tration, representing an increase of $34.32 billion. Upon inauguration, former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration inherited $28.04 billion from the military govern­ment and was able to reduce this burden through a combination of debt forgiveness and outright payment and bequeathed $2.17 billion to the former President Musa Yar’Adua’s regime. The Yar’Adua’s regime in­creased it to $2.58 billion until he died in 2010. The government of Good­luck Jonathan, which succeeded Yar’Adua, took the nation’s for­eign debt profile to $7.35 billion which was inherited by the Bu­hari regime. POLL Consequently, Buhari’s re­gime has not only pushed the nation’s debt stock to its highest level but has been unable to fund the national budget in the last five years without the support of a special lending window from the Central Bank of Nige­ria (CBN), the Ways and Means advances. There is no doubt that central banks all over the world some­times help governments to fund budget deficits through Ways and Means advances, but unlike Nigeria, such loans are tightly controlled as they can fuel infla­tion and distort monetary policy. Since the government started experiencing a significant short­fall in revenue, it has relied heav­ily on the central bank to finance its expenditure programmes via Ways and Means which balance as of December 19, 2022, stood at N22.7 trillion. The Debt Management Office (DMO) in a recent statement re­vealed that Nigeria’s total public debt stock increased to N46.25 trillion or $103.11 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022. It stated that the new figure consists of the domestic and external total debt stocks of the Federal Government and the sub-national governments (36 state governments and the Fed­eral Capital Territory). The latest figure was disclosed in a statement by the DMO. According to the DMO, the comparative figure of public debt as of December 31, 2021, was N39.56 trillion or $95.77 billion. This means that the country’s debt increased by N6.69 trillion or $7.34 billion within one year. Stating reasons for the in­crease, the DMO said new borrowings by the Federal Government and sub-nation­al governments, primarily to fund budget deficits and execute projects and the issuance of promissory notes to settle some liabilities also contributed to the growth in the debt stock. It read in part, “As of Decem­ber 31, 2022, the total public debt stock was N46.25 trillion or 103.11 billion. “In terms of composition, the total domestic debt stock was N27.55 trillion (USD61.42 billion) while total external debt stock was N18.70 trillion (USD 41.69 billion).” While responding to ques­tions, Dr. Cyril Ampka, an econ­omist, said the performance of Buhari’s government in the economy did not come as a sur­prise to many considering his pedigree as a military leader. He said, “Not many are sur­prised that he couldn’t run a modern economy. The country witnessed the worst economic performance when he was a military head of state between 1983 and 1985. “What was, however, the ic­ing on the cake this time around was that he piled pressure on the CBN to open the tap for him to cover the deficits in the budget through the Ways and Means. “Nigerians will not forget this administration in a hurry for be­ing the one with no clear path for economic growth. The Economic Advisory Council (EAC) headed by Prof. Doyin Salami was just a mere ‘seminar group’ which was not given the needed tools to work”. Prof. Uche Uwaleke of Nasar­awa State University, Keffi, said any objective assessment must take into consideration the 2016 economic recession occasioned by a sharp drop in crude oil pric­es as well as the unprecedented negative impact of COVID-19 on the economy. He said, “Before the pandem­ic, the economy was witnessing relative macro stability, espe­cially concerning inflation rate and exchange rate. There’s no denying the fact that the CBN un­der the present administration has done a lot in stabilising the economy and even stimulating growth through its interven­tions, especially in agriculture. “The bank’s Anchor Bor­rower Programme which has ensured near self-sufficiency in rice production readily comes to mind. There is also noticeable improvement in roads and rail infrastructure. Overall, the non-oil sector got some traction in terms of revenue generation and dethroned the oil sector as the major economic growth driver. “Having said that, a major area where this administration has yet to make a meaningful im­pact is job creation and poverty reduction. The conditional cash transfer and other social inter­vention schemes of this govern­ment do not seem to have made any significant impact. “You are aware of the latest disturbing numbers by the Na­tional Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on multi-dimensional poverty levels involving over 130 million Nigerians. Unemployment and underemployment rates are quite high due in part to the challenge still posed by the power sector. “Regrettably, inadequate elec­tricity and scarcity of refined pe­troleum products which are key dependencies for any meaning­ful development have remained largely unaddressed. “The inability of the govern­ment to truly diversify the export base of the economy away from oil which still accounts for a significant proportion of forex earnings equally leaves a red ink on the scorecard”.