Burkitt lymphoma is the fastest growing cancer known to man. It is a type of cancer that start in white blood cells of the lymphatics system, an important part of the immune system that help the body fight off infections. It was first identified and described by Denis Burkitt in Africa in 1956. The lymphatics are embedded in the substance every organs of the body and by far the most commonly affected site in this cancer are bone and bone marrow. The classic type of burkitt is common in children living in sub-Saharan African countries including Nigeria where malaria is prevalent but can also occur in any person with a compromised immune system. There are 3 main types of Burkitt lymphoma in children CAUSES AND RISK FACTORS The exact cause of Burkitt lymphoma is not known, and risk factors vary according to geographic location. However research suggests that long term malaria infection and some specific viral infections may increase a child’s risk of having Burkitt lymphoma. The viruses that are linked to Burkitt lymphoma include: * Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)﻿, the virus that causes infectious mononucleosis. POLL * HIV, the virus that causes AIDS Burkitt’s lymphoma is the most common childhood cancer in regions where there is a high incidence of malaria, like Africa. Elsewhere, the greatest risk factor is HIV. EPIDEMIOLOGY The incidence is higher in children under 15 years in malarial holoendemic tropical rain forest of Africa. Affect as much as 100 per million children with peak age incidence at 3-14 years. The tumour is rear below 2 and 15 yearsIn Nigeria Burkitt’s lymphoma accounts for 60% of childhood malignancies SYMPTOMS The symptoms of Burkitt lymphoma often start suddenly, and the tumors tend to grow very rapidly. A child can become very sick in a few days to a few weeks. Most common manifestations of burkitt lymphoma is rapidly growing mass in the jaw bone. Symptoms of a belly (abdominal) tumor are initially not distinquishable from other cause of intestinal disease, may include Abdominal pain and swelling, nausea and vomiting, constipation and poor appetite shortly afterthe belly begin to swell gradually and rapidly causing massive enlargement of the abdomen within short time. Other symptoms may include: Painless swelling of the lymph nodes in the neck, chest, abdomen, underarm, or groin, fever, chills, excessive night sweats, easy tiring,, weight loss, itchy skin, coughing or trouble breathing. DIAGNOSIS A diagnosis of Burkitt’s lymphoma begins with taking a thorough medical history and physical examination of the tumour mass. A general physical examinations is also carried out to assess the general health status and signs of complications. A sample is taken from the tumor mass through biopsy or laparoscopy. A diagnosis can sometimes be made by bone marrow aspiration and biopsy if the marrow is involved. If the marrow is not involved, diagnosis will require sampling lymph nodes or the involved extranodal site, spinal fluid are usually examined to see how far the cancer has spread. Samples are then analysed in the laboratory by histopathologic examination to confirm diagnosis. Other test are also required to support diagnosis, management and for monitoring of response to treatment. Laboratory test Imaging studies TREATMENT Chemotherapy is the mainstay of treatment for Burkitt lymphoma. In general, 3 chemotherapy approaches are available for Burkitt lymphoma, they are as follows: – Intense short duration regimen – long-duration regimen – combination regimen followed by stem cell transplantation Regardless of the treatment other medication in addition to supportive therapy are also required. PROGNOSIS The prognosis of Burkitt lymphoma (BL) in children correlates with the bulk of disease at the time of diagnosis, before the advent of chemotherapy program affected poeple die within short period. With appropriate management the prognosis varies from excellent in children with limited disease at time diagnosis to poor in children with extensive involvement of organs.