Mikel Arteta is preparing to rebuild his entire Arsenal midfield to get ready for another title challenge next season. Granit Xhaka has now dropped a major hint that he will quit this summer as he promised an announcement on his future this week with Bayer Leverkusen determined to sign the Switzerland midfielder. Thomas Partey is also a target for Serie A clubs and Italy could be a next career move for the Ghana midfielder this summer, with two clubs thought to be keen. Partey, who turns 30 next month, was a key figure in Arsenal ’s title challenge this season but his drop in form during the run-in has only underlined the need for major squad reinforcements. Arsenal have made Declan Rice their No1 transfer target this summer with West Ham willing to sell their England midfielder to a Champions League club if they get bids in excess of £100m. They remain keen on Brighton ’s Moises Caicedo. Gunners boss Arteta has also been linked with a move for Manchester City ’s veteran midfielder Ilkay Gundogan who is out of contract at the Etihad this summer but could yet stay and Barcelona also want him. Arsenal are one of a clutch of clubs who are interested in Chelsea ’s England star Mason Mount with Liverpool and Manchester United also keen. Chelsea’s incoming boss Mauricio Pochettino may also fight to keep him. Xhaka, 30, has been at Arsenal for seven years, Arteta rates him highly as a player and as a personality but if he goes it will be with the club’s blessing and goodwill as a farewell gesture out of respect for his service and commitment. POLL It appears that he has now made his decision on his future and asked directly after Arsenal’s defeat at Nottingham Forest, Xhaka said: “You will know next week, for sure. Before the Wolves game. “I think the fans deserve that. And I do, as well. We have one more week of the Premier League season to go and I want to enjoy it and I want you guys to, as well.” Xhaka also spoke emotionally about wanting to do “something special” this season as if he was preparing to say goodbye. “Where I was three years ago and where I am today, I think I’ve grown up as a person and I’ve got my respect back,” he said. “In the dressing room everything was always fine but I got it back from the fans. “When I talked about special…I mean, how can I say it? Where I have been and how I came back and my turnaround, maybe it’s the first time in the history of the Premier League it’s been done? “It’s made me happy. It makes me proud. But this is my story, my path. How the fans have treated me, I didn’t expect that – but I am thankful for them. I want to give them something back for, maybe, my last game on Sunday. “I wanted to do something special this season, maybe with a title, but it’s not the time. Let’s see what the future holds.” Arsenal are expecting a major set of ins and outs this summer which could be seen as surprising after what has been an unexpected season as they were not expected to challenge for the title. Kieran Tierney and Rob Holding could also go while Reiss Nelson will become a free agent. Emile Smith Rowe could also be sacrificed as they look to strengthen their options with Leicester ’s James Maddison another on their radar. After such an impressive season, the growing uncertainty over some of their futures has also coincided with a dip in form during the run-in. Arsenal want to strengthen their midfield, but they also want defensive reinforcements plus a dynamic winger to provide back-up for Bukayo Saka who ran out of steam having played so many games. They may yet look to sign another striker with physical presence. What is certain is that Arteta sees this summer as arguably the biggest transfer window of his reign as Arsenal manager because they need to kick on again to challenge Manchester City.