Small and medium-scale entrepreneurs are ready to gain a market boost at the Ikorodu Sales Exhibition, organized by BrandTell Business Network (BTN). The three-day exhibition, themed, “BTN Sales Jamboree: Sales party like never before” will be held between June 20th and 21st at Ebute, Ikorodu. Speaking with journalists, Denike Fagbemi -the convener- revealed that the exhibition will assist local businesses in positioning their sales globally and drive sales for local businesses, ultimately contributing to the growth of the Nigerian economy. As of press time, the exhibition, projected to house more than 4000 attendants, has received endorsements from diverse celebrities in different sectors and chieftains in Lagos state. With maximum security and cleaning services assured, Fagbemi said that the exhibition is billed to become the largest and most sold-out in Ikorodu’s history. She said, “The country’s economy has faced a lot of instability and volatility in recent years, which has led to inflation and a weakened currency. These conditions make it difficult for businesses to operate profitably, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises which may struggle to compete with larger corporations that have the resources to navigate these challenges.” The project, according to Denike, is an extension of BrandTell Nigeria’s efforts to promote small and medium-sized enterprises in Nigeria through its push group, BrandTell Nigeria Business Network (BTN), a network of entrepreneurs spread across different sectors in Nigeria. She disclosed that the exhibition, a sequel to the first successful edition organized last year, will change the narrative amongst Nigerian consumers that cheaper goods and services come at a price of inferior quality. She added that the exhibition will also help the participants to establish business connections and network with potential clients, which include top-ranking persons from different sectors of society. “Low pricing strategy often discourages some customers, but at our upcoming exhibition, we are committed to meeting the needs of every customer. Our diverse lineup of sellers will showcase a wide range of top-quality products, so get ready to explore and discover a world of top-notch products, while also expanding your business network and securing future connections,” she said.