The idea of Nigerian citizens being almost permanently placed inside camps, humiliating and indecent enclosures, as “displaced persons” resonates as a national shame that should be terminated as quickly as possible. It is a fact that citizens occasionally find themselves displaced from their homes due to natural disasters like floods, earthquakes and sever­al other inevitable acts of God that are well beyond their control. However, when their displacement is occa­sioned by the criminal and anarchic acts of fellow human beings whether domestically or externally inflicted, such is always consid­ered as a direct affront on the sovereign will of the State to safeguard inhabitants of her territory from unfair or undeserved harms. It is still not expected that penalties for con­victed criminals would extend to endlessly placing them in concentration camps remi­niscence of the Nazis during the holocaust, much less innocent citizens. A people with a government that is con­stitutionally responsible for their security and welfare should never be subjected to the inhumanity of being classified as “dis­placed persons” from their ancestral homes and other legitimate places of permanent abode. No citizen should be made a “refugee” in his own country as that is a constitutional abomination. Criminal activities that could force citizens of a sovereign state to flee their homes can only be direct affronts on the sovereignty of the State and every sinew of State power ought to be deployed to avoid such aberrations. Ethnic and sectarian crises have for years been the cause of some bizarre incidents in which one group violently attacks another or other groups resulting in indiscriminate killings and destruction of properties with such barbarity that the victims would have no choice but to flee their homes and seek refuge elsewhere. If they were forced to flee across the borders of Nigeria it would become a matter of international humani­tarian law in which the status of “refugees” become apposite and there is a gamut of le­gal rules and protocols at play. It is however a different legal and political situation if the victims are trapped within the boundaries of their own country where they are supposedly entitled to maximum protection. Such victims are not covered by international humanitarian laws even though there are also a host of legal expec­tations with respect to how a country treats her own citizens who, for whatever reasons, are unable to return to their lawful places of residences because of the activities of crim­inals. It is a huge blight on the integrity of the Nigerian government that millions of her nationals are being kept away from their homes to live in squalor and dehumanizing conditions because of the hostile situation imposed on them by fellow citizens or in some cases, citizens aided by foreign mer­cenaries. For over twenty years, Nigeria has es­tablished a National Policy on Internally Displaced Persons coupled with a National Commission pursuant to relevant prescrip­tions under the African Union Convention for the Protection and Assistance of Inter­nally Displaced Persons in Africa and the United Nations guiding principles on In­ternally Displaced Persons as well as the ECOWAS instruments on the same subject because occasional displacement of citizens from their homes is a global phenomenon. In most cases, reasons for displacement are natural phenomena like hurricanes, tsuna­mis, tornadoes, etc. What makes Nigeria’s case abnormal is that the displacements are man-made and are almost becoming a permanent feature of our national life with bloated bureaucracies, commissions, and agencies in place to deal with the outcome of such displacements but with little or no visible efforts directed at terminating the evil development for good. We all know that bad things do happen inside of those IDPs dungeons and according to an officially commissioned study on the subject, “IDPs in Nigeria face insecurity and all forms of exploitation and abuse, includ­ing rape, camping in congested shelters, iso­lated, insecure, or inhospitable areas. IDPs are also largely separated from their fami­lies especially, unaccompanied children and teenagers, the elderly and sick, persons with disabilities and pregnant women, whose spe­cial needs and privacy are not attended to, due to fragmented and uncoordinated hu­manitarian response to the needs of IDPs”. I do not mean to say that having a national policy on internally displaced person is a bad idea. What I am questioning is the seeming resignation of the Government to the defeat­ist conclusion that IDPs have come to stay. That cannot be a valid stance by any govern­ment that claims to govern on behalf of, and for the people, more so, as the security and welfare of citizens are the primary responsi­bilities of governments. For years, especially since the return to civilian democracy in Ni­geria, successive governments have failed to put a stop to the raging sectarian and ethnic violence in parts of the country and recently, political violence, that give rise to the unfor­tunate incidents of more displaced citizens. POLL Internal displacement camps should be a temporary resort and never a permanent feature in governance. A single Nigerian in an IDPs camp is simply a representative of all of us because we cannot claim to be free and secure if some of us are denied the same privilege by those who can deny it to them at gunpoint all in absolute defiance of the State with its enormous institutional resources to promptly terminate such criminalities. It questions the responsibility of the State and its agencies to protect all citizens against un­warranted attacks and subsequent revenge attacks. It is a national moral indictment and social embarrassment that millions of citi­zens have been made to endure involuntary confinement and for so long in IDPs camps; kids born in those degrading encampments have since become adults and are indeed already growing old while waiting for the government in vain. That is a classic exam­ple of gross failure of citizens’ legitimate expectations. Nigeria must restore the honour and dig­nity of citizenship by promptly resettling these citizens back to where they belong and, more importantly, make sure that there shall be no repeat experience of whatever made them to flee their homes in the first place. The government must take the additional step of resolving the various disputes that led to the conflicts and then emphatically eliminate all the causes for the cyclical blood­letting. The State must also make it clear to all concerned, aggressors, and victims alike, that she is effectively in charge and that it has the required capacity for a fair and bal­anced umpire ready to deploy the big cor­rective hammer on anyone who flouts her sovereign authorities. This shameful phenomenon endured for that long because successive Governments lost the moral high grounds to legitimately mediate because they apparently took sides or were simply short of the requisite polit­ical will to act fairly. The ancient problem would eventually be inherited by the incom­ing Tinubu Administration which must now act differently to decisively look at these lin­gering challenges and resolve them in the new spirit of fairness, reconciliation, and national unity. No Nigerian citizen deserves to be a ref­ugee in this country and no Nigerian has the right to forcefully eject a fellow Nigeri­an from his ancestral home or residency for whatever reason as the nation’s legal order does not tolerate appeasing one citizen with the rights and privileges of another citizen because of the equal protection principles of our constitutional order. Every Nigerian should be able to live side by side with other citizens without the dis­criminatory dichotomy of “Settlers” or “In­digenes”. Struggling for allegedly scarce re­sources and economic opportunities cannot be a justification for killing and displacing each other and the missing link in all the ab­errations is the absence of governments that wholeheartedly accepted the constitutional responsibility to protect every citizen equal­ly within the ethical parameters of fairness and social justice.