The UN Global Road Safety Week 2023 was marked throughout last week from May 15-21 in line with the UN General Assembly’s mandate that the World Health Organisation WHO should plan and host periodic Global Road Safety Weeks to serve as a platform for global, regional, national and local activities to raise awareness about road safety issues, stimulate and advance responses as appropriate for the places. This years’ celebration with the theme; #RethinkMobility, is aimed at calling and drawing the attention of policy makers to make walking, cycling, and public transport safe and convenient so that people can make the shift to active, sustainable mobility. Some of the activities during the week focused on the UN theme while others looked into other prevailing challenges related to road safety in their localities that needed to be addressed also. For instance the Greatpen Global Media Limited GGML, at the Lecture and discussions it organised, has the theme; ‘Improving Safety, Security and Traffic Flow on Lagos Roads: ‘A Peep Into 2nd Term Agenda’, while the discussions looked into; ‘How to foster compliance to road safety regulations by the motoring public. The various discussants representing the heads of their various agencies gave a good account of themselves while providing the attendees with the various operational activities of their organisations to improve safety and reduce the dreaded crash situations on the roads. LASDRI Mrs. Tiamiyu, said, “There is an urgent need for all drivers plying Lagos roads to embrace and familiarise themselves with the various road signs and directions erected to enhance free flow of traffic while road rehabilitation is being carried out by the State Government. “Good eyesights are very vital when it comes to driving, hence the need for this eye tests for all the truck drivers. It is imperative for drivers not to relent in taking care of their sights as this is necessary for safety on our roads”. She added. POLL While laying emphasis on the rules of driving such as obeying, the One-Way and BRT lane traffic rules, she noted with dismay that most drivers ignore the use of seat belt, pedestrian crossings and some other safety precautions while driving, endangering the lives of road users, commuters on board and pedestrians. She appealed to all professional drivers in the state to avoid taking alcoholic beverages before embarking on any journey during and beyond the yuletide season, stating that, “Most commercial drivers indulge in consuming alcoholic drinks under the false impression that it will enhance their strength for long interstate journeys. The General Manager revealed that the institute has started developing courses that will enhance the training, educating and orientating all drivers, calling on all professional drivers to present themselves at any of LASDRI’s five training centres and annexes spread across the State for their yearly mandatory retraining exercise. The General Manager assured that the Institute will not rest on its oars until all drivers are well-schooled in the art of driving, saying the Agency had undertaken onsite training, while ensuring that its drivers’ service-platform is accessible to reduce any form of unanticipated surge for training at the Institute’s training centres across the State. She, however, reiterated the need for drivers to consciously ensure that they practice a healthy lifestyle, take necessary safety precautions before driving a vehicle and exhibit good driving culture always. FRSC, Lagos Sector Jesutomipe Mala, who represented Cdr. Babatunde Farinloye, Sector Commander, FRSC Lagos Command said: “In a mega city like Lagos, an integrated multi-modal transportation system is the key to addressing the emergence of traffic issues. “FRCS as the lead agency in traffic management is saddled with the responsibility of ensuring a safe motoring environment,” she added. Adding that the Corps has initiated a series of policies and initiatives to improve safety and maintain sanity in Nigeria roads. This includes: Driving School Standardization Policy, Road Transport Safety Standardization Scheme, Safe to load (monitoring and ensuring that safety minimum standards are maintained by articulated vehicles) and lots more. According to her the 4E’s of FRSC are; Engineering- Road Safety audit, Road safety survey, RTC Investigation and analysis; Education – Demonstrative PE, Park rally/advocacy, Domesticated Public Enlightenment ( Church, Mosque, Market and School Advocacy) Radio/TV program, Daily offenders educated. Others are; Emergency care – Prompt Rescue operations within 10-15mins of a reported crash, Toll Free Emergency Line – 122, FRSC first Responders, Hospital Follow up and Enforcement, stressing that the importance of enforcement cannot be over emphasized as man by nature does not like laws. The roles of other enforcement agencies are also very key. LASTMA According to Rover Adeoye Oluyemi, who represented Mr. Bolaji Oreagba, the General Manager, LASTMA,” Road Safety is very critical as over 80 per cent of Transportation in Nigeria is done on road. It is reported globally that Nigeria is among the 10 Countries in the world with the highest rate of Road Traffic Crashes, Injuries and Deaths in the world. “There are several ways Lagos State Government through Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) has been able to foster compliance of motorists to road safety regulations through; Public awareness campaigns and education: Road safety education programs and traffic reports are regularly aired on Lagos Traffic Radio (96.1 FM) to sensitize the motoring public, LASTMA Enlightenment and Advocacy programs are carried out in schools to catch them young in school. The entire programs have proven to raise awareness about the importance of adhering to road safety regulations, the consequences of non-compliance, and the benefits of safe driving practices. “There is a strict enforcement of road safety regulations in a combined effort by Law Enforcement agencies such as the Nigerian Police, LASTMA, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) can also foster compliance from the motoring public. “The provision of lay-bys, bus stops, pedestrian bridges, traffic signal lights, road traffic signs, speed breakers, zebra crossings and road/lane markings are efforts the state government is making to foster road safety among motorists. “Lagos State Government has leveraged technology to boost road safety enforcement and compliance in areas such as Traffic Management Solution (TMS) Device and Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system used to detect and apprehend traffic offenders. “There is a seamless collaboration between relevant agencies such as the law enforcement agencies such as LASEMA Response Unit (LRU), Lagos State Emergency Ambulance Services (LASAMBUS), Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service.” Adeoye emphasised TRACE, Ogun State Cdr. Ajibade Adekunle, Area Commander, TRACE Ogun West, represented, Cdr. Seni Ogunyemi, the Chief Executive Officer of TRACE, who stated that the creation of TRACE in Ogun came as a result of bad traffic situation in the state, giving the State a negative as the ’Mortuary of the Nation’, prompting the government to take the step to correct the perception. “it was a wonder to those in authority that why would a State with less population than Lagos and Oyo State should have such high casualties from road crashes, leading to the establishment of TRACE to reduce traffic bottlenecks and improve safety on all its roads. We are vigorously involved with educating, sensitizing and creating awareness to the need for compliance to road safety regulations with the enforcement where necessary. Lagos VIS Engineer Victor Oladesu on behalf of Engineer Akin-George Fashola, Director, Lagos VIS, said ANPR which is the Automatic Number Plate Recognition operated by the agency is able to pick the plate of vehicles with expired documents and that is the technology being used by VIS. “Our AUTOVIN which is Automatic Verification Identification Number is able to verify and know the status of any vehicle, especially stolen vehicles. The intervention of the state government and technology we have been able to reduce road crashes and carnage, whenever it occurs we can ascertain the causes. FCT ABUJA An international stakeholders workshop on road safety was held at Bolton White Hotel, Abuja on Monday last week, where, Dr. Yusuf John Suberu, the Coordinator/Leader of The Representative of the non-Governmental Organisations and Civil Society Organisation in Nigeria (NGOS/CSOS), in his welcome address stressed on the importance of safer roads to every country and several activities aimed at preventing the causes of accidents and reducing its severity by relevant agencies. He said. “The human, mechanical and environmental factors play an important role in most of the crashes. Therefore, there is an urgent need to properly inform and educate current and prospective road users on appropriate and relevant knowledge to ensure safer roads. “Data collection also plays a critical role in ensuring improved decision-making targeted at reducing accidents, efficient resource allocation and improved safety on our roads. “The NGOs and CSOs also have a critical role to play in achieving this UN Decade of Action on Road Safety 2021 – 2030 as the Government cannot do it alone. It is therefore imperative that collaborative efforts should be encouraged to enhance accurate data collection that would be translated into policies that will help us achieve the set goals of Road Safety.” Suberu advised. He hoped that at the end of this workshop, the interactions and contributions of all stakeholders and the Expert Resource Persons would reinforce the resolve to improve our data collection methods for safe and better roads in Nigeria. “In this regard, I therefore enjoin all Stakeholders to be more inquisitive for accurate data, let us also encourage everyone around us to drive within the regulated speed limits, comply with traffic officers, drive with all consciousness to reduce the occurrence of accidents and save our future as it is better to be late by 20 minutes than be truly late forever”, he implored.