ABUJA – The upper chamber of the National Assembly has joined other concerned Nigerians to plead clemency for former Deputy Senate Presidency, Senator Ike Ekweremadu. Ekweremadu and his wife, Beatrice are being held by the British government and awaiting sentencing after having been convicted by the Central Criminal Court, London, United Kingdom, (UK) for offences relating to breach of novel Modern Slavery Act, 2015. The couple and a personal physician, Dr Obinna Obeta were in March found guilty of “conspiracy to facilitate and arrange travel with the aim of exploitation,” by an Old Bailey jury. The lawmaker, who will be convicted on Friday was accused of organ harvesting. The Senate, has, however, noted that though the Ekwremadus are first offenders there is no ignorance in law, hence the plea that the British court temper justice with mercy. The decision by the Senate to plead for clemency followed a motion by Senator Chukwuka Utazi, Minority Leader during plenary on Wednesday. Utazi sought parliamentary intervention for Ekweremadu who served 12 years as Deputy President of the President. Moving the motion, Utazi said given the case of conviction of kidney organ harvesting allegation involving an Ebonyi 21 years compliant.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “Whereas the sentencing of the convict was shifted to 6th May 2023, at Old Billy court and following which the Senate on the account of the good standing of Sen. Ike Ekweremadu as its former Deputy Senate President for 12 years and the former Speaker of ECOWAS Parliament and considering the enormous contributions he did make in the development of democracy in Nigeria and West Africa and beyond. POLL “Whereas they are seen as a first offender and they do not have any previous criminal records and considering that Ekweremadu was ignorant of seeking out kidney donors to come to the United Kingdom and even applying to British Government in Abuja for a visa for the donor. “Whereas the Senate is not happy with the conviction of the Ekweremadus’ and ignorance of the law is not an excuse, but they were faced with these circumstances in a bid to save their dying daughter Sonia. “This senate is not any way appealing to the conviction of the Ekweremadus’ nevertheless it is joining them in their plea by asking for Clemency in the coming sentencing two days away.” According to Utazi, “that Clemency may be extended to the Ekweremadus’ considering that all of the convicts are first offenders.” He added that “since the matter was in the United Kingdom, that a novel approach in the sentencing of the convicts be adopted by tempering justice with mercy, as the publicity was already given to the trial was enough warning to the would-be offenders in the future. “That considering the long history of good relationship existing between Nigeria and the British government and considering that this is the first time that the Senate is making this kind of plea on the British government to yield to our request for Clemency for the Ekweremadus’ in their sentencing.” In his remark, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, who presided over the plenary said, “Distinguished Senator Ike Ekweremadus’ served for 12 years as Deputy Senate President and he put in so much effort to the development of the Parliament across Africa, and in the world, he was not found wanting and so what has happened is very unfortunate. “I have written a letter to the British judicial authorities about two-three weeks ago on behalf of the Senate seeking Clemency, given the history of Senator Ekweremadu. “We are now using this particular intervention, to seek Clemency in the sentencing, the conviction has been done, but we are seeking Clemency because this is the first time, our colleague, a patriot, a leader, a great leader, a very peaceful man is getting involved in this kind of thing. “Had we all known that this will be the case certainly we would not have gone into that kind of situation because we are law-abiding citizens and we respect our country and its laws and laws of other countries.” Recall that the House of Representatives, Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Parliament and former President Olusegun Obasanjo had also written to the British government to plead clemency Ekweremadus.