CHIBUIKE CHUKWU There is no doubt that the job of President Bola Tinubu is already cut out for him given the obvious failure of his predecessor, former President Muhammadu Buhari. Definitely from available data and indices from multiple sources, there is little to cheer from the eight years of the immediate past President of Nigeria. For instance, the country’s consumer price index (CPI), which is used to measure the level of inflation in the country rose by over 175% under Buhari’s administration, between June 2015 and May 2023, according to available data tracked from Nairametrics. During the period under review, Nigeria’s consumer price index rose from 171.6 index points recorded in May 2015 to 526.5 points in May 2023, indicating an increase of 170.2%. In the same period, the food index rose by 250.5%, while core inflation spiked by 140.2% in the same vein. The year-on-year inflation rate accelerated to a 17-year high in May 2023, following a significant rise in the cost of essentials like staple food items. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) reported that Nigeria’s inflation rate rose to 22.04% in May 2023. Nigerians now have to grapple with the high cost of virtually everything, as the underlying issues persist across the board. POLL Under the former President Buhari, virtually all indices of governance collapsed. The health index, which tracks the cost of health services in Nigeria, for example, surged by over 130.5 percent between 2015 and 2023. Within the same period, the health inflation rate is at about 20.5 percent. According to information obtained by DAILY INDEPENDENT, there is also similar debilitating inflation in other sectors of the economy for instance essentials like clothing and footwear. The index in this sector spiked by over 150 percent while the transpiration index jumped by over 151.5 percent. Meanwhile, despite the efforts of the Buhari government to reduce over dependence on the importation of foods through investment in domestic production of staples like rice, the country as it stands today is highly exposed to food crises as a result of so many factors to include rising insecurity, especially to farmers in the main food hub of the nation like some states in the North-Central and North-Western parts of the country. Although the Nigerian economy was characterised by various structural and socio-economic issues, which have seen the country maintain a double-digit inflation rate since February 2016. Surprisingly, Nigeria enjoyed a single-digit inflationary rate regime between January 2013 and January 2016. However, a combination of ineffective policies, global economic headwinds and socio-economic vices, have seen Nigerians’ purchasing power erode at a very fast pace. Today the country has maintained a double digits inflation rate of over 22 percent, which has made it very hard for households in Nigeria to raise their heads above water in terms of sustainability. While prices of luxuries in Nigeria have been completely out of the reach of average Nigerians, the prices of mere essentials like food and clothing are something that has been the cause of concern to so many Nigerians who have continually lived an unabated apprehension on where the next meal would come from. According to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recent pronouncement, the naira to dollar stands at 460.48 (official rate); however, at the parallel market, the naira is hovering between N740 and N750 to a dollar. While the posture of Nigeria’s foreign exchange market has been a source of concern to investors in the country, the hike in the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) to 20 percent from 18.5 percent last month, an increased inflation rate to 22.04 percent, portends another stream of worry for business owners and the generality of Nigerians. The hikes as mentioned above will further hurt the financial outlook for Nigerians, especially with the impending removal of fuel subsidy. Consequently, it will also affect the interest rate which will further negatively deepen inflation and affect all aspects of the production value chain in Nigeria, with the ultimate losers being the consumers. On the basis of the analysis, it’s obvious that Nigerians need instant renaissance as the mace of authority changed hands on Monday with the coming on board of President Tinubu. Speaking on this, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain and National Publicity Secretary of the party, Barrister Felix Mouka, said with Tinubu’s experience in governance, he would not disappoint Nigerians. He spoke to our correspondent. “The new president is not someone that is bereft of ideas and I am sure Nigerians who gave him their votes know this. “He understands the current situations Nigerians are going through, both inflation and insecurity and I can tell you that he is equal to the task. “As we all know, Tinubu has always surrounded himself with people who understand the challenges. Right from the time he was the governor of Lagos State, he has always gone for the best hands, whether they are from his part of the country or not and I can tell you that he is going to appoint people based on competencies,” he said. On their own, the Pan Yoruba group, Afenifere, linked hardship Nigerians are going through to insecurity in the country and challenged the president to look the way of the menace. The National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Jare Ajayi, said: “At the moment, insecurity of lives and property is very much in the air. The style of administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in the last eight years created division and mistrust among Nigerians and between the people and the government. “The economy was in reverse gear rather than growing. This was compounded by the policies brought up as we approached the just concluded elections that turned virtually everybody into a pauper. Reversing these self-inflicted traumas should therefore be of immediate concern of the new president. “If he can tackle these, all other things will fall in place, including the livelihood of Nigerians,” he said. For Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), the new president should consider regional economic policies and revamping of industries as a recipe for the downturn among Nigerians. YCE Secretary General, Chief Oladipo Oyewole, said: “We will be quite happy if the new president will consider the issue of regionalisation, which will make for better management of the country. “We also want a revamping of the economic situation such that industries can come back to life. “The most critical thing that we look forward to lies in the power supply because we believe that once there is power, everybody can contribute economically,” he said. The Coalition of Northern Groups advocated for an end to insecurity if the economic means of Nigerians would be addressed. Spokesperson of the coalition, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, said: “The main expectations of the north from Tinubu hinged on the possibility that we could look to a future without Islamic State West Africa Province, (ISWAP); Boko Haram; without banditry and kidnapping, that our youths will get good education, acquire skills and get jobs so that we can address the economic hardship in the country; that corruption will be arrested, contained and eliminated.” For a financial analyst, Agaba Wilson Agaba, President Tinubu must look critically at some of the economic policies and reverse them where necessary. “Nigeria’s current economic situation is seen as critical by many experts and observers. In 2021, the African Development Bank reported that Nigeria’s economy grew by 3.6%, but this growth was not enough to alleviate poverty and unemployment. “The country’s economy is also grappling with issues such as high inflation, low oil production, rising insecurity, and policy uncertainty. According to The Economist, unless a new leadership implements far-reaching reforms, Nigeria’s economy will continue to struggle in 2023. “Some of the major problems facing Nigeria’s economy include low revenue collection, high debt-servicing, dependence on oil exports, border closure, exchange rate instability, and the impact of climate change. “All these present a big challenge to the new president and I think he has what it takes to tackle them,” he said. Another Lagos-based financial expert, Aliyu Ilias, urged President Tinubu to critically consider issues relating to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), logistics and supply of farm produce as well as access to credits. “The economic policy should consider MSMEs, it should consider logistics, and also create credit again; this is because credit is never enough for small businesses. They should at NIRSAL and possibly domesticate it to the states as well. “I think the new government should consider the removal of fuel subsidies. I think at this point in time, it will be pretty difficult to completely remove fuel subsidies. Maybe he has to come up with a short-term plan before putting a stop to it, maybe in one year. “I want him to also create a programme/fund that MSMEs can always come in to take from, is very key. Ease of doing business is also an area of priority for the in-coming president. He should move beyond working on the bottlenecks in terms of CAC registration, to also go into logistics, making things easy for people,” he said.