LAGOS – Former President Goodluck Jonathan has called for the entrenchment of a culture of integrity across the corporate and civil spaces as a way of addressing the problems associated with governance, democracy and development in the country. Dr. Jonathan stated this on Wednesday in Lagos at the 40th anniversary dinner of the Institute of Directors (IoD Nigeria), where he alsomade a case for closer cooperation among African leaders, especially former and serving presidents, stressing that Africa needs such synergy, to ensure peace and progress on the continent. While noting that there is a trust gap between leaders and the people of the continent, the former President emphasised that the challenge could only be addressed by honest and dependable leaders. He said: “A culture of integrity is what is needed to address many ofthe challenges confronting governance in our country. When integrity is entrenched as a culture and a corporate lifestyle in manyorganisations, the problems associated with corruption, dishonesty, poor governance, and even election management will be significantly addressed. He also pointed out that cordial relations exist among Nigeria’s former leaders, describing the development as commendable and healthy for the nation. In this regard, he commended IoD for the cooperation among its leaders. “I have also noticed a similar trend within your Institute, where former Presidents cooperate and advise the current President and Chairman of the Governing Council. “This, regrettably, is not the case in some African countries where political transitions and relations between serving and former leaders are quite challenging and unhealthy because of unnecessary rivalry. POLL “In some of these countries, former presidents and sitting Presidents are like enemies who hardly talk to one another. “In Africa, We need to develop a sustainable political culture that treats elections as a contestation of ideas, where whoever wins will be disposed to run the country with other broadminded patriots for thebenefit of the citizens.” Jonathan further charged members to continue to strive to project IoD as the go-to organisation for integrity and exemplary leadership. “A place like IoD, given the reputation you have built for yourselves, could serve as a think tank or policy institute where corporate and political leaders could visit to test their ideas for responsible leadership and good governance. “It can also serve as the place where leaders could go to headhunt for tested and trusted technocrats to occupy strategic national positions; those that would justly deploy their skill and experience in exemplary service to the nation. This is my hope for IoD Nigeria as you celebrate this milestone,” Jonathan said.