UYO – The National Youth Council of Nigeria, South-South Zone says it has fully thrown its weight behind the aspiration of Senator Godswill Akpabio, (CON) for Presidency of the 10th Senate. The Youth Council believes Akpabio has all the sterling qualities needed to preside over the affairs of the 10th Senate as President. In a statement tagged “On South-South, we stand”, signed by Comrade Uko Michael,Assistant Sec. Gen and Comrade Innocent Ajayi, Vice President, South-South Zone and made available to our Correspondent in Uyo on Thursday, the council expressed confidence in Akpabio’s capacity and leadership acumen to lead effectively and give the APC-led federal government the identity it deserves. The Youth Council maintained that Chief Godswill Obot Akpabio needs no introduction, having been a two-term governor of Akwa Ibom State, with an unprecedented performance in office “still ringing loudly within and outside the state”. “The man who had set the enviable record of becoming the first Senate Minority Leader as a first-timer is eminently qualified to sit atop the Red Chamber of the yet-to-be-constituted 10th National Assembly given his track record in the political firmament of the country. “Apart from his undoubted capacity in leadership, Akpabio is from the South-South geo-political zone of the country which produces the bulk of the wealth of the country and yet has not produced Nigeria’s senate president since the dawn of democracy in 1999. “Since the senate Presidency of Distinguished Senator Joseph Wayas, who hailed from Cross River State, (1978/1983) during the Fourth Republic which was later truncated on December 31st, 1983, nobody from the South-South has tasted the senate presidency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria again.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is, however, imperative to also acknowledge that Chukwudebe Osadebay, of blessed memory, from Asaba, Delta State, held the position of President of the Nigerian Senate in 1960; he later became the Pioneer Premier of the former Mid-Western Region, upon its creation in 1963. POLL “From the above, and for the sake of justice, equity and fair play, it is imperative that the next Senate President emerges from the South-South region of the country, and Senator Godswill Akpabio is the rightful person by experience, capacity and leadership prowess to take up the exalted position. Akpabio, a stabilizer, will help stabilize the ship of the 10th National Assembly. “The former two-term governor of Akwa Ibom State is a loyal and very committed party man who enjoys massive followership in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in his home state and beyond. “His followership, it is worth stating, cuts across all political parties in the state as results of the last senatorial election proved. Senator Akpabio was massively voted for by APC faithful and members from other political parties, hence his overwhelming victory as senator-elect for Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district”. The statement stated The Council, therefore, appeals to the president-elect, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, senators-elect of the All Progressives Congress, including senators from other political parties and indeed stakeholders of the party, to see the need of standing with senator Akpabio and supporting him to become the next Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It assures the President-elect that Akpabio will ensure a smooth working relationship between the National Assembly and the Executive arm of government in order to accelerate the development of the country through people-centric programmes. “He will bring his political sagacity and ensure stability in the 10th senate, thus allowing for a good rapport between the presidency and the red Chamber. “Senator Akpabio is imbued with charisma, knowledge and experience to pilot the affairs of the 10th Senate as president. His antecedents, first as former governor of Akwa Ibom State, former senate Minority Leader and immediate past Minister of Niger Delta Affairs make him eminently qualified and fit to take up this critical position at this material time. “His senate presidency will further strengthen the place of APC in the South-South and ensure the party is solidified even more in the region. Akpabio is a man of the people hence he is the sort of politician that will give direction and many will, without compellation, follow.”. The people assured