ABUJA – The ruling All Progressives Congress APC Leader in Rivers State, Chief Tony Okocha on Saturday declared that his state shall make demands from the Presidency of the incoming administration of President Ahmed Bola Tinubu, who is due to be sworn in as the 16th President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Okocha made the declaration on the sidelines of a prayer session organised by the Rivers State Chapter of APC in honour of Tinubu/Shetima inauguration at the Unity Fountain, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. According to the APC Leader in Rivers, being the only state in both South-South and South East, that recorded a landslide victory for the Presidential candidate of APC, Rivers is entitled to make demands, stressing that while other states that did not win would be making requests Rivers would make demands. “It is Rivers State day, we have felt that in our own way, one of the ways to solidarise with our principal is to pray for him because in a couple of days he will become the President of Nigeria, so he needs all the prayers. “For performance, take that to the bank, he has got the experience, he is not new in the business. “One thing that made me support Tinubu was the fact that he said he wants to be President, not that people have asked him to come and become President. When you make up your mind that you want to do a thing, you have prepared yourself against the rain and the sun. “We pray for the wisdom and the strength to carry on for him, we need to be visionary, we want him to be focused, we need all the wisdom and courage and the boldness to take decisions no matter how difficult it is. “Now that Rivers State is in the bag, we should be making demands, in politics, when you are in the table, you tell the people this is what I brought to the table so this is what I demand. POLL “There is a difference between making demands and making requests, so you demand for your rights while others who didn’t succeed will be requesting for help, so as for us, this is our own time and knowing the relationship between the President-elect and the Governor of Rivers state who was the spin doctor before without Wike it would have been a bit difficult to win Rivers State. “Since 2015, Rivers State has been at the opposition at the National level. In 2015, we scored less than 10 percent for Muhammadu Buhari, in 2019, it was worst, but in 2023 APC Rivers did not only score 25 percent, we won overwhelmingly. “I want on your behalf send our gratitude to one lion of the South-South, the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike who introduced us to national politics,” he said. Reverend Christian Nweze Ahiakwo, the officiating Priest at the occasion, took his first Bible reading from Exodus12: from 1-12, explaining that the coming of Tinubu as president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at this time is a promise fulfilled. Rev. Ahiakwo, who said already a prayer sessions have been programmed across the states, noted that they would be specifically asking God for the success of the inauguration. “As you are away, Nigeria is transiting to a new season and God bless the APC that we are having a rebirth of Presidency, it is a thing of success and joy and it is worth celebrating. “For the success of the inauguration, we have programmed a prayer sessions for all the states ahead of the inauguration” he said.