LAGOS. -The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said that the global cargo demand measured in Cargo Tonne-Kilometers (CTKs) in March 2023, dropped by 7.7 per cent compared to the same period in 2022. For Africa, the continent’s carriers saw cargo volumes decrease by 6.2 per cent in March 2023 compared to March 2022. The African continent’s record was an improvement in performance compared to the previous month (-7.4 per cent). Notably, Africa to Asia routes experienced significant cargo demand growth in March. Capacity was 4.1 per cent below March 2022 levels. The association however said that the figure was a slight improvement over the previous February’s performance (-9.4 per cent) and half the rate of annual decline seen in January and December (-16.8 per cent and -15.6 per cent, respectively) in 2023. IATA said that it was unclear if this was a potentially modest start of an improvement trend or the upside of market volatility. Irrespective of this, March performance, IATA said slipped back into negative territory compared to pre-COVID levels with -8.1 per cent.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It said that capacity (measured in available cargo tonne-kilometers (ACTK)) was up 9.9 per cent compared to March 2022. POLL The strong uptick in ACTKs reflects the addition of belly capacity as the passenger side of the business continues to recover. IATA explained that even with record low unemployment rates, the global economy continued to decelerate due to a combination of factors such as tightening global financial conditions, high levels of global debt, and supply chain problems including those linked to the war in Ukraine. In line with the weakening global trade, the Purchasing Manager Indices (PMIs) for new export orders at the global level remained below the 50-critical line for a full year as of March. China’s PMI retreated to below the 50-mark in March, following a slight improvement observed in February. The PMI for supplier delivery times indicates high inventory levels, which tends to have a negative impact on air cargo. Global goods trade decreased by 2.6 per cent in February; this was a faster rate of decline than the previous month of -1 per cent. “Air cargo had a volatile first quarter. In March, overall demand slipped back below pre-COVID-19 levels and most of the indicators for the fundamental drivers of air cargo demand are weak or weakening. While the trading environment is tough, there is some good news. Airlines are getting help in managing through the volatility with yields that have remained high and fuel prices that have moderated from exceptionally high levels. Looking ahead, with inflation reducing in G7 countries policy makers are expected to ease economic cooling measures and that would stimulate demand,” said Willie Walsh, IATA’s Director-General. On regional performance, Asia-Pacific airlines saw their air cargo volumes decrease by 7.3 per cent in March 2023 compared to the same month in 2022.