EFFURUN – Environmental Right Action/ Friends of the Earth, Nigeria has charged Oil Producing Communities to stand tall and hold the multinational oil companies operating in the area for adequate compensations for polluting their environment. This was the subject of discussion at a one-day summit titled: “Community CSO Engagement On Motives Behind International Oil Companies (IOC’) Divestment, in Niger Delta held in Effurun, Uvwie Local Government Area, Delta State. In his presentation, Barr. Chima Williams, Executive Director, Environmental Right Action / Friends of the Earth Nigeria and 2022 Golden Environmental Prize for Africa disclosed that the multi-million naira oil companies embarked on divestment to cheat Niger Deltans as they sell their companies to indigenous people to escape their supposed responsibilities to them. Chima said, “When the divestment started taking place towards the end of 2021 and early 2022, we felt that this was abnormal and we did an internal analysis of the situation. We discovered that the concept of divestment was turning upside down. Whereas, in a global setting, the issue of divestment is removing public funds from private businesses but what we have in Nigeria is multinationals selling off their investments, they are moving to shallow waters. Where we lack the capacity to monitor the activities of the Oil Companies in the ocean area, they can continue to pollute our environment. ” On his part, Mr. Jonah Ogbodu, Coordinator of Kristal Kare Foundation, said that multinational companies have impoverished Niger Deltans as their exploration and exploitation which have resulted in gas flaring have impacted negatively on the people. According to Ogbodu, “Gas flaring has reduced the life span of the people as many people now suffer from blindness, cancer, miscarriages among women among others due to the activities of the oil companies, poverty is in the land because many of the fishes have died, lands for agriculture have been taken over by the oil companies yet, no adequate compensation is paid to the various communities. He said until concerted efforts are made by all, Niger Deltans would continue to suffer amidst abundant natural resources. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒