The Director General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, has applauded the management and staff of the Commission for their steadfastness and resilience in discharge of their duties that has engendered growth of the pension sector in Nigeria. Dahir-Umar, who made the remark in the commission’s fourth quarter 2022 report released recently stated; “I would like to commend the sustained efforts of the Staff and Management of the Commission, which ensured the achievement of the Commission’s medium and long-term objectives. “I am also delighted to mention that despite the overwhelming head-winds in the global economic climate and the country’s challenging macroeconomic environment, the Pension Fund Assets under Management (AuM) increased by N568.33 billion from N14.42 trillion as 30 September 2022 to N14.99 trillion as at 31 December 2022. This laudable performance, in the growth of the AuM, points to the fact that the pension industry will continue to deliver value and benefit to its stakeholders and the nation’s economy. During the reporting period, the Commission stepped up its efforts to ensure sustainable investment by pension funds in alternative asset classes and structured infrastructure projects that meet the strict requirements of the Pension Fund Investments Regulation. “We continued our efforts to ensure further diversification of investments in pension fund portfolio assets. While rising inflation continues to challenge the Nigerian economy, it should be noted that efforts are being made to ensure average annual pension fund returns for RSA and legacy funds exceed headline inflation.” Dahir-Umar noted that this significant achievement in the Nigerian pension industry would not have been possible without the right people, strategy, culture and governance structure to support delivering consistent and sustainable value to all stakeholders as she reiterated PenCom’s unwavering commitment to meeting the needs of its stakeholders, providing best practice in pension regulation and supervision in Nigeria On an update on the N2billion monthly commitment by the Lagos State Government to defray the Accrued Rights of Retirees, the commission stated that the Lagos State Government has consistently failed to honour the N2billion monthly commitment to clear the accrued rights of its retirees. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As at the end of the 4th Quarter of 2022, there was no record of the State fulfilling its monthly commitment of remitting N2billion for the months of October, November and December 2022.” POLL PenCom pointed out that only a total sum of N7.83billion was so far redeemed as against the expected sum of N26billion during the period.