BAUCHI – Residents of Unguwan Sarakuna, Rafin Makaranta and Magaji quarters in the Bauchi metropolis have benefited from a one-day medical outreach for the people, courtesy of an intervention of the Nigerian Army, Armoured Corps in Bauchi State. Speaking during the flagging off ceremony on Saturday, Maj:-Gen. Mohammed Ahmed, Commander of the Nigerian Army Armoured Corps in Bauchi stated that the medical outreach is aimed at treating ailments such high blood pressure, heart problems, and diabetes, adding that the outreach is targeted to reach hundreds of persons in the community. He said that the outreach is carried out on the instruction of the Chief of Air Staff, Lieut:- Gen. Farouk Yahaya, adding that maternal and child services will also be rendered at the outreach to include typhoid, screening for hepatitis, free dental services, and distribution of free eye glasses among others. “It is imperative to mark the beginning of a week-long Nigerian Army Combat Training Week (CAT WEEK 2023) hosted by the Nigerian Army Armoured Corps, Bauchi which would commence on May 7 to Thursday 11 May, 2023” “As you know, the Nigerian Army has been putting emphasis on civil military cooperation and so many things have been done and this is part of it.The idea is that we want to improve the health of the civilian communities around us and this health programme is not only limited to today, our medical facilities are open to our immediate neighbours and they have been coming and we have been treating them. “Security is all encompassing. It’s not a single person business. The communities are a very important aspect of security.We get intelligence and information from them, because most of the people that commit crimes live within the communities. So, if the communities keep cooperating with us, giving information to us, this is how we’ll protect them and protect ourselves,” he said. Also speaking, the Bauchi state Commissioner for Health, Sabiu Abdul Gwallabe commended the military personnel for the kind gesture of providing healthcare services across the country. Represented by Mr Awwal Suleiman, an Assistant Director, Medical Services from the Ministry, the Commissioner promised that the state government is ready to partner with the military to address all the state’s health indices and the country as a whole. POLL Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Malam Hassan Mohammed, Ward Head of Unguwan Sarakuna lauded the Nigerian Army for the kind gesture and for bringing the outreach to the communities.