The flagship annual programme of Kingdom Men Global Network (KMEN), which is a gathering of Christian men will hold between Thursday, May 11 and Sunday 14, 2023. The event, which will hold at the Whitehouse Hotels and Conference Centre, Lagos, has the theme “The Love Challenge”. According to a statement issued by Pastor Dennis Onwuegbu, KMEN Steward, Media & Outreach, this year’s edition of Mega Summit will mark the 10th anniversary of the annual event. He said the summit will feature guest speakers like Dr Christopher Kolade, Chairman, Board of Trustees of Kingdom Men; Professor Elder Anya O. Any, Chairman, Governing Board, Nigerian Prize for Leadership; Major General Henry Ayoola (rtd), Chairman, Restructuring Actualisation Movement. Others, he added, are Dr Biodun Adedipe, Principal Partner, Biodun Adedipe & Associates; Rev Solomon Adegbolagun, President, Centre for Righteous Living; and Dr Femi Albert Oduwole, Presiding Pastor, Triumphant Nation Everywhere. Pastor Onwuegbu named other notable speakers at the four-day programme to include Dr Adedokun Adedeji, Director General, Christ Against Drug Abuse Ministry; Very Rev Fr Matthew Ogunyase, General Secretary, CAN Lagos; Rev Elekima Ekine, Resident Pastor, CCIC Ibadan; Pastor Adedayo Fajimi, Founder, A More Sure Word; Pastors Iyke & Chioma Ejimofor, Living By Design Couples Fellowship and Mrs Roselyn Subair, Expert, Conflict Resolution and Peace Building, among others. According to the organisers, the summit will run each day between Thursday and Saturday 9am, 12.30pm and 5pm, while Sunday, which is an evening musical concert tagged: Men @Worship, is designed for families, beginning at 4pm and end at 7.30pm. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The concert will feature Worship Ministers Olumide Iyun, David Nkennor, the King’s Voices and more. MegaSummit 2023 opens on Thursday with Men In Leadership Summit (MiLEADS) and it will discuss the subject: ‘Leading For Healing: The Love Challenge in Nation Building’. POLL He stated that Friday May 12 will open with the Men in Church Leadership Summit (MiCLEADS) and will discuss the topic: ‘Leading for Healing: The Love Challenge in the Body of Christ’. The statement added that each day, Thursday to Saturday, will close with the evening sessions of Teaching and Impartation Services. In his response to the question as to what will be different in Mega Summit 10, the Chief Vision Steward of Kingdom Men Global Network, Rev. Dr Remi Akano, said, “The theme for this 10th edition of Mega Summit is coming at a time when Nigeria has just survived one of the most difficult presidential elections which exposed the weakness of our nation along ethnic and religious lines. “Without being told, there is an urgent healing that must take place if the country will make the much-needed progress. “Ironically,” continued Rev Akano, “God revealed this theme to us as a Ministry at the close of last year well ahead of the general elections. Just to confirm to us that nothing takes God by surprise.” Participants at this year’s Mega Summit will be drawn from different Christian denominations as usual while guests are expected from the Ministry’s representatives from Liberia and Sierra Leone. Each day will have side attractions to showcase what God has used the Ministry to accomplish in the lives of men, and indeed their women and children, among others. The first edition of Kingdom Men’s Mega Summit, with the theme, The Complete Man held in Lagos from Thursday May 8 to Saturday, May 10, 2014 opening with a strictly by invitation programme for Senior Pastors, Men’s Ministry Leaders and Men’s Fellowship Coordinators of different Churches. Faith reporters and editors were also invited. Tagged ‘Breakfast with Larry Titus’, it was a three-day affair which had several break-out sessions including some for women on Saturday. Kindgom Men Global Network, a.k.a. KMEN, is a Ministry to men, is a non-denominational, Church-wide ministry wholly dedicated to raising and discipling men to Christlikeness, and was founded in 2009 by Rev. Dr Remi Akano, a veteran journalist turned cleric.