ABUJA  – The Lagos Zonal Command of the Economic and Fi­nancial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has initiated an extradition proceedings at the Federal High Court, Abuja Judicial Division, against three sus­pects, Samson Ogoshi, his brother, Samuel, and Eze­kiel Ejemeh Robert, over exploitation of minor and production of child por­nography. EFCC Spokesperson, Wilson Uwujaren said in a statement that, the Ogoshis and Ezekiel were indicted in a United States Federal Court on December 1, 2022 on charges of exploitation of minors and production of child pornography resulting in death, conspiracy to distribute child pornography and conspir­acy to commit stalking through the internet. According to investigations, the suspects conspired to conduct a sex-based extortion of minors and adults in the United States of America. The trio, investigations also revealed, hacked some social me­dia accounts, posing to be young attractive women to entice un­suspecting victims to send their sexually explicit photographs. These pictures were then used in blackmailing the vic­tims, thereby forcing them into making huge financial payments. Consequently, Samuel Ogoshi is charged with sexual exploita­tion and attempted sexual ex­ploitation of minors that result­ed in the death of one Jordan DeMay, an offence that carries a maximum penalty of life in pris­on and a statutory mandatory minimum of 30 years in prison. The trio is charged with con­spiracy to sexually exploit mi­nors by causing them to produce child pornographic images that they used to blackmail them. They are further charged with conspiracy to distribute child pornography, which borders on sending images to minors, their families and friends, as well as conspiracy to commit stalking through the Internet. Both of­fences carry a minimum of five years and maximum 20 years imprisonment. POLL While the Ogoshis were ar­rested sometime in February, 2023 around the Ojo axis of La­gos, Ezekiel was picked up in Nasarawa by operatives of the EFCC.