LAGOS – Barely eight days to the end of this current ad­ministration and less than a week for the Min­isters of the Federation to hand over to Permanent Secretaries, there are strong indications that Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation may carry out a re­shuffle exercise in most of the agencies in the sector very soon. This is as Grp. Capt. John, aviation analyst said that some of the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) could not be removed with fait without a recourse to the Acts that set up the agencies. However, sources close to the Ministry of Aviation, confided in our correspondent over the weekend that no fewer than three of the CEOs may be relieved of their appointments any moment from now, while some of the ex­isting directors may also be af­fected by the impending purge. Already, our correspondent gathered that the CEOs were aware of the plan and is making frantic efforts to save their jobs. It was learnt that some of the CEOs have had a frosty relation­ship with the minister in the last one year due to disagreements on the implementation of his road­map projects for the sector. Some of those that may be affected by the reshuffling ex­ercise, according to our sources are Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director of the Fed­eral Airports Authority of Nige­ria (FAAN), Engr. Akin Olateru, Director-General of the Nigeri­an Safety Investigation Bureau (NSIB) and Mr. Matthew Pwajok, the Acting Managing Director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). Olateru is seen as the “star boy” of the industry having brought numerous innovations to the former Accident Investi­gation Bureau (AIB), now NSIB, most especially with the prompt releases of safety reports of se­rious incidents and accidents, which have further improved safety in the sector. Yadudu was appointed four years ago and his tenure is ex­pected to elapse on May 28, 2023. POLL It was learnt that Yadudu has been told to hand over to a current airport manager in the agency, while other changes are being worked out. Besides, it was learnt that all the directors in FAAN have been slated for sack, while re­placements have been allegedly sourced from within. According to an impeccable source, a current serving gener­al manager who is due to retire next month has been penciled for appointment as a director in FAAN. The current crop of directors in FAAN were all brought in to the system by Sirika. Most of the directors have been heavily crit­icised by the unions, describing them as misfits as they failed to perform based on lack of indus­try knowledge. Besides, Pwajok was appoint­ed as the Acting Managing Direc­tor of NAMA February 2022. Pwajok is referred to as the ‘encyclopedia,’ of the Nigerian aviation industry. But, his ap­pointment is yet to be confirmed 15 months later. Apart from the CEOs, some of the current directors in all the agencies may either be relieved of their positions or redeployed to other directorates. Besides, Grp. Capt. John Ojik­utu, aviation analyst, wondered if the minister had the power to unilaterally remove any of the agencies’ heads without a re­course to the Acts that set up the parastatals. Ojikutu specifically said that some of the CEOs are tenured and it required the approval of Mr. President to remove them. For instance, he said the Di­rectors-General of NSIB, the Ni­geria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the Nigerian Mete­orological Agency (NiMET) are tenured for five years term each and its renewable. Ojikutu insisted that they could only be removed by Mr. President if they are found guilty of criminal conducts like diver­sion of funds and others. He said: “Does the minister have the power to remove any of the CEOs, especially those who are tenured? Why do they want to remove them now? He can’t remove Directors-Gener­al of NCAA and NSIB because they are tenured. They must finish their tenures before they removed. Unless if they commit criminal offence. “The law that appointed them specified the reasons by which they can be removed and the reasons must be well-spelt out. Also, it must be endorsed by Mr. President. However, they do some of these illegal things behind be­cause no one has been challeng­ing them over the years. “The same way the govern­ment set up aviation security and armed them. Was the issue deliberated at the National Secu­rity Council (NSC)? Who among the security chiefs discussed the issue there? So, the Minister of Finance can wake up tomorrow and decide to use guns. Unfortu­nately, no one wants to talk about it because they are all political appointees.” When contacted, Dr. James Odaudu, the Special Assistant to Sirika on Media, declined to comment on it. He specifically said that he was not aware of such move and declined to comment further.