LAGOS – The Lagos State Governor, Mr.Babajide Sanwo-Olu has stated that his government has made giant strides in housing delivery to Lagosians during his first tenure. Sanwo-Olu dropped the hint, during the inauguration of three new housing schemes: 72 units in Gbagada; 660 home units in Odo-Onosa/ Ayandelu Ikosi Ejinrin; and 144 home units in Resettlement centre at Agbowa,in Lagos. Represented by his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, the governor said the state government has done a lot to set new bench marks for housing provision in Lagos. “In the last four years, we have done a lot in term of housing provision through our various agencies and by partnering with the private sector. His words: “We have succeeded in completing 19 different estates including the newly inaugurated housing schemes”. He said that the delivery of Ndubuisi Kanu Housing Estate at Gbagada, Sanwo-olu, said was long overdue, adding that another two estates were being inaugurated simultaneously in Agbowa and Ejinrin. According to him, Gbagada’s housing scheme, which comprised 72 units of two and three bedroom apartments, would bring delight to all subscribers that have been waiting for the completion. He said: “Our main goal under this pillar is to substantially reduce the housing deficit through a number of strategies including partnering with the private sector to deliver a significant number of housing units that are affordable, safe and decent. POLL “Providing adequate, affordable and decent housing is a major challenge faced by megacities all over the world. For us in Lagos State, we face an additional challenge of limited land size with a huge population which, according to the 2016 statistics, increases with a daily influx of 123,840 people. A large percentage of this number are here to seek economic opportunities and therefore do not intend to leave in a hurry,” he said. The Governor pointed out, that his administration is intentional about continuing to think outside the box when formulating plans and strategies that will continue to support the well-being of every citizen of the state Speaking earlier, Commissioner of Housing in Lagos State, Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, acknowledged the good work of Sanwo-Olu, who he said had ensured, in spite of various obstacles that the project is delivered to the people of the state. He said the last four years had been filled with positive activities as the state government consistently strengthened its efforts to actualize its housing agenda. According to the commissioner, the aim was to make decent homes available and accessible to Lagosians irrespective of their social class or income level. His words: “The goal is to make Lagos comparable to 21st economy all over the world in terms a availability of beautiful communities with adequate infrastructure where people can live and call their homes. “The first step was to complete all housing projects set aside by previous administrations. “The second strategy was to empower joint ventures or partnerships that could lead to the provision of affordable homes. “Utilizing these strategies, thus far, we have completed and delivered various schemes across Lagos, including Lateef Jakande Gardens in Igando, Courtland Villas, Igbokushu, Lekki Apartments, Lekki Lagos State Affordable Public housing Scheme Idale Bayview Estate, Lekki, Sunnyville Apartments Nob Oluwa, Ogba, Phoenix Apaerment, Ilupeju, LagosHOMS LekkiPhase1, Babatunde Raji Fashola Estate in Iponri, Prince Abiodun Ogunleye Estate, Igbogbo, B.O Benson Estate, Sangotedo Housing Estate, Eti-Osa among others.” Ndubuisi Kanu Estate, he noted, has 72 home units in 6 blocks. In these blocks of 12 in one homes, according to the commissioner, are 48 two bedrooms and 24 units of 3 bedrooms apartments. Speaking about the construction of LagosHOMS Odo-Onosa-Ayandelu, Akinderu-Fatai, said it commenced in 2012 by Ministry of Physical Planning & Urban Development and was later transferred to the Ministry of Housing in the 2016. According to him, the scheme comprised 70 blocks of residences and sited on 8.3 hectares in Ikosi – Ejinrin Local Council Development Area, Lagos State. “This massive housing project was initiated to provide more decent homes for Lagosian residing in Epe Division in response to the need to promote and escalate the socio economic development in the area. Along with the many developmental projects coming up within the environs such as the Rice mill at Imota and the relocation of Saw millers,’ he said. LagosHOMS Odo-Onosa/Ayandelu is a multi-type residential development with 660 home units comprising 192 one -bedroom units in 8 blocks, 252 two- bedrooms units in 21 blocks, 156 three-bedroom units in 26 blocks and 60 three-bedroom units in 15 terrace blocks. Among other complementary infrastructure that makes these estates a haven to its residents are a sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 69m3 per day, two number of100KVA generators for sewage and water services and a unit of 500KVA generating sets to complement electricity supply from the national grid.