Manchester City qualifica­tion for their second ever UEFA Champions League final at the expense of the most successful Champions League club, Real Madrid, speaks of a club that have etched themselves to the top echelon of world club football. Having played 1-1 in the first leg at Santiago Bernabeu, Real Madrid, who have won five of the last nine Champi­ons Leagues, and have grown used to pulling off spectacular and sometimes inexplicable comebacks in Europe, were expected to do so on Wednesday night at Etihad, but that was not to be as City made them look ordinary. The truth is that a relentless City blew the greatest team in Europe apart 4-0, cruising to the final on a 5-1 goals aggregate. The celebration from City players, fans just tell the story. Real Madrid are the most success­ful football club in the UEFA Champi­ons League. They’ve won the trophy for a record fourteen times. Won the inaugural edition of the tournament and remains the only club to win the trophy five times in a row (the first five editions). They also hold the distinc­tion of being the only club to defend the title in the Champions League era, as well as to win it three times in a row. It’s a club of such pedigree that City made look ordinary on Wednes­day. What a pity that Mr. pity dies on a pity day. “Evaluating what happened in this moment what happened makes no sense to me,” Carlo Ancelotti, Real Madrid manager, told Movistar sfter the Etihad demolition. “It’s a defeat that hurts but some­times it can happen in football, in the Champions League semi-final against a strong opponent that played better than you.” In the words of Mark Ogden, Se­nior Writer, ESPN FC, “And having de­throned Real with a brutal display of dominance and ruthless efficiency in Manchester after a 1-1 in Madrid last week, the Cityzens proved themselves to be the new kings of Europe. “It was a rout, matching Real Ma­drid’s biggest-ever Champions League defeat, which came at Anfield against Liverpool in 2008-09. Every single City player dominated his Real opponent and if they were chasing revenge for last season’s dramatic semifinal defeat against Ancelotti’s side, they secured it.” POLL Miguel Delaney, Yahoosports com­ment after the game was, “The peak that Pep Guardiola has been building this club towards, and a point that Eu­ropean football has long been leading towards. Manchester City have not yet won the Champions League or the treble, but they passed the most difficult challenge in eliminating the defending champions, and did so with a 4-0 victory that went beyond easy. “City’s performance on the night will surely be seen as the statement performance should City go and final­ly lift the trophy in Istanbul, as they reach the stage for the second time. “Internazionale are going to need something close to a miracle to beat them, such is City’s level. It is why so many referred to this as the real final. City ended up reaching Istanbul with­out much of a struggle at all,” added Delaney. The above can also be said of Pep Guardiola’s domination of the En­glish football. This Spaniard has trans­formed Manchester City from mere title contenders to yearly juggernauts. In his six seasons in England, he has won all trophies. He is on the verge of winning his fifth Premier League, third in a row, with just a win in his remaining three matches to achieve the feat. City will play in the FA Cup final against neighbour’s, Manchester United on June 03. Should they win all three titles, they will equal Alex Fergu­son’s treble success of 1999. Already, Guardiola’s 2017-18 season saw City rewrite the record books and it obliterated the English top flight, winning the league by a 19-point margin and setting records for largest margin of victory, most points in a sea­son, most goals scored in a season, and greatest goal differential in a season. That campaign also saw Man City set the record for longest league winning streak at 18 matches, as Guardiola’s squad romped to 32 wins that year compared to just four draws and two defeats. Inter Milan could, however, trun­cate this treble ambition in Instabul on June 10. Though City, seeking their maiden UEFA title, while Inter has won the world’s most prestigious club competition three times, most recent­ly in 2010, City are heavily favoured. The Champions League final has the feeling of a David vs. Goliath matchup. Man City being heavily favoured is no surprise. Man City is undefeated in this season’s Champi­ons League and has won all six home matches. None of the knockout ties have been close either. In the three knockout rounds so far (against RB Leipzig, Bayern Munich and Real Ma­drid), City have drawn 1-1 away while outscoring opponents 14-0 in three matches at Etihad Stadium. On the other hand, Inter lost twice in the group stage, both 2-0 scores against Munich (a team City beat 4-1 on aggregate in the quarterfinals), but have been undefeated in the knockout stage. Inter got past Porto, Benfica and AC Milan to qualify for the final. The Italian team is on a hot run as well. Inter has won eight straight matches with wins against Juventus, Lazio, Roma, and the two wins against Milan in the semifinal among the run. Inter, which is third in Serie A, is also in the Coppa Italia final against Fiorentina on May 24. This is the sixth appearance in the Champions League final for Inter. The Nerazzurri won in 1964, 1965 and 2010, while they lost in 1967 and 1972. City’s only other final appearance was two years ago when Chelsea pulled off a 1-0 upset win in Porto. The fantastic form that has seen City go 23 games unbeaten, winning their last 15 at the Etihad Stadium, was far too good for Real Madrid. It is magnificent Manchester City who will play Inter Milan in the Champi­ons League final in Istanbul on June 10. Guardiola has told his players to “visualise” winning the treble after hailing the greatest performance of his seven-year reign as Manchester City manager. And Guardiola has urged his play­ers to seize the chance to become his­tory makers. “We are there now and the players can think about it, visualise it,” he said. “We are three games away. One in each competition. We can do it. “We need to win one more game in the Premier League, then we have our neighbours in the Cup and a Cham­pions League final against an Italian side. “The pleasure of being there and playing against Inter Milan is incal­culable and we are going to enjoy the occasion.” Winning the Champions League will certainly cement City’s status.