ABUJA  – Despite divergent views held by many Nigerians about the recent general elections in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday in London said he was satisfied with the conduct of the 2023 polls. He hinged his satisfaction on the turnout of voters and the generally peaceful atmosphere under which it took place. According to Buhari, the country has learnt lessons which would make subsequent polls even better. The President stated this while addressing his colleagues at the Commonwealth Leaders Summit as part of the major events leading to the coronation of His Majesty King Charles III as King of the United Kingdom and Leader of the Common­wealth. The theme of the event fo­cused on the future of the Com­monwealth as a body and the role of the Youth. According to the President, “these elections saw a remark­able turnout of voters and proof that Nigeria’s democracy is ma­turing. Despite some pockets of violence, we have demonstrated that a government can be elected peacefully and fairly. “Lessons have been learnt and moving forward, we hope to perform even better. Based on this, I am delighted to note that we have taken another step towards deepening our democ­racy with peaceful, transparent and credible outcomes. Though we are aware that challenges still exist, we are committed to working towards a greater par­ticipation of all Nigerians in the democratic process, including those in the diaspora.” While thanking the Common­wealth for sending a team to wit­ness the conduct of the elections, he noted that the elections were generally free and fair, and the mood of the Nation after the announcement of the winners so far shows that democracy in Nigeria is maturing and can only get better. POLL President Buhari highlight­ed the key role Nigerian youths played during the elections as well as in support of national development, attributing a great part of this youth participation in the General Elections to the assent of ‘Not Too Young To Run’ Bill signed into law by his Administration in 2018. He announced that Nigeria would also host the Common­wealth Youth and Students Sum­mit for African Region, with the theme, ‘Making Change Happen’ in Abuja from May 9-11, this year. The Nigerian leader used the opportunity to bid farewell to his colleagues, expressing joy at shared aspirations and values within the period.