Hon. Charles Anike is the National President of Eastern Union (EU), a socio-political pressure group for the people of the old Eastern Region. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on some of the issues emanating from the 2023 general elections. Excerpt: Nigeria Workers last Monday joined their counterparts all over the world to celebrate the May Workers Day. How do you see the condition of the Nigerian Workers? The Nigerian workers have never fared well since this democratic dispensation. If we consider the per capita income of an average Nigerian worker, compared to their counterparts in other climes, it is nothing to write home about. The frustration and horrible experiences of the Nigerian workers became worse under the present All Progressives Congress (APC) Buhari regime. The Buhari government by its economic policies worsened and reduced the standard of living of an average Nigerian worker. No thanks to the hyperinflation in the country. Transportation, foot items and other essential services under the Buhari administration skyrocketed above the reach of the ordinary citizens, especially the Nigerian workers. It is under this regime that heard of workers committing suicide due to hardship. The workforce, especially those in the health and educational sectors, are constantly embarking on strike to force the government to be responsible. What do you think should be done to improve the lot of Nigerian workers? To improve the workers’ welfare, a lot is expected from the incoming government. The workers’ minimum wage needs to be reviewed from time to time. The inflation rate needs to be seriously put on check. Governments at all levels need to create opportunities for workers that will be socially productive and economically rewarded. Security of lives and properties will also help to improve workers’ welfare. Overtime work must be adequately rewarded. Nigerians workers deserve purposeful leadership. What is your take on the recent postponement of the population census? The news of the postponement was greeted with nationwide jubilation. The Buhari government has no moral standing and integrity to undertake such a sensitive project as the national census. For the past eight years, the Buhari government has been enmeshed in massive fraud and corruption to the extent that an average Nigerian is praying fervently for the expiration of the administration. Since inception, the government has not engaged or successfully concluded any meaningful project. The government which was from onset built on a false and faulty foundation of bigotry, has been notable for falsehood and propaganda. The proposed national census, like every other project of the Buhari government, was ill-intended and primarily to facilitate corruption. The controversies that have so far trailed the 2023 general elections would be a child’s play compared to what would have been the outcome of the Buhari 2023 census. The postponement was the best thing to happen because the current administration seems to have been doomed to fail in every aspect of governance. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Ohanaeze Ndigbo recently expressed anger over the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari to release the IPOB Leader, Nnamdi Kanu. How do you see this development? POLL We were never looking forward to Buhari release Nnamdi Kanu. Since the inception of the administration, Buhari has shown no regard to rule of law. People believe that he has unrepentant hatred for the Igbo people. Buhari has in many occasions disobeyed many court orders. He only obeys court orders when they are convenient for him. However, in the next few weeks, he will go down in history as the worst President Nigeria will ever produce. Do you think the Presidential Election Tribunal and the Supreme Court can right any wrongs of the Presidential Election, bearing in mind the shortness of time between now and May 29 inauguration? Many Nigerians have given up hope on the Judiciary since the APC government pocketed and tried to politicise the very third arm of government. Under Buhari, Nigerians have lost hope in the judiciary to the extent that we hear many refer to the supposed sacred institution as the lost hope of the common man, which should be the other way around. However, how we think about our lawyers and Justices, we still believe that the Peter Obi/Labour Party vs APC candidate and INEC, is a very good opportunity for the Judiciary to redeem its dying image among the citizens. If we think of the magnitude and monumental corruption of the APC and INEC, it will be difficult to anticipate justice. So far, we have witnessed foot dragging and outright delay tactics by the APC to ensure that the INEC’s President-elect is sworn into office. However, we are encouraged by the high interest of the citizens, both at home and in the Diaspora, and even the international community in the outcome of the presidential election petition. We also believe that going by the overwhelming evidence against the APC candidate, the tribunal will not waste much time in reversing the reckless and fraudulent declaration by the INEC. How do you see the 10th National Assembly as it will be made up of members of other political parties though APC is in majority? Do you think it will perform better than the then 9th NASS? The composition of different political parties in the 10th National Assembly is the beauty of democracy. That was only possible because the APC-INEC were taken unaware by the use of BVAS. So, before the APC-INEC realised that they had been caught in their own trap, most of the National Assembly election results were already uploaded. I can tell you that if they had allowed total compliance of the upload of results, the APC would not have had majority. This is because most of the APC candidates that have collected Certificates of Return intimidated the people and rigged the elections in their areas. Many of the results will be reversed by the courts. The 10th National Assembly even by its composition will be far better than the rubber stamped 9th NASS. The 9th National Assembly led by Sen. Ahmed Lawal and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila are worst Assembly in the history of the National Assembly. The Assembly is just there to approve loans and everything brought to it by the Executive. The Assembly is more loyal to the APC and was conniving to loot public funds in various ways, including payment of ransoms to terrorists. As for those from the South East jostling for the position, they all lack home support and naturally, charity must begin at home. What is your take on the horse trading going on for the leadership positions in the National Assembly? Do you think South East can make it to the top of both chambers? The horse trading over who becomes what in the both chambers is normal with politicians anywhere in the world. But, while we seem not seriously concerned about the horse trading currently going on over who becomes President of Senate or Speaker of the House of Representatives and their Deputies, the horse trading so far is based on the INEC declared President-elect. But, since we believe that the court will reverse the INEC imposition, the present efforts and horse trading will be futile. Regarding if the South-East can make it to any of the top positions in both chambers, we (Eastern Union) represents the interest of old Eastern Region of Nigeria which of course is comprised of South-East and South-South zones. We do not support any of the South-East candidates for the top positions. This is because the line-up we see so far, we cannot guarantee their capacity and competence. It is not all about producing ‘NAY’ and ‘YEAH’ leaders, but leaders that will meet the demands of the time. We don’t subscribe to sentiments when it comes to selection of leaders. However, we believe that whatever is going on today will in course of time be reversed, as the court pleases. What type of cabinet should Nigerians expect from Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the INEC-announced President-elect? It is natural for gullible Nigerian politicians to selfishly jostle for positions. Remember that most of the politicians we have in this dispensation behave like vultures. They go where there are carcasses. Those politicians jostling for positions are mainly of the APC, a party of strange bedfellows, a congregation of greedy politicians ever. We are not expecting much difference from the APC-INEC president-elect, Bola Tinubu, considering that he made it clear to Nigerians during the campaign that he would continue to run the same administrative style of Buhari, if elected. Furthermore, from the past record of Tinubu, he is also an autocratic leader like Buhari. He is also highly nepotist, though slightly different from Buhari. Therefore, if the judiciary sustains his election, we will witness a cabinet highly dominated by one ethnic group and one religion, Yorubas and Muslims. The Imo State governorship election will hold on November 11. What are your expectations from that election? The November 11 governorship election in Imo State is very strategic because it will afford the Imolites an opportunity to right the wrong of 2019 by the Supreme Court. The Imo State citizens have been praying, waiting patiently for an opportunity to reclaim their stolen mandate. They are eagerly looking forward to end of the reign of terror in the state. Since the inception of the present government in the state, Imo has witnessed a high level of bloodshed, terror and insecurity allegedly sponsored by the government to force legitimacy and acceptance by the people. The people’s anger will be expressed at the poll, just like what happened in the February 25 elections. How do you see the current leadership crisis in both the PDP and LP? The crisis in the PDP is self-inflicted due to some over ambitious and desperate individuals trying to achieve their inordinate ambition. The elements believe that it is either them or no one else. They are ruled and consumed by their superiority complex. They defect today and come back tomorrow. They don’t have any well-defined political ideology, except to grab power. So, until those elements are finally shown the way out of the party, the PDP will remain irredeemable. As for the Labour Party, there is still no known major crisis in the party for now. What we have or what is mistaken to be a crisis in the Labour Party is the handiwork of the APC. Could you please comment briefly on the crisis over Adamawa governorship election? The Adamawa governorship crisis was a show of shame to the electoral body and a clear indication that INEC is not way independent. The Adamawa governorship tussle was a replay of the many dramas that took place across the country on February 25 and March 18 respectively. The governor of Adamawa said after he was declared winner, stated that he didn’t contest the election against Binani, APC candidate, but Abuja. The truth is that the APC-INEC forces from Abuja were behind the violence and crises that trailed the 2023 general elections across the country.