ABUJA – The Joint Task – 10th Assembly has said that it welcomes the zoning arrangement for the Presiding Officers of the 10th National Assembly released by the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday. In a statement jointly issued by the leaders of the group, to with: Hon. Usman Bello Kumo (APC, Gombe), Chairman, Hon. Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers), Co-Chairman, and Hon Aliyu Sani Madaki (NNPP, Kano), Secretary respectively after the announcement of the zoning, the Joint Task – 10th Assembly commended the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for showing leadership in arriving at the party’s choice for those that will lead the 10th National Assembly. They noted that they were ready to work with the incoming Tinubu administration, adding that they would work hard to realize the zoning arrangement as announced by APC. The forum, which comprises members-elect from the APC, PDP, LP, NNPP, APGA, SDP, ADC and YPP, noted that it has been waiting for the party’s direction on zoning to decide on the next line of action. “As a forum, we at the Joint Task – 10th Assembly welcome the zoning arrangement of the APC. We believe in upholding best democratic practices all over the world, that is why we want to join hands as political parties that won seats in the Parliament to have a harmonious working relationship with the other arms of government, especially the Executive, without compromising our independence. “Now that the APC NWC has taken the bold decision, we will go in line with the party’s choice and work assiduously to realize the same. “We want to assure the incoming administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu that as a Parliament, we would work harmoniously and assiduously with him to realize his plans for Nigeria. We would work jointly with all stakeholders within and outside the House to have a stable house,” the statement said. The ‘Joint Task – 10th Assembly’ is a multi-partisan forum for Members-elect of the 10th House of Representatives, which seeks to promote the independence of the Legislature; inter-dependence of the Legislature and Executive; Legislation for good governance and grassroots impact; constituency outreach, equity and fairness among ranking and new members, and ensure unity, equity and fairness in the emergence of Presiding and Principal Officers in line with best parliamentary practice.