The Nigerian fashion sector has undergone a number of advancements in the last 10 years, which have attracted attention from around the world to its enormous potential. Nigerian fashion firms are now more numerous than ever and offer distinctive items that stand out from the crowd. Like everything else in Nigeria, a sizable portion of our culture is deeply ingrained in our fashion, from locally produced fabric to apparel inspired by old-school Nigerian shops. One key thing that stands out for many Nigerian fashion brands is sustainability, as many Nigerian designers are consciously focused on creating ethical and environmentally friendly businesses. The increase in the availability of fashion brands in Nigeria has provided a variety of options for customers and created more employment opportunities. We’ve compiled a list of five made in Nigeria fashion brands that prioritise sustainability and credibility. 1. tWIF Clothing TWIF (The Way It Fits) is a fashion brand that has always prided itself in producing bespoke and ready to wear premium clothing that are sustainable and affordable. POLL They manufacture clothing items such as shirts, suits, native attires and pants, as well as branded clothing for companies and other businesses. They also offer after sales services such as alterations. Since it’s inception in 2012 and have maintained an unwavering desire for producing the best quality products for their customers. 2. Shop Ayora Shop Ayora is a Nigerian made, custom and ready to wear brand located in Lagos, Nigeria. The majority of their clothes are made from adire fabric and the Ayora brand is focused on reducing their carbon footprints by providing sustainable fashion pieces that can stand the test of time. 3. Peridot Peridot is a minimalist ready to wear brand made in Nigeria. Their pieces feature distinct prints and patterns while incorporating traditional Nigerian designs such as Kaftans and Ankara fabric. Peridot priorities timeless premium pieces created for the stylish woman. 4. Melia By Jade Melia By Jade is a clothing brand that creates ready to wear female clothing made from Adire, batik, tie-dye and Kampala. The brand incorporates old vintage art into contemporary fashion pieces for the modern woman. 5. Nyosi Nyosi is a Nigerian based fashion brand located in Lagos concerned with aesthetically complementing the everyday woman. The brand works with a range of materials, including tie-dye to create wearable, casual yet stylish pieces.