ABUJA  – Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the outgoing Minister of Infor­mation and Culture, has said that for eight years, he along his team jointly tackled the challenges headlong despite serving at a period marked by great challenges and great opportunities. Mohammed, who stated this Friday night during a send off ceremony organised by the Ministry of Information and Culture in his honour, said he also made the best of the op­portunities during the period. While thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for the confidence reposed in him by allowing him to serve as the longest Information Minister in the history of Nigeria so far. He said he lived up to his mandate, which is the man­agement of the image, repu­tation and promotion of the culture of the people and gov­ernment of Nigeria through a dynamic public information system that facilitates access by citizens and the global com­munity to credible and timely information. “This gathering marks the end of an era, which started on Nov. 11th 2015 when I assumed office after being sworn into of­fice by Mr. President. “If I am correct, this is the longest period anyone has served as Minister of Informa­tion and Culture. I believe this is a testament to the confidence reposed in me by Mr. President, for which I am most grateful. “I served at a period marked by great challenges and great opportunities. “While we jointly tackled the challenges headlong, we also made the best of the op­portunities. This wouldn’t have been possible without the support and cooperation of the staff of the ministry as well as of its agencies, for which I am most appreciative. POLL “In the course of my tenure, there is no doubt that I had occasions to disagree with some of you for one reason or another. But this was all in a day’s work, and did nothing to affect the cordial relationship that I enjoyed with you. “I make bold to say that thanks to you all, we lived up to our mandate, which is the management of the image, reputation and promotion of the culture of the people and government of Nigeria through a dynamic public information system that facil­itates access by citizens and the global community to cred­ible and timely information,” he said.