Egbin has assured sustainable development and improved services through human capital development, even as it is training its workforce while preparing for its Phase II expansion plan. With an installed capacity of 1,320MW, Egbin is easily Africa’s largest privately-run thermal plant. Speaking during the 2023 Best Performance Dinner to appreciate and encourage employees and teams who demonstrated high level of commitment and outstanding performance, one of the directors of Egbin Power Plc, Kola Adesina said, the impressive performance of the employees provided the necessary impetus for the growth of the business. To him, “We are proud of our employees, and it is our tradition to reward outstanding performance. Their hard work and dedication have helped our company achieve success and this is a show of our appreciation for their efforts. The employees being celebrated here have put together impressive performance and they have been able to deliver at optimal level within the organization, that is why we are celebrating them as a model to challenge and motivate others.” He expressed optimism that the operations of Egbin Power Plc will get better because the initiative would further inspire the workforce as the management will continue to invest in its human capital development to create a pipeline for the kind of leadership needed for future growth and development of the industry. Adesina pledged that the company will continue to use this platform to further drive human capital development, sustainability and inspire outstanding performance among staff”. Also speaking at the event, the chief executive officer(CEO) Egbin Power Plc, Mokhtar Bounour, noted that, the occasion is part of the company’s tradition to empower and support the employees in driving high performance and celebrating their excellence which yields results for the business.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The rewards are part of Egbin’s ongoing commitment to creating a positive and supportive work environment that recognizes and rewards employee contributions. POLL By recognising their performance for the outstanding results achieved, we further inspire them to greater heights and encourage them to keep working safely as well,” he stressed. He explained that, Egbin Power, which is part of Sahara Power Group, constantly strategises to drive innovation, promotes human capital development and sustainability in order to improve operation and deliver positive results for the power sector. “This occasion is about empowering and celebrating our people, and the results achieved while also developing human capital and driving sustainable business. We expect that these rewards will further boost the motivation of our employees and improve their morale greatly. “Recognising and rewarding employees is essential to maintaining a strong motivated workforce. We want our employees to know that their efforts are valued and appreciated and that we are committed to supporting their growth and development within the organisation,” he pointed out.