The Bauchi State Chapter of the Coalition of APC Women Support Group has petitioned the President-elect and his Deputy-Elect, Alhaji Bola Ahmad Tinubu, and Sen. Kashim Shettima to intervene in the crisis rocking the party in the state. This was contained in a press statement by theLeader of the Coalition in the state, Hajiya Badawiyya Dan Sale, and, copies made available to journalists in Bauchi. According to the statement, the Coalition Of APC Women Groups in the state is conveying to the national leadership of the party a message of the voice of women in the APC as a party, whose number is over 153,640 women in the state. “Our grievance is that the leaders of the party at the state level and those who are in power, are not carrying us along, we want to inform the leaders that we do not accept positions that are not loyal to the people and the party because they are doing nothing for the people.” ” Unless something urgently is done to correct the situation, the APC will be in serious trouble with the leadership crisis that may arise because of injustice and lack of kindness from the leaders in the state. “We are calling loudly as supporters of the APC, for the sake of God to find someone who knows the political history of Bauchi, who will hold the people and do good to them before he becomes a Minister or get any other high political position,” She said. The group stressed that the concern of the members is about that someone who will hold the nation together and build the APC as a party saying “We, women of Bauchi state went out and voted in the heat of the day so that APC would win all the elections, but because of injustice from the leaders, APC did not win in the state.” “Of course! What happened in the last election was unfortunate. But if there is a reform and a good person is given a high position in the next dispensation, everything will return to normal. Therefore, we call with courtesy and respect to the leaders to choose a compassionate person and give him a chance to get a high position in the new government,” POLL “What happened in Bauchi state in the last election, history will not forget it. We have three elected Senators, but now all of them have left our party, APC, this is a big loss and it is one of the biggest things to happen to us, that is why we lost the election.” “The women are therefore calling on the leaders at the National level to persuade those who have been disappointed and left, especially Senators Adamu Bulkachuwa, Halliru Dauda Jika, and Lawal Gumau to return to the APC for the development of the party and the protection of democratic rights in the state” “We believe that doing this will be good for the party, knowing that the APC will gain thousands of supporters and win the election in the year 2027 if it begins now to put its house in order” “Finally, we are assuring the people of Bauchi State and thousands of supporters of the APC and the more than 150,000 women that we are with the one who will protect the democratic rights and respect the opinion of the people”. “We are calling on leaders of the party to have mercy on us and give a good person, the support to get a high position at the national level that will embrace everyone and give everyone a chance” “We have distanced ourselves from ethnic or religious politics, we are in politics for nationalism as the first leaders of the country did. On behalf of more than three hundred women’s groups, we are calling loudly to give women the opportunity to bring the ones who will be given a high position in Bauchi State, because doing so will be good and ensure winning elections in the coming years” Badawiyya Dan Sale said.