The approval, last week, by the Na­tional Assembly of the request of President Muhammadu Buhari to restructure the N22.7 trillion loans the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) extended to the Federal Government under its Ways and Means provision is a mixed bag for the country, espe­cially for the incoming government, financial analysts have said. Analysts told Daily Independent at the weekend that the approval brings with it both the good and the bad. The Ways and Means provi­sion allows the government to borrow from the apex bank if it needs short-term or emergency finance to fund delayed govern­ment expected cash receipts of fiscal deficits. Since the government started experiencing a significant short­fall in revenue, it has relied heav­ily on the central bank to finance its expenditure programmes via Ways and Means which balance as of December 19, 2022, stood at N22.7 trillion. With the securitisation ap­proval by the National Assembly, the Federal Government said it will repay the loan with securities such as treasury bills and bonds issuance. For the economy not to col­lapse, the government was com­pelled to borrow repeatedly from the CBN, exceeding the 5 percent threshold of the prior year’s rev­enue as stipulated by the CBN Act, 2007. Daily Independent gathered that part of the Ways and Means advances were given to state gov­ernments as loans to augment budgetary shortfall in their var­ious states.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ While approving the proposal, the National Assembly urged the Federal Government to expedite action on the repayment of the loans through treasury bills and bond issuances. POLL It also advised the government to begin the process of recovering the portion of the Ways and Means given as loans to state governments as further deferment of the repay­ment of the loans by the states will not be healthy for the economy. Speaking with Daily Indepen­dent, Prof. Uche Uwaleke, Profes­sor of Banking and Finance at Nasarawa State University, said the move, though coming a bit late is a breather for the nation’s ailing economy. He said, “In respect of the se­curitisation of CBN’s Ways and Means the government debt re­structuring arrangement affords it a breather in terms of debt ser­vice burden since repayment of the over N22 trillion will now be spread over 40 years with a three-year grace period on the principal sum. “Similarly, the cost of annual debt service will reduce given the concessional rate of 9 percent as against the current 20.5 percent interest rate charged on CBN’s Ways and Means”. The cumulative effect of these, he said, would be a reduction in government budget deficit and freeing up resources that could be applied to more productive areas. “It’s also important to note that since the securities will only be taken up by the CBN and not the public, the fear that it will crowd out the private sector is no longer there. “There’s equally the issue of debt transparency that it engen­ders. Before now, CBN’s Ways and Means did not form part of the public debt stock reported by the Debt Management Office. Securi­tisation would entail including it as part of the country’s public debt which makes for transparency”. But Cyril Ampka, an Abu­ja-based economist, said the plan will hurt the country. He said, “The decision to secu­ritise the N22.7 trillion Ways and Means advances will impact neg­atively on the general price level. “Looking at the economy and the inflation rate currently at 22.04 percent, this securitisation approval will be of negative im­pact on the people if the spike in inflation is not curtailed”. However, Uwaleke opined that on the contrary, the securitisation of the Ways and Means will ease the burden of the next administration. He added, “In 2023 budget, for example, about N6.3 trillion has been budgeted for debt service alone. This includes the cost of servicing CBN Ways and Means. “Following the securitisation at 9 percent for 40 years, this amount of debt service in respect of CBN loans is bound to reduce”. Going forward, analysts said adequate safeguards should be put in place to ensure that CBN’s Ways and Means are curtailed due to its negative impact on the general price level. They stressed that relevant provisions of the CBN Act should stipulate the conditions under which debt limits can be breached, the process which should involve approval by the National Assembly as well as stiff sanctions for breach of the limits provided in the Act without following due process.