SYLVESTER ENOGHASE In addressing the complaints functional retirement system, the National Pension Commission (PenCom), introduced the contributory pension scheme (CPS), as part of its efforts to providing a stable, timely, predictable, and adequate source of retirement income for employees in the public and private sectors. The CPS was an initiative culminating in the enactment of the Pension Reform Act of 2004 (PRA 2004). But 10 years later, it was repealed and replaced with the Pension Reform Act 2014 (PRA 2014). The commission, however, said despite appraisals of the success of the initiative, there have been complaints about low pensions, especially from retirees in the public sector. In addressing the complaints, the commission said: “the CPS provides a comprehensive framework that allows employers and employees to plan and save towards pensions”. PenCom, therefore, highlighted solutions that both parties could adopt to improve the adequacy of pensions for retirees, especially those in public service who are disproportionately affected by low pay. The Commission, however, gave the assurance that Pension Funds are being invested with reputable financial institutions and organizations to avoid any loss and with great potentials to all contributors, assuring investors their money are in safe hands. This assurance which was given by the Director General of PenCom, Aisha Dahir-Umar, at a one day workshop organised by the Commission for members of the Labour Writers Association of Nigeria (LAWAN) towards better reporting of pension activities in Lagos, no doubt, threw more lights on how the returns generated from the investments serve as earnings to the employee upon retirement. POLL The workshop has the theme, “Securing the Future: The Benefits of the Contributory Pension Scheme to the Nigerian Workers”. According to her, from the commencement of the recovery of pension contributions owed workers in June 2012 to March 31, 2023, the commission has recovered N24.53b (contributions of N12.44b and penalties of N12.09b) from defaulting employers. Represented by Abdulquadri Dahiru, PenCom Head of Communication, the Director General, reiterated the Commission’s commitment to protecting workers’ interests and ensuring that employers pay pension contributions as at when due. According to her, Pencom’s mission is to ensure that workers receive their retirement benefits as at when due. “The annuity of 105,446 retirees valued 194.12 billion naira has already been paid as lump sum while 595.43 billion naira as premium that provides an average monthly pension of N6.25 billion is been paid”, she said “Over 425,279 retirees have been receiving their pensions from inception till December 2022, as at when due, under the CPS programmed withdrawals while 319,833 retirees have also received N908.04 billion, as a lump sum valued at N14.18 billion, as an average monthly pensions”. She noted that the Commission’s meticulous regulation and supervision of the pension industry ensures that Pension Assets and CPS membership continue to grow, adding that the value of Pension Assets stood at N15.58 trillion as of 31 March 2023, while CPS membership was 9.95 million. The PenCom Director General said the Commission has launched a policy that allows Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders to utilise a portion of their retirement savings as equity for residential mortgages. “This policy marks a significant milestone in our ongoing efforts to provide greater flexibility and access to pension funds for the benefit of RSA holders. It recognises that many individuals face challenges in securing adequate housing upon retirement and aims to address this issue by unlocking the value of their pension savings to facilitate homeownership.” This policy aligns with our commitment to ensuring that pension funds catalyse economic development and social well-being.” According to the Director General, it is an important aspect of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) that benefits workers who lose their job. “As an RSA holder, an employee can access 25% of their RSA balance to help cushion the effect of unforeseen job loss if they cannot secure another employment after four months. “It is essential to note that this partial withdrawal is not a replacement for retirement benefits but rather a means to offer immediate support during a difficult period.” She said the remaining balance in the RSA continues to grow and accumulate until the RSA holder attain retirement age.” The PenCom Director General also assured that the Commission is committed to protecting workers’ interests and ensuring employers pay pension contributions as and when due. she said, the annuity of 105,446 retirees were paid N194.12 billion, as lump sum and N595.43 billion, as premium that provides an average monthly pension of N6.25 billion. On death benefits, the sum of N328.05 billion was paid to the beneficiaries/administrators of 86,610 deceased contributors. Already, the National Pension Commission has cleared 181 firms to work with government, as disclosed in a report titled “Schedule of Employers issued with certificate of Compliance with Provisions of the PRA 2014 as at January 13, 2023” The firms with varying numbers of employees were given the compliance with December 31, 2023 expiry date. Already, PenCom has given the directive on issuance of certificate of compliance with the provisions of the Pension Reform Act 2014 to the general public, suppliers, contractors or consultants bidding or soliciting for contract or business from any Federal Government ministries, departments and agencies stating that employers must fully comply with the provisions of the law. In that regard, during the first quarter of 2023, N384.28 million, comprising contributions of N193.06 million and penalties of N191.22 million, was recovered from 34 defaulting employers PenCom has also cleared 181 firms to work with government and scheduled employers issued with certificate of compliance with provision of the PRA 2014 as at January 2023. Dahiru-Umar added that PenCom was determined to ensure that Nigerian workers receive their retirement benefits on time. She said that the commission’s meticulous regulation and supervision of the pension industry had ensured that pension assets and the CPS membership continue to grow. She said that in 2022, PenCom launched a policy allowing Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders to utilise a portion of their retirement savings as equity for mortgages. She said that the policy marked a significant milestone in the commission’s ongoing efforts to provide greater flexibility and access to pension funds for the benefit of RSA holders. “We recognise that many individuals face challenges in securing adequate housing upon retirement, and we aim to address this issue by unlocking the value of their pension savings to facilitate homeownership. “Under this new policy, RSA holders who have contributed to their accounts for at least five years and met specific eligibility criteria can utilise up to 25 per cent of their pension savings as equity contribution towards acquiring residential properties. “This policy aligns with our commitment to ensuring that pension funds catalyse economic development and social well-being,” she said. Dahiru-Umar added that RSA holders could access 25 percent of their RSA balance to cushion the effect of job loss if they could not secure another employment after four months of job loss. She said that the partial withdrawal from RSA was to offer immediate support during a difficult period.