LAGOS – Dr Osahon Enabulele, President of the World Medical Association (WMA), has advocated the need for governments to humanise the whole healthcare value chain in the patient care process.The WMA President stated this on Friday while delivering a talk in Geneva, Switzerland, at the 10th Global Patients’ Congress organised by the International Alliance of Patients’ Organisation (IAPO). The Congress preceded the 76th World Health Assembly which starts on Sunday, in Geneva, with the theme, “Developing robust and resilient patient partnerships with health professionals to promote patient-centered, compassionate and humanised healthcare. While appraising the theme, Dr.Enabulele noted that the patient-physician relationship was as old as mankind and the origin of medicine, noting that the WMA has been a strong proponent of improved patient-physician relationships through a patient-centered care approach. He affirmed that the World Medical Association has been a frontline advocate of patient-centered care through its various policies and declarations. These include the Declaration of Geneva, the International Code of Medical Ethics, and the Declaration of Lisbon, among other efforts of the Association. He, however, regretted that recent trends of violence against physicians, and burnt-out resulting from work overload and indecent working conditions, could potentially weaken efforts at promoting the concept of patient-centered care. Dr.Enabulele reiterated that patient safety cannot be attained without the safety of the health workforce.He called for a holistic appraisal of the challenges militating against the practice of patient-centered care, including resolving issues about the well-being, autonomy, safety, decent workplace and working conditions of physicians. In his words, “Humanising the patient care process cannot be attained without humanising the whole healthcare value chain, including appropriate investments in the development of a resilient health workforce. POLL Among other speakers at the session were, Howard Catton, the CEO of the International Council of Nurses and Dr. Catherine Duggan, CEO, International Pharmaceutical Federation. Others are Prof. Lara Bloom, Board Member of IAPO and CEO of the Ehlers-Danlos Society and Nicola Bedlington, Special Adviser of the European Patients’ Forum. The WMA President is in Geneva, Switzerland, to attend the 76th World Health Assembly.