CAPE TOWN  – Nigeria is among over 60 coun­tries that are at risk of not meet­ing the maternal, newborn, and stillborn targets of the Sustain­able Development Goals (SDGs) without urgent intervention, the World Health Organisation has warned. Raising the alarm was Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director General of the World Health Organisation, while ad­dressing delegates at the ongoing Maternal and Newborn Health Conference in Cape Town, South Africa on Tuesday. Despite the advancements made in the last 20 years in at­tempts to lower maternal and newborn mortality, Dr. Ghebreye­sus noted that reductions in ma­ternal and newborn fatalities had now reached a plateau. The WHO DG maintained that infant deaths continued to make up about half of the un­der-five mortality, especially in Central and Southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa countries. “Every year, 4.5 million moth­ers, newborns, and stillborn die from preventable causes,” he said in his keynote statement during the first plenary of the four-day event that began on Monday, May 8 at the Cape Town International Convention Center. “Where a child is born or how much money its family has should not determine whether it lives or dies. But this is still the re­ality for many women and babies worldwide,” the WHO chief said. MNHC2023 is the maiden edition of a biennial conference which the organisers expect to provide a forum for account­ability and to measure progress and assess challenges in efforts to curb maternal, newborn, and stillborn mortality.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to them, the con­ference will create pathways to drive collaboration, coordina­tion, cross-country learning, and alignment within the maternal and newborn health community. POLL The second day of the confer­ence featured the first plenary, which entailed speeches, presen­tations, and panel discussions on the global trend in maternal and newborn health and efforts to address the issues from around the world. Various experts bemoaned the slow pace of progress in the fight against maternal and newborn mortality. Dr. Ghebreyesus, in his state­ment delivered via a live video link to the over 1800 delegates at the first plenary, stressed that urgent action was needed to re­ignite progress which could save 7.8 million lives. He urged countries to devel­op and finance evidence-based plans for maternal and newborn health and to integrate relevant programmes into their respective universal health coverage pack­ages and deliver them through primary healthcare. Sub-Saharan Africa and Cen­tral and Southern Asia are iden­tified as the regions experiencing the largest number of maternal and newborn deaths, with the Af­rican region bearing the largest burden. UN data show that in 2020, 70 percent of all maternal deaths occurred globally in sub-Saha­ran Africa. Tuesday also saw the launch of a joint WHO, UNICEF, and UNFPA report showing estimates of the progress on maternal and newborn mortality. The joint Every Newborn Action Plan (ENAP) and Ending Preventable Maternal Mortality (EPMM) progress tracking report shows that the global progress in reducing deaths of pregnant women, mothers, and babies has remained stagnant for eight years. The report attributed the stagnation to decreasing invest­ments, following the COVID-19 pandemic, rising poverty, and worsening humanitarian crises which intensified pressure on already overstretched maternity and newborn health services. According to the report, out of the combined 4.5 million deaths between 2020 and 2021, there were 0.29 million maternal deaths, 1.9 million stillbirths, and 2.3 million newborn deaths. “Pregnant women and new­borns continue to die at unac­ceptably high rates worldwide, and the COVID-19 pandemic has created further setbacks to pro­viding them with the healthcare they need,” Dr. Anshu Banerjee, Director of Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Ageing at WHO, said in a statement. “If we wish to see different re­sults, we must do things different­ly. More and smarter investments in primary healthcare are needed now so that every woman and baby – no matter where they live – have the best chance of health and survival,” he added. MNHC is organised by the AlignMNH, a global initiative funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in collabo­ration with the US Agency for International Development (USAID) and the government of South Africa.