LAGOS  – The newly unveiled 150 million metric standard cubic feet per day natural gas city gate in Ogun State by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Gas Marketing Limited and its joint venture partner, Transit Gas Nigeria Limited, will boost gas utilitisation and ensure the safe delivery of the energy source to various industrial and commercial users in the state It will also promote, integrate the use of gas domestically and generate power for industries,Group Chief Executive Officer of NNPC, Mele Kyari, said during recent unveiling of the project in Ibefun,Ogun state According to him, gas supply from the facility to businesses would eventually lead to economic growth and prosperity for the people, in Ogun State and the entire country. He was represented at the event by the Vice President of Gas and Power, NNPC, Abdulkabir Ahmed. He added that the natural gas facility would be an additional achievement to the Decade of Gas policy of the Federal Government launched by President Muhammadu Buhari to promote Nigeria’s industrialisation . He said: “NGML and Axxela natural gas distribution relationship stands for 20 years. “Today, the partnership has connected over 200 industries to natural gas.This 150 million scfd capacity will create jobs and enhance the current development and propel industrial growth” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He lamented said in spite of the country’s huge natural gas reserves there were still challenges in domestic utilization. POLL He expressed that it has become imperative for players in the industry to gird their loin and ensure that the abandoned resources are put to use in-country Bolaji Osunsanya, the Managing Director of TGNL, while speaking, said the development of the Sagamu gas distribution zone was born out of the need to deliver on a medium to long-term expansion strategy. He said the facility will broaden his company’s outlet portfolio and strengthen it’s market base in the energy sector. He disclosed that his company’s partnership with NGML has continued to create opportunities for both parties to leverage its expertise and resources to develop more infrastructure projects to drive economic growth in Nigeria. Osunsanya, who emphasised that the project would deepen natural gas utilitisation in Ogun State and its environs, added that the gas facility would further ginger the state for economic growth by enabling industrialisation within the state, promoting investment and supporting the manufacturing sector. According to him, the project will contribute to job creation and growth for medium size enterprises, stressing that his company’s to safety and environmental sustainability is reflected in every aspect of this facility, just to ensure we follow the best global standards,” he further stated. In his speech, the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, said the birth of the gas facility represent a significant point in the evolution of gas penetration and inclusion in Nigeria He said Ibefun natural gas city gate will support, drive and complement administrations gas mobility projects. He promised to create enabling environment for the gas project to thrive in the state, as well as wooed more investors into the state. He said his administration is investors -friendly and would not rest on its oars to open the state to more value-adding investments through which it can grow to enviable height.