Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya and his Kaduna State counterpart, Nasiru El-Rufai, have commended a Gombe entrepreneur, Adamu Moddibo Abubakar for his efforts in employing 62 youths in his new Feeds Factory situated in Gombe. Governor El-Rufai, who was in Gombe to Commission the multi-million naira project, congratulated Adamu Moddibo, the Kaduna-based Gombe indigene for the investment and for employing Gombe youth, saying, “I am proud of him”. According to El-Rufai, “When he wanted to invest, he couldn’t invest in Kaduna, he came back to Gombe his hometown and invested, I congratulate the Governor of Gombe and hope that Adamu Moddibo Abubakar will come to Kaduna and open a branch”. The Kaduna Governor emphasized the importance of industrialization and encouraged entrepreneurs to set up businesses in manufacturing stressing that it is the only way to create job opportunities. He said, under Governor Inuwa Yahaya, Gombe became number one in the ease of doing business, expressing confidence that many investors will follow suit by investing in Gombe State. The Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, expressed delight in the project saying “The investment is commendable, it will increase revenue generation, create job opportunities for the teeming youths in the state”. He thanked Adamu Moddibo for coming to establish the company in Gombe state, declaring that his administration was passionate about people’s well-being, hence the construction of the industrial park, which will create job opportunities for over 100,000 people.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He also thanked Adamu Modibbo for his foresight in bringing the company to Gombe, thereby assuring investors willing to invest in the State, particularly indegene of Gombe, that Government will support them. POLL He said, “Comrade (as Adamu Modibbo is fondly called) has employed 62 youths and if ten people had a similar investment in the state, the rate of unemployed youth will drastically be reduced”. He Called on traditional leaders to encourage their subjects to emulate Adamu Speaking earlier, the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Trust Feeds Factory Limited, Comrade Adamu Moddibo Abubakar, said the factory was incorporated on the 9th November 2021 and basically into the production of fish, chicken feeds as well as the production of fish from hatchery, nursery up to ongrower stage. He said, “Our mission is to become a leading manufacturer of Agro-allied products through excellence in service delivery with a vision to serve as a global brand in the Agro-allied industry in terms of product development and quality services. “Trust Feed limited’s core values include a commitment to innovation and excellence, sustainable Agro-allied value chain produce, Truth and integrity in the production of value chain commodities; high standards of morals and ethics; efficient resource management based on the need for cost effectiveness; and respect for diversity and the dignity of the individual. “As part of contributing to the employment rate in the state and Nigeria at large, the factory has a present staff of over 62 with plans to engage more hands in the nearest future. “In terms of output, the factory currently has the capacity to produce 12-18 trucks of feeds monthly which is about 540 tons and with necessary Government support, we are capable of doubling or even doing more in our production thereby engaging more hands to further reduce the rate of unemployment with a multiplying effect of bridging the chicken and fish feeds gap in the country”, he said. He appreciated Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya for providing an enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the state adding that this has greatly helped his company to move on in contributing its quota to the economic growth of the state and Nigeria. To Governor Nasir el-Rufai, Adamu Moddibo described him as the epitome of an outstanding leader who has transformed Kaduna State positively. “We cannot thank you enough for accepting to come all the way from Kaduna State to Commission this factory, we are indeed grateful”, he said.