LAGOS  – The Airline Operators of Ni­geria (AON) has said that the last minute attempt by Sen. Hadi Sirika to force a nation­al carrier on the country is a call for anarchy. AON in a statement by Prof. Obiora Okonkwo, its spokesperson, said that the actions being taken by Sirika were in flagrant disobedience of the orders of the Federal High Court of Nigeria, which halted the move. Okonkwo said that there was need for AON to respond to the statement of Sirika due to the myriad of inqui­ries from concerned, patri­otic Nigerians and industry stakeholders who had either called or sent messages over the minister’s comments to commence the new national carrier by Friday, May 26, 2023, which is the last work­ing day of the current admin­istration. The body, however, clari­fied that it welcomed the es­tablishment of more airlines in Nigeria, stressing that the skies are big enough to ac­commodate all. But it said it was against any contraption that is shad­owy and not in the best over­all interest of the country. The statement added: “We need the outgoing minister to come forward, defend and counter the very damning submissions in our suit. “Again, it is very disturb­ing that a minister is des­perately hoodwinking the entire nation into accepting a massively flawed process just 72 hours to the end of his seven-year tenure in office as Minister of Aviation, even as the courts have halted him. “Stakeholders are worried that his actions may create problems for the incoming government of President Ahmed Bola Tinubu.” POLL AON said that the govern­ment of Tinubu should not be blackmailed into accepting a contraption that would hurt the Nigerian economy and destroy millions of existing jobs in favour of a few indi­viduals and a foreign country. It insisted that Sirika was aware of the different court orders against him and Ni­geria Air, reiterating that he was courting a charge of contempt of court with his action. AON added that the pro­cess of acquiring Airline Op­erator’s Certificate (AOC) for Nigeria Air was still at stage one of the exercise, contrary to the minister’s statement that process had reached the last stage – phase five. It declared that the world was watching the regulator, the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on the Nigeria Air and its AOC process, stressing that the NG Eagles’ flawed AOC is­suance was equally a matter that would be tackled in the future. “The government should understand that the actions and pronouncements of this minister is not only impugn­ing on the independence and integrity of the NCAA, but also capable of bringing the entire industry into dis­repute, thereby adversely affecting the ratings of Ni­geria’s airlines on the global stage. “The minister cannot or­der these certification pro­cesses by fiat. Therefore, an aircraft flying into Nigeria and bearing Nigerian colours does not change anything. “Furthermore, the fact that the minister has just a few more days left of his time in office makes it necessary that promoters of the air­line, if they exist, other than Sirika, should be talking to Nigerians, telling them what they ought to know and an­swering relevant questions about their stakes in Nigeria Air,” AON added. It pointed out that until the order was vacated, the Ministry of Aviation cannot proceed with any action to­wards the airline.