…..Soludo, Okowa Call for Continuous Developmental Governance The Federal government yesterday officially inaugurated the 2nd Niger Bridge and handed the project, linking Delta state and its neighboring Anambra state to its operator amidst joy by motorists. It can be recalled that the project was awarded by former President Goodluck Jonathan on July 25, 2018, to Julius Berger Nigeria (JBN) but was completed by President Muhammadu Buhari, with a N206,151,693,014.87 contract sum. The new bridge was designed to complement the existing bridge that was built in 1965 and has become a corridor of immense traffic congestion whilst remaining the crucial East-West link for decades, the Ministry initiated and commenced the construction of the 2nd Niger Bridge.” The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, by the counterpart in State Works and Housing, Umar Ibrahim El-Yakub, supported Governors Charles Soludo (Anambra) Hope Uzodimma (Imo) Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), represented by his Chief of Staff, Rt Hon Ovie Agas, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chief Chris Ngige, his Science and Technology counterpart, thePresident of the Ohaneze N’digbo Worldwide, Chief Isaac Nwayanwu, and an array of Royal Fathers, including the Asagba of Asaba, Obi Prof Chike Edozien. He said the bridge will bring succor, comfort, and peaceful co-existence. He said Buhari has made the story of development in Nigeria an easy task. He said eight projects, including the Ikom and loto-Oweto bridges in Cross-River and Nasarawa states respectively, and Federal Secretariat in Zamfara and Awka in Anambra, were being commissioned simultaneously, for public use, to meet the people at the point of their needs. Governor Okowa said the bridge vividly represented “a promise-made and promise-kept” by President Buhari, for economic growth, gainful employment, and workforce. POLL Soludo who listed five agitations among the marginalization line by South Easterners, including, the gas pipeline, the road from Anambra to link Lokoja, and access to the sea and dry port, said the 2nd Niger Bridge was an economic actor. Uzodimma, who congratulated the President for delivering the project according to specification, said Buhari has opened the South-Eastern part of Nigeria to the entire world through the reality of accessibility.In his goodwill message, Ngige, who said Buhari broke the jinx of false promises and political statements by enhancing the major handshake between the Eastern and the Western regions by completing the project, said posterity would judge him right. While the Obi of Onitsha lamented that the project passed through four successive administrations, he hailed President Buhari for being the game-changer for the socio-economic financial enhancement of the people of the South-East, South-South, and South-West geo-political zones, for easy movement of goods and services, the Asagba of Asaba, who described the project as “a well-executed landmark parting-gift” to ease traffic congestion, requested that the uncompleted Asaba section of the project should be handed over to the incoming federal government.