Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has vowed to put more effort into economic empowerment and job creation for his people shortly after being sworn-in for a second term in office by the State’s Chief Judge, Justice Halima Mohammed. Also sworn-in by the State Chief Judge was the State Deputy Governor, Manasseh Daniel Jatau, who was accompanied at the occasion by his wife. Governor Inuwa was also accompanied by his wife at the ceremony. The Deputy Governor and the Governor both took turns to as the State Chief Judge, Justice Halima Mohammed administered the oath of allegiance and the oath of office. In his address during the ceremony at the Pantami Stadium Gombe, venue of the the inauguration, Governor Inuwa sought continued support, active engagement, and constructive feedback for the administration in order to succeed. The Governor who thanked the people of the State for giving him another opportunity to serve them said his administration will continue with the ease of doing business policies so as to consolidate its position as the most business-friendly state in Nigeria thereby creating economic empowerment for the people. He said, “These policies are designed to foster a conducive business environment, attract investments, and stimulate economic growth. We shall also train and upskill our youth, invest in ICT skills and innovation, and harness our agri-business potentials in order to enhance food security and create employment opportunities”. Governor Inuwa also promised that education and human capital Development will be given priority through the continuous upgrade of school infrastructure, provision of instructional materials and improving the capacity of teachers and administrators. According to him, “We are committed to expanding access to education, particularly for out-of-school children, girl-child and other marginalized groups, through various initiatives like the Adolescent Girl Initiative for Learning and Empowerment (AGILE). POLL “We are also committed to enhancing vocational and technical education to align with the needs of the rapidly evolving job market, particularly the agriculture, energy and oil and gas sectors which are fast taking shape in Gombe State, especially with the discovery of oil and gas at Kolmani”, he assured. On health and social welfare, Governor Inuwa told the people of the State that, “we are going to leverage on Go-Health and GSPCHDA to strengthen healthcare systems and infrastructure in order to ensure accessible and quality healthcare services for all. “We shall Improve the capacity of our healthcare professionals by investing in training and capacity building, as well as partner with FG and other relevant stakeholders to implement social welfare programs that support vulnerable groups and alleviate poverty”, he stressed. He said the administration in the next four years will not relent in its Infrastructural Development efforts saying, “We are going to consolidate on our existing achievements by investing in the development of critical infrastructure such as roads, bridges, water supply, and electricity. “We shall improve our rural and urban transportation networks, and invest in climate-friendly and sustainable projects. Urban renewal and redevelopment, especially in the State capital and the local government headquarters will be pursued vigorously in order to ensure decent living and also attract the much-needed investment in hospitality and tourism”, he assured. Above all, the Governor stated that the administration will maintain its Good Governance and Accountability policies by sustaining the principles of people-driven, needs-based and participatory governance. “We shall continue by improving our open government policies which enabled us to become one of the top 7 states in the country in the 2022 Transparency and Integrity Index. The efficient use of public resources through plugging leakages and reducing wastage will foster a culture of meritocracy and inclusivity in governance, thus improving the efficiency of the system.”, He stated.