A non-governmental women group, The Business Women Connect (TBWC), has called on government at all levels to give support to women-led initiatives with a view to helping them achieve their goal of empowering more women in society. The call came on the heels of a recent conference hosted by TBWC with the theme “Refresh” which held on1 May in Warri Delta, State. According to a statement by the group’s President, Mrs.Doubra Emein, she said TBWC hosted the largest working women conference in the South-South region of Nigeria with a view to help working women scale up in their businesses. She said: “We had quite a number of several working women as participants who had the privilege to learn, unlearn, relearn and network with women of like minds in one space. “It was indeed a memorable time. You can be rest assured that the women are better off to go out there and become persons of value at home, work and the society at large.” Speaking at the conference, the wife of the Delta State Governor, represented by Mrs. Kewve Agas, Permanent Secretary Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Welfare, expressed her delight at the work and the level of impact the group is making in the lives of women in the region. She opined that the state government will keep doing her best to support initiatives like this in the best way possible. Some of the topics the conference speakers focused on included personal growth, woman and life, success till retirement, business scale up, among others. POLL The icing on the cake at the annual conference was when five of the business women who attended received the sum of N100,000 through a raffle draw and another five received the sum of N200,000 as seed grant through a Pitchaton with Francesca Uriri, Founder, Leading Ladies Africa and Ejiroghene Udu, an entrepreneur known also as the Generator Girl as sponsors respectively. Some of the resource persons who graced this year’s event included veteran broadcaster, Adesuwa Oyenokwe, fitness expert Bunmi George, among others. The Business Women Connect (TBWC) conference is in her 4th year and is the initiative of Mrs. Doubra Emein, Mrs. Ufuoma Ogbo and Mrs. Onome Akpobaro who have recorded success in their respective business endeavours.