Tonye Cole, the Rivers State All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate in the just concluded general elections, in this interview speaks about manipulations, violence in Rivers State governorship election sponsored by Governor Nyesom Wike and why the deal he (Wike) made with the President-elect Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was unnecessary for the victory of the party at the presidential poll, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What is your relationship with the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, comment on the deal with Governor Wike during the presidential election in Rivers State, again are you cooperating with the aggrieved Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) group against Wike to fight your battle in Rivers State? I have a good relationship with the president-elect, and not only good it has been cordial. The deal that Wike and the president-elect made is an open secret. That deal is essentially that Rivers should be delivered to APC, and the APC in Rivers should allow Wike to do whatever he was going to do. I don’t have a problem with that. Assuming that the deal went through, the fact is that the politics in Rivers State was not going to allow that deal to work, as easily as Wike assumed. What Wike did was to deploy intimidation, violence, bribery, threat, killing, and all kinds of things to ensure that the election was stolen. Having done that, the president-elect cannot endorse all of those things and just say that they are allowed to go. He won’t do that because the facts were on ground that this was the only way PDP could have won elections in Rivers State, by deploying undemocratic means to win. Politics is about deal making; so we are not interested in whether a deal was made or not. What we are interested in is, having done that deal what happened on the election day is important. Regarding collaborating with aggrieved PDP members who are fighting with Wike, we are collaborating with everybody who in Rivers State wants a change, those who are in APC, Social Democratic Party (SDP), PDP, and everybody who knows that Rivers State needs to be removed from all these mess that we found ourselves and put it in the right path. We will find them and we will work with them. Are you saying that the victory that was delivered to the President-elect was delivered by the suppression of votes, maligning people, and hurting people? Remember that when the presidential election happened, nobody was expecting any kind of trouble because we were all relying on the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) to work, and the morning of that election was peaceful, the BVAS didn’t work and some people took advantage of that to begin to mutilate results and all of that. The presidential election is a totally different thing. It was after that went through, that we began to see intimidation, violence. So, when it came to the governorship election all hell broke loose because they saw the opportunity to bypass BVAS and do all sorts of things. My grouse is not with the first aspect of the election. My grouse is with what happened during the gubernatorial election when canes were used to flog people, where open threats were made and people were told that if they didn’t come out to vote for PDP, they shouldn’t come out, and this is where my grouse is because that is where people died. It is exactly what we are fighting against. You have a President-elect from your party who seems to have cut a deal in your state, what if it happens tomorrow that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who is known to be a master strategist decides to ask you to forget about the tribunal matter and offers you a position in his government, may be a Ministerial appointment, will that settle the matter? I don’t know if that will settle the matter because such a position hasn’t been brought before me. We haven’t been able to consider any such position, so I don’t know if that position is on the table. What I do know today is that people died, and a mandate was stolen. What I am certain about is that we have enough evidence to overturn the result in court. What I am sure of is that if the tribunal does what is right and we have Judges who are of impeccable character, I will be the Governor of Rivers State. That is what I am certain about. That somebody is offering me something that is different from this, it has to be compelling. I don’t know, but it must be really compelling to assuage the lives of those who died, to assuage those who felt that their mandate was totally stolen. I haven’t seen any deal on the table that suggests that there is something that is worth taking away.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ What kind of a deal do you think will assuage the pains of the people, make perhaps an atonement for those who lost their lives in the course of the exercise? POLL Like I said I haven’t seen any deal but the first aspect of it is that the people who have died between 2015 and now, nobody has addressed them. They need to be addressed. We need to bring their widows, their widowers, their children and assuage them. These are the people who stood against all odds for the APC at the risks of their lives. To ensure that the APC won in 2015, won in 2019, and they lost lives, and people just ignored it. My concern is to ensure that everybody who has lost life must be assuaged, that is where we will start. The kind of poverty that we see in Rivers State is beyond belief, the next aspect is what Rivers people will gain from this deal. Right now the people of Rivers State are getting the wrong end of the stick, and so any deal that doesn’t take them into consideration is not a deal that I am interested in. They must be taken into full consideration, and after that we will begin to talk about the issues of politicians. On the presidential election in Rivers State there is a report that what is on the INEC Result Viewing (IReV) portal is different from what was announced by INEC, especially the talks about Obiakpo, and a lot of other shenanigans that happened at the presidential election, are you saying that everything went on fine? I didn’t say that. I told you that as far as the presidential election was concerned, the morning of that presidential election was peaceful because nobody was expecting what was coming, so everything was going according to plan. At about 2pm when it was impossible for the result to be uploaded, remember that we were voting. We went out and voted for APC. Remember that APC was going to win that election. Personally I have always said that the deal was unnecessary. APC had gone to every local government, ward to ward and I know what APC had in Rivers State. APC would have won that election without any of those shenanigans. Wike needed to prove that he was the one that delivered that election, but he wasn’t, so for him to be able to do that, as soon as the BVAS started misbehaving, they went and began to snatch ballot boxes that was what we saw. We saw a lot of IReV mutilated result sheets. Did APC win that election? Yes. You said that you have a close relationship with Tinubu, when you heard about the deal he made with Wike, did you pick up your phone to call and tell him your position on that deal, and not to be put in the middle of the deal? I went beyond that and we spoke about that. We met one-on-one and we spoke about it. He is somebody who has given me a lot of political advice. When it comes to politics it might be understandable from the political aspect why this kind of deal is being done. However, I said personally this is between you and me, so I can assure you that you don’t need this deal to win the state but he is much older than I am. He is about my father’s age mate. He is somebody who has a lot of understanding of politics, so there are things that he might see that I couldn’t see. There were things that he had seen that enabled him to justify that he needed to go into a deal. Personally I told him that we were prepared and had worked stage by stage and that he didn’t need the deal to win. Some people have suggested that what is best for us is for election petition to be determined before the inauguration of a new government, what do you think about that because you are also courting that conundrum of May 29 and whether you like it or not, all the persons who have been given certificates of return will be sworn in, they will appoint Commissioners, Ministers and they will keep running and the people who are petitioning will be pursuing petitions, what is your view on that? I agree with that. One of the things that INEC did and did correctly was to ensure that every election dispute at the primary was sorted out before the main election. I think that is a good thing, to ensure that everybody who came out and contested in the election didn’t have anything hanging out there. I believe that ought to be done also for those who have won or lost elections. We need to go very clean so that once you have won that election, you know that you have won and have been sworn in, and you know that you have been sworn in. I agree 100 percent with you that we need to look at the issues of litigation such that everything can be closed before swearing in.