LAGOS – Rano Air on Sunday commenced scheduled flight services from its base in Kano to the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. The airline’s aircraft, Embraer ERJ with the registration number: 5N-BZX and 50-seat capacity, touched down at the Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), Lagos at 2:47 pm with 35 passengers. Speaking on the inaugural flight, Mr. Blessing Uwah, the Operations Manager, Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of MMA2, expressed delight with the commencement of services by the airline. Uwah emphasized that with the commencement of operations by Rano Air, air passengers would have more choices on routes. He assured that BASL would continue to support every airline that operates from its terminal, adding that it had enough facilities to cater for more airlines. He said: “Every opportunity to welcome any airline into the commercial airspace is a welcome development and we will like to congratulate the proponent of Rano Air. You and I know that aviation is not an easy ride, it is very expensive. We pray that this investment will yield fruitfulness for them and it will continue to grow. “I feel excited about their inaugural flight. As a terminal operator, BASL is pleased to welcome every new airline that is in the commercial space. We are welcoming everyone. There is enough space for everybody. The flying public needs more airlines. This is an additional incentive for the flying public.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “MMA2 is a part of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, even though we are privately run. The airport has a facility to accommodate new entrants. It is not just about the terminal, but the airport and we are developing further with all stakeholders to ensure that whosoever that comes in is given all the attention and support for them to succeed.” POLL The inaugural flight of Rano Air to Kano departed with 45 passengers from Lagos. Rano Air had last week said that its maiden flight would be flagged off by the Alhaji Umar Ganduje, the Governor of Kano State at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kano. The airline recently announced that it has procured four additional aircraft worth N4 billion. It recently received an Air Operator Certificate (AOC) from the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), which authorises it to provide scheduled passenger, cargo, and charter flight operations.