ABUJA  – There are strong indications that President Muhammadu Buhari would on May 22, 2023, officially inaugurate the long awaited Dan­gote Refinery, if the information revealed by the Special Assistant to the President on Digital Com­munications, Basir Ahmad, is anything to go by. In a Twitter message on Sun­day, Basir said, “The efforts by the Federal Government to make the country self-sufficient in local refining of crude oil to save the scarce foreign exchange used in the importation of petroleum products have received a boost as the 650,000 barrels per day Dangote Refinery, the world’s largest single-train refinery, is set for inauguration on May 22 by President Muhammadu Bu­hari”. While controversies regard­ing the removal of fuel subsidy raged in the country, Nigerians have been wondering what had become the fate of the Dangote Refinery which was expected to have come on stream since 2019. But feelers reaching Daily Independent also confirmed that the refinery has since been com­pleted and had been undergoing pre-inauguration testing. The refinery is set to comple­ment the $2.5 billion Dangote fertilizer plant which came on stream since 2022. The Dangote Refinery com­plex, which is located in the Lekki Free Zone area of Lagos, covers a land area of approxi­mately 2,635 hectares, which is larger than the size of Victoria Island in Lagos. The refinery is believed to be the biggest refinery in Africa and also the biggest single-train refinery in the world. Industry experts say a sin­gle-train refinery uses an inte­grated distillation unit or one crude distillation unit (CDU) to refine crude oil into various pe­troleum products, as against the use of multiple distillation units by most big refineries. POLL Due to the large capacity of the refinery, its pipeline infra­structure is the largest anywhere in the world, with 1,100 kilome­tres to handle three billion stan­dard cubic feet per day (Scf/d) of gas. According to a report by the company, the refinery has a 435 mega-capacity power plant that is able to meet the total power re­quirement of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC). On completion, the refinery is expected to meet 100 percent of the Nigerian requirement of all refined products and also have a surplus of each of these products for export. The refinery is designed to process Nigerian crude and can also process other crudes. It is a multi-billion dollar project that will create a market for $21 billion per annum of Nigerian crude oil. The integrated refinery and petrochemical project is expect­ed to generate 9,500 direct and 25,000 indirect jobs. Last year, Aliko Dangote, Chairman of Dangote Group, said his oil refinery would be commissioned before the end of Buhari’s tenure. In June 2021, Mele Kyari, Group Managing Director, NNPC, confirmed that the Fed­eral Government would acquire a 20 percent equity stake in the Dangote Refinery. Two months later, the Feder­al Executive Council (FEC) ap­proved the sum of $2.76 billion for the acquisition of a 20 percent minority equity stake in the re­finery. Although the Buhari ad­ministration would come to its climax on May 29, this month, the government prides itself as giving all the necessary support to make the refinery come on stream. Recall that the Federal Gov­ernment which had hinted of exiting fuel subsidy regime by June this year, had made a U-turn recently, insisting that it had suspended the idea to give suffering Nigerians and the in­coming administration of Bola Ahmed Tinubu a soft landing, especially to settle down to the business of governance. Tinubu is billed to be inaugu­rated on May 29, 2023, to pilot the affairs of the country for a four-year tenure.