KINGSLEY BENNETH; SAMUEL OGIDAN ABUJA – The Labour Party (LP) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have berated the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, for his comment that the opposition lost the 2023 presidential election and that President Muhammadu Buhari deserved accolades for organis­ing the election. LP Acting National Public­ity Secretary, Obiora Ifoh, on Sunday lambasted the minister over what the opposition party described as “heart-wrenching to hear the Honourable Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, still progressing with that warped, illogical and incongruous concept”. In a statement made avail­able to Daily Independent, LP described the recently conclud­ed presidential poll as massively rigged, and anything short of free, fair and credible poll. The statement further read, “We would rather not join issues with a man who is famous for constantly prescribing doses of expired and ineffectual propa­ganda to Nigerians. “His ill-fated and hugely failed trip to the United King­dom and United States where he attempted to redeem the grossly battered democratic credentials of this present administration; spending millions of taxpayers’ money to defend an indefensible action is yet another tragedy of President Buhari’s eight years leadership. “It is only the blind that will continue to insist that the 2023 presidential election which was massively rigged was free, fair and credible.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As we have said earlier, the opposition political parties lost the election because the Indepen­dent National Electoral Commis­sion (INEC) jettisoned the Elec­toral Act, having not uploaded the result from the polling unit in real time as promised and in so doing, created room for riggers to have a field day. POLL “The election witnessed un­precedented magnitude of vio­lence, ballot snuffing, snatching and manipulations of result from the collation centres using thugs, security agencies, which included police, army, amongst others. “All these issues and a lot more were captured, well doc­umented and have been taken to the appeal tribunal and the matters are ongoing. Mr. Lai Mohammed need not preempt the tribunal as his actions are contemptuous and could be used against him. “We just want the honourable minister to know that by rigging the 2023 general election, himself, his party, the All Progressives Congress, and the leader of the party, President Buhari, have murdered sleep and they do not deserve peace”. Mohammed’s Comment At­tempt By FG To Bully Election Tribunal — PDP Similarly, the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP) on Sunday berated the Minister of Informa­tion and Culture, Lai Moham­med, for his comment that the opposition lost the election and that President Muhammadu Bu­hari deserved accolades. The party described Lai Mo­hammed’s comment as another attempt by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led federal exec­utive to bully and blackmail the Presidential Election Tribunal, insisting that the presidential candidate of PDP, Atiku Abuba­kar, won the February 25 election as shown from the actual votes cast at the polling units across the country. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologun­agba, invited Nigerians to note that Lai Mohammed’s comment is coming after President Buhari made similar sub judice com­ment in his widely condemned attempt to justify the rigging of the presidential election, which case is pending before the tribu­nal. “It is indeed appalling that Lai Mohammed could attempt to defend the outcome of a fraud­ulently conducted election which has been adjudged as the worst in the history of elections in Ni­geria and which has attracted nationwide and international outrage against the Buhari ad­ministration. “By stating that President Buhari deserved ‘accolades’ for conducting a globally condemned presidential election and describing well-meaning Nigerians as ‘shameless sore losers,’ Lai Mohammed has further con­firmed the complicity of the Buhari administration, in which he serves as mouth­piece, in one of the most rep­rehensible election swindles in the history of democracy,” the party said. The PDP said it’s not sur­prised that Lai Mohammed will continue in the trajectory of the Buhari-led APC administration which is notorious for lying, de­ceit and falsehood. “Nigerians are aware that by the authentic results obtained from the polling units, Atiku Abubakar and not the APC candidate met all the conditions stipulated for the winning of presidential election; the reason the compromised Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) refused to transmit di­rectly and announce results as obtained from the polling units as required by law,” the party said. The PDP has for the ump­teenth time cautioned the APC and the Buhari-led Federal Executive against its furtive at­tempts to bully the judiciary in the handling of the presidential election petitions pending before the tribunal. “The facts of the rigging of the February 25, 2023 presiden­tial election are well known to Nigerians and the PDP will not relent until it reclaims its man­date at the tribunal,” the party said.