A frontline Ijaw youth leader, Endurance Amagbein, has renovated the family house of the late Ijaw freedom fighter, Isaac Boro, in Kaiama, headquarters of the Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area of the state, as a part of activities to celebrate the 2023 Isaac Boro Day. The founder of Amagbein Force, who led hundreds of his followers and supporters to Kaiama to mark the event, on Wednesday, also made a cash donation of N1 million to the Boro family to support this year’s commemoration of the Ijaw struggle hero. Presenting the cash donation and unveiling of the renovated family building, Amagbein, who was represented by the national leader of Amagbein Force, Alhaji Harmony Destiny, said the gesture was to support the Boro family because of the contributions and sacrifice of Boro to the Ijaw nation and the struggle . Destiny described Amagbein as a strong follower of Boro, and appealed to the Federal Government to recognise the Ijaw youth leader for his contribution to stopping crude oil theft in the Niger Delta. He commended the Federal Government for appointing Samuel Ogbuku as the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission even as he urged the chairman of the board of NDDC, Lauretta Onochie, to refrain from politicizing the agency. He said, “Today is a great day in Ijaw nation, we want to thank our leaders, Endurance Amagbein, High Chief Government Tompolo, Alhaji Asari Dokubo, for their contributions to the Ijaw struggle. “We are also thanking the Federal Government for appointing Chief Samuel Ogbuku as MD of the NDDC from the Adaka Boro Movement. We are using this opportunity to call on Lauretta Onochie that she should desist from using the NDDC as a political business; she should back off from any plan to kick against the NDDC board.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL “We are calling on the Federal Government to ensure that Amagbein is recognised because he has paid his dues in the Niger Delta struggle. You can see that the oil theft has been stopped and we are the same people that said oil theft will not stop if Amagbein is not given the surveillance contract, and today oil theft has stopped.” In his remarks, the Coordinator of Amagbein Peace Movement, Okardi Yogo, applauded the legacies of Boro, and commended the founder of Amagbein Force, Endurance Amagbein, for always taking the celebration of the late Ijaw freedom fighter seriously. While calling on other prominent Ijaw leaders to emulate the youth leader, he said,”We are here to celebrate the legacy that the late Isaac Boro has laid down for Ijaw people and the Niger Delta. We want to thank Endurance Amagbein for making it a point of duty to fund the celebration of Isaac Boro Day every year. As the owners of the crude oil, we are not supposed to beg before we eat. It pains us. “We want to call on the youths to always support leaders like Amagbein that have the youths and development of Ijaw nation at heart; that is why we have decided to form a non-governmental organisation (NGO) to support a leader who is genuinely fighting for the cause of the Niger Delta people.” In his response, the patriarch of the late Isaac Boro’s family, David Boro, expressed gratitude to the leader of Amagbein Force and Peace Movement, Endurance Amagbein, for his love and support for the Boro’s family, describing him as a son of family. He said, “We are really grateful to Amagbein, you can see this house behind us, it was an old dilapidated building but Amagbein made it what it is today; not just renovating, he rebuilt it. Last Christmas he donated a cow and money for the family and this time he has brought N1million. “For us he is not a stranger but our son, he loves the Boro family, others should take a cue from him rather than jealousy. Isaac Boro died for everybody. May God bless and strengthen him. We are saying let the spirit of Izon-ibe and Isaac Boro guide and protect him.”