BENIN – The Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, has commissioned a Pass­port Front Office in Auchi, Edo State, which he said, was part of efforts towards effective service delivery to Nigerians. This is coming just as he disclosed that the Ministry has finalized plans to launch a home delivery service of passports. The Minister, who spoke while launching the Nigeria Immigration Service Pass­port Front Desk Office in Au­chi, Edo State, on Saturday, said it is the intention of the government to provide pass­ports for anyone desirous of it within a reasonable time, at affordable price and without any stress. According to him, the launch of another Passport Front Desk Office is signif­icant as the Nigerian Pass­port is a proof of existence, especially for those outside the country, as Inability to pro­duce it on demand may bring untoward consequences. “What we are doing here is significant for two main rea­sons. The first is the right and the necessity of Nigerians, es­pecially those in the Diaspora to hold the Nigerian passport. “Except for those travelling outside the country or intend to, most of those who hold the passport do so for identifica­tion purposes. “For some, it is also a thing of pride to be able to brandish the green back of the pass­port. But for those outside the country, the passport is the proof of their existence and the inability to produce it on demand may bring untoward consequences. “The government, there­fore, wants to provide the passport for anyone desirous of it within reasonable time, at affordable price and with­out any stress whatsoever. POLL “The second is the need, flowing from the first, to break out of the regular”, he main­tained. The Minister also prom­ised to conclude negotiations with NIPOST on the usage of its speedy mail service to start delivering passports to Nigeri­ans who opt for such service. He said his Ministry is in the final stage of concluding negotiations with NIPOST to begin using its speed mail service to deliver passports to Nigerians wherever they are in the world after production. Aregbesola also revealed that Edo State has one of the highest passport applications in Nigeria, adding that the waiting period between ap­plication and collection would likely increase due to the re­cent increase in demand. He said “Our current work­ing schedule is that a fresh application would take six weeks after biometric data registration and three weeks for renewal. This is reason­able, competitive and in line with the global best practices.