ABUJA – Elder statesman and former Federal Commissioner for Information, Chief Edwin Clark, has criticised politi­cians who are quick to tell their opponents who lost elections to go to court. He said such language and the tone with which it is said, is very infuriating and speaks ill of the kind of legal system operational in Nigeria. According to Clark, who turns 96 on May 26, 2023, ask­ing an opponent who failed in an election to go to court is also pre-empting the court and buttressing the fact that one might not get justice at the end of the day. Clark gave his opinion, while playing host to mem­bers of Nigeria for Peace Project, jointly convened by the Centre for Peace and Environmental Justice (CEPEJ) and Citizens for De­velopment Education, both civil society organisations in Abuja. While crowning Clark as their Peace Ambassador, he reminded Nigerians that no region or section of the country can produce a pres­ident independently. Reflecting on the need for peace to foster econom­ic development, he stressed that Nigerians cannot af­ford to compromise peace in the country only to run to neighbouring countries to seek refuge. He also criticised the Ni­geria Governors’ Forum, alleging that they consti­tute most of the problems Nigeria is currently facing, noting that most of the gov­ernors are corrupt and are the ones causing crisis in Nigeria. “When you hear people who won election telling their opponent who lost to go to court, it’s infuriating, it goes to show you have no confidence in the court to deliver justice. POLL “We have no other coun­try. Anybody who tries to break away from Nigeria where will they go to. It is also wrong for anybody to say if you want to go, go. “Elections have been held in the past and there were problems like several elec­tions but we still survived. 2023 election is not going to be the last election, it’s not the election that will break up Nigeria. Let the people obey the laws of their coun­tries, obey the constitution,” he told the delegation at his residence in Abuja. Lending his voice to Nige­ria’s unity and sane elector­al process, he said, “Nigeria belongs to all of us. North alone cannot rule Nigeria, South alone cannot rule Ni­geria. “North alone cannot produce a president, South alone cannot produce a pres­ident, we need each other, a combination of each other”. Criticising the Gover­nors’ Forum, he said, “What are we fighting for. Most of the problems we are facing in Nigeria today is caused by the Governors’ Forum. “They want to take over this country. They want to be leaders. They want to pocket the president, everybody in this country. Today, most of them have been found cor­rupt, some of them are in the Senate. Now they want to control the Senate”. Co-conveners of the Nigeria for Peace Project, Ibrahim Wayya, and Com­rade Mulade Sheriff, who also paid a visit to the Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abu­bakar, stressed the need for Nigerians to live in peace ir­respective of their diversity. Wayya particularly con­demned the divisive state­ments and controversies associated with the recent general elections, where some people were calling for interim national govern­ment or trying to frustrate the inauguration activities of the president-elect.