Vichel Parenteen initiative a non Governmental Organization (NGO) has joined the rest of the world to commemorate the 2023 United Nations International Day of Families on 15th May 2023. The United Nations declared that the purpose of establishing this day about families was to promote awareness of the issues that surround families, as well as to increase the knowledge of the processes that affect families, including social, demographic, and economic factors. In an interview with Oyewale Bisola Blessing, the Media Assistant to the Executive Director of VICHEL PARENTEEN INITIATIVE, she stated that the organization began activities to mark this year’s event with a visit to the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Idiroko, Ogun State on Sunday 14th May 2023. She further stated that Mr Uko O Uko, the Executive Director of VICHEL PARENTEEN INITIATIVE while addressing the congregation discussed extensively the role of religious institutions in restoring sanity in the society. He enjoined parents to be present in the lives of their children today so as to be in their memories tomorrow.The Provincial Pastor, Pastor Kiyesi Olushola commended the teaching and enjoined parents to adhere to Biblical principles to raise responsible children. On Monday 15th May 2023, Mr Uko and other staff of the organization also visited Ipokia Local Government Primary School I and II and St. John’s Group of Schools, Temitope, Idiroko both in Ogun State to sensitize teachers.While speaking at Ipokia Primary School, Mr. Uko charged the teachers as trainers of leaders of tomorrow to look beyond the classroom and consider the impact their training on the pupils will have on society.The Head Teacher, Mr Elijah A Abodunrin while reacting noted that the seminar was timely as the teachers have become more equipped to raise positive world changers. At St. John’s Group of Schools, teachers of both Primary and Secondary Schools were tasked while training the children to be conscious of the fact that they all belong to families which is an extension of the larger society. The use of constructive dialogue was advocated against corporal punishment as a means to build the self-esteem of the children. The Proprietress of the Schools, Deaconess BT Akindele appreciated the organizers of the program noting that lessons learned will go a long way to enhance the good teaching skills of her staff. The celebration of International Family Day every year brings with it a variety of new opportunities and ways to raise awareness for the day. And, in doing so, the purpose is to improve the well-being and care of families around the globe. The NGO, therefore, calls on all families and institutions to be vanguards of positive change to bring about a conducive society.