LAGOS  – The Chairman, House Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration, Hon Lynda Ipkeazu has called on the Director General of the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Yusuf Jamoh, to ensure that the maritime assets under his watch are put into effective use and maintenance. Ipkeazu, gave this task in Lagos during the commissioning of the NIMASA projects in NMRDC, Kirikiri, Azare Crecent and Randle crescent all in Apapa, Lagos, by the Hon Minister of Transportation, Mu’azu Jaji Sambo. Ikpeazu, who in a goodwill message lamented lack of maintenance culture in most of the critical infrastructures in the Country, however, applauded the several achievements of the NIMASA DG within a short period. The projects commissioned by Sambo included five fully bulletproof patrol boats, five refurbished boats, search and rescue clinic, four 35-seater boats, as well as an administrative building belonging to the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) in Lagos. Also, Dr Magdalene N. Ajani, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation in a goodwill message noted that there was nothing as good as having security in Nigerian territorial waters. She averred that the country has not had incidence of piracy in her waters in the last 18 Months. According to her, this was a follow up to the Deep Blue Project, which she also averred was a major achievement of President Mohammadu Buhari’s administration. Speaking in a key note address, the Hon Minister of Transportation, Mu’ azu Jaji Sambo, said the gathering was in continuation of the commissioning of completed projects by the NIMASA. He noted that on May 16, 2023, “we gathered in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja to commission the newly acquired NIMASA Abuja Zonal Office and to show the good people of Nigeria our relentless commitment to the delivery of good governance through our deliberate and concentrated efforts at institutionalizing policies and structures that will lead to Nigeria’s economic renaissance. POLL “Today’s ceremony serves to further reinforce our commitment, as the projects to be commissioned are directly tied to the mission of NIMASA, which is to achieve and sustain safe, secure shipping, cleaner oceans and enhanced maritime capacity in line with the best global practices towards Nigeria’s economic development. “To be commissioned here today are five state-of-the-art enforcement platforms that will ensure strict compliance and adherence with the extant laws governing the operations of our maritime domain. “These platforms will give NIMASA the much-needed tools required to function as a Maritime Administration in line with the protocols and conventions of the International Maritime Organization and International Labour Organization to which NIMASA represents Nigeria as its contracting government. “Additionally, we shall be commissioning four staff ferries. These ferries were acquired to increase the overall efficiency and productivity of the staff of the Agency, by creating a more conducive means of transportation to and from official assignments, thereby bypassing the hassles that are associated with the operational terrain of the Ports. “We shall also be commissioning other key NIMASA infrastructures such as the renovated administrative block, the NIMASA multipurpose hall and the NIMASA Search and Rescue Clinic of the Nigerian Maritime Resources Development Centre, in addition to the NIMASA Search and Rescue Base Clinic at Azare Crescent Apapa, and communication gadgets for enhanced maritime security. After which we shall proceed to the groundbreaking at the construction site of the NIMASA Skill Acquisition Centre, Lagos.” The Minister said the completion of the projects by NIMASA showed the Agency’s commitment to ensuring the safety and security of Nigerian waters, as the newly renovated Administrative block will create a conducive work environment, thereby increasing the productivity of the staff, “the Search and Rescue Clinics will enable the agency to fulfil its obligations to seafarers and the general public by providing top-notch medical care facilities, and the newly acquired communication gadgets will enable the agency’s enforcement and search and rescue operators communicate in real-time without any hindrance or interference while conducting their operations at sea.” “As the supervisory Ministry, we will continue to give our support to NIMASA as she continues down this commendable path to ensuring the growth of maritime in Nigeria. And as stated during the commissioning of the Abuja Zonal office, we commit ourselves to the supervisory role that would create enabling operational regimes for the Agencies and Departments under the FMOT.” He commended Jamoh, the Board of the Agency, members of the Executive Management, Top Management and Staff of NIMASA, the Permanent Secretary and Directors of the Federal Ministry of Transportation and the contractors for the successful delivery of these projects. In a welcome address, Jamoh said: “We have from the very beginning of our administration reckoned that attaining a Blue Economy is pivotal to the growth and development of the nation. “It was equally important that while we had our vision set on achieving something great, we simultaneously took cognizance of the damaging impact that piracy, kidnapping of seafarers, smuggling, illegal oil bunkering, robbery at sea and illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing has had on our maritime profile. “The Gulf of Guinea which Nigeria is a major stakeholder was notorious for piratical attacks and used to be referred to as the “world’s hotspot” for piracy. “The United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 2634 which called for a crackdown on piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. “By the year 2022, cases of piracy and other maritime crime in the Gulf of Guinea had significantly reduced as only about 3 cases of piracy were recorded while none of the cases was attributable to Nigeria. “The International Maritime Bureau’s Piracy Reporting Center (IMB PRC) regarded this as a positive trend. This equally meant that the year 2022 was a successful year for Nigeria in the fight against piracy and other maritime crime and same should be regarded as a milestone for the Buhari-led administration. “The success of 2022 can only be credited to the tremendous effort of the Federal Government in terms of provision of infrastructures which is best enveloped as the Deep Blue Project. “The Deep Blue project is a $195 million investment towards vessels, Maritime Domain Awareness platforms, and land and air and sea assets. The land assets comprises the Command, Control, Computer, Communication, and Intelligence (C4i) Centre for domain awareness and intelligence gathering, 16 armored vehicles for coastal patrol, and a 600-strong Maritime Security Unit specially trained for interdiction. The air assets comprises two Special Mission Aircraft (SMA) for surveillance of the EEZ, three Special Mission Helicopters (SMHs) for search and rescue, and four Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) while the sea assets comprises two Special Mission Vessels (SMVs) and 17 Fast Interceptor Boats (FIBs). “The Deep Blue Project which has tremendously boosted the rate of safety of the waterways was an initiative of the Federal Ministry of Transportation and Federal Ministry of Defense, implemented by NIMASA, with personnel drawn from the Nigerian Air Force, Nigerian Navy, Nigerian Army, Nigeria Police, Department of State Services, and other security agencies. “There is no Gainsaying that the project is the most significant commitment by any Gulf of Guinea country to date and the impact is crystal clear for all to see.” Jamoh said that beyond the strides at overcoming maritime crime at the Gulf of Guinea, the management and safety of the Nigerian Inland Waterways equally deserved attention as NIMASA is committed to ensuring the waterways are safe for local transportation and other leisure activities so that more internal revenues are generated. “It is important to keep the inland waterways free of waste and pollutants so as to ensure they remain navigable in addition to keeping them secured from perpetrators of maritime crime. “Notwithstanding the foregoing giant strides and the current state of security, the golden rule is that one must be persistent to remain successful. It is within the bearing of this frame of mind that we hinge the significance of today’s launching of the following: 5 new patrol/security boats.5 refurbished Search and Rescue/Pollution Control Boats, the commissioning of Search and Rescue Clinic; the commissioning of an Administrative building.” He said that the inclusion of the Security/Patrol boats along with the Search and Rescue/Pollution control boats to the Deep Blue Project assets are particularly with intent to intensify the internal security of the waterways with the inclusion of the Pollution control boats taking into cognizance the recent proliferation of oil theft. “The Search and Rescue clinic has also become quite important as cases of seafarers who experience attack need emergency medical attention and we have to be prompt so as to ensure their safety and survival. “The Search and Rescue Clinic is manned by specially skilled medical personnel and same gives us the confidence with regards to guaranteeing the survival. “The administrative building on the other hand is built with intent to improve the service delivery of NIMASA for efficient shipping activities particularly as NIMASA is targeting an improved ship registry.” Jamoh averred that these new assets and building are an exhibition of the fact that the Federal Government is relentless and persistent in the fight against maritime crime, while strengthening the blue economy of Nigeria and “I should at this point express gratitude to the same set of persons that I appreciated just few days ago while we commissioned the NIMASA Complex in Abuja. “As I always maintain, words are never enough in thanking Mr. President, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, and as he leaves office after meritoriously and dedicatedly serving this nation yet again for eight long years, I pray that Almighty God thank you for us and grant you tranquility.