ABUJA  – The 2023 Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) on Monday began hear­ing in one of the presidential election petitions, dismissing the petition of the Action Alliance (AA) and Solo­mon Okanigbuan against the Presi­dent-elect, Bola Tinubu, and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Earlier, the Court of Appeal, head­quartered in Abuja, on Monday re­leased the names of the five Justices that will sit on the panel of 2023 Presi­dential Election Petition Court (PEPC). The panel comprising of four males and one female se­nior jurists include Justice Ste­phen Adah, Justice Monsurat Bolaji-Yusuf; Justice Moses Ugo; and Justice Abba Moham­med. Justice Haruna Tsamma­ni is chairman of the panel. Secretary of the PEPC, Mrs. Josephine Ekperobe, dropped the names prior to the begin­ning of the court’s inaugural sitting. Expectedly, the five-man pan­el will hear and determine ei­ther way, the five petitions filed by various parties challenging the victory of Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the APC in the Feb­ruary 25 presidential election. In his opening remarks, Justice Tsammani warned the petitioners, public as well as the media against sensation­al statements that will have di­rect bearing on issues before the PEPC for the safety of the country. “We have five petitions be­fore us, which we shall be alter­nating during the pre-hearing session.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We should avoid unneces­sary time wasting applications as election matters are time-bound”, Justice Tsammani stated. POLL The chairman of the elec­tion petition court assured all parties and Nigerians that they will do their possible best in the determination of all issues be­fore them without fear or favour, but in the interest of justice. In his remarks, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), coun­sel representing the Presi­dent-elect Bola Tinubu and his vice, Kashim Shettima, promised lawyers’ unflinching support in whatever the court intends to do in giving acceler­ated hearing to the petitions. Similarly, Chief Chris Uche (SAN), counsel to the presiden­tial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ati­ku Abubakar, assured the court of the support of his team in delivering justice in the matters before it. “We shall do everything pos­sible to see that this matter is amicably resolved so that the country can move forward”, Uche said. Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), leading the legal team of Peter Obi and the Labour Party (LP), also pledged the support of his team to enable the court resolve the petitions seamlessly. Counsel to the Indepen­dent National Electoral Com­mission (INEC), Abubakar Mahmud (SAN), aligned with all the commitment made on behalf of the Bar by the senior lawyers, adding that “we rec­ognize the importance of the matter to the country, and shall do everything possible to assist the court in arriving at justice”. As the panel began hear­ing, the petition by the Action Alliance (AA) and Solomon Okanigbuan against the Pres­ident-elect, Bola Tinubu, and the APC, was the first to be dismissed. Other respondents in the AA petition marked CA/ PEPC/01/2023, are the INEC, and Hamza El Mustapha. Chairman of the PEPC, Justice Tsammani dismissed the petition filed on March 16, 2023, following its withdrawal by the party’s lawyer, Oba Mad­uabuchi. Abubakar Mahmud (SAN) for INEC; Prince Lateef Fagbe­mi (SAN), representing the 2nd respondent (APC); Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), counsel for Tinubu, and Mohammed Sani, legal representative of Hamza El Mustapha, all did not oppose the motion dated May 3, seeking withdrawal of AA’s petition. According to Maduabuchi, “I have been served processes by the respondents indicating that they are not opposing the application”. Meanwhile, the panel has adjourned the pre-hearing ses­sion in respect of Peter Obi, LP, and Action Peoples Party to Wednesday, May 10. The petition filed by Peter Obi and the Labour Party is challenging the return of Tinu­bu as President-elect following his victory at the February 25, 2023 presidential election. Other respondents in Obi’s petition marked CA/PEPC/003 are the INEC, Vice Presi­dent-elect Kashim Shettima and the APC. Also adjourned to the same date was the petition by the Action Peoples Party against Tinubu, APC and INEC. The adjournment was at the instance of the panel, follow­ing the filing and adoption of pre-hearing processes by vari­ous counsel for the petitioners. In the AAP petition marked CA/PEPC/02/2023, counsel to parties informed the panel that he had answered all the ques­tions posed by the court, and therefore adopted his answers. Similarly, Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), representing Peter Obi and LP, Abubakar Mahmoud (SAN) for the 1st respondent (INEC), Chief Wole Olani­pekun (SAN) for the 2nd and 3rd respondents (Tinubu and Shettima), and Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) for the 4th respondent, APC, informed the panel that they had answered their ques­tions, filed their answers and adopted same. In view of the foregoing, Chairman of the PEPC, Jus­tice Haruna Tsammani, asked parties to file issues that they will agree and disagree on as well as documents to concede to or agree to before the main hearing begins.