ABUJA – Seventy-three days after the conclusion of the controversial February 25 presidential election, Labour Party (LP) flag bearer, Peter Obi, was on Monday seen in court at the commencement of a hearing on petitions filed by him, LP and the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, among others, over the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to declare the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate winner of the poll. The tribunal is made up of a five-member Panel of Justices led by Justice Haruna Simon Tasmani, with Justices Stephen Adam, BM Ugo, Bolaji Yusuf, and AB Muhammad. Obi was accompanied to the court by the party’s National Chairman, Julius Abure, and other officials of LP, as well as the Senator-elect for Anambra Central, Senator Victor Umeh. Addressing the court, counsels to the President-Elect, Wole Olanikpekun; council to Atiku Abubakar, Chris Uche, and Livy Uzoukwu representing Peter Obi, assured the tribunal of their full cooperation and support in ensuring a speedy hearing and determination of the case. The counsels exchanged filing of applications on pre-hearing issues before the case was adjourned to Wednesday, May 10, as the presiding Justice, Tasamani assured all the parties that Justice will be served. The Presidential Election Tribunal hearing began Monday, May 8, exactly 73 days after the February 25th election and 69 days after the INEC Chairman, Mahmoud Yakubu declared APC Bola Tinubu the winner. The poll has since been criticized by local and foreign observers as “not meeting the minimum standard of transparency, fairness, integrity and credibility expected in an election”. Observers from the United States of America (US), the European Union (EU), African Union (AU), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Commonwealth, all noted the irregularities in the polls. POLL The International Republican Institute (IRI) and National Democratic Institute (NDI) Joint Election Observation Mission, noted that inadequate communication and lack of transparency by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) created confusion and eroded voters’ trust in the process. Agents of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Dino Melaye, his Labour Party counterpart, Hon. Umar Farouk Ibrahim, Action Peoples Party (APP), Chinemelo Ubah and the African Democratic Congress (ADC), had staged a walkout at the National Collation Centre in Abuja, alleging that the electoral process was flawed. The IRI and NDI in their preliminary statement on the Presidential and National Assembly elections, presented in Abuja by their leader, and former President of Malawi, Dr. Joyce Banda, said despite the much-needed reforms to the Electoral Act 2022, the election fell well short of Nigerian citizens’ reasonable expectations. Those who spoke on the occasion included, Former President of the Republic of Malawi, who is the head of the delegation, Banda, and Ambassador Mark Green, who is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Woodrow Wilson, an International Center for Scholars. Other speakers included, Ambassador Johnnie Carson, a former Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of African Affairs at the U.S. Department of State; and an IRI Board Member, Constance Berry Newman, who was a former Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs. They also included NDI Board Member, who is an American political leader, lawyer/ voting rights activist, Stacey Abrams and IRI Board Member, Dana White, a foreign policy and communications advisor. Banda said, “The delegation observed that late opening of polling locations and logistical failures created tensions and the secrecy of the ballot was compromised in some polling units given overcrowding. At the close of the polls, challenges with the electronic transfer of results and their upload to a public portal in a timely manner, undermined citizen confidence at a crucial moment of the process”. “Moreover, inadequate communication and lack of transparency by INEC about their cause and extent created confusion and eroded voters’ trust in the process. “The combined effect of these problems disenfranchised Nigerian voters in many areas, although the scope and scale is currently unknown. Despite these issues, Nigerians once again demonstrated their commitment to the democratic process. Voters displayed extraordinary resilience and resolve to have their voices heard through the ballot, and INEC administered a nationwide election according to the electoral calendar for the first time in the country’s recent history”. ‘The mission encouraged INEC, the government, political actors and civil society to redouble their efforts to deliver on citizen expectations for transparent and inclusive elections, and to ensure that electoral outcomes are a credible expression of the voters’ will.” On the other hand, Commonwealth observers stated that the country’s elections were, “largely peaceful,” despite administrative and logistical hurdles at many polling units.