Dr Alex Otti, the newly sworn-in Labour Party (LP)  governor of Abia State has disclosed that his predecessor, Okezie Ikpeazu’s left a debt of N200bn. Otti added that a total of N50bn debt from unpaid salaries, pensions and gratuities was inherited by the new government in Abia State, even as reports had that the immediate past governor Okezie Ikpeazu who was conspicuously absent during the ceremony may have fled the state. The new Abia chief executive however warned that his government will have zero tolerance on corruption, assuring that his government will ensure the payment of workers’ salaries on or before 28th of every month. Addressing a mammoth crowd at the Umuahia Township Stadium venue of the swearing ceremony, the new governor announced that the discriminatory payment of workers’ salaries which the former government tagged core civil servants and noncore civil servants has been abolished. His word, “We’ll treat all workers in the state as equal and none will be denied salary while the other will be paid by government as it was done by the immediate past administration. Otti disclosed that his administration will revamp the education sector now in shambles, raise sports to the highest bar and ensure that other sectors of the state economy is put good shape. On Aba, the commercial nerve centre of the state, Otti said his government will embark on an Aba renewal programme that will make the city the centrepiece of commerce and industry in Africa, adding that the N10bn Microfinance scheme will be established by the government immediately. He assured teachers of readiness to pay them as at and when due and announced that his government will soon begin the recruitment of 5000 teachers to curb the lack of teaching staff in the school system. POLL Otti who was declared governor-elect by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) following the March 18, 2023 governorship election in Abia State, assured the people of the state that help has come at last, saying, “We’ll work with the best to provide the best for Abians”. Present at the swearing ceremony include: former Chief of General Staff, Commodore Ebitu Ukiwo, the Vice Presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Dr Datti Baba Ahmed, former governor of the state and Senator representing Abia Central in the Senate, TA Orji, Senator, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe.