ANDREW UTULU; JULIET OYOYO The Nigeria police have confirmed the arrest of suspended Hudu Yunu­sa-Ari, the Adamawa State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), who announced the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Aishatu Dahiru Binani, winner of the gubernatorial election while collation was still ongoing during the recently concluded supplementary elections in the state. It would be recalled that Yunusa-Ari had announced the APC gubernatorial candidate in Adamawa State as the winner of the governorship election, even while results from the local government areas of the state, were still being collated. ­ However, the Independent National Electoral Commis­sion (INEC) immediately an­nulled the declared result and postponed the announcement. The electoral umpire after dissociating itself from Yunu­sa-Ari’s actions, summoned him to the INEC headquarters in Abuja. There were reports, howev­er, that the REC disappeared from radar and had not been seen since the infamous inci­dent. Olumuyiwa Adejobi, Force Public Relations Officer, con­firmed the arrest in a statement made available on Tuesday. Adejobi, a Chief Superin­tendent of Police (CSP), said the arrest was sequel to calls for his arrest and investigation by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the basis of alleged impro­priety in the course of the sup­plementary gubernatorial polls in the state. POLL He said Yunusa-Ari was arrested by the Police Elec­tion Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Team in Abuja on Tuesday, adding that “he is currently in police custody and is being grilled to ascertain the motives and motivations behind his alleged improper actions during the supplementary elections in Adamawa State. “In addition, other officials and individuals culpable in the saga are being interrogated by the team,” the Force image maker said. He said the Inspector-Gen­eral of Police had given clear assurance that every individ­ual involved/indicted in the matter will be apprehended and investigated in line with the provisions of the law for possible prosecution. “The Inspector-General of Police has assured of the com­mitment of the Force to ensur­ing that justice is served in this case and that all guilty parties are brought to justice,” Adejobi enthused. I Have No Regrets Announcing Binani As Adamawa Gov— Yunu­sa-Ari Meanwhile, the suspended Resident Electoral Commis­sioner (REC) of Adamawa State, Hudu Yunusa-Ari, said he had no regrets over an­nouncing Senator Aishatu Da­hiru Binani as the winner of the just concluded Adamawa governorship election. Yunusa-Ari, who earlier spoke in an interview with BBC Hausa on Tuesday, said he did not regret his decision to announce the results and denied receiving a N2 billion bribe. He disclosed that he was ready to present himself to the police this week, even as he ar­gued that neither the DSS nor the Nigeria police came search­ing for him as was widely dis­cussed. According to him, “I never said the governor bribed any­one, but I knew there were al­legations. “I swear, I had nothing to do with either Binani or Fintiri. All these stories about the N2 billion bribe were social media hype. “I have no regrets whatsoev­er. When you do something that was allowed to be done in a de­mocracy, there are no regrets,” he said.