Bandits have killed nine farmers at Unguwar Danko near Dogon Dawa village in Birnin Gwari Area of Kadu­na State. This is coming as five per­sons were feared dead and several others injured as ex­plosion rocked Isa town in Isa Local Government Area of Sokoto State. The bandits attack in Ka­duna community happened on Saturday afternoon when the victims were working on their farms. Residents said the ban­dits whisked away about three other farmers to an unknown destination. Member-elect represent­ing Kakangi Constituency, Yahaya Musa, confirmed the incident, saying all those killed were farmers and that those who sustained gun­shot injuries were rushed to hospitals for treatment. “Yes it was confirmed to me this Sunday morn­ing that nine farmers were killed by bandits at Ungu­war Danko near Dogon Dawa village on Saturday afternoon and others sus­tained gunshot injuries,” he said. He explained that some of the villagers also con­fronted the bandits which led to some sustaining gun­shot injuries. Five Die In Sokoto Explosion POLL Meanwhile, five persons were feared dead and sever­al others injured as explo­sion rocked Isa town in Isa Local Government Area of Sokoto State. A resident said the explo­sion took place about noon on Sunday. “I was at home when I heard a loud noise. When I came out I discovered that it was the cylinder of a welder that exploded. “Three people, including the owner of the shop died instantly and their bodies dismembered. “The police have to use sacks to evacuate their parts. Another person was said to have died later in the hospital while a trader around the area lost one of his hand and was rushed to the hospital for treatment,” he said Another resident, Usman Muhammad, said he count­ed five mangled bodies at the scene of the explosion. “I am right now at the scene of the explosion. I counted five bodies badly disfigured. “And I saw some of the injured, including a couple. Some of them have either their legs or hands dam­aged,” he said The chairman of the council said he was not in the town when the incident happened as such he could not give accurate account. “But we are making contacts and gathering in­formation for necessary ac­tions,” he said. The Police Public Rela­tions Officer in the state, DSP Sanusi Abubakar, said he had not been briefed about the incident.