LAGOS – Eze Omenife Peter Olikenyi, the Ezeudo of Otto Awori Local Council Development Area of Lagos State, apart from being a traditional ruler ,has a deep knowledge of the Igbo tradition and culture, he is also an entrepreneur and industrialist of note. He is also a philanthropist, who has contributed his quota to many causes over the years. He is also the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Eemy Eemco Nigeria Limited, a company that is into the manufacturing of cable trays, industrial panels, bulletproof doors and iron gates. Eze Olikenyi told Daily Independent in an interview in Lagos that he has been in the business of manufacturing cable trays, industrial panels, bullet proof doors and iron gates for over 30 years. He said that he was motivated to establish the company because he wanted to be independent and create wealth in the process, adding that he wants to contribute to the economic development and growth of his community and the country. He added that he has trained many people who have gone on to establish their own businesses and are doing well. He disclosed that he has over 15 workers in his employ currently. Eze Olikenyi, who is also the national vice president of Ndieze in Diaspora and national president of Ndieze, South, stated the quality of the cable trays, industrial panels, bulletproof doors and iron gates that his company produces compares favourably products imported into the country.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He posited that most of the products manufactured in the country compare favourably with the imported ones. POLL He flayed the proclivity of Nigerians to buy foreign made goods, adding that by doing so they are keeping the people of countries that manufactured products in employment and keeping Nigerians out of work. He argued that if Nigerians continue to buy imported products, the country will become a dumping ground for others and will not develop economically. He, however, lamented the difficult situation in which Nigerian entrepreneurs and industrialists operate. According to him, policy somersaults on the part of the government has negatively affected the operations and activities of entrepreneurs and industrialists in the country. He averred that inconsistencies in policies and programmes by the government do not allow people in the business community to plan and make projections. The traditional rulers called on the government to be consistent in terms of policies and programmes, adding that the government and business people are partners in progress and should pull in one direction and undermine one another. Speaking on the challenges he faces as an entrepreneur and industrialist, he said that one of the biggest challenges is the inadequate supply of power. “Inadequate supply of electricity is a major challenge that entrepreneurs and industrialists face in the country; we have to buy generators that cost huge sums of money and these funds ought to be invested in the company. “Apart from buying the generators, entrepreneurs and industrialists have to buy diesel at an exorbitant cost; a litre of diesel now costs between N700 and N800; this constitutes a heavy burden on the business community in the country,” he stated. Eze Olikenyi, added that the foreign exchange regime of the government is negatively impacting on the operations of entrepreneurs and industrialists, stating that the frequent changes in the foreign exchange rates are making it difficult for business people to plan and make projections. According to the Ezeudo of Otto Awori, “The foreign exchange rate in the country is killing and there is the need for the government to address the situation. Only a small number of businesses can afford to buy the dollar at N750 and make profit. There is an urgent need for the government to make foreign exchange available to businesses so that their businesses can thrive. “When businesses thrive, they will employ more people; more people will pay tax and the government revenue will increase and more services will be delivered to the people and the level of productivity will be enhanced in the country.” Speaking on the lending policy of banks in the country, he said that the banks are to lend long term to industrialists, adding that they want to lend to people who borrow on a short-term basis. He called on the government to ensure that industrialists get the funds they need to expand their businesses. The national vice president of Ndieze in Diaspora and national president of Ndieze, South, flayed the attitude of young Nigerians to work and studies. According to him, they want to become rich overnight without toiling hard. He argued hard work pays in the long run, adding that taking the shortcut to success leads to imprisonment and sorrow. He charged young Nigerians to take their studies seriously and work hard.