A group known as the Citizens Advocacy Group has described the imposition of candidates by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All for the 10th National Assembly as autocratic and divisive, threatening that such would not be allowed to prevail. The group in a statement by Chris Sunday George and Haruna Kabir, the Convener and Secretary, respectively, said that imposition had no place in a democracy. The group also said that such imposition posed serious danger to independent legislature and an attack on the principle of separation of power. The NWC of APC in Abuja last week zoned positions to its party’s members in the National Assembly. The NWC had endorsed Sen. Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom) from the South-South as the Senate President, Sen. Barau Jubrin (Kano) as the Deputy Senate President, while Abass Tajudeen from Kaduna (North –West) as the Speaker, House of Representatives and Ben Kalu from Abia State (South East) was chosen as the Deputy Speaker. According to the group, the decision of the party had been generating controversy among its members, stressing that this was not unexpected from its stalwarts. It advised the party to allow the National Assembly members to choose their leadership despite the zoning of principal offices.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It insisted that the decision to impose the candidates on the National Assembly was an anti-democratic posture, which bodes no good for the country’s democracy. POLL The statement read in part: “What the party has done is an autocratic imposition, which has no place in a democracy as it poses serious danger to independent legislature and an attack on the principle of separation of power. “We in the Citizens Advocacy Group believe the concerned senators-elect should be allowed to make their choice based on the experience, competence and the qualification of each aspirant. “If you are zoning it to a particular zone of the country, you cannot say this is the person that should be the Senate President from that zone when you have other candidates from the same zone who have expressed interest in the position.” The group explained that the position of the Senate President was zoned to the South-South geopolitical region and expected the party not to limit it to just a candidate, noting that the region alone had six states; Rivers, Cross River, Bayelsa, Delta, Akwa Ibom and Edo States. It insisted that since the party had qualified senators from all the states in the South-south, it was unnecessary to exclude five other states from the context. The group declared that politics of exclusion in a democratic setting like Nigeria would only breed enmity, ill-feeling and rancour, which the incoming administration could not afford in a country already deeply divided. “At this point in time when Nigeria is faced with multitude of challenges, we cannot afford to inaugurate a new government and the National Assembly on a shaky and controversial note and we can avoid this by not giving room for imposition as the APC leadership has done,” the statement added.