Professor Johncliff Chike Nwadike is the Imo State Commissioner for Education and former HOD, History and International Studies, Imo State University, Owerri. In this interview with some journalists led by the Special Assistant (Networking) to Governor Hope Uzodimma, Onwuzuruike Chantel Chinyere Adanna, the Professor of History and International Studies unfolds some of the giant strides of his ministry. ANOLU VINCENT brings the excerpts: A number of Schools in some states of the federation, especially those in the North are said to be benefiting from the World Bank funds to execute projects. Is Imo State also benefiting from this and if not, what is being done to remedy the situation The World Bank is a global Institution interested in development and Imo State has benefited from it. Funds have been attracted for the development and renovation of many primary schools. The Governor is doing a lot to ensure that all schools and Universities benefit from it and we go to the appropriate quarters to obtain the necessary links for the benefit. We are also exploring more links for more schools to benefit from it. It has been observed that streets/roads are usually flooded with children during school hours. These children are supposed to be in schools but they are all over the streets hawking items. What is the state government doing about the ugly trend? Parents and guardians are to blame but the state government is not keeping quiet about this. Parents usually send them out to hawk as a means of augmenting their means of livelihood. The government is uncomfortable with this because it doesn’t make sense to deny the children education so as to make money. It is senseless to keep the children out of school for the purpose of hawking during school hours. We have a plan to approach the World Bank to assist us get them off the streets/roads during school hours and we do hope the Institution (World Bank) will grant our request. The Government School Feeding Programme is still oto make sure that the children do not go hawking while in school and also to keep them off the streets during school hours. We are being proactive to checkmate this cancer of street hawking by school children during school hours. Some of them are illegal migrants and they constitute a nuisance to the state and make the public uncomfortable. It is not the exclusive responsibility of my Ministry to do this and we are in synergy with other establishments such as the Ministry of Environment to achieve this and the latter should do the needful and ensure that the children are cleared from the streets and put in schools. What are the modalities put in place to ensure seamless WAEC results in the state? We have had interactions with the WAEC coordinator in the state to ensure that examination is free and fair to all the participants. The idea is to ensure that schools are sensitised on the modalities for the examination. The supervisors nominated for this are those with integrity, credibility and substance, and who can be relied upon to do a good job because I believe that supervision should not be a means of making money. Some of them who were wrongly nominated were later weeded off after we had verified from WAEC and recently, there was a workshop for them at the Government Secondary School Owerri where I told them that we will sanction any of them found cutting corners through suspension, demotion or dismissal. Not long ago, we visited some schools to ensure a paradigm shift and we have set up a monitoring committee which moves from one school to another to ensure that the right thing is done. Another team has also been put in place which is like the DSS to equally ensure that examinations move freely. We have had meetings with stakeholders from different communities and they agreed that local vigilantes should know their limits because their duty is to stay within and ensure that security is not compromised. The Minister of State for Education – Hon Goodluck Nana Opia is from this state. How far have you utilised this in your mission to raise the standard of education here? POLL I have met with him and he wrote letters about the WAEC results not being released. He is worried about this and because of the synergy between him and us, he gives us regular information on what his Ministry is doing. What is the government doing about Special Education for the Physically Challenged and promotion of Adult Education in the state? They are neither abandoned nor neglected. Government is doing a lot to help them. We have a Special School at Ofekata Orodo in the Mbaitolu Council Area and everything is being done to facilitate their teaching and learning. Adult Education Centres are still ongoing and we are writing letters to UNESCO to attract more from them. We have Adult Education Centres in all the LGAs but at times there are no Adult Education Teachers. We want to put in certain things that can attract people such as televisions for the learners. The Government is also planning to establish a few Special Centres to take care of the vulnerable ones but they should exercise patience because there is no way the government can abandon them. Is it true that the government wants to abolish mixed Schools in the state? I am not aware of this. We have plans to establish more technical schools for boys and girls to compete academically. Some communities have just one school and some don’t even have one at all. In a community where you have just one school that is both boys and girls, is there any sense to abolish such a school. If you do this how will such a community feel? Those spreading this rumour are doing so out of mischief and to create problems for the government. On the proliferation of private schools in the state. There are standard guidelines to establish private schools and there are laws guiding their operation. We keep eagle eyes on them because some of them are purely business centres and we cannot tolerate them. Before you establish a school, you must meet the official requirements and some of the people they recruit as teachers are fake and quacks. I have discovered that some of the task forces put in place to checkmate this usually compromise and I quickly stepped down the task forces. Again some of these private schools don’t come forward to renew their licenses and we will embark on periodic renewal of their licenses as part of efforts to sanitize the system. They must pay through the TSA but some of them cheat the government. Proprietors of such schools must ensure that the right thing is done because we are prepared to withdraw our recognition to any of them found wanting. For you to teach in public schools you must be qualified with certificates. Public schools are well staffed but quackery and poor environment for teaching and learning are the banes of some of the private schools. Some parents send their children to some of these private schools out of ignorance and we have told WAEC to always get in touch with us before engaging them. I must however admit that some of the private schools are okay, but as I said early, poor environment is part of the problems of some of them and in no distant time we will close such schools. They are encouraged to organise lessons after normal school hours to assist parents who are too busy to take their children back hours after school. Some of the children don’t like to attend extra moral classes during holidays because they are business inclined and want to make money. Coming to rejection of postings to rural areas by some teachers, I took a tour of all the schools upon assumption of office as a Commissioner and I discussed with the Executive Secretary of SEMB during which I warned that this must stop. I have directed that all transfers must pass through my office. About 13 teachers were transferred from the City School and if they are not brought back or replaced, the students will suffer. I am taking steps to ensure proper and even distribution of teachers in our schools. Some teachers have been sanctioned and some posted to areas quite farther from the areas they were originally posted to but which they rejected. Very soon, there will be re-overhauling and the government subsidizes education to the barest level. Do we still have free education in Imo State? Yes, we have free education at primary, tertiary levels, so that the poorest of the poor can go to school. People don’t pay a kobo in all our tertiary institutions, primary and post primary schools except that non indigenes of the state pay N120,000 because students from our state who are studying in schools in other states equally pay school fees higher than what indigenes of such states pay. On porous security in some schools in the state…… We have repeatedly appealed to community leaders, traditional rulers, town union, executives, and old boys/ old girls associations to always put heads together and provide security in schools in their areas. Let me once more appeal to different communities to stop vandalisation of facilities in their schools. We have the intention to permit PTAs to engage at least two security personnel one per night and one per day in schools. What about illegal levies in schools? Again when I assumed duty here, I took the bull by the horn to tackle extortion and I warned principals against any form of financial impropriety. A particular principal was demoted and transferred to another school with a lower population of students. I am still fighting extortion and the tempo is gradually reducing but some teachers are mired in it and if they are caught, they will be sanctioned accordingly. 