LAGOS – Chief Magistrate Adeola Ola­tunbosun has dismissed an application by the Nigeria Po­lice Force seeking to arraign Afrobeat singer, Seun Kuti, over an alleged assault of a police officer. Olatunbosun adjourned the hearing to July 3 to await legal advice from the Office of the Directorate of Public Prosecu­tions on the matter. The musician came to the Chief Magistrate’s court in the Sabo-Yaba area of Lagos State after he was released on bail on Tuesday. He had been in detention at the State Crim­inal Investigative Department Panti since May 15. At the resumed hearing, police Counsel, Cyril Ejiofor, had sought the leave of court to arraign the singer, having preferred a charge against him. However, Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Femi Falana, rep­resenting the defendant urged the court to dismiss the appli­cation, accusing the Police of disobeying subsisting orders of the court. “We have a serious ob­jection to the proposed ar­raignment on two solid legal grounds; that he is entitled to at least 48 hours’ notice within which to answer to the charge, by virtue of section 82 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Lagos. We came here this morn­ing only for the police to say a charge has been filed and most importantly, this charge is contemptuous of the valid and subsisting court order of May 16, that upon the com­pletion of the investigation, the prosecution of the case is to be transferred to the state government, as police can’t investigate and prosecute the case. But, the police in total defiance, ignored the order of the court. Also, On the 18th May, the court adjourned the case to May 23 for the DPP’s advice. POLL Until the court orders are complied with by the IGP, this court can’t entertain the charge from the police. They owe it a duty to dis­close to the court why they have overruled this court on the prosecution of this case. There is no appeal against the court’s order. We urge the court to disregard the application of the police, as It is an attempt to treat the court with provoca­tive contempt.” Last week, the same court delivered two rulings ordering the police to duplicate the case file and forward it to the Office of the DPP at the Lagos Min­istry of Justice for advice on whether to prosecute the case. The court also said the police cannot investigate and prosecute the matter, to avoid the perception of bias.