GOMBE – The Gombe State chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has again expelled Senator Bulus K. Amos, representing Gombe South, from the party over gross misconduct against the party during the last general elections. The party had last week handed down same expulsion notice to the Senator representing Gombe Central and a two-term former Governor of the State, Muhammad Danjuma Goje, over same offence of anti-party activities. The Ward Chairman of Balanga Local Government Area (LGA), Mohammed Kaka, said the ward executives, after their deliberations and investigation, found Senator Amos guilty of gross misconduct against the party during the last general elections and had, therefore, expelled him. Kaka, along with his ward executives, while addressing journalists in Bambam, said Senator Amos was called and suspended after explaining the allegations against him. He said the Senator was also called earlier to come and defend himself over the allegation of anti-party activities levelled against him but he failed to turn up. Kaka added: “This is the reason for our meeting today, 2nd May 2023 where we resolved to expel him from the party because he is not with us”. Also on hand to endorse the expulsion were the Local Government party executives led by its chairman, Ali Kachalla who added that Senator BK Amos failed to deliver all the seven polling units in front of his house including that of his unit during the presidential election which he never turned up. “The other time he came, he said no one can expel him from the party, this is a big mistake because even the President is not above the law of the party,” Kaka stated. POLL In a similar issue, the House of Representatives member for Yamaltu-Deba Federal Constituency, Gombe State, Inusa Ahmed Abubakar was also slammed with an expulsion notice for gross misconduct against the party during the last general elections. Chairman, Lubo/Diffa/Kinafa ward, Yamaltu-Deba Federal Constituency, Gombe State, Maina Ahmadu while briefing Journalists said, the Rep member betrayed the party by asking voters not to vote APC from top to bottom during the last general elections. “We called him some days ago and he confirmed to us that he did antiparty which is against the party. This is the reason why we called for this meeting to tell the world that he has been expelled from the party”, Maina Ahmadu stated. Endorsing the action of the Ward party executives’ decision the Yamaltu-Deba Local Government APC Chairman, Aliyu Samaila, said “Instead of Inusa Ahmed Abubakar to come and defend himself after the allegations were levelled against him, he contracted a lawyer and our party is not concerned about any lawyer. We’re just returning to him what he did to the party and that is to expel him.”