The lawmaker-elect, representing Odo-Otin State Constituency on the Platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in Osun State, Hon. (Prince) Wale Egbedun, has congratulated the Governor of the state, Senator Ademola Adeleke over the validation of his victory by the nation’s apex court in Abuja. Egbedun, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Adeola Badru, noted that the affirmation by the Supreme Court was a validation of the mandate given to Senator Adeleke by the people of Osun State, saying that the judgement should be seen as phenomenal and a crucial blow to manipulation of elections in Nigeria. Applauding the judiciary as truly the defender of Nigeria’s democracy, the lawmaker-elect opined that validation of victory of Governor Adeleke in the governorship election, showed that indeed the judiciary is the last refuge of the common man, adding that the judgment has rekindled the hope and confidence that those whose mandate had been tampered with or denied can look forward to fair justice.                            Egbedun congratulated Senator Adeleke, the PDP and men and women of goodwill in Osun State, who did not waver in their commitments to stand by the mandate of the governor. ”Weeping may endure for a night, but joy has finally come for the people of Osun State. I am so excited about the Supreme Court judgment of today.” “The validation of your mandate by the Supreme Court is an affirmation of the trust reposed in you by the people of Osun State to serve them; for their development, welfare and security which must not be taken for granted.” Hon. Egbedun, however, urged the judiciary to remain steadfast as the eyes of all Nigerians and indeed the whole world are on them to help ensure that democracy in Nigeria is put on a solid foundation. He equally urged the entire residents of the state to continue to pray and support the state government, adding that their prayers and supports for the governor is responsible for the landmark achievements recorded by the present administration in the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒