BAUCHI – A group, under the auspices of Honourable Tajudeen Canvassers Agents, has appealed to the All Progressive Congress (APC) stakeholders in Borno state, to prevail on Honourable Mukhtar Aliyu Betara to step down for Honourable Tajudeen Abass in the race for the position of Speakership of the House of Representatives in the 10th National Assembly. The Coordinator of the Group, Ambassador Adamu Jikan-Man who made the call at a press conference in Bauchi, said that the group has the mandate of canvassing for good governance at all levels. “We support APC leadership and Mr. Tinubu’s decision that settled for Godswill Apabio (South-south) and Barau Jibrin (North-west) for the senate president and deputy respectively. Also, Mr. Abbas (North-west) and Ben Kalu (South-east) have been topped as Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively. “We are therefore, advocating APC Stakeholders in Borno, to prevail on Hon Betara and his supporters to respect the decision of APC leadership and the President-elect, Bola Tinubu on the 10th National Assembly. “The leadership of the party and the President-elect want to give each zone of the country a sense of belonging, because Vice President Kashim Shettima comes from North East with Hon Betara, while Tajudeen Abass comes from North West, the party wants to strike a balance between regions,” he said. Jikan-Manu described Betara as a good leader with a vision, who deserves to become the Speaker of the tenth speaker of house Representative, “The Party leadership and the President elect’s decision has the wisdom that will take the party and the country to greater heights as well as create an enabling environment for development. The decision made by the leaders shows mutual understanding and protection of democratic tenets as well as salvaging the country,” Jikan-Manu said. POLL The Coordinator urged the party leadership and stakeholders in Borno state to persuade Hon Betara to withdraw his candidacy and support Hon Tajudeen Abbas Ph.D. “We know the people of Borno are peace-loving that have patience, tolerance, patriotism, and love for peace and mutual understanding. We are also calling on all his supporters to be patient and support Tajudeen Abbas for the interest of national development,” He said. The leader of the group also called on Hon. Betara to withdraw from the race and join hands with Tajudeen Abass to build and provide good governance for the tenth National Assembly and the country, adding that his continued presence in the race would only cause confusion, division and chaos in the party, National assembly and the country at large.