Plateau State Governor-elect, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang has described as unfortunate, the recent security breach that claimed dozens of lives in some parts of the state. Mutfwang reiterated the resolve of his incoming administration to strengthen the bond of unity among Plateau people to combat insecurity when he comes into office. Barr. Mutfwang disclosed this on Thursday while receiving the Tarok Nation led by the President, Ngwang Ishi O’Tarok, Amb. Nanpon Danjuma Sheni, on a courtesy visit at Government House Lodge, Jos, Plateau State. “I want to use this opportunity to call on everyone who is resident within the borders of Plateau and our neighbors to know that Plateau people, are peace-loving people and we are highly accommodative. “We need to come together to be able to secure and build our land by making sure that the blessings that God has put in the land, are harnessed for the advantage and benefit of all”, he said. The Governor-elect thanked the Tarok Nation for the immense support accorded him during the election and urged them to remain as a formidable force in the rebuilding of a new Plateau. He assured them of the commitment of his administration to building a sound and enduring infrastructural base that will benefit every community in the State. The President of Ngwang Ishi O’Tarok (NIO), Amb. Nanpon Danjuma Sheni and leader of the delegation said their visit was primarily to congratulate the Governor-Elect and his Deputy, Mrs Josephine Piyo on their recent victory in the general elections. POLL He pledged the loyalty and support of the Taroh people to to the incoming administration. “The main purpose of our visit today is simple: to congratulate your excellency and your deputy for your victory at the recently concluded Gubernational election and wish you a successful and God driven tenure. “Your excellency, you are taking over Government in our state at a most challenging period, with heightened insecurity almost everywhere. We all know that without adequate security, there cannot be any meaningful development. “After all, the protection and preservation of lives and properties remain the cardinal and primary objective of any government. Having listened to your security program during our interaction before the elections, the Tarok Nation remains optimistic that you have what it takes to comprehensively ensure a new and enhanced security architecture for the state.” He stated. The visit had in attendance, prominent sons and daughters of the Tarok Nation.