Victor Osimhen has undoubtedly had his best season ever as a footballer. The Nigerian forward looks set to finish as the Italian Serie A top scorer, this is coming hot on the heels of aiding Napoli to end their lengthy thirst for the league title. Osimhen has been phenomenal for the new Italian champions, at times slowed by injury and international duty that didn’t go to plan but overall, he has stood out not just for his club but among the best players in the world. After his exploits in Serie A, the big question lingering all over is if he will stay on in Italy or will seek a big money move abroad, with a number of suitors on his pursuit. Best time It is an unwritten rule for footballers that whenever one is shining the most, marks the best time to move and if Osimhen will put that line into serious consideration, then the Italian Serie A will have to bid bye to one of their best players for this season. Victor Osimhen has scored 28 goals in all competitions for Napoli this season and with four games still to play before he wraps up the season, he is very likely to hit 30 goals for the campaign. This can be a good bet to place and make use of the Unibet promotion code for new customers which is explained in detail on Sportytrader. Osimhen has a goal involvement average of 1.06 per minute going into the final four league matches so such a bet will not seem really farfetched. But it is his future that can attract big money bets, with Chelsea, Manchester United, PSG and Bayern Munich all mentioned to be in the Nigerian forward’s chase. Even with all the interest, it has to be said that the striker still has two years to run on his Napoli contract, so admirers must be ready to spend. Transfer fee With the said interest, Napoli’s hierarchy isn’t sitting pretty, a transfer fee in excess of US$ 100m has been slapped on the striker, which means only a few teams will be left jostling for his signature. Chelsea are known to be big spenders, as seen in the last two transfer windows, and the same applies to PSG, who haven’t had a lot of big money moves in recent windows.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ With Osimhen being rumoured to prefer a move to England, it leaves Manchester United and Chelsea as the leading candidates, while for Osimhen, this is the opportunity he has to make a killing, just five years after he played his first professional game in Europe. In a recent interview, he seemed to be issuing a come-get-me plea to an English team when he said: POLL “A lot of people worldwide consider the Premier League as the best and the strongest league but now I’m in one of the best leagues in the world which is the Italian Serie A. I’m working so hard to make sure that I achieve my dream of playing in the Premier League someday but as I said, it’s a process and I just want to keep on this momentum and continue to do well.”The Italian Serie A title, a top scorer’s accolade, and a bigger profile as a player will be enough bargaining power for Osimhen, who has already tasted success with Nigeria at the youth level.