Flux Power Holdings, Inc. a developer of advanced lithium-ion energy storage solutions for electrification of commercial and industrial equipment said it has completed UL Solutions compliance testing to obtain third-party, science-backed certification for its next-generation clean energy battery technology. The new Flux Power G2 Series platform introduces a line of heavy-duty battery packs with safe, stable lithium iron phosphate chemistry. “As we expand relationships with large fleets, the UL Solutions compliance investigation and subsequent UL Listed designation demonstrates our market leadership and commitment to developing the highest quality lithium-ion battery packs on the market for our Fortune 500 customers,” said Ron Dutt, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Flux Power. Dutt also stated that safety and durability would always be the company’s highest priorities, adding that the UL Solutions Listed label underscored its values and due diligence to ensure that all products undergo independent third-party testing and validation for safety, performance, and stability. The newly designed product portfolio includes new Flux Power models for order pickers, 36-volt narrow aisle trucks, and a broad range of GSE vehicles with heavy-duty battery packs optimized to deliver peak performance. Modular components can be configured to accommodate voltage and capacity requirements ranging from 24 to 80-volt, and from 210 to 840-amp hours (Ah). Active cooling and heating for demanding applications in warm or cold environments are new features to address a wider range of indoor and outdoor applications and protection from extreme temperature environments, overcharge/discharge, high current, and drive-away protection. In addition, IP (Ingress Protection) ratings as high as IP66 are now available to avoid water intrusion. POLL Following a cadence of successful test cycles for previous generations of Flux Power clean energy battery packs, UL Solutions has now authorised in-house compliance testing at the company’s manufacturing facility in Vista, California, with periodic onsite and virtual inspections from the UL Solutions team.