The Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Professor Ibrahim Agboola Gambari called on all Nigerians to start building support and enabling environment for the incoming government. Gambari made the call this in Birnin Kebbi after his private visit to Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and His Royal Highness, Emir of Gwandu, Alhaji Muhammadu Illiyasu Bashar. While briefing newsmen about his visit to the state, Gambari said: ” I am here on a private visit to see the Governor and His Royal Highness, Emir Gwandu. Because, as we are coming to the end of this administration, I am here to appreciate them for their support, and prayers and also made a point that, the elections is now over. “We should now be building support and enabling environment for the incoming administration so that they could build – up on the positive record of President Muhammadu Buhari in all the major priorities his administration focused on. ” Above all, for being the one that conducted and supervised the free and fair 2023 general elections that produced these results”. Speaking on the legacy President Buhari will be leaving behind, Gambari noted that apart from the free and fair elections he conducted, the people of the country would remember him for his fighting against corruption, an agricultural revolution that has started making Nigerians to eat what they produce. According to him, “Among other legacies, we have diversified the economy. We are now producing what we are eating.. Many States across Nigeria now have various crops they have an economic advantage upon and they are producing it abundantly. Except for Kebbi state which stands top among the state because the state has made a lot of impact on the agricultural revolution in Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ” Apart from that, President Muhammadu constructed a lot of road kilometers, fighting corruption. These are the legacies he will be leaving behind. POLL “Above all, he supervised free and fair elections and he had congratulated the winners including states where the ruling party did not win”, he said.