JOS – The Executive Council and members of the Plateau Elders’ Forum have called on elected members of the House of Representatives, both old and new, to back a Plateau State candidate for the position of the Speakership in the Green Chamber of National Assembly. Plateau Elders in a statement on Wednesday issued by its spokesman Nde Jonathan Ishaku and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Jos stated that the decision of the Plateau Elders was taken after a meeting in the house of the Chairman of the Plateau Forum, Ambassador Yahaya Kwande, in Jos. It would be recalled that two frontline candidates vying for the position from the North Central geopolitical zone are from Plateau State, namely, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, the outgoing Deputy Speaker and Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi. According to the Forum, each of the two candidates possesses unassailable credentials. “As Deputy Speaker in the 9th Assembly Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase has served diligently using his long legislative experience and has deputized effectively for the Speaker of the House of Representatives. “On the other hand, Hon Yusuf Adamu Gagdi, on account of his legislative dexterity and skills has sponsored the highest number of bills by a member in a single first term, with six having been accented into law by the President”. The Plateau Elders argued that apart from the resourcefulness of the Plateau State candidates, it is in the interest of fairness and justice that the state be given the opportunity to lead the House.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ They contended that while the North West and the North East geopolitical zones have produced the Speaker four times and one time, respectively, the North Central has never produced one. POLL They further argued that if the rumours making rounds that the Speakership position has been zoned to the North West again, in addition to the Senate President position are true it would be unfair to the North Central zone which would get nothing. “In the interest of equity, therefore, we insist on zoning the Speakership to the North Central and particularly to Plateau State,” they declared”. They advised Hon Wase the Deputy Speaker and Hon Gagdi who are Reps Members from Plateau state should close ranks and arrive at producing one of them as the aspirant for the plum job of the seat of speaker House of Representatives from the state.