The traditional religion adherents have enjoined the federal, state and local governments to accord them the same recognition given to foreign religions like Muslims and Christians across the country. They made these disclosures during a press conference held on Thursday at Osemeji temple in Ibadan to herald the 2023 world annual Ifa festival. Those who spoke at the press conference included the Araba/ Olu Isese of Ibadanland, High Chief Ifalare Odegbemi Odegbola, Araba/ Oluwo of Oyo, High Chief Faleye Kusaanu, Araba of Oka Akoko of Ondo state, Chief Adewale Oso, who is the Chairman, World Ifa Day Celebration, and Jagunmolu Awo Agbaye, Dr. Fayemi Fatunde Fakayode. They insisted that they are entitled to all the things Muslims and Christians are entitled in the country. The Araba (Olu Isese) Agbaye, His Eminence, Owolabi Awodotun Aworeni who addressed the press conference, used the opportunity to call on the government from the local to the national level to give due recognition to traditional religion. Aworeni whose speech was delivered by Jagunmolu Awo Agbaye, Dr. Fayemi Fatunde Fakayode, noted that traditional religion has never waged any kind of war against any religion. According to him, “Also, I use this opportunity to call on the government from the local to the national level to give due recognition to our traditional religion and treat it the same way the alien religions are being treated. “This appeal is also extended to our traditional rulers. Our kings are implored to promote Yoruba traditional religion which is the basis of the crowns on their heads. POLL “The world annual Ifa festival has commenced last two weeks with the activities including pilgrimage to our sacred shrines and grooves in Ekiti state. The activities in Ile-Ife will commence on Thursday 1st June and the grand finale will be on Saturday 3rd June 2023, which is the last day of the year with the last worship of the year in the world Ifa temple, Oke Itase, Ile-Ife, Osun state. “The new year Ifa divination will be cast in the early hours of Sunday, 4th June 2023 which is the first day year in Yoruba calendar. “My fellow Orisa devotees, as true followers of Orunmila, I implore us to abide by teachings of Ifa on patience and gentle character. With this our cherished Isese, the Yoruba traditional religion will triumph amidst conspirators in this land. Surely ours is the most peaceful religion in the world. “I am also using this medium to assure you that Ile-Ife is a peaceful as ever and there is no reason for any kind of fear for anybody coming home. We are entitled to all the things you are given the Muslims and Christians”. While speaking further, he urged those who are aggrieved with the outcome of the presidential election to support the incoming administration led by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Those who are saying that they should not hand over to him should exercise patience. They should support him. He has won and he has been declared as the winner. The next thing is for him to take over the power. We cannot say that they should not hand over power to him. “His government will be peaceful and Nigeria will be better during his own time. We advised the youths to exercise patience while looking for money. They should not rush”.