As she turns 72, Chief Reuben Okundaye, has written a heartfelt letter to his wife, Nike Okundaye. Nike, a doyen of the Nigerian creative arts industry marked her 72nd birthday on Tuesday, May 23. Wishing her a very happy birthday, Chief Reuben described the celebrated art teacher as a remarkable woman who has touched so many lives with her kindness, generosity, and talent. According to him, as a loving wife and caring mother, she has always primarily considered her family. “We are all grateful for the love and warmth that you bring into our lives. Your life story is an inspiration to many, and your passion for promoting Nigeria’s rich cultural heritage through your art and textile works is truly remarkable. “You have touched the lives of people from all walks of life, and your impact is immeasurable. We are all proud of your achievements and the legacy that you have built. As you celebrate this special day, we pray that The Good Lord continues to protect you, guide you, and direct you in your brand new age. May you continue to be a beacon of hope and inspiration to many, and may you be blessed with good health, joy, and peace. May your life be filled with love and laughter, and may you always know how much you are loved and appreciated,” he wrote. Nike Okundaye was born in 1951 in Ogidi, Kogi State and was brought up amidst the traditional weaving and dyeing as practised in her home town. Her parents and great-grandmother were musicians and craftspeople, who specialized in the areas of cloth weaving, adire making, indigo dyeing and leather. She learned how to use the loom to produce cloth during the time she lived with her great-grandmother Ibitola. She has dedicated her life to the craft, giving workshops on traditional Nigerian textiles to audiences in the United States and Europe. She had her first solo exhibition at the Goethe Institute, Lagos, in 1968. She is the founder and director of four art centres that offer free training to more than 150 young artists in visual, musical and performing arts, comprising more than 7,000 artworks.