P/HARCOURT – Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike says the delivery of devel­opment projects, started and com­pleted in various communities, without disruption was possible because of the enduring partner­ship his administration cultivated with the people. Governor Wike made the assertion while inaugurating phase two construction of inter­nal roads in Okochiri kingdom in Okrika Local Government Area on Friday. The governor harped on the importance of such partnership between the government and the people, because residents in such communities cease to be antag­onistic to contractors handling various projects to ensure they are accomplished. “Here, you’ll see a lot of com­mercial activities springing up because of good road network. And if you have not supported the contractors, probably they would have used that as excuse, saying that the community is collecting so much money from them, there­fore they cannot continue. “And I have always spoken about partnership between gov­ernment and the people, and we are happy that we are getting that support from your (Okochiri) kingdom.” Governor Wike stressed that because the people have owned up the projects, and have also provid­ed support. They are eventually gaining from the benefit of the completed projects. The governor recalled how he had, during his first tenure, start­ed and completed the first phase of internal roads in Okochiri, with a promise that the second phase will also be started and complete in his second tenure. “To the glory of God, we are here today, promise made, prom­ise fulfilled. I’m sure, Amanyana­bo, (of Okochiri) you’ll now know, we are not those politicians that will make promise without fulfill­ing the promise. POLL “I’m sure, it has made your kingdom to be one of the areas that benefited from good road network. Coming here, you won’t know that here is not part of the city. But with the internal roads now, you can say for sure, you are trying to compete with those of us who are from the city.” Governor Wike reiterated that he is a man of conscience, who is bonded by his words and returns to fulfill promises made. Such attribute has marked him out from other politicians, he emphasised, who are not bothered about the import of their political promises made to the people. Governor Wike said because he is dependable and bonded by his words, the people believed in him and it should also be possible to follow his leading. Earlier, the inauguration of the internal roads in Elekahia community in Port Harcourt Local Government Area, gover­nor Wike mocked those who in December 2022 had mobilised Elekahia people against the gov­ernment, because they doubted that the roads will be reconstruct­ed. Governor Wike insisted that the roads, now completed, bears evidence to the fact that he will never fail on his promise to his people.