UYO  – Pastor Umo Bassey Eno and Senator Akon Eyak­enyi have been sworn in as Akwa Ibom Governor and Deputy Governor, respec­tively. Eno who is the fifth demo­cratically elected Governor of Akwa Ibom State was sworn in by the State Chief Judge, Justice Ekaette Obot at the Godswill Ak­pabio International Stadium in Uyo on Monday. In his inaugural speech, Governor Umo Eno promised a golden era for Akwa Ibom State, saying his government would usher in a new era of peace and security for the state. The new Akwa Ibom Gov­ernor who called on the people to support his ARISE agenda to build on the legacies of the im­mediate past governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel, said he would be the governor of all Akwa Ibom peo­ple irrespective of their political leanings. In his words “I am in awe of the grace that has located me. I am in awe of the grace of God upon my life. I am sure together, we will usher in the golden era for our state. “As we begin this government, we will invite all Akwa Ibomites to arise to the feat of greatness with our ARISE agenda from in­vestment in agriculture, health care services, education; we will ensure that we continue chang­ing the narratives of our state. “We will continue to support our state civil servants, and we will ensure that their welfare be­comes paramount. We will con­tinue to build on the successes of Deacon Udom Gabriel Emmanu­el’s administration. “We will tackle insecurity and we will ensure that Akwa Ibom continues to remain peaceful. We are resolved to ensure we fight insecurity in our state be­cause we have the assurance of the security agencies to continue and improve upon what they are doing currently,”. POLL The Governor who com­mended the immediate past gov­ernor, Mr Udom Emmanuel for supporting him against all odds, applauded the people for choos­ing truth over Iies, as shown by their decision to support his candidacy. He pleaded with Emmanuel not to desert him, saying his ef­forts and that of past governors of the state have placed Akwa Ibom State on its current pedes­tal with glowing achievements. Eno who said he never be­lieved he could be a Governor of Akwa Ibom because he was not aspiring for the position, noted that the grace of God has placed him on the current pedestal to govern the state. He also gave credit to his late mother for his upbringing and urged the people of the state to be inspired by his story, saying if he could attain the height he did, they would too.