Hitherto, Nigeria had been known as a net exporter of crude oil and a per­petual importer of refined petroleum products. As we all know crude or raw products are sold for very little while processed or finished products attract much higher price. That is the logic behind or the thesis in my book that is in the pipeline titled, ‘Africa Export­ing Wealth, Importing Poverty’. So, the kernel of the message in my forthcom­ing book is that when we export raw materials such as cocoa seeds and crude oil from Nigeria to Europe or anywhere in the world, we are export­ing wealth. And when we import processed cocoa based beverages and refined petroleum products from abroad, we are importing poverty. That is simply because trade and economics dynamics dictate that raw materials which are the real wealth cost less, while processed materi­als attract costs that are multiple times, even as much as ten (10) folds more than the value of the raw materials. The same principle applies to gas, gold, iron ore that are abundant in Africa being extracted and taken away in their crude form for processing or value adding overseas. That inequality of value in raw materials endemic in Africa is largely responsible for Ni­geria and indeed Africa being occupiers of the bottom rung of the ladder as the continent has remained home to the least prosperous countries in the world. Worse still, apart from the raw materials that we export and which attract minuscule price as proceeds, when we export basic raw materials, we are also exporting jobs. That is because it is the factories overseas that process the raw materials into finished goods that would be providing jobs for youths of their own countries at the expense of our army of unemployed youths. POLL That is one of the reasons that our youths are literally wasting away in our country which is the origin of the raw materials that should have been processed at home to earn more income from overseas buyers. Arising from the picture painted above, it was gratifying to me that Dangote refinery would be the first privately owned business concern of its magnitude processing Nigerian crude oil into petrol. And it fits smugly into my desire to see a situation whereby our country would be add­ing value to raw materials by processing them at home before exporting the same products abroad with a view to earning higher income that would improve the balance of trade between Nigeria and her various trading partners around the world. That would lead to the catalyzing of prosperity for our people and enable our country move from the bottom to higher levels in the perking order of the comity of nations of the world. That is as opposed to just exporting raw mate­rials which has been the lot of our country since Britain colonized her following the partitioning of Africa during the Berlin conference of 1884 whereby European countries shared Africa amongst themselves and the European country currently known as the United Kingdom, UK, started exploiting Nigeria for her raw materials. So, to me, the commissioning of Dangote re­finery is significant in a personal way. And for that reason Dangote refinery will be a strong reference point in my aforementioned book which is focused on why and how Nigeria and indeed Africa should add value to their nat­ural produce that colonialists used to refer to as cash crops and solid minerals that were the main reasons that they targeted and literally raped our country and continent following a long period of pillaging her assets including human beings converted to slaves and shipped off to sugar plan­tations in the Caribbean and cotton farms in the Americas. According to records, the exploitation started a couple of millennium ago via the arrival of mis­sionaries on our shores ostensibly to spread the gospel of God. Thereafter, it expanded into slave trade across the Atlantic Ocean. Subsequently, the extraction of the natural re­sources that abound in our country and continent became the attraction for colonialists and their new mission. Having a Dangote refinery in Nigeria that would be reversing the ugly trend of Africa and Nigeria being net exporter of primary produce by exporting refined petroleum instead of crude oil, in a very elaborate way is very significant and heartwarming to me and I guess to other patriotic Nigerians and indeed Africans. Hypothetically, let us imagine that Nigeria was earning $10 billion from crude oil sales annually. By refining the crude petroleum products into petrol through Dangote refinery, the value would increase at least ten folds. In other words, when crude oil is refined in Nigeria into petrol and exported, it would earn the nation about one $100 billion, not just $10 billion if it had exported unrefined crude. Would that not be the long sought golden age for Nigeria? Having said that, at this juncture, it is perti­nent and appropriate that I point out that when I raised the issue about the outgoing government not laying out any frame work for post petrol subsidy regime in my article titled: ‘Elections 2023, Bruised Political Parties And Crushed Ni­gerians’, published in my column way back on March 1, had no idea that Dangote refinery would be coming on stream so soon and it was the fall­back position by government. Here is how I raised my concern: “But up till now, there is no framework or plan on how the effect of the subsidy on the masses would be mit­igated through policies and programs that would bring human face to the end of petrol subsidy regime which Nigerians actually desire”. Amazingly, that concern was addressed by the just commissioned Dangote refinery and petro­chemical plant that has a production capacity for processing 650,000 barrels of petroleum products and 900,000 polypropylene daily. As the refinery that is touted as the largest sin­gle train petrol refinery anywhere in the world is being on boarded, Nigeria’s perennial battle with insufficient quantity and ineffective distribution of petroleum products that have had debilitating effect on the masses, appear to be in the process of being consigned to the past. Since a song and dance had not been made about the development until a couple of days ago that the humungous complex got commis­sioned as the outgoing administration prepares to hand over the baton of leadership to a new pair of hands, it would appear as if it is the best kept secret. The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, governor, Godwin Emefiele, could not contain his enthusi­asm about the commissioning of the plant as he gushed about being vindicated in the investment of the CBN funds (via NNPC 20% equity holding) in the monumental project despite skepticism from potential investors and financial institutions from the advanced economies of the Western world such as JP Morgan etc. Overwhelmed by excitement, the apex bank helmsman who was over the moon that the con­struction of the petroleum processing project has finally come into fruition under his watch, re­vealed that about 70% of the loan for Dangote re­finery and petrochemicals plant had been repaid even before the refinery commenced operation. Mr. Emefiele acknowledged that the revela­tion was against the wish of the promoter of the project, Aliko Dangote, whose personal style is to understate his financial prowess. So, he might have been flustered by the exposition. But in the spirit of the momentous and joy­ous occasion, and since it is in positive light, the self-effacing Dangote Industries Chairman, Aliko Dangote, must have accepted the ‘expo’ (a collo­quial tag for a leaked information) hence there has not been any rebuttal. If indeed only 30% of the principal loan is outstanding (and the apex bank governor should know that since CBN invested about N125 billion for 20% stake) it would be such a cheerful and extraordinary development. My bullishness about the new refinery in La­gos stems from the fact that by establishing the monumental refinery, Dangote Group has effec­tively taken over the function typically reserved for and undertaken mainly by sovereign govern­ments owing to the sheer size of capitalization and coordination required. Indeed, it is unprecedented that a local private entrepreneur would embark on a humongous in­vestment of up to the tune of $18.5 billion in an infrastructural service such as the biggest single train refinery in the world that has the capacity to produce 300,000,000 liters of PMS daily which is way more than the demand of Nigerian petro­leum products consumers. What the apex bank helmsman’s revelation simply implies is that only 30% of the $18.5 bil­lion loan is outstanding before the cost is fully paid up for the gigantic complex that would have a multiplier effect, not only on Nigerian economy, but that of the African continent, particularly the West African sub-region which has been a ready and steady market for smuggled petrol out of Nigeria. As we very well know, our neighboring coun­tries have been the veritable receptacles for smug­glers of our subsidized refined petrol, which is four (4) times cheaper in Nigeria, across our borders into their domains in connivance with unscrupulous Nigerian business men/women. On the reverse side, the inflow of an assort­ment of banned products from neighboring coun­tries ranging from frozen chicken, rice and sugar into Nigerian market including small arms and ammunitions facilitating deadly religious insur­gency, terrorism, pastoralists and farmers clashes as well as environmental rights and resource con­trol agitators/militants, not forgetting separatist movements that have also been threatening to tear Nigeria apart. All of the above cross border smuggling ac­tivities are generating negative consequences on our economy resulting in genuine local entrepre­neurs who pay requisite taxes to government not being unable to compete in price with the smug­gled products. That is the situation that prompted or informed government’s decision to close our country’s bor­ders with neighboring countries from August 2019 for an unusually lengthy period (about one year) with punishing effect on Nigerian masses. But it came with the salutary benefit of the populace learning to consume what they produce by weaning themselves of the acquired tastes that have been causing the bleeding of the treasury of our country via export of capital arising from our unbridled love for foreign made goods and their importation. It is for the foregoing reasons that people in authority like CBN’s Emefiele believe that the national border closure is one of the factors that facilitated Nigeria’s self-sufficiency in rice pro­duction for which he has been patting himself and the outgoing administration on the back. In terms of investment in some sectors of the economy to stimulate activities and engender growth of our economy, the apex bank’s helms­man also explained that about N9 trillion has been invested in priority areas via interventions in entrepreneurial ventures such as rice farming etc at single digit interest rates loans to Nigerians. Such financial interventions include the injec­tion of approximately N125 billion (20% NNPC equity) that was revealed as having been extended to Dangote Group for the construction of the first private and largest refinery and petrochemical plant in Nigeria. In the reckoning of the authorities, the closure of our national border last year for about one year also enabled our country have a good idea of the quantity of petrol being smuggled across the bor­ders to neighboring countries.