ABUJA  – Ahead of the inauguration of the President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, an advice has come to him to focus heavily on econom­ic growth, address income levels, and make people wealthier as a governance strategy to tackle corruption and redirect Nigeria’s development trajectory. The advice came at the week­end in Abuja during Nextier’s most recent edition of its Devel­opment Discourse hosted by Pat­rick Okigbo III, founding partner of Nextier, a public policy firm, and Dr. Portia Roelofs, a lecturer at the Kings College, London, United Kingdom (UK) and the author of ‘Good Governance in Nigeria: Rethinking Account­ability and Transparency in the Twenty-First Century.’ The crux of the conversation was focused on how Nigeria can reconceive the idea of good gover­nance as a new administration is billed to assume power by May 29 for another four years. The discourse noted that “de­velopment is absent in Nigeria, social and economic indicators like poverty, inflation, unem­ployment are at a record high”, while the country is plagued by persistent insecurity, fiscal imbal­ance, rising debt profile, and low revenue. “The incoming administra­tion will face the unenviable task of redirecting Nigeria’s economic direction to inclusive growth and development. If this must be achieved, accountability and transparency in governance must be on the boat to the scrip­tural ‘promised land’”, the intel­lectual discourse noted. Leveraging the book authored by Portia Roelofs, the discourse acknowledged the endemic cor­ruption in Nigeria, but noted that it should not undermine de­velopment if the administration focuses on economic growth and making people wealthier. “Nigeria can look beyond cor­ruption to drive transformation. Present-day China and the United States in the 1800s were corrupt. Attention shifted to focusing on economic growth, addressing in­come levels, and making people wealthier; afterward, corruption dropped as people became less dependent on the state. “State accountability institu­tions like Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and anti-graft agencies like the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other offences Commission (ICPC) must live up to their man­date and enforce accountability and transparency in government. They must hold more powerful actors accountable”, the session recommended. POLL Roelofs also recalled that her book focused on the debate that the ‘Lagos Model’ provoked in the media, the politicians, and the people, and that if manifes­tos must manifest, it must be on the premise of accountability to the people and transparency in governance. She explained that “the Lagos model attracted foreign donors like the World Bank, USAID, and DFID as a pre-market approach after the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP). It was seen as a local initiative to what the international institutions have struggled to do for many years. “The Lagos model is a Tinubu style of governance that estab­lished and expanded a tax-driven economy, improved urban man­agement, infrastructural develop­ment, and an independent politi­cal force to grow Lagos into one of Africa’s leading growth cities. “Good governance is social­ly embedded. Accountability exists when leaders are accessi­ble. Transparency shows data evidence for the people to track government activities, like the yearly budget at the national or sub-national level. “Nigeria needs social indica­tor data to ascertain if her leaders are more honest, sincere, and per­forming. Leaders must be acces­sible, responsive, and listen to the people’s yearnings.”