ABUJA – Mu’azu Jaji Sambo, the outgoing Minister of Transportation has charged the ministry to develop inland waterways transportation. Sambo, who gave the charge during his valedictory speech at a farewell ceremo­ny organised by the ministry, noted that Nigeria has more than 150 kilometers of coast­line, and 10, 000 kilometers of navigable waterways enough to improve movements of agricultural, and mineral produce scattered across all parts of the country. According to Sambo, about 60 per cent of Ameri­ca’s agricultural exports are carried through inland wa­terways making that coun­try’s crops most competitive in the market. He said that currently, 38 states in the United States de­pend on inland waterways for their economies. “Director Maritime Ser­vices, I have delivered my own but you refused to de­liver mine. He knows what I am talking about. I am so pas­sionate about Inland Water Ways. I spent 13 years of my life working for NIWA. And I know what it means to have efficient Inland Water Ways Transportation (IWT). “God did not bless Nigeria with more than 150 kilome­ters of coastline, and 10000 ki­lometers of navigable water­ways for nothing, with fertile lands for agriculture, blessed us with large deposits of min­erals including crude oil. “Nigeria has the 6th larg­est deposit of crude oil in the world. We have one of the largest deposits of gold in the world, go and ask the people from Zamfara. And all these minerals and agri­cultural lands are along this Y-shaped belt. “I told President Muham­madu Buhari that today, 38 states in the United States de­pend on inland waterways for their economies. Through in­land waterways, they move about 360 million tons of Car­goes valued at over $90 billion every year. POLL “About 60 per cent of America’s agricultural ex­ports are carried on inland waterways which is why their crops are competitive in the market because inland waterways are the cheap­est means of moving large goods. I have a passion for inland waterways because I know that this country has something it is not tapping,” he said. The Minister described the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry Dr. Magdalene Ajani, as a professional, who is committed to her work, stressing that she pioneered working online in the civil service.