A pro Democracy group, North Central Democratic Coalition has appealed to the National Working Committee ( NWC) of the All Progressives Congress ( APC ) to consider the zoning of Speakership of the 10th National Assembly to the region in the interest of justice, fairness and equity. The group said North Central was strategic to the electoral success of the APC in the just concluded presidential and national assembly elections. The group disclosed this in a statement issued by by Dr. Ben Amodu on Monday in Abuja. The statement noted that the region had been neglected by previous administrations, which does not augur well for our democratic experiment adding that the current arrangement does not include the North Central region, with the president from the North West, the Senate President from the North East, and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation from the North East. According to the statement ” We have come here today in our numbers to demand the zoning of the speakership position in the North Central region of the country. A nonaction implies that the North Central region would be left out of the scheme of things because the Vice President is from the North East, and the North West is in strong contention for a Senate leadership position. It must be stated that the strategic importance of the North Central region in the scheme of things in the country can’t be overemphasized. The region had proved to be that reliable ally when it mattered most. ” This much has been demonstrated in different electoral circles, including the recently concluded general elections. Let us also forget that the North Central region proved strategic towards the electoral success of the APC during the presidential and national assembly elections. ” My fellow comrades, in our quest for good governance, we must ensure inclusiveness in the country’s governance structure. This is because other regions in the country had been adequately represented. The North Central region should be accommodated in the leadership of the National Assembly, especially the House of Representatives. POLL ” We have come here today in our numbers to demand the zoning of the speakership position in the North Central region of the country. A nonaction implies that the North Central region would be left out of the scheme of things because the Vice President is from the North East, and the North West is in strong contention for a Senate leadership position” The statement added that zoning the speakership to the region would entrench the principle of inclusiveness necessary for the growth and development of the APC and the democratic journey in Nigeria, which is essential in the quest for sustainable growth and development. The group therefore urged the National Working Committee of the party to accept that the region had been neglected in the scheme of things and had been a case that the it is needed only when it is convenient during elections and after elections, they are no longer needed ” The North Central Democratic Coalition frowns on such disposition as it has the potential to brew disunity and a crisis of confidence within the leadership of the APC, which we must admit is not necessary given the onerous task ahead of the incoming administration. ” The North Central region has been noted for loyalty during and after elections. If so, why have previous administrations neglected the region regarding political patronage? This aberration must be addressed in good time in the spirit of fairness. ” As a group, we have extensively analyzed the list of aspirants for the position of speaker of the House of Representatives. Interestingly, the North Central parades credible and competent lawmakers that would do well as Speaker of the House of Representatives” ” Today, the North Central Democratic Coalition elected to use this occasion of a rally to impress it on the National Working Committee of the APC to activate all necessary mechanisms towards ensuring the speaker-ship position for the 10th National Assembly is zoned to the North Central region”. The statement noted.