ABUJA – Vice President, Professor Yomi Osibanjo has commended NYSC for the giant strides recorded through its Community Development Projects. Prof. Osibanjo stated this in his remark at the opening ceremony of the 50th Anniversary of NYSC which took place at Chida Event Centre, Abuja. Osibanjo who was represented at the event by the Minister of Power, Engr. Abubakar Aliyu equally commended the Scheme for contributing greatly to the “improvement of the living standard of our rural dwellers.” He said, “The giant strides recorded by the scheme through its Community Development Projects have equally contributed greatly to improve the living standard of our rural dwellers. “I therefore urge all Nigerians to support the programmes and activities of the Scheme especially on community and rural development. “Let me on behalf of Mr. President appreciate managers of the scheme for a job well done over the years. We are confident that the scheme will also continue to discharge its mandate creditably in time to come. “On our part, we will continue to accord priority to youth development through policies and programmes that will empower them not only for economic survival but also for future leadership roles in our dear country. POLL “Once again, I congratulate the Management and staff of NYSC (serving and retired), serving and ex-Corps Members nationwide and the people of Nigeria on this 50th-anniversary celebration. The entire nation salutes the determination, courage, discipline, commitment and hard work, which you all exhibited in the last 50 years.” Osibanjo also commended the heroic involvement of the NYSC and Corps Members in particular, as ad-hoc staff, in conducting elections since 2011 could be described as divine intervention. This, he said, no doubt salvaged Nigeria’s electoral system which was characterized by some malpractices in the previous elections. The collaboration between NYSC and INEC since 2011 is a watershed in Nigeria’s electoral history, as that has so far institutionalized free, fair and credible elections in Nigeria.” Also speaking, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development Mr. Sunday Dare, disclosed that the NYSC has made an “invaluable impact in various aspects of national development, including providing health care to our rural communities, while its contributions to education and rural infrastructure are legendary.” He said, “NYSC has become a household name in the socio-economic development of Nigeria. It is not surprising because the Scheme, since its inception 50 years ago, has kept faith with its objectives and mandate. “Let me specifically salute His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari for his unwavering commitment to the sustenance of the NYSC. I equally recognize the contributions of our past Presidents and Heads of States who through their hindsight have nurtured this Scheme despite the odds that threaten its existence. “As we chronicle and celebrate the unparalleled contributions of the Scheme to nation-building, this event presents to us a veritable opportunity to evolve strategies to strengthen the Scheme, make it more sustainable and broaden its scope of operations to enhance its contributions to national development.” Meanwhile, the Director General of NYSC, Brigadier General YD Ahmed in his welcome speech stated that, “For five decades the Scheme has distinguished itself as an effective mobiliser of graduate youths for the promotion of national unity and development in various sectors of our national life. Today, he said, “The Scheme is a household name in the country, and a cherished global brand for youth development. A critical look at the tangible and intangible contributions of Corps Members in the spheres of Education, Health, Infrastructure, Advocacies, National duties over the years will validate the centrality of the Scheme to national development.” This is as he appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari for giving him the privilege for the stewardship of the National Youth Service Corps at such a historical time for the noble Scheme and our dear country.