….Threatens To Sanction Northern Senators Opposed To Yari Emergence As Senate President Barely a month to the June 13 inauguration of the 10th Senate, some All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in North West on Sunday said that it will be a betrayal to the people of the zone if the Senate President is not given to them. The APC stakeholders, which threatened to sanction Northern Senators opposed to the emergence of former Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari as Senate President, insisted that zoning of National Assembly leadership by the party was a betrayal of trust.The group, under the umbrella of Northern Business Roundtable, thanked the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu for retracting the purported and unacceptable zoning decision of the party earlier published on the leadership of the National Assembly.Berating Godswill Akpabio on his comment on the purported zoning of the Senate presidency while addressing newsmen in Abuja, the spokesperson of the group, Haj. Larai Kolo, said that the North West was taken aback by the purported zoning announcement and the thought that such could be contemplated. The group said that the North West is particularly concerned about the behavior of Senator Akpabio, “who has been going around to say that any person who does not accept the purported zoning decision postulated by the party’s leadership is fighting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the President-elect.“This is a cheap blackmail and this is in the character of Akpabio. The North West will not accept this because it has contributed so much to the development of the party.” Tbe group, which said Yari has all it takes to make the most of the office if given the opportunity, said that competence, character, and pedigree should determine positions. The group said: “We advise that every Senator-elect should rally around Yari, the preferred candidate among aspirants jostling for the position of the Senate President so that there will be balance in the country.” Explaining why the position should be zoned to North West, Kolo said, “to whom much is given, much is also expected. The North-West in the current dispensation and the last presidential election gave the highest votes. Apart from this, it is noteworthy that the APC governors from the North West led the front to demand that the Presidency be zoned to the South. “With this alone, common sense should prevail that after the presidency has been zoned and delivered to the South, the Vice-President to the North-East, the next position should go to the North-West. POLL “It will be a betrayal to the people of the North-West if the Senate President is not given to them.” Berating the traditional institutions in the region for failing to champion the cause of the North-West since the scheming for the Senate Presidency began a few weeks ago, Kolo further explained why religion, ethnicity and other nomenclature should not be the driving force in developing the country. She said: “Nigeria is not occupied by religion, ethnicity, or primordial sentiments and democracy is a game of numbers. The grassroots is very grieved about the silence of traditional rulers, who in the face of this obvious disregard and insult to the people of the North-West, have not come up to express their opinion. “The issue of religion should not be brought to play in this regard as Nigerians are one, whether you are a Christian or a Muslim. We must not be denied what is ours on account of our faith and beliefs. “If the issue is not addressed immediately and the anomaly corrected, any Senator from the region who votes for anyone other than the North-West for the position of the Senate President will no longer enjoy our support and that of our traditional leaders.” She further explained that “Ilit is a national convention that when two sides are on the table distributing positions, leadership is the most important. Since the South has taken the presidency, the next positions should go to the North. “Therefore, the Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the President of the Senate should go to the North. This is the acceptable norm.” While calling on lawmakers from the North-West to close ranks and rally behind Yari, the group said the North West is not superior to any other part or zone in the federation, noting that “our desire is the country’s development and the peaceful coexistence of all. “Just as the South insisted that they must have the presidency, that is how the North-West is insisting that they should have the Senate presidency and there is nothing wrong with that. “What is right is right, and what is fair is fair. We need justice, fairness, and equity so that together, everybody will live peacefully and happily in this country.”