ENUGU – The Catholic Bishop of Enugu Diocese, His Lordship, Most Rev. Dr. Callistus Onaga, has prayed for the success of the incoming administration of Dr. Peter Mbah in Enugu State, calling on God to give him the strength, courage and wisdom to transform and lead the state to the promised land, even as he extolled the peaceful vir­tues embodied by the outgoing Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s administration. The bishop, in a thanksgiv­ing/inauguration celebration on Sunday at the Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu, tagged ‘Transition Thanksgiving Mass’ organised by the state government to appreciate God for the successful completion of two terms of eight years of the Ugwuanyi administration and the inauguration of the Mbah administration, prayed for sus­tained and peaceful transition of government on May 29, 2023. Bishop Onaga, who noted that Mbah’s victory at the March 18 governorship election was an act of God already designed for that purpose, called on all resi­dents and citizens in the state to support the new administration in order to bring the much de­sired positive change that would impact on the lives of the people. He also stated that the church was having double cele­bration because of the Feast of the Holy Spirit popularly called Pentecost Sunday, saying the ca­thedral took its name after the feast, while adding that the state had every reason to be grateful to God for the journey so far. Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and the deputy governor of Enugu State, Mrs. Cecilia Ezeilo, were present at the celebration. Also, both the governor-elect, Dr Peter Mbah, and the deputy governor-elect, Barr. Ifeanyi Os­sai, attended with their spouses, Mrs. Nkechinyere Mbah and Mrs. Adaeze Ossai, respectively. In his homily, Monsignor Prof. Obiora Ike enjoined Chris­tians and all people around the world to see the Feast of the Holy Spirit and what it represents as an opportunity to unite and live in peace amongst themselves. While calling on public servants in the country to see themselves as people called to serve and not to enrich them­selves with public funds, the Monsignor urged them to shun corruption and prioritize the needs that would advance the common good of the public. Expressing optimism that the governor-elect would not only transform but also indus­trialise the state through his ro­bust programmes and policies, the cleric further commended him as a rare technocrat who has cut his teeth in the private sector where his company is presently the dominant player in the oil and gas downstream sub-sector of the Nigerian econ­omy.