Operatives of the Nation­al Drug Law Enforce­ment Agency, NDLEA, have intercepted a large consignment of metham­phetamine concealed in pow­dered custard containers as part of a consolidated cargo going to London, United Kingdom at the SAHCO export shed of the Mur­tala Muhammed International Airport, MMIA, Ikeja Lagos. The illicit drug consignment weighing 30.10 kilograms with a street value of N567 million was detected and seized by ND­LEA operatives at the airport on Tuesday 16th May. This was swiftly followed by series of fol­low-up operations that led to the arrest of a freight agent, Nwo­bodo Chidiebere; a female sus­pect, Chioma Lucy Akuta and ultimately the drug lord behind the shipment, Charles Chinedu Ezeh, who was arrested at Sotel Suites, Amuwo Odofin, Lagos on Thursday 18th May. Ezeh claims he’s a business­man and deals in articles in Onitsha, Anambra State but in­vestigations reveal he lived with his wife and children in London until 10th December 2022 when he fled to Nigeria after his in­volvement in a drug related of­fence in the UK. Though he claimed to have been living in hotels since his return to Nigeria last December, operatives were however able to locate his mansion at No. 1 Ha­wawu Abikan Street, Lekki, on Friday 19th May, where a search was conducted and his travel and property documents among others were recovered. Meanwhile, NDLEA opera­tives in Adamawa on Monday 15th May arrested a 32-year-old notorious drug dealer, Prince Ikechukwu Uzoma, in the Mubi area of the state with 1kg of skunk. Ikechukwu had twice been arrested in the past, and convicted for the same offence. He was in 2017 sentenced to six months imprisonment and in 2019 he was again sent to two years in jail. In the same vein, a trans-border trafficker, Faisal Mohammed, 27, was on Wednes­day 17th May arrested in Mubi following the interception of a truck from Onitsha, Anambra State, where a total of 2,376 sa­chets of tramadol comprising 23,760 pills were found concealed in three blue rubber Jerry Cans which were hidden underneath the body part of the trailer. The suspect admitted the opioid was to be taken to Cameroon. In Oyo state, two suspects: Osas Susan, 35, and Thomas Biodun, 23, were arrested at Igbon, Gambari in Ogbomoso North LGA with 2.13kg canna­bis while Idris Muhammed, 55, was nabbed with 4,500 pills of tramadol when a commercial bus conveying him and other passengers was stopped and searched along Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Similarly, Bulus Mikah, 63, was arrested at Kafanchan, Ka­duna state with over 5kg opioids including tramadol, diazepam, rohypnol and exol-5, just as a total of 965kg cannabis was seized from Shehu Muhamma­du Dandare, 25, at Maraban Jos, in Igabi local government area of the state. While 552kg cannabis was recovered from a warehouse in a bush when operatives stormed and destroyed 1.5 hectares of cannabis farm in Uhodoua for­est, Esan South East LGA, Edo state, 10 suspects were arrested with a total of 5.587kg cannabis sativa, 144.4grams of metham­phetamine and 48, 260 capsules of tramadol in different parts of Onitsha, Anambra state on Friday 19th May. POLL In Kwara, two suspects: Mohammed Isa, 47 and Mo­hammed Haman, 36, were arrested on Friday 19th May along Ilorin/Lagos road in a commercial bus on their way to Maiduguri, Borno state with 6kg cannabis, 50grams of meth­amphetamine and 20 pieces of military camouflage caps and uniforms. The same day, oper­atives in Jigawa state nabbed one Ibrahim Abdullahi, 53, with 120kg cannabis at Sara town in Gwaram LGA. Not less than 628 bottles of new psychoactive substances, skuchies when operatives raid­ed a drug joint at Idanre where four suspects were arrested. They include: Olamide Olusola, 26; Abiodun Tijjani, 21; Fatope Temidayo, 29; Agba Obi, 30 and Olafisoye Festus, 26. In the same vein, a suspect, Kayode Hakeem, 22, was arrested at Hawan Dawa­ki, Kano with 293 blocks of can­nabis weighing 211.6kg.