…U.S.-Nigeria partnership is built on shared interests and strong people-to-people ties- Blinken ABUJA – President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has assured the United States government that his administration will work to strengthen existing ties between the two nations, pledging to strengthen Nigeria’s democracy and promote good relations. Asíwájú Tinubu spoke on Tuesday during a telephone conversation at the instance of the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, where the Nigerian leader again promised to hit the ground running and unify the country upon his assumption of office on May 29. He further pledged to work to ensure continued positive relations with the United States. A statement by Tunde Rahman, his media aide said the conversation was frank and friendly. The President-elect said his immediate priorities would be to deliver institutional reforms and development programs to deepen our democratic institutions and bring help to poor and vulnerable Nigerians. He also expressed his determination to strengthen Nigeria’s democracy and faithfully serve the people as their president.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “During the talks that lasted about 20 minutes, President-elect Tinubu recalled being granted asylum by the US when he was forced into exile during his struggle for the restoration of democracy in Nigeria, and, while reaffirming his democratic bona fides, expressed his absolute belief that the result of the elections, which he clearly won, reflected the will of the Nigerian people. POLL “He further urged the US to factor Nigeria’s important place in Africa and provide needed assistance in the areas of security and economic investment in order for the nation to lead the way and be a shining example to the rest of the continent. Secretary Blinken assured that Nigeria should expect a good and mutually-beneficial relationship with the US. “He promised to play his part in ensuring and sustaining a cordial relationship between the two nations, saying a democratic and peaceful Nigeria is important to the United States as it is to Africa”. Meanwhile, Matthew Miller spokesperson of the US Secretary of State similarly in a statement, corroborated the telephone conversation quoting Antony Blinken as saying that the US-Nigeria partnership is built on shared interests and strong people-to-people ties and that those links should continue to strengthen under the tenure of the new administration.The statement reads: “Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken spoke this morning with Nigerian President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu to emphasize his continued commitment to further strengthening the U.S.-Nigeria relationship with the incoming administration. “The Secretary noted that the U.S.-Nigeria partnership is built on shared interests and strong people-to-people ties and that those links should continue to strengthen under President-elect Tinubu’s tenure. “Secretary Blinken and President-elect Tinubu discussed the importance of inclusive leadership that represents all Nigerians, continued comprehensive security cooperation, and reforms to support economic growth.”