At last the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) has come out to endorse what has long been speculated as the party’s zoning arrangement for the upcoming election of Principal officers of the Senate and House of Representatives of 10th Assembly, micro-zoning the Senate Presidency to Senator Godswill Akpabio. The endorsement of Akpabio from South South geopolitical zones means that all contenders for the number three seat from the South East geopolitical zone , namely Senators Orji -Uzo Kalu, Osita Izunaso, Gov Dave Umahi and other pretenders for the Senate seat dropped off the radar. Hon. Abass Tajudeen (Kaduna) from the North West also got the nod to run for speaker and thus eclipsed the ambition of ther aspirants like Senator Sani Musa , Hon Betara, Yusuf Gagdi, and Ado Doguwa who had all campaigned for various positions from their zones. Confirming the zoning arrangements in a Statement, Barr Felix Morka, APC National Publicity Secretary said the decision taken after considering reports if consultations and meetings helld with Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the president -elect and other leaders and stakeholders of the party. According to the zoning formula, theDeputy Senate President was also micro -zoned to the North West and to Senator Barau Jubrin of Kano State,, with Hon Ben Kalu (Abia )South East clinching the nomination for Deputy Speaker . The party urged for further consultation with necessary parties to ensure full support for the nominees. Barr Morka Statement reads : “The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) met today, Monday, May 8, 2023 to consider reports of consultations and meetings held with the President- Elect, His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, other Party leaders and stakeholders on zoning arrangement for 10th National Assembly leadership positions. POLL “The NWC noted with respect the outcome of the meetings held between the President-Elect and the leadership of the NWC. The NWC called for further and better consultation with necessary stakeholders in order to assure the support of the aspirants to the National Assembly leadership positions and members of the Party nationwide. The zoning arrangement reported to the NWC is as follows: SENATE: (Kano). HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: Tajudeen (Kaduna) “We urge our party leaders, members and all Nigerians to continue to work for peace and progress of our country during and beyond the current period of leadership transition”.