BAUCHI – As part of efforts to ensure the implementation of the 6 years Agro-climatic Resilience in Semi-Arid Landscape (ACReSAL) project in the state, the Bauchi State Government has released the sum of N500 million as counterpart funding. Senator Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir, the Bauchi State Governor who stated this at the official launch of the project held at the Command Guest House in Bauchi on Friday, reiterated the commitment of his administration to address challenges associated with environmental degradation in the state. The governor commended the world bank for implementing the project in Northern states in the country, saying that the initiative would go a long way in alleviating the suffering of the people in rural communities who are mostly affected by environmental degradation. ” The plan of my administration is to have no fewer than 100 earth dams across the state in order to provide constant water supply for the herders as well as the farmers to check constant migration out of the state” “We have to really do something positive to check the environmental degradation across the state. We have the capacity to do that within the limited resources available to us.” “We produce a lot of wheat, cassava and other crops in my area, Duguri, but unfortunately, the entire area has been washed away, we need to do something to check the trend in order to bring succour to our people.The Kafin Zaki dam cannot be completed because of the politics going on by the people of the downstream sector, something need to be done to get the project done” he said Giving an overview of the project, the Task Team Leader of ACReSAL, Dr. Joy Iganya Agene commended the State for being the first among the benefiting states to promptly release the counterpart funding in accordance with the MoU signed. She said that the State Government demonstrated seriousness for the implementation of the project by providing all the requirements needed even before the commencement of the project stressing that it was a demonstration of good governance. POLL According to her, the project is not about allocation of funds but commitment driven saying, “If Bauchi State wants to have the entire project, it is very possible, all that is required is more counterpart funding from the state. I know Bauchi State can do it, having in mind that other 18 states and FCT are waiting to also benefit from the project implementation.” She noted that the project is all about making life for people at the grassroots who have been devastated by various environmental issues which must be mitigated against. Joy Agene assured that project management will always engage the people to know what their problems are and try to alleviate such problems within a short period.The Also Speaking, the National Coordinator of the ACReSAL Project, Abdulhameed Umar commended the Bauchi State government for the commitment and enthusiasm shown towards the implementation of the project in the state, stressing that the focus of the project is giving the poor people at the grassroots a means of livelihood devastated by various negative environmental issues. He assured that the ACReSAL project will open more opportunities for effective service delivery in environment improvement in the state. In his opening remarks, the State Project Coordinator of ACReSAL, Dr Kabiru Ibrahim disclosed that so far, 12 Communities interest groups (CIG) have been mobilized and trained in the 7 LGAs the project is being implemented. He emphasized that the ACReSAL project was first launched in Bauchi state among the 19th Northern states and FCT participating in the project. The Project Coordinator said that the project has 4 components of implementation which are aimed at improving the livelihoods of the people of the rural areas.