The National Directorate of Employment (NDE), on Wednesday, began disbursement of loans to 276 beneficiaries of the second batch of its Agricultural Enhancement Scheme, who completed training in 12 states and the Federal Capital Territory Abuja. The beneficiaries received a total of N27.6m, or N100,000 each to enable them set up and manage small-scale agricultural enterprises in their chosen areas of interest as part of becoming self-reliant, helping in job creation, generating wealth for others. Delivering a keynote address in Asaba, the Delta State capital, NDE’s Director-General, Mallam Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo described the occasion as remarkable and a clear demonstration of the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari “to youth employment generation, food security, wealth creation and pulling of one hundred million people out of poverty.” He urged the beneficiaries not to allow the rare opportunity to fail, noting that with the loan facility, they have been doubly empowered, beginning with the training “in modern agriculture and life skills to be able to overcome the challenges of your immediate environment. “Secondly, loan empowerment provides you with the required finances for entrepreneurship. You should therefore justify these efforts by putting in your best to succeed and repay the loan in due time so that other unemployed youth will benefit subsequently,” he said. Fikpo, who was represented by Jinanwa Chukwuma, the Delta State NDE Coordinator, stressed that the directorate “attaches very high premium on the multiplier effect of the loan schemes for increased job creation.” Chukwuma who also congratulated the beneficiaries of the Loan, urged them to effectively use the funds for the purpose it was obtained, expressing gratitude to all collaborators, particularly the development partners, the state government, the National Assembly, and particularly the Ministry and the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, for his immense assistance and continued support for the NDE to the deliver on its mandate. He also urged all well-meaning Nigerians to join hands and partner the NDE for the benefit of the nation’s unemployed. POLL In his goodwill message at the occasion, Head of the Rural Employment Promotion (REP) Department, Edem Duke, while welcoming all to the ceremonial disbursement of loans to the beneficiaries in the state, lamented that many agribusinesses folded up in the past because “many NDE Post SADTS trained youth and rural farmers do not have the income to enhance their businesses.” This, he blamed for the soaring rate of unemployment in the country, stressing that “the programme will create employment and generate wealth that will go a long way to reducing the number of unemployed persons as well as enhancing the businesses of those already engaged.” Giving a breakdown of the disbursement, Duke explained that trained graduates who have been documented and verified will be empowered across 12 States and the FCT with the sum of N100,000 each to start up their agribusinesses along its value chain. The aim, he continued, is to sensitize the beneficiaries on the effective utilization of the loan to be disbursed through the banks. While appreciating the DG and management of the NDE for graciously approving the disbursement of the loan, Duke congratulated the beneficiaries, who he strongly advised to “use the loan for the purpose for which it is obtained and pay back as at when due to enable other people to benefit.”