For too long, Nigeria and Nigerians have been choked by myriads of constraints and restraints put on them like a har­ness affixed on a horse to curtail its free­dom, enabling the rider to control it. And it is a pity that like a horse, Nigeria appears to have been ridden by a rough rider instead of an expert jokey. That is why our country is literally on the verge of falling off the cliff-politically, economi­cally and socially by way of disunity-after being ridden to the precipice by an apparent rough rider that has been on the saddle in the past eight (8) years. Clearly, as a die-hard democrat, Presi­dent-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s mis­sion upon taking office on May 29, all things being equal, would significantly contrast with the style of governance of the current leadership at the centre. The assertion above is underscored by the comment that he made at the commissioning of court facilities constructed in Rivers State un­der the watch of the outgoing governor, Nyesom Wike, in the state capital, Port Harcourt. It may be recalled that during a two-day visit by the incoming President Tinubu to the Niger Delta state on Thursday, May 4, he promised that his administration would fight corruption in the judiciary by providing judicial officers with improved remuneration, necessary tools and working environments needed to do their job such as the type of infrastructure that he was invited to commission in Rivers State. That would be in contrast with the trademark of the outgoing administration notorious for carrying out sting operations on members of the judiciary by arresting senior members of the bench in gestapo-like style in odd hours and also taking them into custody in their sleeping wears, all in the bid to intimidate and rob them of their independence from interference by the executive branch.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In my view, a paradigm shift in anti-corrup­tion fight that would address the root cause of the malaise would offer Nigeria a new lease of life and make our country a truly democratic and progressive nation as opposed to the some­what pseudo-democracy which by all indications and measures is currently in operation in our beloved country hence we are rated lowly in the comity of nations. POLL But President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s ut­terance in Port Harcourt on fighting corruption sounded like déjà vu encore to me and I guess the same applies to most skeptical Nigerians because that is similar to the promise made by the outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari to the long suffering masses in 2015 when he was assuming the role of president and command­er-in-chief of the armed forces of Nigeria and vowed to wipe out corruption. Despite President Buhari’s thumping down of corruption by claiming that he has zero tolerance for graft and promising to combat it vigorously with a view to curbing it as he was mounting the mantle of leadership in 2015, to the chagrin, utter displeasure and disappointment of hapless Nigerians, corruption in our country, according to global corruption watch dogs, par­ticularly Transparency International, TI, has worsened between 2015 and today. Data from Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, CISLAC, under the Chairmanship of Mr. Musa (Rafsanjani) Auwal, Nigeria’s corruption ranking in the committee of nations in 2022 is 150th position out of 180 countries in the world corruption index. The only country in West Africa performing below Nigeria or more corrupt than Nigeria, according to the graft monitoring organization, Tl, is Guinea Bissau. Our country on a scale of zero to a hundred (0-100) scored 26/100 in 2019, 25/100 in 2020 and 24/100 in 2021. That signifies continuous decline in Nigeria’s rating which is not good. And, according to media reports, referenc­ing Transparency International, Tl, chair, Delia Rubio: “Corruption has made our world a more dangerous place. “As governments have collectively failed to make progress against it, they fuel the current rise in violence and conflict – and endanger peo­ple everywhere. “The only way out is for states to do the hard work, rooting out corruption at all levels to en­sure governments work for all people, not just an elite few.” After a clear eye look at Tinubu’s promise to combat corruption in the judiciary, it appears feasible that he may be able to slow down the menace during his reign as president because he is planning on tackling it from the angle of closing the loopholes for corruption created by inadequate remuneration for members of the judiciary which is one of the root causes of graft both in the judiciary and indeed the entire gov­ernmental system. So, my confidence in the ability of the Pres­ident-elect Tinubu to implement the policy of pursuing a paradigm shift in the fight against corruption in the judiciary from the root and not the surface as the outgoing regime seems to have been doing is buoyed by the fact that since he has been a two (2) time governor of Lagos State (1999-2007), he must understand what it means to make such a significant pronouncement. As such his proposition must be a product of critical thinking and not mere brain wave as Ni­gerians have witnessed in the past eight (8) years. Incidentally, reforms in the judiciary, partic­ularly with respect to a better welfare package for the members of the judiciary are supposed to already be afoot as evidenced by the approval for increase in the remuneration of Supreme Court justices (N10m and N90m monthly for both the Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, and President of the Appeal Court and other justices, respective­ly) introduced by the outgoing administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, but the pay raise is yet to be implemented. The reality is that it is common knowledge that Nigerian judges are paid far less than our lawmakers, which is not fair. Even as judges in Ghana and South Africa are said by activists to earn higher emoluments than their Nigerian counterparts, yet Nigeria is often touted as the giant of Africa. What a paradox? However, the recent 40% across board in­crease in the salary of civil servants including members of the judiciary by the outgoing gov­ernment at the centre is being envisaged as a moral and productivity booster as it is also geared towards reining in or discouraging cor­ruption not just in the judiciary, but in the gov­ernment system as a whole. Although, one is cognizant of the fact the pending petrol pump price increase following the end of petrol subsidy regime from next month as the current regime exits Aso Rock Villa would wipe out the value of the 40% salary increase just being implemented: for now the salary raise that became effective from last month world give the long suffering public servants some succor before the president-elect takes office and decides what to do about petrol subsidy removal. In my view, petrol subsidy must end as planned and a 100% increase in salaries for work­ers across board would be a necessary first step to ameliorate the consequential effect. But that is a subject for another discourse. Meanwhile, although improvements in the remuneration of judicial officers had already been approved, but it remains unimplemented despite the fact that agitation for pay raise for justices has been ongoing since 2008. And it is a shame that a critical sector such as the judiciary whose members sit in the temple of justice and adjudicate over the issues of life and death, good and bad in our society, has been neglected in the scheme of things by being given such a short end of the stick for so long. That is perhaps what informed Asiwaju Tinu­bu’s promise in Port Harcourt and the justifi­cation for his pledge to introduce the proposed reforms aimed at stymying corruption in the judiciary under his watch from the 29th day of this month through improvements in welfare package and working environment. So, presumably, the in-coming president’s statement is likely not a frivolous utterance but a tactical component of his grand strategy de­tailed in his Renewed Hope 2023 manifesto which is an 88-page development template that he lever­aged to woo Nigerian electorate to vote for him in the course of the just concluded electioneering campaigns. At inception of the outgoing administration, the third (3) branch of government (judiciary) had appeared like the last bastion as it had re­mained in large part untainted. But after a short period, it wilted owing to the onslaught by the executive arm through undue interference that has blighted it to the extent that most Nigerians no longer see it as infallible and unbiased. And it is precisely why the judiciary is now on ‘trial’ which is such an irony because it used to be law breakers that would be on trial by the judiciary. Arising from the above, the President-elect is spot-on, on the score of planning to tackle corruption in the judiciary as part of his plans towards renewing hope in our beleaguered na­tion which is overdue. The truth and reality are that it is a pliant ju­diciary that enables or facilitates the emergence of unscrupulous politicians. Now, not many people can spot the uncan­ny link between the judiciary and politicians. But President-elect Tinubu seems to have made that connection hence he seemed to have given a sneak preview of his agenda when he gets sworn into office from May 29. The nexus between the judiciary and legisla­tors as well as politicians in general is reflected by the catch phrase currently dominating the political space ‘Go To Court’. The absurdity was given a new lease of life by the Independent National Electoral Commis­sion, INEC, chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, when he declined to respond to political parties’ agents’ complaints about perceived impropri­eties identified during the collation of the results of the February 25 elections. Taunting aggrieved co-contestants for politi­cal office by daring them to go to court is partic­ularly the case in Nigeria where some unscru­pulous political actors prefer not to campaign or woo the electorate, but deploy their financial war chests into ‘settling’ members of the bar and bench that help them obtain and maintain crooked mandates via courts as opposed to the electorate exercising their right to choose a pres­ident, senators, members of House of Assembly, HoRs, governors and state houses of assembly members. Since the return of multi-party democracy in 1999, following former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s reign up to 2007 during which the rule of law was trampled upon and the principles of democracy were disregarded, it was acknowl­edged by subsequent decent political actors that election malfeasance had reached an alarming proportion in 2007. That realization prompted more democracy advocates in leadership to be more determined to reform the system and urgently too. So, it is the reform that was commenced in 2007 by the Justice Muhammed Lawal Uwais committee established by President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua of blessed memory (2007-10) and sustained by ex-President Goodluck Jonathan’s regime (2010-15) that culminated into the Elector­al Act 2022 passed into law under the watch of the outgoing government.