Chief Whip of the Senate and former Governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has written personal letters to the members of the National Working Committee of All Progressives Congress (APC) and 108 Senators elect of his interest to be the next Senate President. This is even as he refuted the news making the rounds that the South-East senators-elect endorsed him, explaining that the senators-elect of the South-East only met to make a demand from the President-elect and the party and yet to endorse anyone. In an official statement released by the Media Office of the Chief Whip on Monday afternoon, Kalu in the letters he personally signed and addressed to each of the NWC Members and Senators-elect, said he is offering himself for the position of the Senate President to the Nigerian people, the senators-elect and the party with sincerity of heart, humility and candour. Kalu also noted that his seemingly inactive in the contest for the Senate Presidency was because of the one-month mourning of his late wife, Mrs Ifeoma Ada Kalu. Attached to the letters of intent is a copy of Kalu’s Legislative agenda which has six priorities. The listed priorities are Economic Growth and Reform; Constitutional and Electoral Reform; National Security; Improved Social Conditions and Welfare; Efficient and Effective National Assembly and Global Influence. Kalu promised to promote and defend the constitution and foster a congenial and cordial relationship between the executive and judiciary. The letter to the party leaders reads: “It is with a deep sense of joy and humility that I bring you warm greetings and that of Abia North Senatorial zone. POLL “My emergence as the Senator to represent Abia North in this critical time in the history of our dear nation comes with huge responsibilities, the top of which is to make quality laws for the good governance of our people. “To be able to achieve these enviable goals, we require good leaders who will pilot the affairs of the 10th Senate. “Leadership of a sophisticated Senate at the 10th Session will need men and women with an abundance of shared vision, consensus building, charisma, credibility, and pragmatism in the saddle. “This is why I most humbly write to officially inform you of my interest to be elected the next Senate President. “I make this offer to serve you and the Nigerian people with sincerity of heart, humility, and candour. “The biggest asset I bring to the table is wisdom and experience garnered over the years in the management of human and material resources. “I promise to work for you, promote and defend the constitution and the party, and foster a congenial and cordial relationship between the party, the executive and the judiciary. “One thing is indubitably certain: working together in unity and mutual love and respect, we can take Nigeria to the real next level of peace, progress, and development,” the letter reads.