Buba Galadima, chieftain of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in this interview speaks about the performance of President Muhammadu Buhari, how he has caused pains to Nigerians as a result of maladministration, why Tinubu should be careful with those who never supported him, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: The general elections have come and gone. How has this government fared in your assessment? Fremi Adesina was right when he said that this administration has not left Nigeria the way he met it. I think he was right when he said that the President wouldn’t be leaving the country the way he met it. I wish that he would have left the country the way he met it on May 29, 2015. We would have clapped for him and even escort him to Daura or wherever he intends to live. The man has set Nigeria 100 years back. He has divided Nigeria along religious, ethnic lines. He has left bad economic policies, the dollar to a naira which he met at N157 per dollar is now N800 per dollar that is if you can see the dollar to buy. Insecurity was confined to the North-East, except in some dark spots that it happened in Abuja, Kano and some few other places. Today you cannot travel to any part of the country with your eyes closed. You have to spend the night praying that God delivers you. If that is the kind of Nigeria that Femi Adesina will want, then I pray to God to visit him with what the common people suffer daily in Nigeria. I also heard what Garba Shehu said about his boss, that the opposition were complaining and that they were not prepared, which was why they lost the election. I wish somebody would tell Garba Shehu that he was right, because he was part of the opposition to this incoming government. He and others around them never wished these people to emerge as they did. They emerged at their own strength and violation. My only regret in this country is that Buhari has left Nigeria polity to be delivered by religious and ethnic issues worse than the rigging because you cannot vote on the basis of the quality of services, credibility, public service, what you have done, but only on the basis of money. Of course religious leaders, Christians and Muslims were disappointed during this election because instead of preaching morality, and telling Nigerians what God expects from leaders they made themselves God and thought that they could install leaders of their choice. They have actually been disappointed. I think that this should be a lesson for the people of Nigeria that nobody should deceive you on the basis of religion where you come from, or your language to promote a bad government. The masses themselves were the greater disappointments because instead of voting for those that will salvage them from their abject poverty and pitiable condition, they voted for those who gave them noodles, N100, now they should wait to reap the harvest of their investment. There is nothing so critical to Nigerians more than security, more than food and more than the exchange rate. Once these three are down, what else would Buhari say that he has done? He has not done anything to warrant being applauded and the only pity for Buhari is that a lot of leaders play God and it is a lesson to them. The incoming government knows that Buhari never supported them. It is God that anoints leaders, it is God that dethrone leaders. The man in his wildness believes that loyalty should be the act of government and that people should worship him. So, those serial betrayals that were kneeling down and lying down and worshiping him and he granted them access to power are now those that are abusing him. They are taking him to court and they are now associating with Bola Tinubu because they don’t want to be out of power. They are AGIP, any government in power they must find a way of getting there. I am advising Tinubu to be cautious of these people who must be in the corridors of power and get rid of them. If he is so passionate about their contributions, make them ambassadors outside Nigeria, but not give them any public office that has anything to do with human beings in this country. Buhari will leave us hale and hearty, robust, and we will continue to do what we know how to do best. I will advise that he should move completely out of this country because the kind of messages that he will receive and the kind of criticisms that he will carry through from those that he has assisted will be enough to cause a heart attack. What can you say to Lai Mohammed who said that opposition leaders are bleating like goats and sheep? Lai has been a friend for a long time; he has never been a politician. He doesn’t know the feelings of the people, he doesn’t know the conditions of the people. He has always been appointed. He reaps where he did not sow. So, he cannot see the condition of the ordinary Nigerian, nor can he see the condition under which the opposition worked to wrestle power from them. Since they used the instrumentality of government, they used the power of money which they had in abundance and bought themselves into office. He is free to say what he likes. But, a day is waiting for him with the people of Kwara State, the people of Lagos State and indeed with the people of Nigeria, to put his scorecard on the table while being a Minister for eight years. Buhari has jilted you even though you were his friend, will you pick up your phone and call him when he leaves office, will you visit him, give him the kind of advice that you used to give him? I am a Muslim and we are asked to forgive if somebody offends you. I was in Medina when Buhari was there, my hotel was next to his own. A very close friend said why couldn’t we go and greet Buhari? I told him, no. What will I go and tell him? If I meet him outside on the way to the mosque, I will extend my hand of fellowship. I am sure that immediately Buhari sees me, he will have a crisis in his brain, that he didn’t treat some of us well. His friends who have assisted him to get to power. It is on record that we did and he cannot deny that. We are still alive and hearty. He can go to Saudi Arabia, we can go. He can go to London, and we can go. He can go to France, we can go. There is nothing, except that we are very popular. My hotel is half a kilometer from the mosque but it takes me two to three hours to get to the mosque because everybody demanded to have a selfie with me, everybody is trying to talk with me. Everybody tries to get my attention. I have never been a counselor in his country. I have never held a political office except party office, yet I am more respected than anybody who has been Governor or Minister in Nigeria today. If I leave this place now more than 20 people will want to hail me. I have forgiven him if there is anything because he has never promised me. He didn’t make it that way that when we helped him get to power he would give us position. Buhari has never done that but morality demands that. In Islam when you go to Jihad and carry booty, the booty is shared among those who have gone to the war. We have a portion of the largess of his office. I can claim a share in the government because I have worked, if not harder than anybody to make Buhari President. He and his family are the ones that are hiding for shelter now. We are walking with our heads up. Anywhere we go in this country, people respect us ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The people that are in government with Buhari who you said didn’t support Bola Tinubu, and now they are going around with Tinubu, what do you think should become of them, you have told Tinubu to keep them far away but these people are very powerful and as you pointed out if they still remain around, the country will not move forward? POLL Those that are around Tinubu now are pretending to be good boys and protecting his interest, they are not powerful. They are nothing. That is why you should be inviting people like us to tell the history of who and who are in this country. Was it not during Yar Aduah that they picked a race? They claimed to be supporting Yar Aduah and when he turned against them, they ran away and went on exile. Nothing happened and Nigeria moved forward. Why didn’t Kwankwaso go to court, since you have a very strong case that your party’s logo was missing on the ballot? If there is anybody that can go to court successfully and challenge the mandate of the APC, it is the NNPP. The fact that NNPP was excluded in the ballot is enough to cancel the election. Our logo was mal-faced, not recognizable, you couldn’t even identify our logo. From 1999 the cumulative votes have always been 32 million or 34 million votes, but this time, less than 20 million Nigerians voted. Our claim is that the balance of those who didn’t vote, were thise who should have voted for Kwankwaso. They didn’t vote because when they came to vote, they didn’t see Kwankwaso on the ballot. If we go to court and destroy the election, who is the beneficiary? Nigeria must move forward and we also know that they have been waiting for the past one year to establish an Interim National Government, and we didn’t want to give them the opportunity.