LAGOS – There has been an uproar over an illegal arrest and parade of a dressmaker, Thaddeus Ikechukwu Ojokoh by the Imo Police Command over the claim that he was one of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) operatives that launched an attack against its men. The dressmaker was said to be in police custody at the time of the incident as he was arrested before the attack on the police officers. The said attack, according to Imo Police, occurred on April 21, 2023 but Ojokoh has been arrested and detained at the Tiger Base police unit of Imo State where he has been since his arrest on April 15, six days earlier. Ojokoh, who is from Umugwa Umuokirika, Ahiazu Mbaise in Imo State was on April 15 swooped by armed policemen while in a market to buy some dressmaking items. He was later detained at the Tiger Base Unit of the Police on the suspicion of being an IPOB member. The 53-year-old man and father of five, remained in police custody hoping that the police would finish their investigation and clear him of any links with IPOB. However, on April 21, six days after his arrest, hoodlums attacked policemen on patrol at Ngor-Okpala and killed four of them. On April 30, Imo State Police Command, issued a statement that Ojokoh was among the men that murdered the policemen on national duty.The police statement read: “OPERATION RESTORE PEACE: IMO POLICE ARREST NINE (9) SUSPECTED IPOB/ESN TERRORIST; INCLUDING MBAISE/NGOR-OKPALA IPOB/ESN SECTOR COMMANDER, RECOVERS ARMS AND AMMUNITION,” reads in part: POLL “Sequel to the attack of Police Officers on patrol attached to Ngor-Okpala/Mbaise Area Command at Ngor-Okpala, Imo State on 21/04/2023 by hoodlums suspected to be members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its militia affiliate, Eastern Security Network (ESN) where four gallant police officers lost their lives, the indefatigable Commissioner of Police, Imo state, CP Mohammed Ahmed Barde PSC(+) after on the spot assessment of the incident, directed the Command’s tactical teams to commence detailed investigation and manhunt to unravel the perpetrators of the dastardly act. “Acting on the CP’s directives, a detachment of the Command’s tactical team on 24/04/2023 at about 1730hrs after diligent gathering of credible intelligence, arrested one Mathew Chuwkuma 48yrs ‘m’ of Mpam Ahaizu Mbaise LGA, Imo State, in his hideout at Umuahia, Abia State. “He confessed to be the Sector Commander of a dreadful IPOB/ESN syndicate in Mbaise and assisted the curious operatives in arresting three (3) of his syndicate namely; Ojoko Ikechukwu 53yrs ‘m’ of Umugwa, Chilaka Charles 44yrs ‘m’ of Umuezuo, and Anthony Iwu 50yrs ‘m’ of Umugwa all in Umuokiria, Ahaizu Mbaise LGA of Imo State in their Criminal hideout while others escaped. “On searching the suspects and their hideout the following incriminating items were recovered; One cut to size AK 47 rifle, One hundred and Ninety rounds of live 7.62 mm Ammunition, Two AK 47 magazines, two cut to size double barrel guns, one locally fabricated Berretta pistol were recovered from the Terrorist hideout.” Mr Ikechukwu Amaechi, Publisher of TheNiche, while raising an alarm over the incident stated that the Imo Police Command was up to something sinister. He said while the unconscionable killing of security officers or any human being for that matter is condemnable, it is equally wrong to frame innocent, poor folks for crimes they never committed. “I am putting out this message and appealing to Nigerians to intervene before an innocent soul is wasted for a crime he didn’t commit. “Thaddeus Ikechukwu Ojokoh is my cousin and I insist that he is innocent, even if for no other reason, at least for the fact that he had been in police custody before the four policemen were murdered in cold blood.”