Welcome to the Assisted Reproductive Technology series with Dr. Ken. Here, we discuss Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) as a means to tackling the problem of infertility. In the last release, we considered the wonder in  gynaecological surgeries, which is the use of laser in gynaecological surgeries. We saw that it offers the benefits of increased operational speed, minimal or no risk fluid overload, less trauma and is also bloodless to a large extent. In addition, we saw that with this approach, there is insignificant post-operative adhesions or complications when compared to other sourses of energy used in minimal access surgeries or hysteroscopy. And this has made laser a preferred option when Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) is in view. Today, we will be looking at a more precise use of laser energy to improve organ function and reproductive health. No doubt, the female vagina plays an important role in the reproductive and general well-being of the female. This very important organ however tends to lose its effectual savour  as it is affected by the forces of ageing and hormone depletion – negatively impacting the woman’s sexual and overall social life. In post menopausal women or even women that have undergone multiple vaginal births, the incidence of vaginal laxity and decreased lubrication which leads to overall decrease in sexual drive and pleasure, remains a common reality. POLL There could also be the case of Stress Urinary Incontinence (SUI) in women beyond 30 years of age. This is a situation of urine leak when a woman coughs or laughs. This results when the muscles of the pelvic floor and the vaginal wall begins to loose tone and become laxed. It is then unable to keep closed the urine outlet. Painfully, after vaginal child birth with or without a cut to enlarge the birth canal (vaigan), or following aging, male partners silently complain of not feeling the vaginal grip or friction. This is clearly an outcry of sexual dissatisfaction for both parties. These conditions can be treated through surgical procedures. This in fact has been the main approach of treatment before now. This has however presented the challenges of complexity and high expense. But great news! There is a relatively painless non-surgical, and non-invasive, friendly and stylish approach. This is a fast approach that lasts between 15 to 20 minutes and corrects all these! It is called the Laser Vaginal Rejuvenation. This procedure involves the use of laser heat energy in a wand through the vagina which helps with the contraction of collagen and elastin – strengthening the vaginal canal and cervical column. The laser procedure enhances production of new collagen and elastin fibers. There is also the renewal of the vaginal skin (epithelium). All of these helps in improvement of the  vaginal tone and grip, increase vaginal secretion and lubrication. Overall, this helps with the improvement/thickening of the lagging tissues around the vagina, as well as increasing the tonicity of the vagina – improving orgasms during intercourse. This procedure requires no anaesthetic intervention whatsoever, and a return to normal life is immediately. The complete treatment cycle is once monthly for three months. After which subsequent yearly follow ups are done. In all, this procedure offers the benefits of strengthening weak vaginal and pelvic muscles, increasing vaginal moisture and lubrication, increasing vaginal sensations, stimulation, and sensitivity, helping in the case of Stress Urinary Incontinence (Urine leaking), improving the situation of painful intercourse, and general enhancement of the vulvar area which comprises of the clitoris, labia, and vaginal opening. In a nutshell, it is a tightening for a healthier and happier life! The greater news is that you do not need to travel abroad anymore for a surgery to correct or improve vaginal health. Africa’s Premier Hospitality-based Fertility Hospital, Alps Hospitals and Diagnostic  located in the city of Jos, Nigeria, offers this exceptional service and you too can take advantage of it for a healthier and happier life. Cheers to endless possibilities! Until next time, stay fine, and always remember that conception and child bearing is a possibility for everyone that so desires. Dr. Kenneth Egwuda is a consultant Obstetrician and Gynecologist with specialty in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). He has over 16 years of practice and experience. He trained in the UK, India, Bulgaria, Italy, and Germany. His Facility, ALPS Hospitals and Diagnostics, Jos, Nigeria, stands at the center stage of Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) in Nigeria. It holds the record of the oldest first-time delivery mum in Africa through IVF at the age of 63. For more information: Visit www.kennethegwuda.com.ng And follow on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter @AskDocKen You can also subscribe to his YouTube channel @AskDocKen AskDocKen… Anything Infertility!