NSIKAK EKANEM Notwithstanding that it is not a court decision, the recent remark by Nigeria’s former Senate Leader, Victor Ndoma-Egba, tends to become a verdict that may validate or invalidate certain divergent positions held about the beleaguered Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). His no-holds-barred comment on the commission in an interview in the current edition of TNN, a regional news tabloid with tentacles in Nigeria’s south-south states. At the time of filing this report the interview has been generating ripples. Though in hush tones, the interview has become a golden text at the headquarters of the NDDC in Port Harcourt. This is because the Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who was once the NDDC’s chairman dwells on certain salient and controversial issues such as supremacy tussle among helmsmen of the agency, which is probably the causative agent that might have got the commission’s board chairman, Lauretta Onochie, embroiled in cold war with the management team. But are the words of the 67-year old lawyer and politician worth taking to the bank, especially when he x-rays public institutions like he did on the NDDC? Cynics may hardly reckon with him given the presumption in certain quarters that no Nigerian public office holder deserves to be exempted from the morass of rot that has been the bane of Nigeria’s public institutions over the years. This viewpoint may be given some attention in that Ndoma-Egba, who has held a number of public offices since the age of 27, is seen as an establishment person. Even so, many objective and informed minds may differ with such cynics. Ndoma-Egba is seen as one politician whose personal opinions are rarely whittled down by the position he held in the past or holds at present. For instance, a few years ago when the call for forensic auditing of the NDDC’s account was launched by Godswill Akpabio, the immediate past Minister of Niger Delta Affairs. POLL Ndoma-Egba lent his voice in support of it, unlike some other former bosses of the commission that saw the call for the exercise as a witch-hunt plot. In the interview, whether on the role of the board and the management, budgeting, external interference, diversion from the mission of the commission, frankness was not frowned at by Ndoma-Egba on his take on the 23-year NDDC. His reference to the days he held sway as the chairman of the commission makes his x-raying not an academic exercise but practical experience that veracity or otherwise can be verified. Besides, typical of his style, he laced his take with legal authority just as he expressed depth knowledge on the issues he dwelt on in the interview. On the role of the management headed by the Managing Director and the board headed by the Chairman, the former three-term Senator said: “the NDDC is a creation of law. The law establishing the NDDC provides for the powers of the board and the powers of management. The overall powers of managing the NDDC reside with the board; they provide the policy direction and all of that. Management carries out the day-to-day management of the commission and they also implement the decisions of the board. ”He opined that “ordinarily, there shouldn’t be a problem because the powers are clearly defined” by relevant laws, including the Fiscal Responsibility Act and the NDDC Act”. His take is that the problem creeps into it “on the issue of control of funds.” He averred that “the NDDC Act, makes the chief executive officer the accounting officer, and in some cases, liability in that infractions of those laws are personal on the Chief Executive.” He, however, added that the Chief Executive cannot spend outside the budget, which must be approved by the board. He admonished that what one “needs do is to exercise the powers that have been given in a very creative way that will check the board without necessarily impeding the running of the commission. He explained further: “The chairman is not an executive chairman; so you cannot say as chairman, I have decreed A, B, C or D, you need the approval of the board. Referring to his time at the commission, he said that apart from approving the budget, he was not a signatory to any account and that he never had the desire to be one. “The law does not have any powers attributed to the chairman. The powers of the chairman are the powers of the board and when we started, the first thing the board did was to donate their powers to me as chairman, to act in urgent cases. But you always came back to the board for them to ratify what you had done. So as chairman, you don’t have any special powers. The powers of the chairman are coterminous with the powers of the board. It is the managing director that for instance, is named as the chief accounting officer and by virtue of the extant laws. He is personally liable for the infraction of those laws. He adduced reasons for rift between the management and the board: “What is causing the confusion is a misapprehension of the law establishing the NDDC; either a misapprehension or it has not been properly read. And then because the NDDC has not been allowed to grow, you don’t have any established tradition because by now, apart from the law, we should have had an established tradition, because NDDC was established in the year 2000. 23 years is long enough for certain things to be traditions. But there is no board of NDDC that has survived its full term. So those traditions haven’t been established, Apart from the struggle for the control of funds. Ndoma-Egba pinpointed three factors responsible for letdown in the NDDC: “One is that there are no traditions. Two, the laws are not being applied; and three, most of those fights are externally generated and they are political,” According to him “there is too much outside interference.” Explaining the issue of multifarious interference, he said, “The problem is not the board, the problem is above the board. You have a Minister, you have the president, and you have the National Assembly. So their problems are many. ”In view of the “external influence on NDDC”, which he said “is unimaginable”, Ndoma-Egba suspected that the board-management squabble in the agency “might as well be a proxy war.” He also bemoaned that the commission has derailed in developing the Niger Delta region and swayed off the lane paved for its core mandates. To him, the nutshell of about a dozen objectives of the NDDC was “to create an integrated developed economy for the South-South region or the Niger Delta region.” Premising on “the amount of money that has passed through the NDDC and the South-South (states) in the last 23 years, if we couldn’t look like Dubai, we should look like Bahrain. “Regrettably, the NDDC has lost focus and its mission because we haven’t achieved any of the things that the commission was set out to achieve. Have we achieved an integrated regional economy? No! Have we achieved a developed regional economy? No! As he explained, non-adherence to the law setting up the commission, which dovetails to lack of tradition accounts for why “everything that is happening in the NDDC is adhoc. That is why you will see the commission competing with local governments and state governments on projects, such as building classroom blocks, building pit latrines, which wasn’t the intention. “The intention was for the NDDC to integrate the economies of all the member states through projects that cut across. For instance, have a road, a highway that serves all the member states, have a rail system, have a power grid and all of those things.” He also expressed sadness that the Master Plan designed for the region in 2006 under President Olusegun Obasanjo had expired without being put to use. He wondered how a region could be developed without a plan. Also to Ndoma-Egba’s discomfort is the NDDC’s advisory board, which is made up mostly of the governors of the oil producing states, but has remained dormant over the years. The cure for the ailing NDDC, in the words of the lawyer-turned-politician is “Extreme surgery”. But the question revolves on whether the internal and external influencers would heed the external voice of Ndoma-Egba.