All is now set for the historic visit of the President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu to Rivers State for the commissioning of key projects executed by this administration. In some parts of the state, loyalists of Tinubu were seen in a high spirits making last-minute preparation for a grand reception of the acclaimed winner of the last presidential election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress APC. On the strength of the above, the state Governor,  Nyesom Wike has declared Wednesday, 3rd May 2023, a public holiday to enable the people of the State to give the President-Elect, a rousing welcome. Tinubu during his two days official visit to Rivers State is scheduled to commission the Rumuola/Rumuokwuta Flyover and the ultra-modern Magistrates’ Court Complex, Port Harcourt,  on Wednesday 3rd, and Thursday, 4th May 2023, respectively. Governor Wike, in a State broadcast on Tuesday, said during Senator Tinubu’s presidential campaign visit to Rivers State, he had indicated his intention to have him commission some strategic projects in the State after the general elections. He said a formal invitation was sent to the President-Elect after the general elections, which he graciously accepted. Governor Wike explained that the proposed visit to Rivers State is Senator Tinibu’s first official visit to any State since he emerged as the President-Elect of Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ According to him,  by this visit, the President-Elect will join the long list of distinguished Nigerians the State had hosted to either flag off or commission landmark projects. POLL “For us, it is an honor to the government and people of Rivers State to host the President-Elect on this historic visit. Consequently, I urge all Rivers citizens to come out en mass to receive our President-Elect, His Excellency Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and display the traditional Rivers hospitality as he commissions these legacy projects to God’s glory and the advancement of our development. “Given this, I hereby declare Wednesday, 3rd May 2023, a public holiday to enable the people of Rivers State to receive our President-Elect rousingly. “Furthermore, all shops and business premises along Rumuola to Rumuokwuta roads in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the State shall remain closed from 8.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m. on Wednesday, 3rd May 2023. I urge all labor unions and security agencies to comply with this closure order.”