ABUJA  – Barely a month to the June 13 inauguration of the 10th Senate, some All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in North West on Sunday said that it will be a betrayal to the people of the zone if the Senate President is not given to them. The APC stakeholders, which threatened to sanction Northern Senators opposed to the emergence of former Zam­fara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari as Senate President, insist­ed that zoning of National As­sembly leadership by the party was a betrayal of trust. The group, under the um­brella of Northern Business Roundtable, thanked the Nation­al Chairman of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu for retracting the purported and unacceptable zoning decision of the party ear­lier published on the leadership of the National Assembly. Berating Godswill Akpabio on his comment on the pur­ported zoning of the Senate presidency while addressing newsmen in Abuja, the spokes­person of the group, Haj. Larai Kolo, said that the North West was taken aback by the purport­ed zoning announcement and the thought that such could be contemplated. The group said that the North West is particularly con­cerned about the behavior of Senator Akpabio, “who has been going around to say that any person who does not accept the purported zoning decision pos­tulated by the party’s leadership is fighting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the President-elect. “This is a cheap blackmail and this is in the character of Akpabio. The North West will not accept this because it has contributed so much to the de­velopment of the party.” Tbe group, which said Yari has all it takes to make the most of the office if given the oppor­tunity, said that competence, character, and pedigree should determine positions.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The group said: “We advise that every Senator-elect should rally around Yari, the preferred candidate among aspirants jos­tling for the position of the Sen­ate President so that there will be balance in the country.” POLL Explaining why the position should be zoned to North West, Kolo said, “to whom much is given, much is also expected. The North-West in the current dispensation and the last presi­dential election gave the highest votes. Apart from this, it is note­worthy that the APC governors from the North West led the front to demand that the Presi­dency be zoned to the South. “With this alone, common sense should prevail that after the presidency has been zoned and delivered to the South, the Vice-President to the North- East, the next position should go to the North-West.”