Tottenham will be hoping to move one step closer to securing European football for next sea­son when they host Brentford today by 12.30noon. Already out of the race for UEFA Champions League (UCL) football, Spurs are now turning their attention to the Europa League and Europa Conference League. The north London club’s best finishing position is now sixth, but that would rely on Brigh­ton, who are one point above them dropping points, with the Seagulls having two games in hand at the time of writing this. Tottenham are somewhat in the wilderness this season, com­ing at a time of turmoil which has seen a caretaker manager sacked and replaced by another caretaker. Ryan Mason is now the man in charge and got his first win by beating Crystal Palace, but has since seen his side lose 2-1 to Aston Villa, who are now level on points with the north London side. Brentford’s European hopes may be over for the season, five points behind Brighton having played two games more, so now it’s just about ending the cam­paign on a high — and the added bonus of being the best team in west London. The Bees are two points clear of 10th-placed Fulham and 10 ahead of Chelsea in 11th, so finishing above the pair would give their fans massive bragging rights for the summer. Brentford will stay in Lon­don for the remainder of the season, ending the campaign at home to Manchester City — who could be champions. POLL Brentford’s last away game of the season, the Bees will be hoping to mimic their most recent visit to a London rival, beating Chelsea 2-0 at Stamford Bridge last month. If there was a London mini-league in the Premier League, Tottenham and Brentford would sit second and third re­spectively with only Arsenal managing more points than them. Tottenham have second se­cured with 21 points from 11 games, while Brentford cannot be caught in third thanks to 14 points from 10. While that may not seem too impressive for Brentford, they have lost just two of those 10 London games with five ending in a draw. Harry Kane has hit form at the right time for Tottenham, though he has been let down phenomenally by his defensive teammates and overall tactical structure. Against Crystal Palace the Englishman moved outright second in the list of the all-time Premier League top scorers, while also netting his ninth goal in his past 11 matches. A goal here would see the En­gland captain become the first ever player to score in 25 differ­ent matches in a single Premier League campaign and add yet another record to the long list he has accomplished already.