LAGOS  – The Central Bank of Nigeria has reinvigorated its tracking of bank transactions to check fraudulent practices in the sys­tem which have been on the in­crease in the last five years and cost Nigerians billions of naira. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and banks in the country have been making efforts at en­suring that incidents of bank frauds are brought under control or eradicated with improvement in technology in this regard. Last week, the CBN said that 7,552 Bank Verification Numbers (BVN) have been flagged and put on watchlist as a result of fraud­ulent transactions. In the CBN Financial Stability June 2022 report published in De­cember 2022, at least 6,047 Bank Verification Numbers of bank customers have been placed un­der the Central Bank of Nigeria watch list for fraudulent trans­actions. The report also noted that 11,871 BVNs have been watch-list­ed as deceased persons this year. The report disclosed that the apex bank conducted an assess­ment of 28 banks and the Nigeri­an Interbank Settlement System to ascertain compliance with the Regulatory Framework for BVN Operations and Watch-List for the Nigerian Banking Industry in the review period. It noted that the assessment revealed some infractions and regulatory actions were taken. The report further noted that there were 2.72 million enrolled in the first half of this year, bring­ing the total number of enrolled BVNs to 54.65 million. POLL In the report, it was also stated that the number of BVN-linked accounts was 130.57 million out of 148.46 million active accounts. The report read in part, “Also, 2,722,518 BVNs were en­rolled, bringing total BVN en­rolment to 54,651,086, reflecting an increase of 5.24 per cent over 51,928,568 enrolments at end-De­cember 2021. “The number of accounts linked with BVNs was 130,569,656 out of 148,462,947 active custom­er accounts, while the number of watch-listed BVNs associated with fraud and deceased persons stood at 6,047 and 11,871, respec­tively.” Based on the report, the total number of watch-listed BVNs for fraud rose by 13.09 per cent from 5,347 in December 2021 to 6,047 in June 2022. It was reported recently that four Nigerian deposit money banks lost a total of N1.77bn to fraudulent activities involving the banks’ employees and con­sumers in 2021. Speaking at the 34th edition of the Finance Correspondents and Business Editors’ seminar in Calabar, Cross River State, where stakeholders converged to dis­cuss the theme: “Implementing a Robust Payment Architecture: Prospects, Opportunities and Challenges,” the Director, of Payment Systems Management, CBN, Musa Jimoh disclosed that the centralisation of the BVN has enabled the CBN to track fraud­ulent individuals and entities who have engaged in forgery, compromise, complicity, fraud­ulent duplicate enrolment and any fraudulent infraction with and without monetary value. Represented by Deputy Direc­tor, Payment Systems, Adefuye Adeyemi, he said: “Recent data with the CBN reveals that 7,552 BVN has been put on the watch­list.” Also speaking at the seminar, CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Eme­fiele, noted that cyber threats and activities of fraudsters have con­tinued to threaten the resilience of the payment platforms, adding that confidence of the public was impacted by these activities. He, however, added that there are collaborative efforts between the CBN and other players in the industry to curtail the nefarious activities of these fraudsters. He said: “In response to the challenges posed by cyber threats, the CBN has put the fol­lowing initiatives in place: The Nigeria Electronic Fraud Forum (NeFF), payment card industry data security standard, the fi­nancial industry cybersecurity fusion centre and other initia­tives against cybersecurity and fraud in Nigeria. “With these initiatives in place, the CBN has demonstrat­ed irrevocable commitment to ensuring the stability and safety of the Nigerian payment system. “Accordingly, we shall con­tinue to deepen our oversight of the activities of operators in the payments system as well as ensure full compliance with regu­lations. In this regard, examiners and supervisors would continue to ensure that services delivered by participants meet required security standards. “The bank will also continue to adopt a collaborative approach to achieve minimal cybersecuri­ty threats in the payments sys­tem. A holistic mechanism for addressing cybersecurity threats requires policy and operational actions by all stakeholders. “As you are aware, effective January 2023, the Bank issued a Risk-Based Cyber-Security Framework and Guidelines for Other Financial Institutions, to ensure their operational resil­ience in the face of cyber-security threats.” Reactions An Abuja-based economist, Cyril Ampka, said the CBN and the banks need to bring down cases of fraud in the banking system. He said, “I think the banks and the CBN need to move faster than these fraudulent people. I will be glad to see collaboration between the CBN and other agen­cies like the Economic and Finan­cial Crimes Commission and the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit”. The Chief Executive Officer of the Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise, Dr Muda Yusuf, urged the CBN to intro­duce sanctions and eliminate policies that promote corruption. He said, “I think what they can do is to activate sanctions on anyone found wanting. Aside from the tracking, there must be evidence. And once there is ev­idence, they should close in on anyone they find. Cyber fraud is the biggest threat in the banking industry. “The CBN should also refrain from policies that would encour­age corruption. One of such policies is the foreign exchange policy. When you have multiple windows and a wide margin between the official rate and the parallel market, it creates a lot of corruption. That is something the CBN needs to look into”.