…Appeals For Inclusion Of Orhuwhorun Community Road WARRI – Akpevwe Uviejitobor, the 2019 Election Udu PDP Local Government Council Collation Agent has commended His Excellency, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa, Governor of Delta State for the ongoing resurfacing of Udu main Road from Enerhen Junction to Express Junction in Udu LGA of Delta State. He also commended the member representing Udu Constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon. (Chief) Peter Okagbare Uviejitobor for the immense contribution to the development in Udu, especially in the area of provision of educational facilities to Udu communities. He further appreciated Hon. Uviejitobor for his concern for schools in Udu communities and his undying love for the warfare of his people. Akpevwe said that the commendation became necessary particularly at this time that the Okowa’s administration is winding down stressing that with the resurfacing of Udu Road, Governor Okowa has included Udu in his Stronger Delta mantra. The Udu PDP Collation Agent in 2019 said that the administration of Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta State and Hon. (Chief) Peter Uviejitobor, member representing Udu Constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly had attracted so many development to Udu after a long neglect of the local government area by previous administrations. Akpevwe Uviejitobor however appealed to Senator Okowa to extend the ongoing resurfacing of Udu Road to Orhuwhorun community axis, emphasizing that the road leading from Mofor Motor Park Junction to Orhuwhorun Main Town is in a sorrowful and deplorable condition. POLL The 2019 PDP Collation Agent in Udu LGA who went through heart-breaking ordeals over some allegations of gun-running during the election said even though PDP and Okowa administration have not appreciated him for his ordeal during the period, he has refused to let the ugly incident break his spirit of working for the party. It would be recalled that Akpevwe Uviejitobor, Udu PDP Local Government Council Collation Agent in the 2019 election was set up by Udu vigilante and was arrested by Nigerian Police when he went to supervise INEC electoral materials at Asaba leading to a gruesome ordeal but was later freed when the truth about his innocence was unraveled by the police.