About 1,000 residents of the Ojiagu community in the Agbani axis of Enugu State received comprehensive free medical care from the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) on Tuesday. The medical care, which is part of activities marking the 59th Anniversary of NAF, featured various forms of treatment for the aged, adult,s and children within the community as well as referrals for critical medical conditions. Flagging off the medical outreach, the Air Officer Commanding (AOC), NAF Ground Training Command, AVM Sayo Olatunde, said that the exercise was in line with the NAF Corporate Social Responsibility to her host community. According to Olatunde, it will also enhance civil-military relations between NAF and the host community. He said that the medical outreach would cover vital health awareness talks and advice to the people as well as free medical tests, clinical consultations, and drugs. The AOC said, “We are here to provide free medical tests, clinical consultations, and drugs for ailments such as malaria, hypertension, diabetes, eye infection, bronchial asthma, peptic ulcer, and deworming of all children. “Our health experts on the ground will also treat respiratory infections, and urinary tract infections as well as do laboratory investigations such as random blood sugar test and voluntary HIV counseling and test; dental consultation and medical surgery for minor health issues”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Responding, the Traditional Ruler of the Ojiagu Community, Igwe Umunnabuike Ejim, appreciated the NAF for bringing comprehensive and free healthcare to his people, adding: “Health is wealth; and a healthy community is a wealthy community”. POLL Ejim said, “The Nigerian Air Force has been good neighbors to us and we enjoy their closeness to us as well as the mutual respect and trust we have built with them in the course of the years. “The medical outreach we are enjoying today as a community is one way the Federal Government through the Nigerian Air Force is providing dividends of democracy and good governance directly to our people. “We quite appreciate them and before now, we have mobilized our people numbering over 1,000 to be here today. Very soon they will be a troop in their hundreds after visiting their farms this morning”. The traditional ruler, however, urged NAF authorities to please admit more of their children to the NAF Comprehensive School, Agbani, adding that it would be good that the community benefit from the high academic standards of the school as well. “After the advice, they also give me this large quantum of drugs free of charge for me to take care of myself. I am happy and I pray that the Nigerian Air Force medical team keeps coming regularly to our community,” Okam, who is over 80 years, said.