LAGOS  – Glovo, one of the world’s multi-category delivery players has expanded its quick commerce arm with the launch of a digital supermarket, called Micro Fulfillment Center (MFC) to Lagos Mainland, in line with its mission of shaping the future of retail in Nigeria. Also known as Glovo Bargains was launched on Tuesday, with a ribbon-cutting ceremony at their new MFC in Yaba, Lagos. Lorenzo Mayol, General Manager of Glovo Nigeria, at the launch, said the company has spent 1.5bn in a year with one million delivered orders in the country. He said, they so far have seven markets in Africa and wants to make Nigeria number one, to take the lead as an example and a delivery country. He said, Glovo has the country’s economic growth at heart in the aspect of employment, disclosing that they have been able to employ one thousand courier workers and more than five hundred team members, “we are growing and we are looking forward to employing more in Nigeria. “We are opening more breakthroughs in e-commerce. We are working so hard to become one stop shop for every Nigerian. Our challenges has been the too much traffic in Lagos, but we are looking forward to a applied technology that can deliver on time so as to gain customers trust and to get more content,” he said. Oscar Pierre, CEO and Co-Founder of Glovo, said: “With a young population, emerging middle class, and busy traffic, we recognised a huge potential in Nigeria to drive the adoption of quick commerce to enable people to save time and make better decisions when shopping for groceries online. Since our entrance into the Nigerian market in 2021, we have constantly worked to enhance our operating model to serve our consumers and give everyone easy access to anything in their city. This truly was, is, and will remain our main objective, and it’s evident across all our operations.” “Glovo is driving the future of retail in Africa, and we are excited about the future opportunities and possibilities in Nigeria. Our goal is to increase the speed in which we digitise retail in our key markets, allowing us to stay ahead of the trend and offer solutions that enable our retail partners to compete fairly in the digital world.” added Oscar Pierre. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Kolawole Adeniyi, Head of Q-Commerce for Glovo Nigeria, also said, “Consumer behaviour and lifestyle trends keep evolving with speed and convenience becoming more important than ever,” POLL “With Glovo Bargains, consumers conveniently buy groceries and other essential items at better prices than the market, from the comfort and safety of their homes. We are excited to continue to expand our offering to meet consumer’s demands.” he added. Tokunbo Ibrahim, Government Relations Manager, also disclosed that the company is committed to their staffs welfare, according to her, their courier staffs go through training before sending them out. Disclosing that, a packege that will take care of their personal and family needs would be launched before the end of the year . Glovo Bargains is accessible through Glovo’s app or website and is closed to walk-in customers. It offers customers the best affordable prices for fresh and consumer packaged goods (CPG) from the convenience of their homes. Using the latest in-store digital technology and dedicated resources, Glovo Bargains ensures the quickest possible delivery times with customers receiving their orders in 20-40 minutes.