AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, a member of the AXA Group and a global insurance and asset management firm, has said its insurance revenues rose by 13 percent to N19.4 bil­lion for the first quarter that ended March 31, 2023, follow­ing the implementation of the IFRS17 and IFRS9 accounting standards, which became ef­fective on January 1, 2023. It said in a statement that gross earned premiums (In­surance revenues) become the principal revenue indi­cator given the change in accounting standards, Life & Savings up 23 percent to N4.7 billion while Health rose 23 percent to N7.5 billion. According to the under­writer, property and casu­alty were down two percent to N7.3 billion, gross written premiums were up 20 percent to N34.4 billion, also Life and savings up 20 percent to N6.88 billion with health up 22 per­cent to N12.9 billion and prop­erty & casualty up 19 percent to N14.9 billion. The firm said commercial activity of insurance opera­tions will now be reported us­ing insurance (earned) reve­nues as against Gross Written Premiums (GWP). The reinsurance expenses will now also be reflected as “net expenses from reinsur­ance contracts held” with the main difference from what was previously report­ed being the netting of com­missions received and claims recoveries from assumed reinsurance businesses. For asset management, commer­cial activity continues to be measured on revenues. Commenting on the results, the Chief Financial Officer, Mrs. Ngozi Ola-Israel, said the double-digit revenue growth of 13 percent from N17.3 bil­lion to N19.4 billion and net premium income growth of 21 percent from N11.6billion to N14.0billion largely driven by the life and health business insurance revenues which in­creased by 23 percent on a year-on-year basis. “This achievement affirms our ambitions to achieve sus­tainable revenue growth and demonstrates our ability to execute our strategy in a chal­lenging and evolving business environment. “Our operating perfor­mance improved significantly, with PBT growth of 248 per­cent to 1.9billion from 0.5bil­lion last year which was driv­en by improved performance within the P&C and L&S segments as well as a signifi­cant recovery from the health segment.” POLL Speaking also on the fi­nancials at the end of the first quarter of 2023, the Chief Ex­ecutive Officer, AXA Mansard Insurance, Kunle Ahmed, said, “We started the 2023 financial year on a strong footing. We achieved improved revenue and profit before-tax growth well ahead of our projections. “With our focus on sus­tainable growth and resil­ience, we continue to take steps to explore new ways to strengthen our balance sheet whilst ensuring efficiency in our underwriting and claims processes. “s