BENIN – The wife of the Olu of Warri, Ol­ori Atuwatse 111 has admonished Nigerian children to always pray for those in position of authority and also render help to those in need noting that such pleases God. The Warri Queen Consort gave the admonition Thursday evening at a session with chil­dren at the palace to wrap up her birthday activities which also coincided with this year’s Chil­dren’s Day celebration coming up on Saturday, May 27. The session tagged: “Story time” featured story telling from the Olori as well as dance com­petition and teamwork games among others from children. Storytime with Mama Iwere is a kids book and drama club. The objective of storytime with Mama Iwere is mind transforma­tion through reading. “The plan for the initiative is to encourage and promote early literacy in children, to foster cre­ativity through drama and dance. We also seek to teach children Godly traits and help them truly connect with God’s love for them. “The second book “The Joy in You” taught them the limitless power of joy to help you believe that you can do all things through Christ (your joy) who strengthens you. You can be anything you set your mind to be.” The highly entertaining and educative session had children between the ages of two and ten. They all listened with rapt attention while the Olori took the first story titled: “story of the young boy that try to find God”. POLL The story focused on a young boy simply identified as Fredie who set out to find God by search­ing everywhere. According to Olori, in the course of finding God, Fredie went into the bush hoping to meet God there but on the con­trary, the young boy came across animals in the bush. Olori explained further that the young boy also met a man identified as James who had no food to eat adding that the unre­lenting Fredie offered James his lunch. She said that while Fredie continued with his expedition, he met a lady called Ruth with ankle challenges. Olori also said that Fredie met a wheel chair at the premises of a hospital stressing that with the usual magnanimity of the boy, he used it to wheel Ruth into the hospital for a medical attention. The Queen said that at the end of the day, the somehow dis­appointed Fredie told his moth­er the people he met and offered help in the course of finding God. She said Fredie mother re­plied her son that, though, he may not have found God physical­ly, but rendering help to people in the course of finding God means that he has seen God. At the end of the story, Olori and the children shared ideas during the questions and an­swers session on how to help those around us. Some of the ways the chil­dren suggested were: sharing with others, rendering help to one and another, pray for those in authority, teaching those who did not understand the ways of the Lord through evangelism and among others.