“Most problems a President has to face, have their roots in the past.” US President Harry Truman, 1884-1992. President Tinubu lived in the United States for some years in the past, needs to introduction to Truman. He also said “the buck stops here on the President’s table.” Another President, Kennedy, 1917-1963, added: “I know that when things don’t go well, they like to blame the Presidents; and that is one of the things which Presidents are paid for.” Buhari left yesterday; and, as much as possible, I will ignore him. Tinubu is in charge now. And, as much as possible, I will pay attention to him. My expression of sympathy for him is based on the statement by Truman. I undertook a full year course on AmericanPresidentsandPresidencyin1966/7; andone of the abiding lessons I learnt was how each new President is hampered by a lot of the stuff he inherited; and notjustfromhisimmediatepredecessor. That, by theway, is one reason every new President, should undertake a full documentation of the major projects, programmes, policies, commitments and directions of government when he starts work. That means getting people who can read volumes of documents virtually all the time. I am aware that, like all Presidents before and after him, Tinubu inherited problems having their roots in the past – even before Buhari. I am also aware that, he is inheriting a ton-load of economic problems from Buhari. While, he is totally acquitted of what happened before Buhari, he cannot completely be exonerated from what happened from May 29, 2015 till yesterday. POLL By his own public admission, he had promoted a candidate thrice rejected by the people of Nigeria; used hisvastfinancialresourcestogetthemanelectedtwice. Therefore, he is partly responsible for what he inherits from Buhari. There can be no sympathy for that. What you sow is what you reap. Buhari, unfortunately, has left a legacy which Tinubu’s worst enemy could not have wished for him. In addition, he had made himself complicit in what the All Progressives Congress, APC, ruling party and governmentdid, bynotraisinganyobjectionasNationalPartyLeaderandPresidentialcandidate, toanything done by the administration. Furthermore, he had repeatedly promised continuity of Buhari’s policies without making any exceptions. Therefore, it can be inferred that he supported them and must accept the repercussions of those ruinous policies. Another Season Of Political Promises Ready To Be Broken “Promises, like [biscuits] are made to be broken.” Jonathan Swift, 1667-1745. Meanwhile, he still has the burden of his own Election Manifesto to carry. Even before we embark on the journey with President Tinubu, one thing is certain. Most of the promises made in the published and widely distributed Manifesto, during the campaigns, were so grandiose, they cannot ever be expected to be fulfilled. Privately, I summarised the entire thing as hogwash; and events since the end of the campaigns suggest that Nigerians might as well regard the document as an academic exercise. Any organisation basing long or even medium term projections on them might as well file for bankruptcy now. “Power tends to corrupt; and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Great men are almost always bad men.” Lord Acton, 1834-1902. Most people quoting Lord Acton, British Historian, stop at the first line. Yet, the study of history reveals that many of the world’s greatest leaders have not served the people well – unless checked by another great power. The fallacy that power belongs to the people has been proved wrong so often; nobody should repeat it without amendments. Buhari proved that he could spend eight years racking up trillions of naira in debt, with little to show for it; and walk away free. All he had to do was get rubber stamps elected as NASS leaders. We will pay dearly for it. The major stumbling block to economic progress under the next government is the gigantic debt burden formerly estimated at N91.8trn. But, as we shall presently discover, there is actually a bit more that that. The unpatriotic leaders of the ninth National Assembly, NASS, approved any loan request made by the President without exception. To that extent, they betrayed the principles of separation of powers and checks and balances. Presidential system is alien to us; for that matter, so is the Parliamentary system. But, having foolishly adopted it, the least we can do is to manage it as intended. The founding fathers of the Presidential system expected elected members of the legislative branch to rise above State or party and to act always in the national interest. Knowing that, given the great powers of the President, nobody can be trusted to exercise that power without some restraints. That was the role of the NASS in Nigeria failed to play under Buhari. The NASS, in the last four years, became worse than a rubber stamp; it actually encouraged Buhari to assume any debt he chose without even bothering to ask how it will be repaid, how it will be spent and whether the expenditure served any national economic development purpose. Individually and collectively, they forgot that loans taken today represent claims against revenue generated in the future. They also forgot that the future will always arrive. Tinubu will sooner than later face one of the greatest problems left unsolved by Buhari on account of lack of courage and wisdom — fuel subsidy. But, before touching on fuel subsidy, there is a need to point to why our debts might rise even more than Buhari has already disclosed. Judgment Debts And Pending Cases “Buhari seeks Senate’s approval to pay $556m, 98m [pounds], N226bn judgment debts.” Report, May 25, 2023. Ordinarily, additional debt amounting to N553 billion should not trouble a nation carrying N98tn debt burden. At any rate, the Senate has no choice but to approve the request to pay. There are, however, at least two reasons to worry about that request coming so late. First, even with the expected last minute Senate rubber stamp approval, the disbursement to the beneficiaries might not take place before or after Buhari departs. Those with substantial claims will be forced to go to court all over again. Second, not all the judgment debts have been listed. The $9.6bn P&ID judgment has been excluded. Granted, the Buhari administration is appealing the case; but, from all indications, the appeal might fail and Nigeria will be compelled to pay N4.45tn any time soon. It is difficult to see how the Federal Government will be able to pay those damages in the next four years without serious economic repercussions. Whether the omission of that whale of a judgment was deliberate or inadvertent needs not delay us here. What is important is the fact that N4.45tn debt remains to be added to our possible load. The Time Was Yesterday For Subsidy Removal “An invasion of armies can be resisted; but not an idea whose time has come.” Victor Hugo, 1802-1885. Whether Tinubu likes it or not, fuel subsidy must go. It should have been deleted right from Obasanjo’s time. But, all the Nigerian leaders till now lacked the courage to do the right thing. Thousands of commodities are imported into Nigeria and consumed by those who need or want them. Petrol is just another commodity — which corrupt government officials want subsidised. The Nigerian Labour Congress and others threaten governments into submission when the issue comes up. But, courage is the most invaluable of all human attributes; and only a courageous leader can put an end to an unsustainable situation. The question is: will Tinubu have the courage?