Coscharis Motors Plc, foremost automobile dealer and sole authorised dealer of Ford Motor Company in Nigeria has announced the roll out of new and enhanced service packs geared towards mitigating the rising maintenance cost of automobiles in Nigeria. The service packages are part of the bouquet called Ford Protect, which include the Premium Maintenance Plan (PMP), for brand new cars; Premium Maintenance Plan Upgrade (PMPU), for the extension of a yet to expire PMP; PremiumCare (PC) also known as Extended Warranty; and Used PremiumCare (UPSA), which is a fresh warranty for vehicles that are already out of warranty, up to 2013 model. According to Abiona Babarinde, General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications at Coscharis Group, “For us at Coscharis Motors, we constantly look beyond just selling the brand new Ford vehicles to our customers but, we go further by providing the ‘peace of mind’ in maintaining the vehicles at an affordable rate at all times. “To continually deliver this aftersales service is what brought up this special robust bouquet package to delight both new and existing customers alike. Taking into consideration the reality of the present high cost of living generally in the country which of course affects the vehicle maintenance cost; with this package, Coscharis is proving once again to deliver value for money in all ramifications of our service delivery. “Coscharis and Ford have therefore come up with these service packages, to mitigate the impact of spiraling inflation on parts and labour costs and help customers keep their Ford cars on the road for as long as they desire, without worries about increasing maintenance cost.” The service packages cover Ford vehicles at various stages in their life cycle. There are packages for brand new Ford vehicles like the ones that are almost running out of warranty and those that are completely out of warranty. Ford vehicles that are as old as 2013 models can also be covered under these special Ford Protect packages.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Shedding more light on the new and enhanced service packages, Mr. Cyril D’Cruz, General Manager, Aftersales at Coscharis Motors Plc said: “We have considered all the stages of the vehicles’ lifespan and crafted a suitable package for each of them. POLL “So, whether the car is brand new, about to run out of warranty or has already run out of warranty, we have a suitable service package to help fix its maintenance cost and insulate our customer against inflation of parts and labour costs. This ultimately increases the lifespan of their vehicles through the use of original parts and equipments deployed by OEM trained technicians and enable a better re-sale value, by making the packages transferable to a new owner.