ABUJA – Prince Clem Agba, Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has made significant progress in the diversification of the Nigerian economy. Agba, who stated this in Abuja on Friday night at a send-forth dinner in his honour, said Nigeria does not depend solely on crude oil for her revenue generation. He said in 2015 when the present administration assumed office, that the revenue of the Federal Government was very low, adding that the revenue was majorly from crude oil. He said the economy has been diversified to the extent that the current contribution of oil to the revenue is about 30 per cent. He added that the contribution of oil and gas sector in 2015 was 38%, adding that the sector currently contributes 6.8 per cent to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product(GDP). He pointed out that due to some reforms introduced, the revenue has been raised from N4.5 trillion in 2015 to N10.5 trillion this year. He said in spite of the plethora of challenges that the administration faced on assumption of office, the economic managers have succeeded in keeping the ship of the economy afloat. While reeling out other achievements of the ministry under his watch, he said the Ministry ensured the emplacement of a predictable January to December budget cycle beginning with the 2020 budget, a feat he said, was sustained for four consecutive years, pointing out that this changed the unpredictable annual budget cycle that the country had witnessed since 1999. POLL He listed other achievements to include the development of the National Development Plan (2021-2025), which is a medium-term plan, and the Perspective Plan, christened the Nigeria Agenda 2050, which was recently launched by President Buhari at a Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. The minister who acknowledged the team work among the staff of the ministry, urged them not to relent in moving the economy forward. In her remarks, Dr. Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning commended the cordial relationship that has existed between her and the minister of state. Ahmed who went done the memory lane to reveal the tediousness of managing the nation’s economy, thanked the Permanent Secretary, Directors and staff of the ministry for working relentlessly to ensure that their mandate was delivered.