…Says It’s A Case Of Pre, Post Election ABUJA – Reactions have continued to trail the Federal High Court judgement in Kano state that invalidated the election of Labour Party candidates in Kano and Abia states. Reacting to this judgement, while speaking with our correspondent, a constitutional lawyer and former House of Representatives member, Honourable Samson Osagie, pointed out that the case is not only a pre-election, but also a post election matter. He further said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) can benefit from the case being that it came second, depending on how the party goes about it. He noted that if Labour Party failed to comply with section 77(2,3) of the Electoral Act, then the party and it’s candidates are in for a serious trouble. The former Minority Whip in the House of Representatives, explained that though he has not read the full judgement of the court, but his understanding of the judgement is that some people in Kano went to court to say that the labour party did not comply with section 77 sub- section 2,3 of the electoral act in submitting its register to INEC before it goes ahead to conduct its primary. He further explained that since it was a mandatory section of the law, Labour Party ought to have comply, adding that haven failed to comply, all the primaries conducted by the party across the country become null and void, and of no effect of whatsoever. He said: “The implications of that is all the candidates of Labour Party, who ran for the election on the 18th March and 25th of February are dimmed not to be candidates in the eyes of the law. And I think that is an interesting judgement in that it seens to enforce the provisions of the Electoral Act and compliance with them by political parties and political actors. POLL On the argument that the judgement is death on arrival, Osagie, “of course, they are going to appeal and to the Supreme Court. It will be an interesting things for us to know what the final judgement is, but for now, the Labour Party won the election and has been given certificate of return. The candidate might still enjoy the privilege of being swore in pending when the entire processes of appeal is concluded, but it’s a very interesting matter as we are going on. We will like to see how it end especially at the supreme court.” Speaking on the issue of the case being a pre-election matter, the former lawmaker said, “no, no, that can happen under section 134 of the Electoral act. There are condition of which you can challenge an election because when you say, that a political party did not comply with the provisions of the Electoral Act before it conducted its primaries, what that means is that, it goes to the qualifications of those candidates to stand for an election and so, the issue of qualifications of a candidate for an election is both pre-election and post election matter. “That have been given a legal teeth, legal validation by section 134(1) of the Electoral Act, which provides that an election may be questioned on any of following grants: “A person who his election is questioned at the time of the election and not qualify to contest for the election, so in this case, Labour Party candidates, who are products of the party primaries who did not comply electoral act, their election can be questioned on the ground that they were not qualified to stand for the election in the first place, haven be validly nominated in compliance with section 77 and 78 of the electoral act, so with this, you can not put something on nothing and expect it to stand.” Recall that a Federal High Court sitting in Kano, presided over by Justice M N Yunusa has nullified the candidature of the Abia State Governor-elect, Dr Alex Otti and all the candidates of the Labour Party in Abia and Kano States. The court ruled that their emergence was not in compliance with the provisions of the 2022 Electoral Act. The Court in Suit No FHC/KN/CS/107/2023 filed by Mr Ibrahim Haruna Ibrahim against the Labour Party and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), ruled that the failure of the Labour Party to submit its membership register to the INEC within 30 days before their primaries renders the process invalid.