GOMBE  – The Gombe State Accountabil­ity Mechanism (GOSAM) has released the state’s health bud­get scorecard which indicated a commendable improvement particularly in the timely release of funds for basic health care ser­vices. The scorecard sought to eval­uate key budget performance indicators for transparency and timeliness of budget releases, citizens and civil society partic­ipation and resource allocation for basic health care services in six out of the eleven local govern­ment areas of the state in the last six months. Chairman of GOSAM, Mr. Al­hassan Yahya, said the outcome was encouraging, commended the state government and agen­cies under the state Ministry of Health. He also commended GoHealth and the state Primary Healthcare Development Agency over the feat achieved. He explained that the exercise was conducted without any in­terference from the state govern­ment, adding that the indicators were in the areas of receiving quarterly funding from the Pri­mary Health Care Board, annual budget and whether the facilities received captivation payment on or before the 5th of the month. Other indicators are the su­pervisory roles by the state Pri­mary Health Care Development Agency and the Gombe State Contributory Health Care Man­agement Agency (GoHealth) in the last quarter as well as the 24 hour service provision in the fa­cilities among other. Yahya said during the colla­tion of data, local government PHC coordinators and focal per­sons handling the Basic Health­care Provision Fund in the fa­cilities visited were engaged. It was also able to track whether the funds released by the gov­ernment was being used by the end users. He hoped that the programme would be scaled up to cover more vulnerable people particularly, women and children to enjoy the benefits of the programme. “At the end of the day, we were able to identify that the end users were benefiting from the funds,” Mr. Yahya said, but however called on the state government to continue with the timely re­lease of funds for the vulnerable to continue to access services, more training for the focal per­sons handling Basic Healthcare Funds so that they could master the use of computers and data effectively.