God is an unquestionable being, compassionate, merciful and loving. He does not compromise when there is need to exercise His authority and power on any matter or anybody. He makes people to know that there is nothing He cannot do (Jeremiah 32:17). Also He establishes His authority and power when He said in Isaiah 45:7 “I form the light and created the darkness, I make peace and create calamity, I, the Lord, do all these things”. Many people believe God would easily or ordinarily forgive sinners when they plead and beg Him for forgiveness of their sins. Brethren, I come to understand that God doesn’t easily forgive in the way of people’s thinking and understanding. Let us examine the story of King David, an elect of God whom God had shown favour (II Sam. 7:8). King David committed a great sin in the eye of God by plotting and killing his warlord Uriah and took his wife. Uriah’s wife born a child for David. God struck the child and became ill. David sought for God’s kindness for the child to be healed II Sam. 12:16 “David pleaded with God for the child. He fasted and went into his house and spent the night lying on the ground”. Despite the intervention of his elders to prevail upon him to get up from the ground, David refused and did not eat nor drink. Yet God did not grant his plea and prayer. The child died the seventh day. Imagine David the elect of God, begged God and He refused to listen to him. I want people to understand that NOBODY does evil and go scot-free, it may take time definitely time will catch up with the person later on. Therefore there is no evil done in secret that will not be exposed, it is a matter of time. Some people believe they have grace because of their status, fame and godliness, they perpetrate evil and their secrets are yet to be exposed. They are not smart at all. Whether a person is an armed robber, adulterer, fornicator, fraudster, his or her days are numbered when the person will be exposed to the extent that God will not forgive. Imagine a woman had five children; two were for the real husband while the other three were for other men. These three children were counted for the real husband. But the three children started experiencing problems, no progress in their lives. It was when their mother brought their case to me that the spirit of God revealed that the three children were not for the real husband but another father. The woman actually confessed that they are for other men (three fathers, father for a child). Their mother who was above 60yrs caused the problem for the children because she had deceitfully transferred the ownership of those children to another person. Brethren, it is pertinent to stay by the truth because it will set a person free rather than lying which will compound person’s problem in future. Telling lie destruct people’s life. Then I advised the woman to commence begging for forgiveness of sin. In fact the spirit of God revealed that the three children should go back and stay with their biological father but the woman should be preparing to depart this world. I fervently pray that we would not do what will make God to close His eyes against us in Jesus name. Brethren, there are some sins that God may not forgive. There are some things God would not do because of sin. When you request He might not grant your request. Many people do not know God. They think God is not tough and strict. God can destroy a whole city because of a person. God’s mindset differs from people. Imagine God wanted to sink a vessel because of Jonah, (Jonah 1:1-16). There is nothing God cannot do. People do not understand the way and manner God does His things. The Bible says in Galatians 6:7- 10 “Do not be deceived, God cannot be mocked, a man reaps what he sows. The one who sows to please his sinful nature, from that nature will reap destruction; the one who sows to please the spirit, from the spirit will reap eternal life. Let us not become weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up…” Therefore let your goodness be weightier than the sins committed, may be God would show his mercy upon you. After the death of David’s child and he was informed about it, he rose up from ground, washed, changed his clothes, went into the house of the Lord and worshipped God. Later went to his house requested for food and ate. Some people because of the problem in their life they would refuse to serve God by not attending church services. But David did not stop at serving God under any condition. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He even thanked and praised Him. His elders and servants were surprised at his actions and they asked him. He answered in II Samuel 12:22 “while the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, I thought, who knows the Lord may be gracious to me, that the child may live”.. Imagine David who God loved so well but refused to hear his pleading and fasting. It does not matter whom you are, what concerns God is for you to tow the path of righteousness and learn to abstain from sin. Therefore, let people endeavour to part ways with sins..