MAKURDI – High Chief Moses Ayom, a former presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on Nigeria’s President-elect, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu to consider Senator George Akume for the position of Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) or in the alternative, appoint him to the office of Chief of Staff (CoS) to the President. Ayom made the call while reacting to the plea by Bishop Alli John Alli under the auspices of Clerics Congress of Nigeria and Middle Belt Bishops Conference (MBBC) on Tinubu to consider Ayom for the position of Minister during a telephone interview with newsmen in Makurdi on Monday. The former presidential aspirant noted that at the moment his desire was for the President-elect to appoint Akume who is currently the Minister for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs as SGF or CoS to the President. He argued that although he had the requisite qualification to be Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, he stated that projecting Akume who is the APC leader in Benue state to be given the appointment at this point in time was a sacred duty he owed Senator Akume who made him what he is today. Ayom who was on the entourage of President Muhammadu Buhari to China along with Aliko Dangote for the inaugural Business meeting where he was named the Outstanding Advocate (Ambassador) of China/Nigeria bilateral relations said he would prefer to focus his energy on the task of working with the Chinese to boost the nation’s economy in areas of concern. While answering questions from newsmen on the call for him to be considered for the position of Minister, Ayom noted that the call also came to him as a surprise. He said, “Yesterday and today, (Saturday and Sunday) I read in the news through different channels and also received calls from notable Nigerians, friends, associates and business partners drawing my attention a publications by a group of clerics under the auspices of Clerics Congress of Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I am highly honoured and sincerely appreciate this group for making a case for me to be considered for a ministerial appointment before the President-elect Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu. POLL “I want to believe they did that in good fate based on their assessment of my person, my contributions to the party especially in the last general elections and my experience. “I am convinced that they may have taken that bold step because of my struggles for the actualization of a Middle Belt Presidency and many other considerations using their own parameters. “Anchoring on the above, I wish to state here categorically and emphatically that: I am not interested in a ministerial position not because I am too big to serve my country under a Tinubu-led government as a minister but because, as someone who has tremendous respect for elders and leaders. “I will rather demand and passionately appeal to the incoming President that, Sen. Dr. George Akume be considered for the position of Secretary of the Government of the Federation or Chief of Staff to the President. “This is because, Sen. Dr. George Akume is my leader and mentor, he made me who I am today just as he has made so many other people. Akume was also the one who brought me into our great party, the APC. He has done so much for me and I cannot deny it.” Ayom said to add to that “Both Akume and the President-elect have a very special relationship first as former governors, leaders of our party and critical stakeholders. Therefore, if Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu appoints Sen. Dr. George Akume, they will work better because they know each other closely. “It is also my firm belief that, if Akume is given an appointment, he will not leave me behind, because he is a man with a charitable heart and magnanimous disposition. As far as I know, he is my leader and as a loyal and committed party man, protecting his interest and projecting his image is what I consider as a sacred duty. “You must be aware that President Muhammadu Buhari selected me along with Aliko Dangote and we were in China for the inaugural Business delegation meeting, where we signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) worth billions of dollars. It was that outing that earned me the Outstanding Advocate of China/Nigeria bilateral relations and I think I will rather concentrate on that task of working with the Chinese Government through its embassy in Nigeria to better our economy. “However, I commend the Clerics Congress of Nigeria for making a case for me. I am urging them to pray for Nigeria our country and pray for the President-elect so that there will be a smooth transition where Senator Tinubu will be able to grant my request by appointing Akume into his cabinet, he stated.