Hon Muktar Betara Aliyu, incumbent House committee chairman on Appropriation has dispelled allegations that he did antiparty during the 2023 general election, and funded a particular Presidential candidate, an allegation he said is a blatant falsehood. Instead, he said he supported members and leaders of the party during the election which beneficiaries can readily attest to. The House of Representatives Speaker Aspirant cleared the air when he joined his colleagues on a protest visit to the party’s headquarters in Abuja, where he observed that the allegation was concocted to distract his campaign for the House leadership. He cautioned that it is unfair and uncharitable for members of the party to resort to blackmail because of his declared ambition. Explaining his roll in the House and during the election, he said he did everything to hold the house for the speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila and supported leaders and members during the election. Tracing his ambition to contest for the Speaker in 2019, Hon Betara said he was prevailed upon by Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu then to support Gbaja I have been in the National Assembly, we came in with the deputy in 2007. We have in the House for 15 years today and in the last House, I was to contest with the current speaker. I was called by the President-elect (Tinubu), he told me I want you to allow Femi to be the speaker because Femi is retiring from the National Assembly. From there we moved on to support Femi to become the speaker. After our election in the 9th Assembly, the President-elect still called me and said, Betara I want you to hold the House for Femi and I said Daddy, I will work for Femi for four years I am not going to turn if Femi really is ready to work with us with an honest mind and he said go ahead I will talk to Femi. POLL Femi appointed me as Chairman House Committee on Appropriations where I worked well with him. Everybody here can testify that it is in the 9th Assembly that we have a good running with the Appropriations without any hitches. I have done well for the House and I have done well for the party. I need to tell everybody here that when we were going in for the election, I supported every member of APC and I supported some of our leaders contesting for elections. ” I was shocked, when I was hearing that I did anti party. My unit is in Biu my result is in INEC you can request for my result for my unit, if did anti-party it is going to show. “Another thing I need to clear here sir, somebody told me that the same group are saying, I gave monies to a presidential aspirant. So if there is any transfer to anybody, the banks are there. I want to still tell you as leaders if I should give money to a presidential aspirant and he wins, what is he going to give me. “My own is I want to become speaker in my party. If another party wins, can I become speaker? No. So we don’t need to blackmail ourselves. Politics is about give and take”. While not opposing decision of the party,Hon Betara maintained that it would not augur well if a candidate that is alien to his colleagues should be foisted on the 10th assembly as Speaker .“We are not against our leaders but if we should sit down and say amongst yourselves, pick somebody you think you can work with, it is easy. But the person, the speaker is trying to even pick, there are some of our colleagues that don’t know him. That’s the truth, I am not lying. “If today the party say we zoned to north west, I have to sit and think because now the party is zoning the deputy senate president and the speaker to the same zone. “We have been in this Assembly, there is no time, two presiding officers are zoned to one area. It has never happened. And in our discussion here, on our inauguration day, it’s what happened in the Senate that will determine what is going to happen in the House. “So, we need to sit down and look at it. We might produce the Senate President from a different zone. It has happened in 2015. So as a party, we are pleading, we need to sit again with all of us and do more consultations”.