LAGOS – Analysts in the nation’s economy have counseled the in-coming Federal Government to embark on fundamental reforms to shore up its revenue drive in the country. They urged the government to take critical look at the concerns that have been expressed by business operators and address same in the interest of the investment environment and the advancement of the Nigerian economy. Besides, they cautioned that failure of the fiscal and monetary authorities to boost the output capacity of real sector players in the last eight years of implementing capital control measures have exacerbated exchange rate pressure, due to growing import bills. According to the analysts, fixing the country’s infrastructure is at the very heart of building a competitive economy and a fundamental requirement for economic diversification and sustainable job creation. They maintained that the fiscal and monetary authorities should address the long-term challenges in a timely manner to avoid significant economic consequences, adding that from World Bank report, for every one percentage point increase in food prices, 10 million people are expected to fall into extreme poverty. They also told Daily Independent that there was need for the Federal Government to initiate policy measures that will address rising incidence of insecurity required for seamless farming, food production to build resilience to balance of payments shocks and ensure a sustainable economic recovery. They said that the escalation of production and operating costs for businesses, leading to erosion of profit margins, drop in sales, decline in turnover and weak manufacturing capacity utilisation can have significant economic consequences in both short and long run this year.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The World Bank Group in recent report has said that 10 countries with the highest food price inflation, in nominal and real terms, faced Catastrophic/Famine levels of food insecurity, which indicates the threat of famine and extremely critical levels of malnutrition in several areas of the countries, marking the most countries facing such extreme levels of food and nutrition insecurity in the report’s history, which began in 2017. POLL According to projections available for 38 of the 58 countries and territories as of March 2023, up to 153.4 million people are projected to be in IPC/CH Phase 3+ or equivalent in 2023. In addition, several shocks that occurred in early 2023 including tropical cyclone Freddy in Madagascar, Malawi and Mozambique, the earthquakes in the Syrian Arab Republic and Türkiye, and the escalating conflict in the Sudan, were not factored into the available estimates and are likely to exacerbate the acute food insecurity situation in these countries and territories. The World Bank in the new report indicates that the number of people facing acute food insecurity at Crisis levels or worse has increased from 193 million in 2021. This mostly reflects an increase in the population analysed, although the prevalence of acute food insecurity has also increased from 21.3 percent of the population in 2021 to 22.7 percent in 2022. This trend indicates a deterioration of global acute food insecurity. Although the size of the population analysed has increased, the number of people experiencing Crisis or worse acute food insecurity is the highest on record since the GRFC started reporting these data in 2017. This marks the fourth consecutive year of increases in the global number of acutely food-insecure people. The report said that the agricultural, cereal, and export price indices closed 8 per cent, 9 per cent and, 11 per cent lower, respectively, than two weeks ago. The decrease in maize and wheat prices, 14 percent and 11 percent lower, respectively, than two weeks ago, drove the decrease in the cereal price index. Rice prices remained relatively unchanged. The decrease in coffee prices, which were 12 percent lower than two weeks ago, was the primary driver of the decrease in the export price index. On a year-on-year basis, maize and wheat prices are 17 percent and 38 percent lower, respectively, while rice prices are 15 percent higher. Maize prices are 13 percent higher than in January 2021, while wheat and rice prices are 6 percent and 4 percent lower According to the World Bank domestic food price inflation remains high. Information from the latest month between January 2023 and April 2023 for which food price inflation data are available shows high inflation in almost all low- and middle-income countries, with inflation greater than 5 percent in 64.7 percent of low-income countries, 83.7 percent of lower-middle-income countries, and 89.0 percent of upper-middle-income countries with many experiencing double-digit inflation. In addition, 81.8 percent of high-income countries are experiencing high food price inflation. The most-affected countries are in Africa, North America, Latin America, South Asia, Europe, and Central Asia. In real terms, food price inflation exceeded overall inflation in 84.3 per cent of the 159 countries for which food CPI and overall CPI indexes are both available. This week’s 10 countries with the highest food price inflation, in nominal and real terms. The 2023 GRFC finds that the root causes of food crises are complex and interlinked, with conflicts, national and global economic shocks, and weather extremes acting as interrelated, mutually reinforcing drivers of acute food insecurity and hunger. Dr. Muda Yusuf, CEO Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE), in chats with Daily Independent at the weekend, implored the incoming Federal Government to fix the country’s infrastructure which is at the very heart of building a competitive economy and a fundamental requirement for economic diversification and sustainable job creation. He said: “The transformation in the agricultural and manufacturing sectors depends to a large extent on the quality of infrastructure. “It should be stressed that it is a resilient private sector that could ensure a resilient economy, create jobs and guarantee the welfare of citizens in a sustainable way as well as give more revenue to the government He emphasised urgent need for government to reform trade, textile and garment manufacturing, food & beverage manufacturing, and real estate and other contributing sectors of the economy to boost non-oil revenue generation and expand its tax collection bracket as the only option left to boost domestic revenue drive. “We implore the government to take a critical look at the concerns that have been expressed by business operators and address these concerns in the interest of the investment environment and the advancement of the Nigerian economy”. Biola sobowale, analysts in his article: ‘Five Disturbing Economic Trends To Watch’, stated that “Insecurity: Foreign investment in agric sector in Nigeria tumbles by 99%”, News report, June 8, 2022. According to the report, “Capital importation into Nigeria’s agriculture sector tumbled by 99.23 per cent from $237.83 in the fourth quarter of 2021 to $1.76 the first quarter of 2022.” “That means almost no new FDI in the first quarter of the current year. Even the $1.76m which came in might not represent fresh investment but redemption of previous commitment. Irrespective of what the small amount represents, it signifies three growing problems. “First, foreign exchange inflow was far less than expected; and the exchange rate gets worse. The negative impact of that alone on inflation will be very significant. “Second, food production has suffered a direct hit; and the harvest for the year will be less than expected. That will again add to food-induced inflation as the year progresses. “Third, because investment invariably results in job creation, divestment also inevitably leads to job losses. “Furthermore, since close to 75 per cent of our agriculture is Northern-based, as well as rural, it is understandable why investors are moving away. Bandits, kidnappers and herdsmen have combined to render farm work suicidal. My friends in the North, still in farming, inform me that farm labourers are almost impossible to find for every amount of money. “As farms lack funds and staff with which to operate, they will naturally lie fallow. Every farm deserted adds to the global and national food crisis. “Insecurity: Local, foreign investors withdraw 69% of investments”, News report, June 2, 2022. Sobowale argued that scary, as it is, the divestment from the agriculture sector alone tells only half the story of our economic predicaments. Executive Director of the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, told Daily Independent that institutional reforms are necessary to ensure that the regulatory institutions have better disposition to support the growth of investment and focus less on the generation of revenue this year. He said: “The macroeconomic management challenges have manifested in the following ways over the years: weak and depreciating currency, high inflationary pressure, high debt profile, exchange rate volatility, liquidity crisis in the foreign exchange market, increasing fiscal deficit, acceleration of money supply growth following the rising CBN financing of deficit may affect the targeted GDP Growth rate in 2023. “There are also profound concerns around investment climate issues. High infrastructure deficit, cargo clearing challenges which has continued to worsen, weak productivity in the real sector largely as a result of infrastructure conditions, regulatory challenges and policy inconsistency which both fiscal and monetary authorities need to take care of to survive the test of time” Cordros Researchers in their weekly Economic and Market Report (12- May-2023), stated that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Credit to the Private Sector (CPS) increased by 18.1% y/y to NGN43.07 trillion in March (March 2022: NGN36.47 trillion). “For the review month, we highlight that the increase in CPS reflects the impact of improved domestic macroeconomic conditions and CBN-led interventions on the real sector. On a month-on-month basis, the CPS increased by 3.1% in March (February 2023: -0.5% m/m). In addition, the currency in circulation increased to NGN1.68 trillion in March; a 48.1% y/y decline, highlighting the effects of the CBN’s currency redesigns.