…..Says the postponement is not cancellation of the Exercise. In a bid to achieve seamless exercise, the National Population Commission, NPC has on Tuesday inaugurated a Security and Logistics Committee to assist in the implementation of her mandates in Kogi state. This is just as it allays the fears of the public that the postponement of the exercise was not a ground to cancel the exercise. He said contrary to the assumption by some Nigerians that President Muhammadu Buhari has cancelled the exercise, it was farther from the truth as the postponement was to give room to the incoming Government to complete the process.The Honourable Federal Commissioner for Kogi state, Professor Jimoh Habibat Isah while performing the inauguration in Lokoja, commended members for their promptness and eagerness to contribute their quota to the success of the exercise. He said the commission is counting on their expertise and experience view of the prevailing insecurity and environmental challenges facing the countries to enable them to succeed in the national assignment.He acknowledged their untiring support which has lightened the work of the commission and urge them, like Oliver Twist, to continue to offer suggestions and contributions for the overall implementation of the mandate. Prof. Isah who is also the Co-chairman of the committee with the State Security Adviser, lamented that for a long period of years, the country has been carrying out its development plans based only on projections, saying the 2023 census has become necessary to provide accurate data for the national development. In a remark, the State Director of the commission, Ojo Titus Abiodun commended the Kogi state government and members of the committee for their usual support and collaboration that has given rise to today’s inauguration.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He hoped, with the calibre of men of the committee drawn from the military, Police, Civil Defence Corps, Customs, FRSC, DSS; Road Transport operators Vigilante services and CBN will offer their services, for the Success of the headcount. POLL In their separate remarks, the members of the committee pledged unallowed commitment and to deploy, the wherewithal of their officers to contribute to the successful exercise. They assured that the logistics demand of the commission would be professionally handled even as the Security and environmental challenges will be confronted head-on to make sure that there will be no room for failure.