AWKA  – The emphasis at the 25th matriculation ceremony of the Federal Cooperative College, Oji River, Enugu State, was entrepreneurship development and the attainment of financial freedom, self-reliance and self-employment status. That was the subject matter as the Enugu State Manager of Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Mr. Ijomah Eberechukwu Felix, took the matriculating students on a journey as to how they can legitimately become wealth creators and employers of labour upon graduation. Ijomah, who was the guest lecturer on the occasion and whose lecture focused on entrepreneurship, said it was no longer news that government can no longer provide jobs for the teeming population of Nigerian youths; hence the need for young Nigerians to look inwards to discover innate capabilities and subject same to procedural training for acquisition of requisite skills for self-development and self-empowerment purposes. The lecture, which was an eye opener for the matriculating students, admonished them to shun all forms of quick money mentalities as seen in the present day “Jakpa syndrome, Yahoo Yahoo and Yahoo Yahoo Plus syndrome.” The guest lecturer emphasized that the choice of Federal Cooperative College, Oji River, was a veritable means of conquering dependence on non-existent white-collar jobs, saying that the school is a breeding ground for employers of labour and wealth creators. That the time has come for people to look inwards to find out what they need to do or what they can do to add to the growth and development of the country vis-a-vis personal development and growth. The essence of the guest lecture was to have a paradigm shift by steering the minds of the matriculating students towards being self-reliant, self-employed, self-sustained and their own boss. That the feat must not wait till graduation but must be achieved while they were in school. That it is only by being an entrepreneur and owning a small business that they can achieve it. That they should begin to think of what business they can start as students which has the potential to be fully developed on graduation. The guest lecturer was of the opinion that Nigeria is still the best country in the world one can live in despite every odds, adding that small business is the solution to acute unemployment, poverty eradication, rapid economic growth as well as productive employment. That the likes of Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, Mike Adenuga, Innoson, Coscharis, Ifeanyi Ubah and many other famous Nigerian entrepreneurs have demonstrated that rewards in life are the true results of imagination.