LAGOS – SYL has Launched the ‘Africa Leaps with AI’ Initiative in a bid to create awareness about Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the role it can play in the development of the Nigerian economy. Speaking at a workshop at the weekend, Mr. Oluwatosin Odubela, Managing Director of SYL Multimedia, a Canadian-trained Information Technology manager, said that the Africa Leaps with AI is a non-elitist approach to create more awareness about artificial intelligence. He stated that the initiative intends to provide concise and easy-to-understand training workshops that target the grassroots with news about the “Latest Trends and Boundless Possibilities in an AI age”. Odubela, also a former ICT and Multimedia Head of the Centre for Distance Learning, Obafemi Awolowo University, and the founder and lead developer at QuickHelp Nigeria, commenced the series of AI workshops to mark the fifth anniversary of QuickHelp Nigeria, an AI-powered personal emergency and directory service. At the launch, he remarked that “the workshop is necessary to help Nigerians and indeed Africa seize the moment to finally escape the hard grip of poverty, bad governance, illiteracy, and crime”. The AI workshops, according to Odubela, will provide information that will help participants distinguish between the theory, facts, and fiction about the new Artificial Intelligence age. He disclosed that the workshops offer topics like practical ways to create wealth in an AI age and boost one’s career with AI. He added that the workshops also cover insights into acquiring new and relevant skills that will ensure career survival and success in an AI age, as well as traditional and modern tools for creating AI products. The AI workshop, as organized by Strategies and Yields Ltd, also provides new critical skills for business optimization, automation, and control as well as safety guards and security hints in an AI age. Odubela said that the participants will have opportunities for partnerships, collaboration, and investment into viable AI projects that are being undertaken by the company, notable among them being the BotBoards. POLL According to him, the BotBoards are AI powered Smart Boards for primary, secondary and tertiary institutions, adding that the boards are designed to augment the delivery of classroom instructions, support learners’ evaluation procedures and provide on-demand career counseling tips for learners under a collaborative learning environment. “We conducted a funny experiment by asking ChatGPT a question: How can Africa become a superpower? The responses are quite instructive, and I quote “Becoming a world superpower is a complex process that requires long-term planning and investment in various areas such as education, technology, infrastructure, healthcare, and government stability. To achieve this, Africa must focus on promoting innovation and entrepreneurship, eradicating poverty, strengthening democratic institutions, improving healthcare access and outcomes, and enhancing education and literacy rates.” This, he said, “means that the focus should be on quality education that will produce people that will stay and solve our problems. “The workshop will continue, and we expect there will be copycats, but they have our blessings. We all need to rapidly get involved so that Africa does not miss out on the 4th Industrial Revolution. This might be the last industrial revolution by humans,” he said.