Former President of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Youth Movement, Ahmed Mahmud, the Ajaka Ward 1 Women Leader, Saidatu Ogohi, and hundreds of leaders and members of opposition parties in Kogi State have defected to the All Progressives congress (APC). Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State received the group of former members of the PDP in Igalamela/Odolu Local Government Area who also pledged support for the APC gubernatorial candidate, in Kogi State, Ododo Ahmed Usman. Led by former caretaker Chairman of Igalamela Local Government Area, Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim, along with Hon. Adama Sani and Aikoye Anu, the defectors from Ajaka Ward 1 and 2 joined the APC. Governor Bello expressed appreciation to the defectors for recognising the achievements of his administration and for choosing to join the APC. He emphasised that the APC, being a progressive party, welcomes all individuals who are willing to contribute to the development of the state, assuring the former PDP members that they will have equal rights and opportunities within the APC, just like the existing members. Speaking on behalf of the defectors, Abdullahi Ibrahim noted that their decision to join the APC was based on the remarkable achievements of the current administration, which have positively impacted all local government areas in Kogi State. He specifically highlighted the rehabilitation of the Umomi-Akpagidigbo-Ugwolawo-Ajaka-Idah road, a significant infrastructure project in Igalamela, as a key reason for their support for Governor Bello and his party. Abdullahi further mentioned that Governor Bello’s accomplishments led to an influx of opposition party members joining the APC, and that they were determined not to be left behind. POLL Abdullahi expressed their readiness to work towards securing victory for the APC in the upcoming governorship election. He praised Governor Bello and the APC for the emergence of Hon. Ododo Ahmed Usman as their candidate, stating that Ododo’s seven years of experience working with the current administration, coupled with his compassionate nature, made him the right candidate to sustain the developmental progress achieved by the present government.