The Police Service Commis­sion (PSC) on Sunday de­manded that Seun Kuti, who allegedly assaulted a police officer in uniform and on official duty in Lagos, must be arraigned immediately. Oluseun Anikulapo Kuti, popularly known Seun Kuti, is a Nigerian musician, singer and the youngest son of Afrobeat pioneer Fela Kuti. Seun leads his father’s former band Egypt 80. PSC in a statement by Ike­chukwu Ani, its Head, Press and Public Relations, said that the Inspector-Gener­al of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, must ensure that the matter is followed to its log­ical conclusion to restore public confidence in the Ni­geria police as the lead agen­cy in internal security and in its ability to maintain law and order and also protect lives and properties. The commission con­demned in strong terms the assault of the police officer and commended the Inspec­tor-General of Police for his prompt action in ordering the arrest and prosecution of Seun who obviously has diminished the sanctity of the symbol of authority of the Nigerian nation, it said in the statement. The statement said the chairman of the commis­sion, Dr. Solomon Arase, former Inspector-General of Police, said no matter the offence the police officer committed, nobody, includ­ing Seun Kuti, has the right to assault a policeman in uniform and on official duty. Dr. Arase frowned at the effrontery of Seun to slap the police officer, insisting that Nigeria is not a Hobbesian state where might is right. “We must as a civilized people explore established channels of complaints against alleged infractions by law enforcement officials rather than this uncouth be­haviour in assaulting the symbol of authority in our country”, he noted. POLL “We look forward to the prompt prosecution of Seun to act as a deterrent to oth­ers of his ilk”, Dr. Arase added. He further commended the police officer for refus­ing to be provoked by the action of his aggressor, a development, he said, would have been more fatal. The PSC chairman said it was unfortunate that at a time the management of the Nigeria police was dealing decisively with officers who harass, intimidate or as­sault civilians on our roads and work places, the same police officers have become victims of the actions of some uncultured elite. He said the police should use the present incident to set an example that this will never be tolerated in Nige­ria, a country governed by laws, rules and regulations. The chairman noted that the groundswell of public opinion against the conduct of the abuser is indicative of the love and respect Nige­rians have for the law.