LAGOS – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone ‘A’. with headquarters in Lagos, has said that it impounded 14 trailers of rice, petroleum products and other items with a total Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N746,157,425.00 The Unit disclosed that the seizures were made in the Month of  April, 2023. Similarly, it added that it collected the sum of N66,726,153.35 through the issuance of Demand Notices (DN) to defaulters who tried to cut corners through duty evasion, and underpayments among others. This, according to the Unit, was in their continuous quest to prevent revenue loss through infractions such as under-valuation, under-payments, and wrong classification. The Unit’s Acting Controller, Hussein Ejibunu, a Deputy Comptroller of Customs (DC) disclosed during a press briefing in Lagos on the anti-smuggling activities of his Unit. He said that  10 suspects were arrested during the period under review. The seizures made, according to the Customs boss are 8,309 (50kg) bags of foreign parboiled rice which is equivalent to 14 trailer loads; 2,428 (25 litres) of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS); 221 cartons of foreign frozen poultry; 486 parcels (262kg) of Indian hemp; four units of foreign used vehicles; 111 pieces of used tyres; 10 bales of used clothing, and eight sacks of used shoes.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “I am pleased to once again update you on our anti-smuggling activities in April 2023, because bringing the seizures and arrests we make to public knowledge, is to dissuade smugglers and duty evaders from their illegal activities and encourage law-abiding business people to stay on the path of legitimacy.“We want to reiterate that it pays for importers, exporters, haulage operators, and their agents to operate within the ambit of the law because doing otherwise places them at risk of losing their investments and facing prosecution as enshrined in the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA).” POLL According to Ejibunu, the Unit, through the Federal High Court, had secured eight convictions during the last 10 months, while 48 different cases are at various stages of prosecution. He further disclosed that the following persons: Ayo Ayinla, Abdulrasak Egbekunle and Tunde Rasheed were arrested for being in possession of bags of foreign parboiled rice; Kehinde Kilani was nabbed for improper importation; Adeleke Adebayo was found in possession of bags of foreign parboiled rice, Victor Hassan and Yusuf Shuaib were arrested for being in possession of smuggled goods, and Nguyen Huy Hieu was nabbed for being in possession of Pangolin scales meant for export. He said that all of them have been convicted. The. Ag. Controller explained that while the smugglers planned to take the Unit unaware during the religious festivities, adding that, but,  its round-the-clock patrols were sustained and backed with intelligence even during the public holidays. He said that the outcome of its unrelenting onslaught against smuggling is evident in the number of seizures recorded with zero casualties. Photo captionDC Hussein Kehinde Ejibunu, Acting Controller FOU Zone A, Nigeria Customs Service