LAGOS  – Women in Nigeria, especially the smallholder farmers play important roles in agriculture as they account for about 70 to 80 percent of the sector’s labour force. Inspite of this nationwide, smallholder women farmer still seem not to have the necessary support needed to boost their productivity and contribute more to ensure the nation is food secured. A study recently conducted through the Value Addition Biennial Review Toolkit (VABKIT) reflected the realities of smallholder women farmers across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It shows that currently only 18 percent of smallholder women farmers have access to processing facilities, 16.60 percent have access to storage facilities, 13.50 percent have access to off-takers/access to markets, 9.60 percent have access to transportation for agricultural produce and 42.30 percent have access to training. While on Extension Services, smallholder women farmers have access to only 5.26 percent farm demonstrations and 19.47 percent farmers’ field schools and on agricultural credit, they have access to less than 23 percent of existing credit facilities. On Agricultural Insurance, smallholder women farmers have only 4.77 percent access and on access to and control over land, about 59 percent of them have access to land, 29.77 percent have control, while only 11.23 percent are engaged in land governance discussions. Reacting to the study, women farmers in separate interviews with Daily Independent, said the only way these narratives can change is if the government gives the women farmers the necessary support they need. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ They call for the establishment of processing hubs across the local government, better funding, regular training and support and also the implementation of gender policy enhancement. POLL Chi Tola, CEO, Chitola Farms Limited while speaking on the basic issues that need attention to help maximise the efforts and contributions of Smallholder women farmer said that they require integration and reorientation and in fact more training and support, stating that a lot of them still believe in conventional farming and this is because there is no adequate training and enlightenment on improved farming methods. She said women farmers required access to improved services and facilities because they contribute immensely to agricultural and agro processing growth in this country. Tola noted that the rural women are still very important in the value chain, that until we can improve their methods, output may not improve. Speaking further she said the government needs to invest more in creating agro hubs, which should be accessible and quite affordable. “The farmers should be engaged in the discussion, their needs should not be provided to them on assumptions. They should be engaged to find out what they need, where they need it and how they want it. “By engaging these women, a lot will be extracted to help in proper women farmers friendly policies to be developed and implemented. The truth is, if a group of women for example, in a community prefers their processing hub at the back of the community market, trust me, when it is put there, it will be of immense benefit and will be used optimally. “You can’t possibly set a processing hub in a community where the women can’t easily transport their produce by head, bike or even small trucks considering the fact that most of these smallholder farmers are located in communities where there is not a good access route.” Mary Afan, National President, Small-scale Women Farmers Organisation in Nigeria (SWOFON), said that the government has the sole responsibility of changing the narrative because they hold the resources of the citizen in their custody. “Most of the time they sit down to plan on our behalf and that is why they don’t really understand what we want. We cannot do anything in terms of achieving food security unless we increase the budgetary allocation. “In as much as the government does not prioritize this sector, it becomes difficult for them to allocate resources. There is no commitment to show that they are committing XYZ amount of money to boost agriculture which is the mainstay of the economy, even whatever they are allocating how much of this goes to women in terms of capacity building, in terms of processing machine among others. “We really want the government to implement the gender policy enhancement which has been passed by His Excellency. The policy says 35 percent of all inputs should be given to women. If this is done, it will go a long way,” she said. Also, Abimbola Francis, General Secretary of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Lagos State chapter called on the government at the various levels to make available processing hubs for women farmers at their various communities so that these farmers will bring their various produce to the hub for processing. She also noted that women farmers need machinery and farm implements to make their farming business easy and less tedious, adding that for the nation to be food secure women farmers have a role to play which they have been playing and need to be supported with an irrigation system. “With the climate change issue now all over the country, no nation should be depending on rain-fed agriculture, what we should invest more on is irrigation, so that we can produce food all year round to feed the teeming population.