ABUJA – Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior, Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), on Thursday decried Nigeria’s current debt stock of N77 Trillion describing it as a calamity of the highest proportion. PENGASSAN raised the alarm its 7th Triennial National Delegates’ Conference NDC 2023 which held in Abuja with the theme: ‘Equity and Social Justice; Advocacy for Equal Opportunities for all Workers’. Speaking during the event, Comrade Festus Osifo, the PENGASSAN President, Nigeria’s current total public debt profile is quite alarming mostly when compared to the cost of servicing the debt to the revenue generated by government per annum. According to Osifo, Nigeria would be using virtually all the monies generated as a country in servicing of debt in the 2023 budget as current debt profile as at the first quarter of 2023 is mind-blowing and may take several generations to repay them, stressing that it will be a calamity of the highest proportion unless the country does all it can to increase the revenue base. “According to the Debt Management Office (DMO), the Country’s Total Public Debt profile, representing the Domestic and External Debt Stocks of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN), the thirty-six (36) State Governments and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) currently stand at 77trillion Naira. This is quite alarming mostly when you compare the cost of servicing this debt to the revenue generated by government per annum. In the 2023 budget for instance, we will be using virtually all the monies generated as a country in servicing our debt. This is a calamity of the highest proportion unless we do all we can to increase the revenue base” he said. The PENGASSAN boss also noted that the current state of the nation’s economy is of great concern to the association. According to him, PENGASSAN expected to see steady growth in GDP, increase access to employment for the country’s teeming population and diversification of the economy but unfortunately, all that had been witnessed are poor implementation of both fiscal and monetary policies; adding ‘policy inconsistencies have continued to militate against Nigeria’s projected growth and development as a nation’.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL On the issue of Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), Osifo, urged the incoming administration tofast track the implementation of different sections of the Act to the benefit of Nigerians. “As the new government comes in, we implore them to fast track the implementation of different sections of the Act to the benefit of Nigerians. “The provision of the Act that will further deepen the development of the midstream sector of the Nigeria oil and gas industry should be aggressively implemented. This will lead to the provision of gas infrastructure that will in turn aid gas development and help in harnessing the vast gas reserves in the country. “We warn that the implementation of the PIA must not be made to pass through armtwisting tactical bureaucratic monsters that bedeviled the PIB. The Host Community Development fund and trust should be immediately constituted” he said. The PENGASSAN boss however, enthusiasm over the current rehabilitation going on in refineries, most especially the Port Harcourt Refinery. “Members of our Association are quite happy with the current rehabilitation going on in our refinery today most especially the Port Harcourt Refinery. We commend the current NNPC management led by Mallam Mele Kyari OFR for the bold steps towards a workable approach to bringing back on stream the ailing refineries and effort to putin place the Operations & Maintenance Strategy that may eventually bring about the desired change in operations model of the refineries. “We will also continue to advocate for the adoption of the NLNG model in the running of the Nation’s four Refineries when fully revamped and the creation of an enabling environment for the establishment and operation of modular and private Refineries. We are happy that the current NNPC led Management is favorably disposed to such. With the Dangote refinery, there will be a significant impact on the fuel supply dynamics, including easing pressure on the economy, especially when combined with the ongoing revamping of the three refineries in the country. “The incoming government must do all within its reach to see to the conclusion of the current rehabilitation effort and initiatives that is currently in place so that our nation’s refinery will come up in no time. “Our Association pledge to continue to lend its voice and support to policies that would put the Nation’s Oil and Gas sector in good shape to enable it compete with its: peers in other parts of the world. We welcome the bold move by operators of Dangote Refinery coming on stream soon and hope that its addition will enhance loca production, reduce products importation as well as end the era of uncertainties in petroleum products pricing and evils of subsidy payment”.