LAGOS – Breakthrough Nigerian-Canadian artiste, Joey Jaey, has revealed that all is set for the release of his debut album Naija to the 6ix come July 2023. Joey Joey who has been making waves with his heady blend of Afrobeats, R&B, and Amapiano assures music lovers of quality sound, smooth lyrics and an overall unforgettable experience with his upcoming body of work. His debut album features 10 tracks, including the new single “Kolombo” (dropping June 2023) and a ballad version of his previous track “Ije Love” from his EP of the same name. The EP features five songs, including “Precious,” “Flavour,” “Feel,” “Bam Bam,” and “Ije Love”. Joey Jaey has since released official music videos for “Bam” and “Precious”, which have over 200,000 streams combined to date. “I worked tirelessly on this album to give it my best and I can assure you that it going to be worth your time and money”, he says via a post on his IG @joeyjaey. “Expect the quality sound, catchy lyrics, and rhythm, good music generally.” Based in Toronto, comparable to contemporary superstars like Burna Boy and Wiz Kid, Joey Jaey’s sensual, addictive, distinctive melodies have racked up hundreds of thousands of views ahead of his hotly anticipated debut album releasing this July. Joey Jaey grew up in a musical family – every member was in the choir. In high school, he was the singing prefect and discovered his love for writing, which eventually led him to composing music for friends and family members who were professional musicians. After graduating from university and working as a full-time lawyer, Joey Jaey took a hiatus from music until the pandemic hit in 2020. Realizing the fragility of life, and not wanting to live in regret, he picked up his pen again and soon released his debut single “Friends” ft. Ajuju and Meyar. With more time to figure out his sound, Joey Jaey explored multiple genres before embracing afro beats primarily, infusing them with his unique soul and flavor.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Motivated by real-life experiences and societal issues, Joey Jaey’s lyrics dive deep into themes he’s passionate about, including social reforms, women’s empowerment, societal values, love, and heartbreak. His influences include international legends such as Tuface Idibia, Damian Marley, Tracy Chapman, Bilal, and Barrington Levy. POLL Since releasing his debut single, Joey Jaey has performed at the Canadian Music Week Festival (2021 and 2022), and is setting his sights on even bigger stages. With his dynamic sound, socially conscious lyrics, and impressive performances, Joey Jaey is a force to be reckoned with in the music industry.