LAFIA – The Nasarawa state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday accused officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of frustrating its case at the governorship election petition tribunal in the state. This is even as the opposition PDP has called for intervention and justice to enable it to prosecute its case at the tribunal in the state. The party spokesman, Malam Ibrahim Hamza said despite the tribunal’s order, INEC staff at the local government areas have vehemently refused them access to electoral documents for inspection. Mallam Hamza, said electoral officials have reduced the party to ridicule by coming up with ridiculous excuses thereby frustrating PDP’s legal team’s opportunity to diligently prove its case through the documents. He said the case of the Karu Local Government Area was peculiar, accusing the electoral officers of allegedly changing ballot papers used during the governorship in the local government to conform with the prayers of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the tribunal. “In the course of the inspection, the electoral officers at some local government offices of INEC could not avail the parties with the required materials at their disposals, alluding a number of incomprehensible reasons. “However, it was discovered that in the Karu LGA office, the electoral officers have been away from the office after the elections. As this is not enough, they are presently changing the ballot papers in an attempt to temper the records and evidence that may be needed to assist the persecution. “We have also discovered that unused ballot papers are nowhere to be found in the disputed areas because the electoral officers are now clearing all the used ballot papers. POLL “In other local governments visited, our team was told that the documents are not ready. “In our opinion, these are the antics and plot to delay the release of the materials until they are tempered with as evidence and proof of election malfeasance” “These are deliberate acts by the electoral officers to deny us documents to cover up in favor of the APC,” the party alleged..The party therefore appealed to all well-meaning Nigerians and lovers of democracy to call on the INEC’s Resident Electoral Commissioner in Nasarawa state, Dr. Uthman Ajidagba and the commission’s Chief Administrative Officer in the state to prevent a situations that would further impinge and erode the little confidence left at the disposals of Nigerians on INEC administration in the state,” he said. He assured that the PDP remained committed to due process for good governance and security of the state, the party called on its supporters to “remain calm and hopeful for its victory at the tribunal.