LAGOS – The West African Examinations Council, undoubtedly the foremost examination body in the African sub-region, has announced that the globally adored prime product and most respected admission ticket into any respectable higher institution, the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) would begin on Monday, May 8 and end on Friday, June 23, 2023. Making the announcement was Mr. Patrick Areghan the Head of Nigeria National Office of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) at a press conference on Thursday in the Council’s head office, Yaba, Lagos. The examination season will see candidates being examined in 76 subjects, made up of 197 papers. About 30,000 practising senior secondary school teachers, nominated by the various State Ministries of Education, would be participating in the examination as supervisors. According to the HNO, a total of One Million, Six Hundred and Twenty-one Thousand, Eight Hundred and Fifty-three (1,621,853) candidates from Twenty Thousand, Eight Hundred and Fifty-one, (20,851) secondary schools have registered for the examination. Out of the number, Seven Hundred and Ninety-eight Thousand, Eight Hundred and Ten (798,810) are males, amounting to 49.25%, while Eight Hundred and Twenty-three Thousand, and Forty-three (823,043) are females, which is 50.75% of the total candidature. The statistics, according to Areghan, show that there is a further increase and decrease in the number of females and males respectively, compared to the 2022 diet. On the whole, the candidature for the 2023 WASSCE (SC) increased by 13, 868 over the figure of 2022 (1,607,985). “Teachers in all the schools presenting candidates for the examination would serve as invigilators in their respective schools.  Supervisors and invigilators for derecognized schools would be solely appointed, from outside the schools, by the State Ministries of Education concerned”; Areghan hinted.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ It is noteworthy that for the second time in succession, the Council has been able to successfully revert to its well-known May/June examination period for the conduct of the examination. POLL “This is remarkable. The significance of this landmark is that the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) and the various member States, with the exception of Ghana, have now again found common ground in respect of their academic calendars. “This shows a massive recovery from the devastating effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic. Our sincere gratitude goes to the Honourable Minister of Education and his Ministry for this memorable achievement, and to the Registrar to Council for his untiring efforts”; Areghan appraised. Readers will also recall that the examination in focus is the School Candidates’ diet of the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), meant for the regular exit-class (SS3) students in all approved government and private secondary schools in the country. The Council has established a self-service system for candidates, through the CHATBOT Platform, to enable them to access their entries, which in most cases, the schools do not allow them to see, contrary to instructions. The Candidate Self-Service is a service on the Request Management System/Chatbot (https://request.waec.ng) which allows students to confirm data uploaded for them by schools in order to make necessary corrections (if any) on such data.  It provides two key services on the Request Management System which include Confirmation of Entry/Registration and Confirmation of Continuous Assessment Score (CASS). Candidate Self-Service is established to eliminate incessant mistakes made by schools during CASS capturing and candidates’ registration.  These errors were mostly not communicated to the candidates until the release of the result. It has also been observed that a large number of queries after the release of results which eventually delays the printing of affected candidates’ certificates.  Also, this accounts for the high rate of amendments after certificates are printed; The generation of clean candidates’ data during the conduct of WASSCE for School Candidates and processing of  results, which includes CASS and Registration/Entries information; The Self Service System will also assist in making error identification and correction easy for candidates and all stakeholders; Areghan assured that candidates would derive a lot of benefits from making use of the platform. Such benefits, according to the HNO, include: Though not compulsory, National Identification Number (NIN) was made a component of the registration requirements. The WAEC boss in Nigeria explained that the policy came into being in line with the directive of the Federal Government. Hence, the candidates are expected to supply their NIN at the registration stage, but it was not a compulsory requirement in order to avoid denying many eligible candidates access to the portal/examination. Even after the registration exercise, candidates were still allowed to submit their NIN for upload. Therefore, no candidate was disqualified from registration as a result of non-submission of NIN at the beginning of the exercise, or, even later. He further tutored that the Continuous Assessment (CASS) score is a major component in the computation of grades for candidates in the WASSCE (SC) examination. The use of technology has made it possible for the Council to provide platforms to enable schools to upload, manage and access students’ CASS data seamlessly and make such data available to schools on request. Currently, the Council allows the upload of CASS data in SS1, SS2 and SS3, designated as CASS Year 1, CASS Year II and CASS Year III at different upload periods. For each period of upload, the Council opens its portal free of charge for all schools and also extends the period of upload from time to time to enable all schools to upload. Meanwhile, he has warned that schools that fail to upload within the expected time frame after several free upload periods face possible penalties. Aregahn also warned that no school would have any result without a complete CASS upload. The WAEC boss, however, lamented that the Council faces a challenge in the implementation of the CASS policy due to the uncooperative attitude of some schools. He listed a few of the challenges including the failure of some schools to upload their students’ CASS data within the upload time frame; This is even as most schools choose to contract the CASS capture to external personnel, leading to the consumption of incorrect data during the registration process; Use of irregular or dormant or placeholder candidates data by some schools which leads to the introduction of external students into the School candidates registration process; Intentional delay of upload by schools in order to introduce external candidates during the WASSCE (SC) registration; The upload of fictitious scores of students to the CASS portal by some schools (this is taken care of by WAEC using the Scaling method during grading). The council’s pilot observed what he described as “a very serious challenge of non-adherence to the registration deadline by some school authorities, to the extent that what the Council started on the 10th of October, 2022 with a set deadline of January 27, 2023 and eventually extended to March 31, 2023, could still not even end due to the shenanigans of some private schools who were in the habit of shopping for external candidates to make up numbers, contrary to the policy which does not allow the enrolment of Private Candidates for School Candidates examination.  Entries eventually closed on April 15, 2023. “The examination starts on Monday, May 8, 2023. It will surprise you to know that some schools are still bombarding us with requests for entries, even after the pre-examination, examination and post–examination materials have been produced and are being distributed to the various States of the federation.”; Areghan exposed. The WAEC top-notch noted that there are many flashpoints all over the country, and conducting examinations in such areas would require extra security arrangements. “Consequently, we are liaising with the Inspector General of Police, Brigade Commanders, other security agencies and the various State governments to provide security in order to ensure that the examination is conducted in a secure and safe environment.  We have also sought the intervention of the Honourable Minister of Education in this respect. “Similarly, our Zonal and Branch Offices have reached out to various security outfits in their respective locations for assistance. Courtesy visits and other forms of appeals have been made and we have been assured of the full cooperation of the security agencies to this effect. If and when the need arises, schools in insecurity-prone areas would be relocated to safe havens, with the full approval, cooperation and participation by the Federal or State Government concerned. Schools, where more than half of the candidates who registered and sat the examination were involved in examination malpractice in two or more subjects, are usually derecognized.  This means that such schools are no longer qualified to be counted among ‘recognized schools’ for a period of two years.   It further means that: They would no longer be allowed to take the WASSCE (SC) for two years in their schools. Though they would be allowed to register for the examination, they would have to take their candidates to other schools chosen and arranged for by the State Ministries of Education concerned. No single teacher from the schools would be nominated or appointed to serve as supervisor or invigilator in any school. During the examination, only the school principal and science subject teachers would be allowed to enter the Examination Hall (to maintain discipline) and Science Laboratories (to set the Laboratories), respectively. All expenses for conducting the examination would be borne by the school. All erring teachers, principals and proprietors would be reported to the appropriate quarters for necessary disciplinary action. All schools currently under derecognition and those that are currently ‘clean’ are warned to desist from any and all forms of examination malpractice to avoid a second derecognition or derecognition. Meanwhile, any school where gross acts of examination malpractice are perpetuated would have their Recognition withdrawn Sounding hard and hash against any form of malpractice in any of its examination diets, Areghan warned: “Let me remind you that the Council decisively deals with examination malpractice of any kind. The penalties for involvement in examination malpractice will always, without compromise, be meted out to erring candidates, invigilators, supervisors, schools, WAEC officials, etc, as would be approved by the Nigeria Examinations Committee (NEC), which is the highest decision-making organ of the Council that sits on examination matters in Nigeria. The Council, on its part, has rolled out several awareness campaigns, organised seminars for school proprietors, principals, teachers, students and other key stakeholders in Branch and Zonal offices nationwide to sensitize them on the ills of this evil. Similarly, we have made flyers, banners, posters and other forms of reminders to further keep the message afresh in the minds of all stakeholders. “It is, therefore, on this note that I call on parents and guardians to encourage their wards to study diligently and desist from engaging in any form of examination malpractice.   The mass media must play its watchdog role. “The various Ministries of Education should call their principals, teachers and other officials serving as inspectors and/or supervisors, to order. Supervisors should desist from allowing candidates to make use of their cell phones or availing the candidates of their own (supervisors’) cell phones. “They should avoid writing answers on the chalkboard or dictating the same to candidates. Any form of aiding and abetting, collusion, etc, should be avoided. School principals and teachers should sensitize their students on the dangers of this menace. “Every candidate and examination functionary must play by the rules, which are well stipulated in the WAEC Syllabus and Guidelines for the conduct of examinations, issued to schools.  Erring schools will be derecognised; erring officials would be adequately punished while erring candidates would lose their results. Without mincing his word, the HNO told the operators of the so-called “Miracle Centres” that their game was up even as he stressed that the existence of such anomalous centres is “only in the imagination of their operators and patrons as WAEC has no such schools in its records, even though we know they exist. “We are closely watching all suspected schools. However remotely located any school may be, it will not escape our radar as our in-built anti-malpractice mechanism will be deployed to catch them. I want to reiterate that it is left for candidates to choose between something or nothing; having their results or the risk of not having their results and wasting the entire six years they spent in school; and for schools; having their results or facing the risk of not having their results and being derecognised. Please be warned. “We also want to sound a note of warning to all operators of rouge websites that WAEC will not condone their heinous acts during the conduct of the fast-approaching examination. Parents are hereby advised to desist from patronising these evil-doers who are hell-bent on frustrating the efforts of WAEC and destroying the destiny of their children. “They should have nothing to do with them as that would only lead to the truncation of their children’s future.  Meanwhile, we are perfecting strategies, as usual,  with all relevant agencies to checkmate these fraudsters and bring them and their patronizers to book.  There will be no hiding place for them.   Be warned”!”  