LOKOJA – The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the November 11, 2023 governorship election in Kogi state, Senator Daniel Dino Melaye, has promised to provide constitutional roles for the traditional rulers in the governance of the state. Senator Melaye made the disclosure on Tuesday during his courtesy call on the Royal Majesty, Ata’Igala, Matthew Opaluwa Oguche-Akpa, in Idah, headquarters of Igala kingdom. He promised to accord the ATA Igala stool its rightful place, saying the stool is one of the most revered kingdoms across South of Sahara, and that his royal blessings are necessary in his bid to win the forthcoming election. He noted that his visit to the foremost traditional ruler is to announce his success at the PDP primary election and to seek his royal blessings to enable him to prosecute the election. He praised the royal father for his forthrightness and commitment to fairness and justice, stressing that his prayers are devoid of network failure with God. According to him, Ata’ Igala stool is respected and strategic across South of Savannah and North of Limpopo. I’m here not to Campaign but to announce myself and my running mate Hajia Habibat Mohammed Deen to you. “We are here with our team to receive your blessings for our aspirations. “I promised to ensure that the stool which is one of the oldest in the country is accorded its rightful place. If elected by the Grace of God, we will ensure that a bill will be sent to the state House of Assembly for the recognition of traditional institutions in governance. Your position is strategic with our ancestors and God and why should we mortal deny you your rights? POLL “I promise not to be a tribal and religious leader but to rule with the fear of God where every person will be given opportunity to actualize his or her God’s given endowments, without fear or molestation. While praying for good health and longevity for the monarch, promised not to disappoint the Igala kingdom by providing sustainable development to the state. In his remark, HRM, Matthew Opaluwa Oguche-Akpa, the AtaIgala commended the flag bearer for his success at the primary election and urge him to carry all members of the party along in his campaign. He prayed to God to grant him wisdom and strength as he goes about prosecuting his campaign. Those in his entourage include the PDP state chairman, Engineer Sam Ohuotu, party stalwarts and faithful.