The Arewa Youth Assembly has reiterated its stand to always add its voice on burning issues of national interest. AYA, during a press conference in Kaduna, stated: “We can’t allow anyone to want to use his personal interest to cause havoc in our nation.” According to the group, “Notable security agencies have been petitioned to effect the immediate arrest of the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Joe Ajaero over his alleged plot to scuttle the inauguration of President-elect, Alhaji Bola Ahmed Tinubu. In a press statement signed by the group’s Spokesperson, Ali Muhammad, it reads; “A strong-worded petition to the Inspector General of Police and the Director of the Department of State Services, the Arewa Youth Assembly accused Ajaero of using the Nigeria Labour Congress as a platform “to achieve his Biafra agenda.” “We also accused him of corruption, alleging that he and his Secretary General received one bulletproof SUV car each worth N1Billion to sabotage the planned workers’ strike against the cashless policy of the apex Bank. “We regretted that this is the first time in the history of NLC that two people from one ethnic group are occupying the office of President (Joe Ajaero from Imo state and Secretary General, Emmanuel Ugboaja from Abia) at the same time. “In the petition, we have drawn the attention of the security agencies to open threats by Ajaero to scuttle the inauguration of President-elect, Alhaji Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Another important issue is, apart from threatening the judges handling the election petition tribunal, Ajaero has gone ahead to sabotage institutions of state in the name of strikes. POLL “Ajaero showed his ethnic card by inviting Peter Obi to the last May Day celebration in Abuja without extending the same to the leadership of other political parties and even the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria who is the number one laborer of the nation. “We regret that Ajaero is using the Igbo-dominated NLC to sabotage the economy of the country in the guise of strikes. The disruption of flights to Imo State on Wednesday where an airline reportedly lost N700m is only a rehearsal of what Ajaero plans to do to Nigeria”s economy, ahead of Tinubu’s inauguration. “The invasion of Lagos and Imo airports by IPOB fundamentalists masquerading as NLC is only but the beginning of what Ajaero is hatching to stop Tinubu from taking the Oath of Office on May 29. He has assumed the position of the judges in the case and that is a dangerous precedent,” They lamented. “We, therefore, call on security agencies to immediately arrest Ajaero and his Co-conspirators before they plunge the nation into an avoidable national crisis,” the group stated.