Nigerians in Cameroon have risen in support of the recent zoning of the Senate Presidential seat to the South-South geopolitical zone and particularly, Senator Godswill Akpabio. Organized under the aegis of the Coalition of Nigerians in Cameroon, the people saidAkpabio has the requisite credentials and experience to lead the 10th Senate and help the Asiwagu Bola Tinubu administration to turn the fortunes of the country around. In a press statement jointly signed by Mr Peter Edet, Chief Emeka Ajuonuma, Amb. Charles Eyo, Prince Otobong Ituen, Mr Iniobong Essien, Chief Anietie Akpata, Mr Sylvanus Nyong, Alhaji Idris Haruna and Mr Bolaji Ogunyemi and made available to our Correspondent in Uyo on Friday, the people described Akpabio as “a politician of no mean repute, a go-getter, mobiliser, visionist, great teacher and a man of uncommon personage”. “We have observed with very keen interest the intrigues, aspirations, aspersions, campaigns of calumny, struggle for power and offices, backstabbing to outsmart others, even by those who never believed in the ruling party and or the candidature of Alhaji Tinubu. “We align with the position of the vast majority of Nigerians, the National Working Committee, NWC, of the ruling All Progressive Congress, APC, and members of the 10th Senate, for their unequivocal desire and rooting for Senator Godswill Akpabio to become the next Senate President in the Red Chambers. It is our prayers that God will put a seal to this positive development that will put a square peg in a square hole”. The statement stated They further described Sen. Godswill Akpabio as a man who toils day-and-night to deliver what he believes in despite daunting challenges. “He ran a peaceful, issues-based campaign and overcame his opponents and conspirators to become once again, the recurring decimal in the Akwa Ibom State and or Nigeria political turf”. “As Senate President, Senator Godswill Akpabio has the capability, capacity, carriage, intelligence, panache and wisdom to lead his colleagues, make useful laws and provide the enabling environment for the next government to deliver on its mandate. We have no doubt that the excellent performances and records in public service, law and social engineering he brought to bear during his tenure as the Governor of Akwa Ibom State would be replicated for the benefit of all Nigerians.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “As a detribalised, patriotic, focused, resourceful, progressive-minded and visionary leader, Senator Godswill Akpabio would become the proverbial star that will team up with the incoming President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to renew our hopes and bring about a better country for all of us. POLL “As a former Minority Leader of the Senate, we are confident that Senator Godswill Akpabio will come into office with untainted legislative experience that would bring people-oriented legislation and policies,” the statement read in parts. They congratulated and identified with the recent victories at the polls of the President-Elect, Asiwagu Ahmed Tinubu and the Senator-Elect for Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District, Senator (Dr.) Godswill Akpabio, saying, “we specially acknowledge the President-Elect for the foresight, vision, ruggedness and resilience, which culminated in his sweet victory at the polls. We are persuaded to believe that with his long years of experience as a freedom fighter, democrat, lover of peace and development, straightforward and pragmatic personality, Nigeria is in for a new deal after May 29, 2023.” The people expressed optimism that with the duo of Tinubu as president and Akpabio as Senate President, “the yearnings and aspirations of many Nigerians, over the years, will be met and the economic boom that had eluded this country for so long, will become a reality.