Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a communication expert and seasoned politician, is a chieftain and a leader of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State. Adikwuru, a member of Imo State Presidential Campaign Council under Media and Publicity Sub-committee, is also the State Publicity Secretary of Imo State Professionals for Atiku, as well as the State Coordinator of the Imo PDP Grassroots Movement. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on several issues of national importance. Excerpts: Nigerian workers last Monday joined their counterparts all over the world to celebrate the May Day. How do you see the condition of the Nigerian workers? The Nigerian worker is likened to a slave or prisoner who is under the pressure of satisfying his master with little or no reward. The Nigerian worker is the moving force for the economic growth of the country. Yet, he is retarded to the poverty lane by the government which benefits from the worker’s labour. Conclusively, the Nigerian workers deserves more welfare than the government is offering How do you see the celebration of the May Day in Imo State and the reported public endorsement of Governor Hope Uzodimma on May Day? The Workers’ Day celebration in Imo State was characterised by the usual Uzodinma rampaging thuggery disruption and desperation for false endorsement. This has caused unrest in the labour sector with outages in electricity and aviation industry, while Imo residents and businesses suffer the effect. What do you think should be done to improve the lot of the Nigerian workers? Simply, the government should as a matter of expediency, increase the minimum wage to N50,000. This will spur the Nigerian worker to more productivity, while the government rewards the worker in commensurable level. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ What is your take on the recent postponement of the 2023 population census? POLL The Muhamadu Buhari government is no longer ashamed of its monumental corruption. The government can no longer hide the impunity of fraudulent governance and mass embezzlement of public funds. How can you justify the postponement of the census project which has drained billions of naira, well-funded and expended and you come up with postponement to write off billions of naira already projected for the exercise? It is either there comes a change, or the change comes up. The Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the apex socio-cultural organisation for Ndigbo, recently expressed anger over the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari to release the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) leader. How do you see this development? The Ohanaeze Ndigbo is the umbrella body for the Igbo nation and her citizens. The protection and promotion of the lives and properties of the Igbo person should be paramount to the leadership of the body. It is therefore not surprising or abnormal for the group to clamour for the release of Nnamdi Kanu. So, the group is doing the needful and this should be escalated through negotiation and dialogue. Still on the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, how do you see the recent emergence of elder statesman, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyawu, as the body’s new President General following the death of Professor George Obiozor, also from Imo State? The expectation from Ndigbo on Chief Iwuanyanwu’s leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo is that of improved intertribal and interreligious relationships fostered between the Igbos and the rest ethnic and religious groupings in Nigeria. Chief Iwuanyanwu has traversed the nooks and crannies of the country and made enormous contacts and goodwill which, if put in use in his new position, will be of immense good not only to the Igbos, but also the entire country. My reservation, however, is on the inconsistency, unpredictability and oftentimes, self-serving characters in Chief Iwuanyanwu coupled with the political platform of his emergence as Ohanaeze President General. Recent and, in fact, recurring activities of Chief Iwuanyanwu have reduced people’s trust and confidence in his delivery of desired leadership of the apex Igbo socio-cultural and political body. However, given this sceptism in the minds of majority of Igbos, the onus lies in him to prove us wrong and go all out in the service of the Igbo nation putting the general interest at heart. As Imolites go to the poll on November 11 to choose a new governor, how do you see the undercurrents among politicians and the major political parties? The Imo guber election coming on in November will be hot, heated, and expectedly the will of the people must prevail. Irrespective of the fact that it will be one all in the federation, imolites will come out en masse to cast and defend their votes. The electoral manipulations through the use of fake uniformed men by the present APC government will be on check and never will they be given the chance to upturn the popular choice of the people. I can say that the election is narrowed down to APC and PDP with PDP getting strategically disposed to upstage Hope Uzodimma and APC. How would you explain the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the recently held House of Assembly election? The last State House Assembly election in Imo State was just a mafia attack and self-declaration by APC. It is on ground that APC lost the main election, but got the aid of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security forces to manipulate the outcome of the elections to its favour. For sure, PDP won most constituencies of the State Assembly and the ruling government converted the retinue of security agencies and Ebube Agu into the electorate that voted for their candidates. An instance is Aboh Mbaise State Constituency where I come from and my PDP candidate, Princewill Ugochukwu Amuchie, was cruising to an unprecedented landslide victory with about 187 uploaded results. But, suddenly as we awaited the INEC declaration of Amuchie, the APC candidates accompanied by their thugs and fake security stormed the INEC office and went away with materials to Owerri. The same thing took place in other local government areas where APC lost the election and the use of force was employed to falsify the results. What is the PDP and its candidate in the governorship election, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, a.ka Sam Daddy, doing to achieve victory? The PDP is the party for the masses and the electorate. Our party has gone back to drawing boards to reunite, restrategise and reconnect for victory. I can only tell you this much now and events as they unfold will give you a convincing detail. The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal just started handling the 2023 presidential election matters. Since the presidential elections cases in this country usually end in the Supreme Court, do you think it is possible for the Supreme Court to give its ruling on the presidential election suit ahead of the May 29 inauguration? The right thing should have been to thrash out all cases before inauguration of the new president so that once inaugurated, the president will swing into governance rather than waste time and state resources trying to retain power. Unfortunately, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in connivance with the All Progressives Congress (APC) has frustrating legal moves. That is why the case is just beginning at the tribunal, while the real hearing is yet to commence. And this is yet another absurdity of both the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the ruling APC to sustain the electoral fraud. With the Imo governorship election few months away and following what transpired in the presidential and other governorship elections across the country, to what extent do you think the Imo people should believe in the BVAS technology as a way of deciding winners of elections? There is no trust in BVAS as far as INEC as presently constituted is concerned. The manipulations in the BVAS wherein transmission of the results at the polling units was stalled, makes nonsense of the technology. It would have been better to go with manual accreditation and voting than the multi billion naira gulping technology turned to the APC rigging technique. Very very unfortunate. What is your advice to Imo people as they are getting ready for the election? I can only enjoin Imo people at home and outside to be fully ready for the election and take a lead in the protection of the votes. Doing this will see the exit of APC and enthronement of PDP back to the state. How do you think the corruption in the oil sector could be checked? Oil sector of the economy has served as a conduit pipe for corrupt activities of government officials. The absence of the refining base in Nigeria continues to increase the level of corruption in the oil sector. One is that the big oil thieves take our crude outside for refining and return the finished products at maximum profit to themselves. The smaller oil thieves engage in illegal refining hence increasing bunkering activities all of which deny the government huge economic gains. The key to abolition of oil theft is the revival of refineries in Nigeria and that calls for immediate action.