KOLA OWOLABI When a new business is born, everyone is excited about it just like a new baby is born into a family. However, one or two years down the line the new baby is expected to have started walking and after some time to start running around with confidence rather than falling down all the time. The same way, a new business is expected to grow and stabilize in the market place and start making its mark among competing businesses. The same business is expected to continue growing and continue to acquire more market share and ultimately attain a dominant position in its industry. What are the factors that make growth easy and seamless among businesses, both small and big? I will be discussing one of the most important of these factors in today’s column. This factor is hunger or passion to grow the business to become one of the first three most successful businesses in the industry. One highly successful entrepreneur was quoted to have said that he won’t go into any business that he won’t be one of the first three best businesses in that industry. It means that you must have hot passion to drive it not only to ultimate success but you should be ready to drive it to number one or two or three position within a short time of its establishment. If you cannot be number one, or two or three within a short time horizon and strive to maintain the position, then don’t go into it or else it will end up being a mediocre establishment. POLL What does it take to be number one to three? Absolute commitment, diligence, integrity and sacrifice. Microsoft Corporation, the world’s largest computer software maker was created to be a market leader from day one judging from the way the company’s founders executed their first brief, incidentally given to them by IBM, the erstwhile market leader of their industry. Bill Gates, Microsoft’s co -founder and his partner Paul Allen (now late) spent three days and nights without seeing any other human being working on the job, (a software called Disk Operating System). It was quoted that they worked so hard that they would just collapse and crash on the floor to sleep for a brief moment and wake up to continue. The job was delivered in record time to IBM who promptly paid for it. But something else interesting happened. The job was so well done that Microsoft used the same software and licensed it to themselves which later became Microsoft Windows, the Personal Computer operating system that became number one and is still number one after nearly forty years in use. It made the company to topple IBM from number one position in the industry. So, if you want to decide a business to go into, please answer the question, are you willing to give it what it takes to drive it to the position of number one or two or three in your industry? Our own Aliko Dangote is following the same pattern. He got out of banking when his Liberty Bank couldn’t be number one or anywhere near number one among Nigerian banks. He did the same thing in Noodles manufacturing, when Indomie proved a hard nut for him to crack. Most of his current businesses are in industries where they are number one or at least number two or three. • Kola Owolabi is the Principal Consultant and CEO of David Richard Associates, a company he founded in 1998. He is a Business Plan preparation expert and has been very active in the Business Development landscape in Nigeria in the past 23 years”. He was a leading consultant in many prominent business development projects in Nigeria, i.e., World Bank Growth and Employment Project (GEM) and YOUWIN Connect (Grading of Business Plans of Applicants). He is a Fellow of the Institute of Management Consultants of Nigeria.He can be reached on 08023203198