P/HARCOURT – President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has promised to work hard to ensure that no part of the country is marginalised in terms of even dis­tribution of developmental projects. Asiwaju Tinubu, who will be inau­gurated as president on May 29, said this on Wednesday in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, during the commissioning of some key projects in the state. “I will not marginalise any region, but will leave legacy projects across the length and breadth of Nigeria,” he said at the inauguration of Rumuok­wuta/Rumuola Flyover Bridge. Inaugurating the Rumuokwuta/Rumuola Flyover, the President-elect noted that his presence to perform the duties of commissioning the fly­over for public use is another way of building bridge, most essential for the country. Tinubu also described the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, as a dependable ally, one who promoted the unity of Nigeria, fairness and champi­oned justice. Without succumbing to gossips and speculations, Tinubu noted that Governor Wike stood his ground as a principled man and worked for the presidency to come to the Southern part of Nigeria. “In His Excellency (Nyesom Wike), I see a man of principle, he took a principle stand that the presidency must return to South and he had the courage to stand by his conviction, not minding whose ox is gored. He is indeed a man of great integrity, he did not choose to serve his own interest. Not about him, rather the interest of the nation. You promoted unity, you promoted fairness, you championed justice. Thank you.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He commended the audaci­ty demonstrated by Governor Wike in delivering quality proj­ects to Rivers people to make them happy, create excitement for them and enhanced devel­opment across the state. POLL The president-elect said the demand for a refund on the flyover bridges so construct­ed on federal roads, though a worthy request, should not be borne with the mindset that he is owing the state because the projects are within Rivers and are used by the people. “I owe you nothing on your demand for refunds for the 12th flyover. It is your own. You live here. You can only lobby me to refund you the money”, Tinubu responded to Wike’s demand. The president-elect recalled that he went through grue­some campaign, fought hard, and with the likes of Governor Wike providing structural sup­port, he won the presidential election squarely. “Nyesom, I say thank you for your contribution to my victory. I couldn’t have done it without your structural sup­port.” The President-elect com­mended the Rivers State gov­ernor-elect, Sir Siminalayi Fubara, for his electoral victory. Earlier in his address, the Rivers State governor, Nye­som Wike, drew the attention of the Federal Government to the need to amend its procure­ment law in order to end inces­sant abandonment of projects that it handles. The Rivers State governor explained that the current pro­curement law of the Federal Government only allows for about 15/30 percent to be paid as mobilisation fee to a con­tractor. Such meagre sum, he said, usually does not allow the con­tractor to make appreciably progress on the project before being caught up by inflationary effects and high cost of materi­als, which eventually requires variation of the contract terms. Governor Wike said when he noticed a similar snag in the procurement law in Rivers State, on assumption of duties, he interfaced with the speaker of the state House of Assem­bly, who worked together with other lawmakers to amend the then existing law. Commenting on the 12th flyover bridge, Governor Wike explained that it is one among others started from 2019 and de­livered by his administration. Some of the dignitaries pres­ent at the occasion included the wife of the Rivers State gover­nor, Justice Eberechi Suzzette Nyesom-Wike; the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; governors of Oyo State, Seye Makinde; Muhammadu Bada­ru Abubakar (Jigawa), Senator Hope Uzodimma (Imo), David Umahi (Ebonyi). Other are former governors of Rivers State, Dr. Peter Odili; Chief James Ibori (Delta), Ab­dulkareem Adebisi Bamidele Akande (Osun), Chief Ayo Fay­ose (Ekiti), Dr. Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Comrade Adams Osh­iomhole (Edo), and Chief Timi­pre Sylva (Bayelsa). Others in attendance in­cluded governor-elect of Rivers State, Mr. Sim Fubara; Minister of Youth and Sports Develop­ment, Mr. Sunday Dare; Mr. Dele Alake, and Alhaji Kashim Ibrahim Imam, among others.