ABUJA – Abdulaziz Yari, former Governor of Zamfara State and Senator-elect for Zamfara West, on Monday in Abuja, distanced himself from the zoning arrangement for principal offices of the National Assembly by the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). Yari told journalists that he is in the race for the Presidency of the 10th Senate in line with constitutional provisions and not according to his party’s zoning arrangements, or any arrangements made by any political party. He was referring to the APC’s widely publicized zoning configuration of the affected offices where it zoned the President of the Senate to Senator Godswill Akpabio (South-South) and the Deputy President of the Senate (DSP) to Jibrin Barau, North West. Speaking at the sideline of an induction programme held for Senators and Members-elect for the 10th National Assembly at the International Conference Centre (ICC), the former Zamfara governor insisted that his aspiration is not an affront on his party, but that he was still in the race as provided for by section 50 (2) of the 1999 Constitution. He explained, “My aspiration for the Presidency of the 10th Senate is covered by relevant provisions of the 1999 Constitution which, to me, is superior to any other law or arrangement. “I am a loyal party man, nobody has told me that any position has been zoned to anywhere as far as the 10th National Assembly is concerned. “Position of President of the Senate , is first among equals among the 109 Senators . Any Senator-elect who wants to occupy the position, must seek the support of others which I am doing.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is a hire and fire arrangement. I want them to hire me as President of the 10th Senate on the day of inauguration. Many of those approached by me have given their supports and i won’t disappoint them . POLL “My becoming Senate President on the day of inauguration lies with a decision that will be made by 108 other Senators that day and nothing else “. Throwing his weight behind him, another Senator-elect from Zamfara State, Sahabi Ya’u, told journalists at separate interviews, that as far as he and many of the Senators-elect on the platform of APC are concerned, the zoning made by the party was not known to them . “I read about the zoning arrangement in the papers like other people. Nobody has discussed such a plan with us and in any case, Senators-elect are the ones to decide who they want as President or Deputy President “, he stressed. On his part, Senator Victor Umeh (Labour Party, Anambra Central), at another interview said Senators-elect and not party arrangement, will decide who becomes what and what on the day of inauguration. “APC as the ruling party and the party with majority of seats in the Senate, has zoned the positions of President and Deputy President of the 10th Senate to the zones it felt deserves them, but on the day of inauguration, Senators-elect will decide the fate of those interested in the positions as provided for, by relevant provisions of the 1999 Constitution”, he said.