Florence was worried that the man she had come to love might be married and had children. She said in her story that the man looked married but constantly denied ever getting married. He told her he had a child with a lady who was abroad and married. But her continuous quest to find out more about his past had put them at loggerheads. “I am 28 years old and really want to settle down. In fact, my younger sister just got married and I am the only person in my family that is yet to marry. This has put me in a desperate position and I really want to settle down and don’t have time to waste around unserious guys. “I met a man three months ago, he is a mature man, maybe in his early 40s. I thought I had finally found my future hubby. I have already started to love him. He told me he was not married but that he had a daughter. That wasn’t an issue. But I am not convinced because there are some mismatches in his story. Like I saw a picture of a boy and he said the boy was his baby mama’s child. Again, I overheard him talking about his “wife” with his friend. “I have tried to force the truth from his mouth but it seemed that he would never spill anything out. “Recently I told him when we were making out that if I got pregnant I would keep the pregnancy, he got angry and told me he was not ready for another child. And because I kept talking about it, we had to end the relationship. We stopped talking. After some days we reconciled. “But he is very secretive and keep saying he would tell me everything about his past later, and I don’t have that time to wait. I don’t want to wait for him only to discover that I had wasted my time. “I have been to his house, he stays alone there, and we often go to church together. He has introduced me to some of his friends but he refused to take me to see his aunt that he always talked about, he said it was not yet time for me to meet them. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It now looks as if I am nagging too much because I am curious to know about the man I have fallen in love with, and anytime I bring up a discussion about his past, his child, or his baby mama, we end up quarreling. POLL “My fears are: he might be lying about his marital status. Because I didn’t buy the story he told me about the baby mama not being in Nigeria and married to another man. I think he is hiding a whole lot from me. What should I do?” Dear Florence, constantly nagging your man may drive him further from you. I would suggest you let things be the way they are. Since he doesn’t want to talk about them now, just take what he tells you for now. I think you should channel that energy you use to nag him about his past to make him happy, and make every moment he is with you peaceful and memorable. I can assure you, men can’t hide things for long; when he thinks you have forgotten he will have a slip that may reveal all you need to know about him. Another thing, don’t have much expectations from him, enjoy the moment and let time perfect the remaining things. Since he is not talking about marriage yet while you are with him, you can give other guys a chance so that you don’t lose out completely. Know this, not every man that enters your life must marry you, some people are in your life for certain reasons, not just for marriage. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.