When Queen Elizabeth 11 passed on last year, I argued here that her mourning rituals should not be our business in Nigeria. Again, that her son, now King Charles 111, is about to be coroneted and it is still my personal take that we should not bother ourselves about it. It is true that the Commonwealth of Nations now provides a forum for former British colonial entities to associate with the old boss but I do not think that association extends to making British festivities and bereavements our domestic headaches; we are not the same and the tenuous link existing between us is not in any material way dignifying or reassuring to all former colonized peoples. For most Nigerians born after 1st of October, 1963, when the country became a republic, the Queen of England should rightly not mean much to them unless they are fortunate enough to have been taught about her majesty’s role in our post-colonial governance in their history classes before the shameless vandals of the nation’s educational system decided to abolish the subject of history from our school curriculum.Yours sincerely, for example, did not know much about the Queen of England because by the time I was ready for elementary school, we were already singing “Nigeria we Hail Thee!” instead of the colonial “God save the Queen” as the national anthem for the newly independent Nigeria. My only early recollection of her was through a smoke-stained large framed-photo of a young white lady wearing a crown that was strategically hung on the wall of my maternal uncle’s living room in the early-sixties. We were told that she was “Ojie ne Ebo” or the white man’s queen/king but without much of an idea of her overarching sovereign and imperial relationship with colonial Nigeria up till the 1st of October 1963, three years after independence. I became better informed about the imperial and colonial significance of “Her Royal Majesty” when I started studying Nigerian Legal System at the university, a course which is an offshoot of the English legal system wherein most legal businesses are styled and conducted in the name of the Crown. In the military sphere they have the Royal Navy, the Royal Airforce, etc. In other words, militarymen and women are enlisted or commissioned to fight and die in the name of the Queen and all services are dutifully rendered to the Crown. Her imprint is everywhere in the English legal systemwhere you find things like the “The Queen’s Bench”, “Queen’s Counsel”, etc.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Indeed, the entire business of the United Kingdom’s government is conducted in the Queen’s name even though her direct roles in the actual running of government have been greatly curtailed by the exigencies of the enlightened modern life, beginning with the famous Magna Carta which curtailed the powers and functions of the King followed by a series of other reforms that operated to limit the previously near-absolute power of the Crown as well as the universal impact of the rising ideologies of political liberation often couched as republicanism and several other self-determination claims that are now critical components of the modern international legal order. POLL My legal history classes were rigorous examinations of British imperial history and all its “domineering and pacification” exploits across an expansive Empire over which it was boastfully said that the sun “never sets”! That was where it became clear to me that the Nigerian State as we know it today was the outcome of British belligerent imperialism which was enabled by the possession of a strong naval force intended for far-flung maritime dominance that was tactically orientated for sailing to foreign lands to invade, overwhelm and subjugate the indigenous “natives” and peoples into forceful occupation by a combination of military might, political guile and then proceed to later soften the victims into submission with their own religion as “spiritual pacifiers” with a pressured diversion to a new God without which they would not see the heavenly “kingdom of God”. Because they erroneously assumed that we were genetically not equal to them, they embarked on such barbaric acts of kidnapping and exporting our people as market “commodities” or mere “chattels” to be traded overseas where they worked on sugar and tobacco plantations under the pain of whips. Millions of captured Africans were indecently tagged, chained and then shipped overseas from their natural habitats to the Americas, the Caribbean’s, Jamaica, Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago, Haiti, etc., with no wages paid for their forced labour. This extremely inhumane enterprise brought in trillions of pound sterling into the coffers of the British monarchy. But for the Industrial Revolution that made it more economical to replace human labour with machines, whatever physical development that took place in England and in the rest of Europe and the Americas were the direct labour of African slaves which if computed with contemporary economic metrics would be in stupendous figures in the form of unpaid wages. That is the inhuman and gory connections between Queen Elizabeth II, who died recently. As if we have momentarily forgotten our bitter history, some Nigerians foolishly wept more profusely than the bereaved Britons who have legitimate reasons to mourn their dead when she died. The extravagant nostalgia that some Nigerians sometimes express over the British monarchy is laughable as if they did not have their own princes and princesses to adore before the British invasions unfairly undermined them with brutal military expeditions. Because of what I know now, it has become unwise for me to shed any tears for the late Queen because what the institution that she symbolized and promoted stood for harmed us badly through the destruction of our cultures, religions and human dignity. That is why many people could not just buy into the arrogant idea of a “universal obituary” for the Queen of England beyond fleeting political interests and diplomatic lip-services or plain shenanigans involved. If I thought that we did not have any reason to weep more than the British when Queen Elizabeth II died, we even have far less reasons now to be celebrating the formal coronation of her son, King Charles III, scheduled for Saturday, the 6th of May, 2023. I know Nigerians’ penchant to celebrate, just anything. Trust our TV stations that cannot generate their own domestic programmes that will unabashedly turn the distant British event into a Nigerian festival, forgetting that we were forcibly subjugated and dominated by the cruel and exploitative British colonialists in the name of the “Crown”, the constitutional institution of the British monarchy under whose suzerainty we became less than humans, devoid of self-determination. That we now speak their language, English, and have indeed adopted it as our lingua franca, is sufficient reason for us to refuse to partake in their celebrations because whatever made them great and rich are exactly what made us diminished and poor as a people today – exploitative imperialism. I have no reason to criticize the British over the way they want to mark the coronation of their king, but it does not seem right to me that citizens of former British colonial possessions would still be showing more than a cursory interest over an institution that dehumanized their ancestors. Unless you do not see anything wrong in someone coming from across the seas to the land of your birth and forcefully carted away your kits and kings into slavery, plundered your resources and imposed a new God on you and even their own way of life all in the name of colonialism, feel free to join the coronation parade. But if our forebears were indeed attacked, beaten, humiliated or tricked into slavery, we should not at this day and age also be celebrating an institution that was used to brutally devalue us.