ABUJA – Hajia Hadiza Mohammed Kabir, the Mandate Secretary, Social Development Secretariat, Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), has urged media practitioners to constantly foster patriotism by reporting on the numerous developmental strides of the government of the day. Journalists, according to Kabir, must progress, educate, and inform society about policies that are being enacted and the benefits that come with them. She spoke in a media workshop organized by the Coalition For Good on the theme “Balancing Ethics and Patriotism: Journalists’ Obligations to Their Country.” The SDS Secretary, who described herself as an advocate of developmental journalism, noted that the choice of the topic for discourse was apt, timely and couldn’t have come at a better time than now knowing that the Nigerians are at a threshold in their political history. According to her, the practice of journalism, being the fourth estate of the realm, is too important to be neglected by any nation, political party or politician, they not only set agenda for discourse, they engage critical stakeholders in governance and ensure that government is held accountable for its actions and inactions in relation to promises made towards the delivery of democratic dividends to the governed. She , however, decried that the exalted field of journalism is on trial as the gate has been thrown open to accommodate any comer to engage in the all-important business of news and information management, thus, lowering the standards and accuracy of information being churned out for public consumption. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Her words: “As the fourth estate of the realm, you are part of the drivers of the national progressive ideals; part of those that should mobilize and ensure that good policies see the light of the day, not otherwise. As you deliberate and brainstorm today, make it a duty to be champions of progress andadvancement. “Journalists as citizens must ply their trade to the advancement of the country’s well-being, Criticisms must and have to be constructive and not destructive, you must learn from the Western media that will never do what will jeopardize the cohesion and survival of the corporate existence of their Country. “They must not always be on the other side of the divide just to criticize the government as no government is totally bad.Patriotism demands that we seek to act and comport ourselves in such manners as to build and defend our nation and its territorial integrity at all times. “To me, patriotism should be the watchword while applying the ethics of your profession. I agree that you must take to task political officeholders so as to ensure good governance and dividends of democracy get to the grassroot. “Practicing your profession in such a manner that will not cause harm, social unrest, put the government in bad light to its citizens but rather protect the nation and integrity are paramount remains the hallmark of every journalist that knows his onions as it were”, she buttressed.