The Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 17, Akure, Ondo State have been petitioned by members of Omoyajowo and Falae of Eminiwa/Eminio family of Ado-Odo in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State over alleged harassment and threat to life. According to the petition, copies of which were sent to the Inspector General of Police and the Assistant Inspector General of Police(AIG) in charge of Zone 17, Akure, Ondo State, the petitioners alleged that one Chief Sunday Bolorunopani and three others, including Femi Odeyemi, Joseph Andrew and Emmanuel Ologede incessantly harassed, intimidated and threatened their lives and properties. The appealed to the Police chiefs and the state government to save them from the persons they accused. In the petition dated April 20, 2023 and sent to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Assistant Inspector General of Police ( AIG) in charge of zone 17, Akure, Ondo State respectively, and made available to newsmen, the family appealed to the government to save them from incessant “harassment, intimidation and threat to our lives and properties. The attorney to the petitioners, Opeyemi V. Ogunremi and Co. noted that two members of the family, Ganiu Sani and Alhaji Omoyajowo have been in danger following alleged incessant arrest by Bolorunopani, using his position as a policeman to victimize the duo. According to the attorney, Bolorunopani allegedly encroached on the portion of land belonging to his clients after the Bolorunopani family had lost the bid to reclaim the land at the High Court and subsequently at the Court of Appeal. He stated that Bolorunopani had allegedly been using different police stations to harass, intimidate and threaten Sani and Omoyajowo.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The petition reads in parts: “Complaints of abuse of office, threat to life, criminal trespass, assault occasioning harm, unlawful harassment, victimization and conduct likely to cause breach of peace levied against Bolorunopani and three others who include Femi Odeyemi, Joseph Andrew and Emmanuel Ologede. POLL “The attached petition was written due to unlawful harassment, the threat to life and victimization melted on our clients by Chief Sunday Bolorunopani, a serving police officer. “Bolorunopani after his installation as a Chief of Ado Ekiti started encroaching on the portion of land belonging to our clients and at the same time petitioned our clients to the Police in Ado Ekiti. “Our clients were unlawfully harassed and victimized. He continued using different police stations and even Police State Headquarters to carry out his intentions. It was our brief that Chief Sunday Bolorunopani will not relent on his threat of life of our clients by saying that he will kill them if he sees any of our clients on the land which belong to our clients. “Our clients were living under fear of death, this made our clients to write the aforesaid petition to the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 17, Akure, Ondo state. After the petition was received, parties were invited and investigation was going on, but the activities of Bolorunopani in continously arresting our clients did not stop.” The attorney, however, said Bolorunopani petitioned the office of the AIG in Akure and Ayodele was arrested but said “when our office informed them that we already have a petition against Bolorunopani before the same AIG office, rather than merging the petitions together for investigation, the reverse was the case. “We are constrained to write this petition to you sir to caution Sunday Bolorunopani to stop using his position as a Police officer to threaten, abuse and victimize our clients. “We have the mandate of our client to urge and implore you to use your good office to ensure justice to our clients in this regard and to ensure that members of the syndicate are brought to face the full wrath of law.” The Spokesman for Zone 17, Adeola Adeoye, when contacted on the telephone, said he could not confirm the submission of the petition. He, however, assured that the petition would be treated accordingly and all parties involved would be invited for interrogation.