“As a people normally gets the government it deserves, so a society normally receives the punishment it asks for.” Robert Ardrey in Social Contract. Nigeria’s Dr Nwajei, a computer guru, during several interactions with us at Vanguard, repeated a statement which would enter into my second edition of the Vanguard Book Of Quotations, VBQ. “If you want to hide something from the black man, put it in a book.” It was outrageous at first – until he explained himself. Then, the rare insight and the wake-up call wrapped up in that short sentence became apparent. Like most gems of wisdom, which become obvious only when a sage has uttered them, Nwajei’s statement immediately came to my mind when Buhari launched its Agenda 2050 last week. The only sensible thing about the entire episode was the low key approach adopted for launching the obviously (obvious to me that is) worthless document. It is a clear example of black people refusing to read what has been written and documented. They will have to pay people to read it. Here are the reasons why. Based On Flawed Foundations “It does not matter if the cat is black or white, as long as it catches rats.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Malaysian Proverb, VBQ p 26. POLL That proverb was provided by the Malaysian who delivered the Keynote Address to Nigerian leaders in 1992, at the First Nigerian Economic Summit, about Malaysia’s VISION 2020. I was there in Abuja to attend the event initiated by late Chief Ernest Shonekan, the Head of Government under Military President Babangida. That was how the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, NESG, was established. I attended the first eight years sessions; before giving up. Until 1992, Nigerians and the governments were contented to develop Five-year Develop Plans at most. Malaysian VISION 20:2020 which started in 1990 was already two years old when we received the message here in Nigeria; and it was scheduled to last 30 years – which in demographics is regarded as a generation. Vision 2020, in optics, is known as having perfect vision. The ambition in Malaysia was to build a perfect and prosperous society in which every citizen is treated fairly. The planning itself took three years before it was launched in 1990. Everybody important was there at Abuja – all top military chiefs, Ministers, the Organised Private Sector, Academics, Labour leaders, Bankers, NAICCIMA, and the media. Everybody there, except one, was enthusiastic about the whole idea. The speaker was mobbed by participants afterwards by appreciative Nigerians. It was quickly adopted by the Federal Goverment as a national goal. I was there too; and I was the only person who thought VISION 2020 too utopian and possibly unrealisable – without amendments to the objectives and time. Three major reasons among several accounted for my dissent. Here they are. Even the Malaysian VISION 2020 was fatally-flawed. By 1992, when the Malaysian was offering it to Nigerians as the Holy Grail of economic planning and development, it was already being derailed at home. By 1996, when a colleague of mine at the Nigerian Institute of Management, was appointed a Director at a Malaysian Training Institute, I wrote to him about VISION 2020. The damn thing was close to disarray. Here in Nigeria, however, it had become the new mantra, The IBB regime left us with VISION 2020. Abacha came in, very unpopular and seeking legitimacy, launched VISION 2010. The same set of Nigerian elite or clones of the first set, were invited to Abuja to deliberate on how to achieve the impossible by 2010 instead of 2020. It is still difficult for me to understand what motivated most of those invited to participate in the hoax. Money, opportunity for networking, self-advertisement for government appointment or fear of murderous Abacha’s reprisals against those who declined the military government’s invitation were among the reasons Nigeria’s brightest and best brains gathered in Abuja to produce a document for the development of Nigeria, at great costs for a poor country – which has been gathering dust till today; no attempt was made to implement recommendations of the 2010 Committee. I wrote an article in 1996, to ridicule VISION 2010, wondering how poor Nigeria can acieve in 15 years what Malaysia needs 30 years to do, I received a warning from the Directorate of Military Intelligence. The daydream was forgotten, to me quite rightly, by General Abdulsalami Abubakar and Obasanjo governments. That was certainly one of the best things those two leaders ever did for Nigeria. It is better for a nation not to have a vision than a wrong one. According to British Prime Minister, John Major, “People with vision usually do more harm than good.” To me, VISION 2020 was going to result in an economic nightmare. President Yar’Adua inherited Professor Soludo from Obasanjo as Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN; he appointed Dr Shamsudeen Usman, merchant banker, as his Minister of Finance in 2007. By the middle of 2008, it was clear to Nigerians that Yar’Adua, imposed by Obasanjo, was not only a reluctant President; he was clueless and terminally ill at the same time. In the article titled From President To Problem, I pointed out that four years of Yar’Adua would set Nigeria back. Tired of being called Baba Go Slow, Yar’Adua, ably supported by Soludo and Usman, went into the archives; and brought out dusty VISION 2020 as our way forward. It was the most ridiculous and fraudulent idea ever foisted on Nigerians. Yet, in 2009, with only eleven years to reach 2020, the two topmost Economic Advisers of the President were advocating re-starting an idea proposed seventeen years before and which deserved its place in the archives – and forgotten. As I pointed out in a lecture delivered to Government College, Old Boys Association, Ughelli, Delta State, at the time, Soludo and Usman expected Nigeria to grow its Gross Domestic Product, GDP, by 14 per cent per annum in order to become one of the top 20 economies by 2020 – an impossible undertaking given Nigeria’s infrastructural and power supply deficits. During afternoon break, one of the participants drew me aside and said. “Sobowale, please be careful; Soludo and Usman must know something you don’t know to think that it can work. I replied. “Sir, God will spare our lives until 2020. We shall see who is still talking and who is hiding faces on account of statements made concerning VISION 2020.” In 2021, I reminded all the economic soothsayers of VISION 2020 that the year ended on December 31. A colossal lie that started in 1992 and was kept alive to waste our national resources expired. Agenda 2050 Rises From The Dust Of 2020. “The black man will never be respected until Nigeria becomes respected.” Nelson Mandela, 1918-2013. When the Buhari administration launched its AGENDA 2050 two weeks ago, the Federal Goverment did more than waste our funds by releasing a worthless document — thousands of which were certainly produced – the Federal Goverment reconfirmed that the African is a slow learner led by poor quality leaders. I can deliver a lecture on why AGENDA 2050, will never work. But, for now, here are three reasons. First, only by achieving close to 10 per cent growth rate per annum will it work. Second, it is unlikely that any of Buhari’s successors will implement its puerile recommendations. Third, given the unprecedented speed of change now, nobody in his right senses predicts what will happen five years from now anymore; twenty-seven years is just childish.