LAGOS – The Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja, has agreed to lead other traditional rulers in Nigeria to Thailand on a tour to the 2nd Uplifting Youth Through Agriculture (UYOTA) Royal Agric Investment and Youth Empowerment. The tour which is scheduled to take place between 4th and 14th November, 2023 is in collaboration with germane stakeholders and partners both at home and abroad. The organiser of the tour and the founder of UYOTA, Mrs. Afoma Adigwe, explained that the kernel of the programme is for the Uplifting Youths Through Agriculture, an affiliate of Uplifting Women Through Farming (UWTF) wishes to unveil their Royal Agric Investment Tour to Thailand. In his response to the Founder and also the members of the UYOTA delegation, who pay a courtesy visit to his Palace, Arole Oduduwa lauded Mrs. Adigwe and the members of her team for their efforts to empower youths of this country through Agriculture.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Ooni expressed his preparedness to accept the invitation requesting him to lead other traditional rulers and stakeholders in the agricultural sector to participate in the 2nd UYOTA Royal Agric. Investment tour. POLL Ooni told his visitors   that the project is align with his involvement, contribution and investment in the agricultural sector particularly as it remains the most viable tool for a long-lasting economic prosperity adding, “ Among others, the fastest growing Ojaja Pan African Farms Limited is one of my initiatives with which women and youths are wooed into participating in agriculture and I am proud to say that we have achieved a lot of success in this regard’’. He further explained to the team during their visit to the palace, that he is aware of Thailand’s prowess in agriculture and added that a trip like this will go a long way in advancing the nation. Therefore, Ooni  wished the entire UYOTA team an all-round success as they all look forward to a rewarding trip to Thailand . Adigwe had earlier in her speech told the Royal Father  that her visit to Kingdom of Thailand in 2008 where she was taken on a tour of the late  Monarch’s Royal Chitralada Agricutural projects, tailored towards rendering skill acquisition programmes for members of his royal communities. She explained further that Thailand trip availed her with new agricultural techniques that could help in educating women and youths in Nigeria, adding that she was also moved by the involvement of the late Majesty Bhumibol Adulyadej in supporting the government of Thailand through agriculture. This experience buoyed her commitment to share the idea with selected Royal Fathers in Nigeria in order to emulate and replicate the Thai Royal projects. This could not only improve the lives of their subjects, but also give a practical approach towards eradicating poverty in the society. She said In view of the fact that the Royal Fathers are the custodians of landed property in their various communities, they could organise skills acquisition programmes, especially in Agriculture, to utilise the control they have over the lands in their communities and thereby creating employment and self-reliance for the youths. Mrs. Adigwe also said that the idea is centered on how Nigeria can improve on local production while concentrating on food security as well as promoting Royal ties between the two countries The Founder stated that this can create a synergy and collaboration with UYOTA and Nigerian government on agricultural projects which the Royal Fathers will by this tour embrace Agriculture in its totality, to emulate and replicate Thailand’s Royal Chitralada projects, and to also encourage and empower the women and youths within their different communities to go into agriculture.