JOY ANIGBOGU Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State is putting everything in place ahead of his inauguration as the governor of the commercial capital of Nigeria for a second tenure. Sanwo-Olu who secured a second term in office in the just concluded governorship election where he secured 762,134 votes on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) after defeating his closest challengers Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour of the LP who got 312,329 votes, and Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor of the PDP who polled 62,449 The governor has reiterated his readiness to take the state to greater heightens through his THEMES Plus, which are Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology, making Lagos State a 21st Century Economy, Entertainment and Tourism, and Security, because the state is going to have things around inclusion in governance. According to reports, the government is going to have things around gender balancing, whereby it gives more opportunities to the youth and the women and delivers the dividend of democracy to Lagosaians. With that victory the Lagos State government has unveiled an 11-day programme for Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat for their second term inauguration on May 29. The event is scheduled to be held from 21 May to 4 June, and the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoho made that known at a press conference in Alausa Lagos. The programmes which will be held in the five divisions of Lagos – Ikorodu, Badagry, Ikeja, Lagos Island and Epe – are lined up to celebrate Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat, who according to report have performed excellently in office in the first term, with the promise of improved performance, as has been flaunted in the slogan, ‘A Greater Lagos Rising.” POLL The commissioner said Mr Sanwo-Olu will commission projects in eight local government areas of Ajeromi/Ifelodun, Alimosho, Ikeja, Kosofe, Eti-Osa, Lagos Island, Lagos Mainland and Surulere for three consecutive days from day three, 24 May to the fifth day, 26 May. The programme will kick start with the youth carnival and robotic competition, which will involve people living with disability, and will be held simultaneously in all the Lagos five divisions. A public lecture titled “The Making of a Beacon: Lagos and the Consolidation of a Democracy that Works for all” to be delivered by Adigun Agbaje, former Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, will be held on day two, that is 23 May. Book launch and photo exhibition, as well as a Stage Drama performance, will also be held on day two at the Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos,” the statement reads. “Children’s Day activities, which will be held at the Police College in Ikeja, and Novelty Match to be played simultaneously in five divisions of Lagos are scheduled for day six on May 27 while the pre-inauguration rehearsal will be held on day seven, that is 28 May.” Omotoso said that the two events scheduled for day 10 are a cultural display at Mobolaji Johnson Sports Arena, Onikan, and an Inauguration Dinner at Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island. The commissioner further said that the social contract between the governor and the people of Lagos was never taken for granted, stressing that the governor and his team proactively tackled head-on all the challenges that confronted the state within the first term. Omotosho noted that the administration, in line with its campaign promise, ensured that all abandoned/ ongoing projects too numerous to mention, were completed, while he started and completed new projects and worked on a sustainable and enduring future for the state through several bold and audacious policies and projects. Speaking further about the huge progress made by the governor in four years, Omotosho said, “We can safely state here that it is not by accident that the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration continued the Blue Line Rail project and completed it. It also started the Red Line Rail project that is nearing completion amid global economic challenges.” To that effect the state government has also set up a 22-member committee to coordinate the activities for the inauguration of Governor Sanwo-Olu and his Deputy, Hamzat on 29 May. The chief of staff to the governor, Tayo Ayinde, is the chairman of the committee while a former commissioner for education in the state, Saidat Oladunjoye, will be his deputy. Members of the various sub-committees include the deputy chief of staff; Gboyega Soyannwo, Abayomi Oluyomi, Gbenga Omotoso, Aramide Adeyoye, Olawale Musa, Sukanmi Oyegbola, Bayo Ogunlana and A. W. Olarinmoye. Other members are; Kolade Alabi, Bolaji Durojaiye, Tunde Onigbanjo, Adetoun Sanwo-Olu, Tejumade Lawal, Belinda Aderonke Odeneye, Kunle Fagbemi, Fola Hamzat, Simi Mosuro, Hakeem Shittu and Ayiri Oladunmoye. “Mrs Adenike G. Akanbi is secretary of the committee, which also has the special adviser on education, Tokunbo Wahab and Bimbo Onabanjo as members,” the statement reads. Sanwo-Olu on his part has assured residents of the state that his administration’s second term would be greater than the first tenure. He said the rising prosperity of Lagos is on course, pledging that his administration is committed to the safety, security, and prosperity of the citizens He commended the people of Lagos State for their steadfastness in the last general elections, which ultimately allowed him to be re-elected to run the affairs of Lagos State for another four years. “I want to enjoin all of us to continue to remain steadfast and continue to know that even as we end our first tenure and we are beginning our second tenure, the rising prosperity of Lagos is on course. “This government will ensure that the Greater Lagos agenda, which will improve the quality of life and make life a lot more meaningful for every one of you, is what we are about. We believe that the additional four years will be easier, bigger, stronger, and better than the last four years,” he said. The Lagos State governor maintained that all the campaign promises that he has made to Lagosians would be fulfilled. Sanwo-Olu, also assured Nigerians that the president-elect, Tinubu, who is expected to be sworn into office on May 29, has the capacity to chart a new course for Nigeria. He said: “We will continue to remember him (Tinubu) in our prayers. God will strengthen him. God will be with him and abide with him. God will help him be able to deliver all the good things he has in stock for this country because indeed we need to chart a new course. “We need to chart a new beginning for our country and it is at this critical time that we are having a change in government; from one government to another; that new chart is most important. “And we believe that with our president-elect, we have the faith and belief that he is a man that can do it and God will give him the strength and intellect to take this country to the next level.” Also speaking, the Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, urged Nigerians to continuously pray for their leaders, especially Tinubu as he resumes office on May 29, for a successful tenure. Again the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Governor Sanwo-Olu, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, has assured residents of the state to be ready for a lot more goodies from the governor and his deputy, during their second term in office. He said Governor Sanwo-Olu, who is very happy about the people of Lagos State giving him and his deputy, a mandate for the second time in office, would meet the yearnings and aspirations of millions of Lagosians through the administration’s THEMES PLUS agenda. Akosile spoke during Inside Politics with CKN, a political interview programme on Silverbird Television. Sanwo-Olu’s spokesman said that the governor, has made a lot of huge investments in transportation, education, health, entertainment, security, environment, civil service, technology, and other critical sectors in his first term, and would do more during the second term in the delivery of the dividends of democracy and good governance to the people. He said: “The governor started on a journey with six pillars’ THEMES agenda, which are Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology, making Lagos State a 21st Century Economy, Entertainment and Tourism, and Security and Governance. The governor has made very huge investments in all of these areas. And part of our achievements in the first term, which we have not even ended, is the commissioning of the Oba Sekumade Road in Ikorodu among several other road networks across the State, completed and handed over to the public in the first term. “Going into the second term, the Governor will continue with his agenda but he is going to turn it into THEMES PLUS because this time around we are going to have things around inclusion; inclusion in governance. We are going to have things around gender balancing, whereby we give more opportunities to the youth and the women. “Governor Sanwo-Olu in his wisdom together with his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat has tried to meet the 35 percent Affirmative Action for women and even the youths but going forward, we are going to be focusing more on deliberately including women and youths in all of the activities. So, Lagosians should just be ready for a lot more goodies from Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dr. Obafemi Hamzat.”