Technology-enabled automotive trading platform Cars45, powered by Africa’s e-commerce giant Jiji, has signed a partnership deal with Chinese automobile company GAC Motors, to encourage more Nigerians to become owners of quality, affordable cars. At the signing ceremony held at GAC Motors Experience Showroom in Lagos, officials of both companies described the partnership as ”strategic and revolutionary,” noting that it represented “the next phase for the Nigerian automobile industry.” According to them, the new partnership between Cars45 with Jiji, and GAC Motors, will provide Nigerians easier access to quality and affordable cars. Jubril Arogundade , General Manager (GM), Commercial and Group Communications, GAC Motors, said a project called swap had been launched to create a platform for people using GAC cars, over the years, to bring their cars back and swap them with new ones. He explained that under the project, cars that customers will bring back to swap will be evaluated by Cars45 such cars will go on the Cars45 platform and users of vehicles in Nigeria will be able to purchase them on the Cars45 platform. “So, what we are doing, under this partnership, is making sure that every household has a GAC car, either a brand new car or a used car,” Arogundade said, adding that the essence was to create a market where a brand new car sold here in Nigeria, the second hand value of that same car is also sold in Nigeria. “So, the car that we are selling to you as a brand new car today, in two years’ time, will be sold to somebody else as a used car within the same ecosystem. This is revolutionary and we believe that this is the next phase for the automobile industry. “We are very proud to be doing this with Cars45 and their parent company, Jiji, to make sure that you enjoy GAC cars. The functionalities and the specs of GAC cars cannot be overemphasised, Arogundade said, POLL The GM of GAC Motors pointed out that the benefit of the partnership and the swap arrangement is obvious, as will help conserve foreign exchange. “What this will do is that we keep our money within Nigeria and grow the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of this country and the economy of Nigeria,” he said.