Dr. Tunde Elebute, a developmental economist, a rights promoter and public affairs commentator is the Deputy Director, Crime Victims Foundation of Nigeria (CRIFON), Lagos State chapter. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on several issues, including the need for peace as the new administration takes off on May 29. Excerpt: The Presidential Election Tribunal rejected requests for live coverage of proceedings. Do you see it as a loss in terms of developing the nation’s jurisprudence and the people? It is so sad that it was rejected. If they had allowed, at the end of the day, whatever judgment that came would have made people have confidence in the judiciary. By rejecting it, people will believe that they have something to hide. It would have lifted the judiciary. But one should expect what they did because of the outcome of past presidential elections cases. People have no confidence in the judiciary. The decision should have built the nation’s judiciary. The people should have more facts in what the judiciary does. But, it takes strong courage for the judiciary to do it in our clime. What do you think that Nigerians should expect from the judiciary as regards the presidential elections? Nigerians should expect that the judiciary will rule in favour of Tinubu. Right from the Shagari/ Awolowo case, once the presidential election has been declared and the president-elect was sworn in, the judiciary hardly changes it. This is because of the fear that doing so can lead to chaos. The judiciary does not want to cause problems. It is easier to appease the loser than to cause a crisis. The judiciary hardly alters anything declared by the electoral agency as NEC, FEDECO or INEC. To them, it is better to maintain the status quo. What we have are courts of law and not courts of justice. They use the law and technicalities to protect the society. We should expect that they will say that Tinubu won the election. They may say anything to ratify what INEC did. They want to protect Nigeria. All the time Buhari went to court, he did not win. Jonathan did not bother to go to tribunal. However, it was right for Peter Obi to have gone to the tribunal. If he had not, people would no longer believe in him. He cannot withdraw the case from the court now, because it would amount to his political suicide. He has no choice. Whatever the court says, he can appease the Obidients. His going to the court has helped to save Nigeria from more crises. No matter what people say, Peter Obi has a good heart for the nation and for Nigerians. Even the opposition knows that. He may come to rule this country at last id God says so. But, he has saved Nigeria by going to court. Do you think that the constitution and the Electoral Act should be amended to ensure that election cases should be concluded before inauguration? I say capital YES. They should amend the constitution. If cases are in the tribunal, the election has not ended. It is a process. The court is a part of the process. They should amend the law. Let elections come earlier than February and March. Elections should be held in October of the previous year so that they can use about three or four months to conclude the cases before inauguration. Let them finish the process for us to know the actual winner before issuing Certificates of Returns. The current situation puts the judiciary under pressure. The current situation leaves the nation in tension and the judiciary will not like to create uproar, but will like to protect the nation. The incoming National Assembly and INEC should see how they should amend the provisions of both the Constitution and the Electoral Act to ensure that this is corrected. We should be concluding the process before the swearing in. Why is the leadership of the National Assembly of great interest? Don’t you think the legislature should be allowed to choose their leaders? POLL Legislators should be allowed to choose their leaders. Let them do politics and pick their leaders. But, the Executive will ot allow this. The Executive knows that the Legislature is so powerful and can impeach the president or delay his projects. The Executive therefore wants the Assembly leaders they can pocket, who can do the Executive biddings. The National Assembly leadership is of interest to the Executive. So to be the Assembly leadership is of great interest. The positions are juicy as individuals and as politicians. The National Assembly leadership has enormous honour and respect. Presidents like to put them in their pockets. No president likes to be impeached. In your view, where should the current National Assembly leaders come from and why? Personally, I support South South to produce the Senate President. South East has held the position several times. South East can look for other positions. We have had Okadigbo, Nnamani, Anyim, Wabara, etc. if the president comes from South West, the Vice President from North East, Buhari having come from North West, they should allow South South to produce Senate President this time around. Let us encourage South South. On them House of Representatives Speaker, I don’t have a choice. You seem to have forgotten North Central. What should be given to the zone? North Central can get the Speaker. Although South East voted for Peter Obi and Atiku Abubakar, they should not go empty handed. The position of Secretary to the Federal Government is also powerful. But, let them allow the National Assembly members to do politics and elect their own leadership. How would you assess the 9th National Assembly? Do you think the 10th will fare better going by the politics going on now to pick the leaders of the legislature? If the lawmakers allow the Executive to pick their leaders, the 10th National Assembly will just be like the 9th National Assembly. But, if they let themselves pick their leadership, then the 10th National Assembly will not be a rubber stamp. But the Executive will always want to pocket the Legislature. The 9th Assembly was basically a rubber stamp to the Executive. However, there were some good things like bills, passed by the 9th National Assembly, such as the Electoral Act, the Petroleum Industrial Act (PIA), and a few other positive bills. But they did the biddings of the Executive. At the twilight of the administration, the National Assembly passed a Supplementary Budget and approved fresh foreign loans for Buhari. The 9th National Assembly allows the Executive to take the shine off them. However, Gbajabiamila should be commended for helping to bring ASUU strike to an end, despite the divide and rule tactics of Chris Ngige. The Senate did virtually nothing about the ASUU strike. Nigerians are dying. But, the current Senate President and the Speaker refused to reduce their salaries and allowances even when Buhari and Osinbajo reduced heirs. They did not show leadership by example. Even the lawmakers wanted to purchase foreign cars. They should have encouraged local manufacturers. Could you give an assessment of President Muhammadu Buhari’s eight-year tenure? The man left Nigerians worse than he met us. But his spokespersons, Femi Adesina, Shehu Garba and Lai Mohammed will not agree. Look at the value of the Naira. Buhari left us worse than he met us. ASUU was on strike for the longest time. Doctors were also on strike for too long. They tried during COVID-19 war, although the people they put in charge of helping the poor messed it up. Boss Mustapha tried. An editorial described Buhari’s administration as “Gross failure and relentless upsurge in human misery, rising debts, two recessions, unemployment rate rose, unemployment rate was high, receding foreign investments, insecurity was high all around.” People no longer travel before, people travelled from Lagos to Maiduguri or from Lagos to the East at nights without disturbances. Who can try this now? Buhari left us worse than he met us. But, Lai Mohammed continues to blame Jonathan’s government as if they are angels. Corruption is still going on. What is your agenda for the incoming administration? First, I will advise the incoming president to make his administration all-inclusive. He should involve everybody. He should not victimize anybody or section. He should see everybody as his people. Tinubu should use this opportunity to rewrite his history. Let every part of Nigeria feel his presence. He should improve the electricity supply. Foreign exchange should come down. He should improve agriculture. All these things putting pressure on our foreign exchange should be fixed. He should fix the textile industries, construction industries, and improve agriculture. He should tackle unemployment. A lot of people are jobless. He should bring back factories. Where are those companies? All the companies that have gone away should be brought back. We used to have battery and tyre industries. Where is Leyland now? We are too much import dependent. Tinubu should change the narrative. Let us see bags of rice they produce in the North. Cost of food is too high. We should see the Imota rice. Foodstuff prices should come down. He should improve on agriculture. We used to have a motor assembly plant in Kaduna. Electronics companies should be encouraged to begin manufacturing here instead of importation. He should stop borrowing. Buhari has borrowed too much. Tinubu should see how to improve IGR (Internally Generated Revenue) instead of fresh borrowing or should reschedule old debts and seek debt cancellation. Government should make friends with our experts like Okonjo-Iweala, Oby Ezekwesili, Pat Utomi among others. Tinubu should not see them as enemies. How do you see Bola Tinubu’s plan to form the Government of National Unity (GNU) with Rabiu Kwankwaso of NNPP? If Tinubu can get Kwankwaso to his side, it will be good for him. Kano is very strategic. Tinubu should not allow Kwankwaso to be in opposition. Tinubu needs Kwankwaso. Let him make his contributions. The Government of National Unity plan is strategic to heal the land. Buhari made a lot of enemies of Nigerians.there were killings everywhere. We need Tinubu to heal the land. Tinubu should also apologise to Nigerians for the ills of the All Progressives Congress. We need national healing and peace. What is your advice to Nigerians as the May 29 inauguration comes? Let Nigerians give peace a chance. If the court declares Tinubu, so be it. Let Nigerians support the government in power and should not create chaos. We cannot continue to fight. Politics has come and gone. Let us begin to relate again. Igbo, Yoruba and Hausa should continue to relate well again, even in markets. Politics has gone. Let those who care begin to look forward to 2027. There is no need for a crisis. Look at what is happening in Ukraine and Russia as well as Sudan. We don’t need that in Nigeria.