LAGOS  – The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC)/ Transparency International in Nigeria (TI-Nigeria), and other stakeholders have advocated for more accountability in the nation’s defense and security sectors in a bid to attain desired reforms. The security experts at a one-day workshop on the “reforming the Nigerian defence and security sector through strengthening mechanisms fundamental for effective oversight functions”, organised by Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC)/Transparency International In Nigeria (Ti-Nigeria) in collaboration with transparency international – defence and security project (TI-DSP) in Nasarawa State, noted that the prevalence of corruption within the defence and security sector was identified as a significant challenge, compounding the existing security issues. They argued that despite substantial public resources invested in the defence and security sector since the return of democratic governance in 1999, the impact of these investments remains questionable, with ongoing threats to peace and security. According to CISLAC and TI, this would enhance the synergy and transparency among security agencies in the nation, thereby leading to robust engagements. The workshop aimed to initiate a national discourse on defence and security oversight, equipping stakeholders with tools for effective understanding, interrogation, and conduct of oversight activities. It also sought to elicit commitments from relevant institutions towards reforming the defence and security sector. Another recommendation from the strategic meeting was the need to encourage more women participation in defense and security sectors in the country to allow for gender sensitivity. The participants at the workshop also averred that there is a dire need for security agencies to seek commitment from stakeholders to engage effectively in improving transparency and accountability within the sector. “Call on the military to reverse the trend of destabilization and insecurity, prioritizing Nigeria’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Emphasize the necessity of external institutions overseeing the defence and security sector in line with democratic principles. Effective oversight will promote efficiency, professionalism, and ultimately enhance security in the country,” the communique read. POLL It was also observed that collaborative efforts are required to combat corruption and ensure transparency and accountability within the defence and security sector as the military must fulfill its role in protecting Nigeria’s sovereignty and territorial integrity through diplomatic and deterrence measures. “Safeguard the security and safety of state officials and citizens through the seven pillars of human security, including food, economic, health, environmental, personal, community, and political security” “Adopt the African Union’s definition of the security sector, encompassing uniformed and non-uniformed personnel, civilians, and civil and oversight institutions. Develop an effective framework for overseeing security votes, which often serve as slush funds,” were also captured as recommendations. Participants at the workshop also encouraged Nigerians to hold public institutions, the political class, and the defence and security sector accountable. They observed that the opaque and classified nature of the sector, justified by “national security reasons hinders effective oversight, stressing that Nigeria’s peace, security, sovereignty, and territorial integrity are threatened SYLVESTER ENOGHASE LAGOS The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC)/ Transparency International in Nigeria (TI-Nigeria), and other stakeholders have advocated for more accountability in the nation’s defense and security sectors in a bid to attain desired reforms. The security experts at a one-day workshop on the “reforming the Nigerian defence and security sector through strengthening mechanisms fundamental for effective oversight functions”, organised by Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC)/Transparency International In Nigeria (Ti-Nigeria) in collaboration with transparency international – defence and security project (TI-DSP) in Nasarawa State, noted that the prevalence of corruption within the defence and security sector was identified as a significant challenge, compounding the existing security issues. They argued that despite substantial public resources invested in the defence and security sector since the return of democratic governance in 1999, the impact of these investments remains questionable, with ongoing threats to peace and security. According to CISLAC and TI, this would enhance the synergy and transparency among security agencies in the nation, thereby leading to robust engagements. The workshop aimed to initiate a national discourse on defence and security oversight, equipping stakeholders with tools for effective understanding, interrogation, and conduct of oversight activities. It also sought to elicit commitments from relevant institutions towards reforming the defence and security sector. Another recommendation from the strategic meeting was the need to encourage more women participation in defense and security sectors in the country to allow for gender sensitivity. The participants at the workshop also averred that there is a dire need for security agencies to seek commitment from stakeholders to engage effectively in improving transparency and accountability within the sector. “Call on the military to reverse the trend of destabilization and insecurity, prioritizing Nigeria’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Emphasize the necessity of external institutions overseeing the defence and security sector in line with democratic principles. Effective oversight will promote efficiency, professionalism, and ultimately enhance security in the country,” the communique read. It was also observed that collaborative efforts are required to combat corruption and ensure transparency and accountability within the defence and security sector as the military must fulfill its role in protecting Nigeria’s sovereignty and territorial integrity through diplomatic and deterrence measures. “Safeguard the security and safety of state officials and citizens through the seven pillars of human security, including food, economic, health, environmental, personal, community, and political security” “Adopt the African Union’s definition of the security sector, encompassing uniformed and non-uniformed personnel, civilians, and civil and oversight institutions. Develop an effective framework for overseeing security votes, which often serve as slush funds,” were also captured as recommendations. Participants at the workshop also encouraged Nigerians to hold public institutions, the political class, and the defence and security sector accountable. They observed that the opaque and classified nature of the sector, justified by “national security reasons hinders effective oversight, stressing that Nigeria’s peace, security, sovereignty, and territorial integrity are threatened by persistent violent conflicts arising from traditional and non-traditional security threats. According to the communique, despite substantial public resources invested in the defence and security sector since the return of democratic governance in 1999, the impact of these investments remains questionable, with ongoing threats to peace and security. by persistent violent conflicts arising from traditional and non-traditional security threats. According to the communique, despite substantial public resources invested in the defence and security sector since the return of democratic governance in 1999, the impact of these investments remains questionable, with ongoing threats to peace and security.