LAGOS – Nigeria has been grappling with the problem of erratic electricity supply for decades, with only 50% of the population having access to electricity. The unreliable power supply has hindered economic growth and development, leaving many households and businesses struggling to access reliable and affordable energy. However, WiSolar, a green digital energy provider based in South Africa, is set to change the narrative by providing simplified solar solutions that can power over one million houses in Nigeria. According to the Founder and CEO of WiSolar, Tonye Irims, the company is concerned about the electricity challenges the masses in Nigerians are faced with and is ready to step in to provide affordable and green digital energy. Irims noted that the intervention will come at no-upfront payment by Nigerians as the company will install the solar system for homeowners. “WiSolar’s mission is to accelerate the adoption of renewable energy in Nigeria and other parts of Africa by providing affordable and reliable solar solutions. The company aims to help address the energy access gap in Nigeria, which has left over 90 million people without access to electricity. “The on-demand service focuses primarily on a power purchase agreement (PPA) business model where WiSolar installs and maintains a solar system on a customer’s home, then sells power to the customer via the app as required per kWh for a 20- or 25-year term. This business model allows property owners to install solar at no upfront cost,” Irims said. Irims also said that the company is targeting qualifying residential estates and affordable housing communities in Nigeria for prepaid solar electricity adding that the system will reduce the pressure of residential loads on the national grid and also be low-cost to users. POLL “The company uses a combination of solar panels, energy storage, and smart energy management systems to provide clean and sustainable energy to its customers. “Developers and home builders of new and existing homes can talk to us with regards to installing our prepaid solar electricity systems at their residential clusters,” Irims said. To achieve its goal of powering over 1 million houses in Nigeria, WiSolar will partner with local communities, businesses, and governments to deploy its solar solutions. The project will demonstrate the potential of solar solutions to provide reliable and affordable electricity to households and businesses. In addition to providing solar solutions, WiSolar is also investing in local training and capacity-building programs to help create jobs and promote entrepreneurship in the renewable energy sector. The company aims to empower local communities to become self-sufficient in energy production and management, which can have significant economic and social benefits. The on-demand solar electricity platform is available in South Africa, Nigeria and Zimbabwe with plans to launch in Australia in the near future.