Following the expulsion of the former Coordinator of Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) in Oyo State, Rotimi Olumo, the leadership of the group on Sunday announced the appointment of Dr. Rauf Olatunji Abiola and Alhaji Tirimisiyu Olowoposi as Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator respectively in the state. The new appointments which have been ratified by the highest decision-making organ of the National Executive Council (NEC) and National Coordinating Council (NCC) of the organisation was to ensure unprecedented progress and entrenched basic organizational discipline among all members of the OPC in the state. Dr. Rauf Olatunji Abiola who holds a PhD in Christian Counseling Education from the University of Jos had traversed the education sector as a lecturer with over two decades of experience. Meanwhile, Alhaji Olowoposi, the newly appointed Deputy Coordinator of the state has been a committed member of the organization that had also paid his dues as a loyal member of the organization. According to the statement made available by the publicity secretary of OPC, Barrister Yinka Oguntimehin, the appointment of the duo takes immediate effect. “This is to inform the public that the National Executive Council (NEC) had approved the appointment ofDr. Rauf Olatunji Abiola and AlhajiTirimisu Olowoposi as the authentic Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator of Oyo state chapter of the Oodua People’s Congress. “Their appointment was part of the organization’s desire to transform the leadership structure of the organization in the state and to also instill discipline among members of the OPC in the state. The National Publicity Scribe added that the new appointment will usher in unprecedented progress in the state. POLL “It is our desire to sustain the ideals of promoting the core values and characters of the organization. There’s a central command in the OPC and there is need for effective coordination of the organization in all the states”. Expressing his appreciation to the NEC under the leadership of the Aareonakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, Dr. Abiola described his new appointment as another call to service, saying the position of a coordinator of a state like Oyo is an opportunity for him to serve the state and Yoruba land in general. “I am very happy to be counted among the lucky ones. Not because of my educational background and experiences, but I think it is the will of God for me to serve the people of Oyo state and contribute my quota in my own little way to the progress of the organization in the state. “It is an opportunity for me to bring my years of experiences to bear in the affairs of the Oyo state OPC and I am very determined to strengthen the values of leadership in the state. “I want to assure everybody that I will uphold the ideals of the organization and bring the needed synergy that will lead to the progress of OPC in Oyo state”.