The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahcoaviance) has commenced exportation of food items to Europe under its new subsidiary, NAHCO Food and Beverages Limited. The feat made the organisation the first ground handling company in Nigeria to venture into such a business. A statement by Mr. Tayo Ajakaye, the Communcatins Manager, NAHCO, said that the company commenced the exportation of fresh pepper after being certified by the Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) and after consultation with foreign food standards agencies. The statement hinted that the initiative would revolutionalise the way Nigeria’s produce are packaged for foreign markets. The statement said that the feat was first by any major operator at the airport and came on the back of aggressive push by the Federal Government for increased export of Nigeria products. NAHCO said that the new export business was in conjunction with its appointed partners to export the first batch of the exports, consisting of high grade fresh Nigerian pepper. Commenting on the initiative, Mr. Indranil Gupta, Group Managing Director, nahco aviance, said this development was coming at a time when quite a number of stakeholders had identified packaging as a major challenge for Nigerian exports.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He added that the company was doing a lot to assist local producers of agric products in realising their dreams of exporting quality commodities to markets in Europe, America and Asia. POLL He said: “We appreciate the hard work some of our farmers put into producing their goods. NAHCO is trying to support them export these products so as to make these efforts more worthwhile for them. It is also a way of generating scarce foreign exchange for the country.” Also, Mr. Emmanuel Illah, the Senior Business Development Manager, New Business, nahco aviance, explained that the project was part of NAHCO’s larger expansion strategy driven by three major objectives, which included growth, risk reduction and profitability. According to him, Gupta drove the initiative and provided support and technical know-how for the initiative to become a success. He added that the company was also planning to onboard new consignees/offtakers in the futue, stressing that the marketing campaign and planned roadshow would take care of this. “We plan to expand the product range substantially in due course to accommodate the requests from the diaspora markets,” he added.