White Witches/Wizards Associ­ation of Nigeria (WWAN), has called on the frontline opposi­tion presidential candidates in the February 18, 2023 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and his counterpart, Mr. Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP), not to dissipate energy at the election petition tribunal be­cause their fate had been sealed already. The nocturnal group noted that witches and wizards in Ni­geria had to converged on Abuja to ensure that the case was ‘neu­tralised’, especially that of Ati­ku Abubakar because a Fulani man could not rule Nigeria for eight years and another Fulani man would want to continue for another eight years. “Moral justice must prevail in Nigeria,” the group said. The association assured that the President-elect, Asiwa­ju Bola Ahmed Tinubu would win the case at the Supreme Court and set out machinery to stabilise the country’s economic and political woes because the nation’s witches and wizards were solidly behind him. It would be recalled that both Atiku and Obi went to the tribu­nal to reclaim their “mandate” which they believed that the independent national electoral commission, INEC, denied them by announcing Tinubu the win­ner of the keenly contested pres­idential election. Speaking in an exclusive telephone interview with Sun­day Independent, the spokes­man of WWAN, Dr. Okhue Iboi, said the association had already raised 300 witches and wizards to sanitise the entire Abuja for the kick-off of Tinubu’s govern­ment after May 29. “They will also ensure his personal safety against any form of challenge throughout his tenure”, he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ When asked if Peter Obi of the Labour Party who secured the constitutional 25% vote at the FCT during the election can pull the string at the Supreme Court, Iboi said “if Obi wins, there will be no problem because he is from the South. But Atiku can never win at the tribunal. His fate is sealed already. He can­not be the President of Nigeria. POLL “We don’t want Nigeria to go into crisis. All the witches and wizards in Nigeria, apart from those who are Fulani, agreed in a meeting that power should return to the south. “If Obi is declared the win­ner by the court, fine. We the witches/wizards know that Ni­gerians love Obi. But, it is only Tinubu that can tackle any prob­lem that will confront Nigeria. “There is no way Atiku can win the case against Tinubu. He cannot be the President of Nigeria,” he said. Iboi revealed that two months to the general elections, witches/wizards in the country conducted mock elections in the spirit realm for the three candi­dates: Atiku, Tinubu and Obi at three different covens in the south.