The Debt Management Office (DMO) has said that decades of operating budget deficits by suc­cessive governments is responsi­ble for Nigeria’s high debt profile. The Director-General of the DMO, Patience Oniha, said this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja. According to Oniha, a review of Nigeria’s fiscal data show that not only has the government op­erated budget deficits which have been growing, but most of the deficits have been funded through local and external borrowing. “The records show that deficits in the annual budgets, including supplementary budgets rose to N10.78 trillion in 2023 from N1.62 trillion in 2015. “Between 82 percent and 99 percent of these were funded by new borrowing which ranged from N1.46 trillion in 2015 to N8.80 tril­lion in 2023. “These facts confirm that these budget deficits, funded by new borrowings, have been responsible for the rapid growth in the debt stock and the resultant increases in debt service,” she said. According to Oniha, this trend could have been avoided or at least moder­ated if revenues had been higher or expenditures lower.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She tasked the incoming government of Sen. Bola Tinubu to take cognisance of the situation and pri­oritise increased revenue generation. POLL “The budget deficits would have been much smaller, or Nigeria would have operated on a bal­anced budget. “It is therefore impera­tive that the incoming gov­ernment takes into account the perennial budget defi­cits in the preparation of the Medium-Term Expen­diture Framework (2024 – 2026) and the 2024 budget. “The government should also accelerate the growth in revenues to ensure debt sustainability,” she said. Nigeria’s debt profile stood at N46.25 trillion in December 2022, recording an increase of about seven trillion naira from the 2021 debt figures. Total public debt stock, however, consists of the domestic and external debt stocks of the Federal Gov­ernment, the 36 state gov­ernments and the Federal Capital Territory. In terms of composition, total domestic debt stock is N27.55 trillion ($61.42 bil­lion) while total external debt stock is N18.7 trillion ($41.6 billion). The public debt figures, however, exclude the N22.7 trillion Federal Govern­ment’s indebtedness to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), through Ways and Means advances. The Ways and Means ad­vances, which has been se­curitised by the Senate, and presently awaiting concur­rent securitisation by the House of Representatives before it is included in the country’s public debt stock.