The Bauchi State Environmental Protection Agency(BASEPA) has issued a seven days ultimatum for political parties to remove all campaign posters in the state, saying that failure to do so, will leave the agency with no other choice than to render them as waste product. The Director General of BASEPA, Dr. Ibrahim Kabiru who stated this during a press conference held on Tuesday at the agency’s Headquarters in Bauchi, said that the development became imperative given the fact that the elections were now over in the state and the agency was sanitizing the environment in the state. “We want to call the attention of political parties especially the APC, the PDP, NNPP, and all others and their supporters regarding what we call at this time, something that is unnecessary. Earlier on, before the elections, we know that there were billboards, signboards, and other materials that were used in order to showcase the candidates contesting for one position or the other. “Currently, the election period has ended and we are in a time of governance. And the issue of governance had nothing to do with different political parties. Any party that won the election will have to take the lead and make sure that it is just for everyone despite differences in political parties. “At this juncture, being the Bauchi Environmental Protection Agency, the agency that has the mandate to ensure esthetics in the metropolis and to ensure cleanliness and to make sure that all our streets and the nooks and crannies of the entire Bauchi State are tidy, we are calling on the attention of the general public, political parties, candidates and their followers that within the next one week, starting from today, the 8th of May, 2023 to the 15th of this month, to evacuate anything that has to do with political show off in terms of the billboard, signboards and posters” “Wherever they are whether here in Bauchi metropolis, the City Center, and across the 20 local government areas of the state. It is a mandate of the agency to ensure that the metropolis and the local government areas are tidy. We know that the billboards, signboards, and posters are owned by the political parties and their followers, so they should remove them within the next week. “After this one week, Bauchi State Environmental Protection Agency will consider all these materials as wastes and everyone knows that we have a mandate to evacuate wastes wherever it is and we are going to act. I am saying that across all the parties the PDP, the APC, the NNPP, and all the others are to take note of that” he said.