There is apprehension in Kat­sina communities as hundreds of terrorists led by a notorious bandit, Dan-Karami, have re­portedly relocated from Zam­fara State to areas between Safana and Batsari local gov­ernment areas of Katsina State. Villagers said the terrorists, who were escaping from mil­itary onslaught in Zamfara State, have moved into Tsas­kiya, Runka, Gora, Labo, and other communities in the two local government areas. They added that the terror­ists have teamed up with an­other notorious bandit, Usman Modi-Modi, who has been ter­rorising residents of the area. The residents disclosed that the terrorists, in large numbers and heavily armed, moved to the area with many herds of cattle. “About a thousand of them who came on about 300 motor­cycles spent Saturday night in Labo village,” a reliable source told NAN. He added that the terrorists were spread in at least five vil­lages on the fringes of Rugu forest between Safana and Batsari as well as part of Zam­fara State. The source, however, said what was not clear was wheth­er the bandits were on transit or setting up a new base in the area. The villagers appealed to the military and Katsina State gov­ernment to respond promptly and deny the terrorists any space to operate. POLL Dan-Karami and his gang were known for raiding villag­es and towns in Zamfara and attacking security personnel. A community leader, who spoke on condition of anonym­ity, said some of the villagers have started relocating to avoid being caught up in the impend­ing disaster. He urged the military to de­ploy its land and air assets to decimate the terrorists before they wreak more havoc. “If nothing is done immedi­ately, these terrorists will pose serious security threat to many surrounding local government areas, including the state capital. “There are many of them and heavily armed. Govern­ment should respond with decisive firepower to save the people,” he added. Similarly, a resident of Runka said: “From last week, these bandits were seen clear­ing bushes to make shelters, which means, they want to be here permanently. “We heard that Dan-Kara­mi came to Usman Modi-Modi some days ago, and Modi-Modi gave him weapons. This means they will work together to con­tinue to perpetrate their crimi­nal activities in those areas. “Dan-Karami also came with dangerous weapons; the locals are telling us that they have never seen bandits in large numbers and the type of weap­ons they have. They are widen­ing their base in the area.” He also urged government and security agencies to hasten measures to prevent the terror­ists from taking over the area. When contacted, Ibrahim Ahmad-Katsina, Special Advis­er on Security to Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, said only the security forces could comment on the matter. However, the spokesman of the Katsina State Police Com­mand, CSP Gambo Isah, said the police were investigating the veracity of the information. “There is such rumour of the ongoing onslaught in the military operations and the police in Zamfara forcing some terrorists to relocate to some parts of the state. “Here in Katsina, the securi­ty forces, particularly the army, Nigerian Air Force, and the po­lice have taken note of that and are making an investigation to ascertain its genuineness and take appropriate action,” Isah stated.