ABUJA. – Save Nigeria Movement, a civil society organisation, has sued the Governing Council of Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Mak­urdi, before a Federal High Court Makurdi, over what it described as illegal appointment of Bursar. Specifically, the group asked the court to restrain Mr. Ortese Tyoule Simon from assuming the vacant position of bursar in the institution. The Plaintiff in the suit marked FHC/MKD/CS/28/2023, filed by its counsel, Barrister T. Sorkaa, described the appoint­ment as illegal. Apart from the Governing Council and Simon, other de­fendants in the matter are the Minister of Education, Minister of Agriculture, Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University Makurdi, and the Registrar and Secretary, Gov­erning Council, J. S Tarka Uni­versity, Makurdi. The CSO averred in the court process that Simon was not qual­ified for the appointment. Therefore, he is praying the court for an order restraining the defendants in the matter from allowing Simon, who is the 6th defendant in the suit, from assuming office. More so, the Plaintiff wants an order of interlocutory in­junction restraining the 1st to 5th Respondents from allowing the 6th Defendant/Respondent, (Simon) a Deputy Director, Au­dit Unit, to assume as Bursar of the University in contravention of the Financial Regulations, No.1709 of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 2009. SNM also prayed the court to determine whether or not upon a dispassionate and compound construction of the Federal Uni­versities of Agriculture Act, Cap. F22, Laws of the Federation of Ni­geria, 2004, Federal Universities of Agriculture (Amendment) Act, 2019, Financial Regulations, No.1709 of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 2009 and other rele­vant statutes, the requirements for appointment into the vacant position of Bursar, Joseph Sar­wuan Tarka University, Makurdi, which was at least five years ex­perience as a Deputy Bursar was followed by the Selection Board for the appointment by the Gov­erning Council, Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi of the 6″ Defendant, a Deputy Director, Audit Unit, Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi, into the vacant position of Bursar, Jo­seph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi. POLL “A declaration that the Selec­tion Board did not follow the re­quirements of at least five years experience as a Deputy Bursar in its recommendations to the Gov­erning Council, Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi, the appointment of the 6th Defen­dant into the vacant position of Bursar, Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi. “A declaration that the ap­pointment by the Governing Council, Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi of 6th De­fendant, a Deputy Director, Audit Unit, into the vacant position of Bursar, contradicted 2004, Fed­eral Universities of Agriculture (Amendment) Act, 2019, Finan­cial Regulations, No. 1709 of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 2009 and other relevant statutes by the court as to the appointment and qualification of the 6th Defen­dant into the vacant position of Bursar. The group said only the dec­larations and orders of the court can resolve the issue of the re­quirements or qualifications for the appointment of the 6th Defen­dant into the vacant position of Bursar, Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi.