LOKOJA – The All Progressives Congress, (APC), an online media outfit and the APC NewsOnline Television, said having analyzed the chances of all the aspirants for the position of Senate President in the coming 10th National Assembly, Senator Osita Izunaso is in clear Lead of all other contestants to the seat. In a statement by the group, which was made available to journalists in Lokoja, the APC media outfit noted that in a scientifically and objectively dissected balanced analysis, the news medium presented Senator Osita Izunaso as the only aspirant without baggage and possessing the best qualifications in terms of legislative experience, intellectual capacity and commitment to the party. The All Progressives Congress, (APC), online media outfit and the APC NewsOnline Television is under the leadership of Dr. Tom Ohikere The outfit which is popular for promoting and clarifying the APC’s core objectives and ideological direction, has always been on the APC general campaign machinery since the party ascendancy on the national scene and is allied to the APC BroomPlatform, which it said is a grade A support group of the APC, and serving as the intellectual powerhouse of the party. “After carrying out a strategic nationwide polling of Nigerian professionals, politicians and media practitioners on their legislative expectations for the next four years found a growing acceptance that while southeast should produce the Senate president, the Senator-elect from Imo West, a long time APC strategist should mount the rostrum of the red chambers. His stainless reputation and humble disposition despite being on the political scene for the past three decades unlike his main rival from the region, former Governor Orji Uzor Kalu. The group added that it also found that similar charges by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), also made Godswill Akpabio an unpalatable commodity for this most prestigious office especially as Nigerians optimistically look forward to a new political dispensation of renewed hope. “While most Nigerians wanted a Christian for the Senate presidency, they wanted one that could make a difference and build relationships to the people, after years of such a break in practice. “The poll also found that while Yari and Musa sani were considered men of integrity and sizable northern backing their disposition will make them open to an Osita Izunaso senate presidency, given that a northerner wields the deputy Senate Presidency and Northerners are projected to wield other principal positions. POLL “Senator Osita Izunaso, who recently joined the race for the Senate Presidency has been given the hitherto front-runners, former Governors God’swll Akpabio and Orji Uzor Kalu a run for their money. Recall that the APC on May 6, endorsed God’swll Akpabio, Jibrin Barau for the position of the Senate president and deputy Senate president while Tajudeen Abbas and Ben Kalu for Speakership and deputy speakership. But the endorsement has been generating ripples and disaffection leading to even open resistance and planned insurgency against the party hierarchy. “A few days back, National chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu admitted that the party took the position without adequate consultation. Adamu made this known when he received the aggrieved aspirants and their supporters at the National Secretariat. But acknowledged the role of patience and the need to await the return of the president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Upon his return last Saturday, a Lagos-based national daily reported that the President-elect would meet all the aspirants for both the Senate presidency and Speakership of the House of Representatives on Sunday but this turned out to be a ruse. “Competent sources close to the incoming president however disclosed to our correspondent that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was seriously studying the situation.”