AWKA – By micro-zoning the position of Deputy Speaker to the South East, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has demonstrated its hatred for the Igbo people and that position must be rejected. It is even more insulting if the office of the Deputy Speaker is considered the 7th in the power play in Nigerian politics and must be rejected. This is the view of the Coalition of South East Youth Leaders, (COSEYL), in a press statement the apex socio-political youth group in the South East geopolitical zone issued on Sunday in response to the horse-trading going on about the National Assembly leadership. In the statement signed by the President-General and Publicity Secretary of the group Hon. Goodluck Ibem and Comrade Okey Nwaoru respectively, the group also wondered how the position is canvassed for Benjamin Kalu, whose election was controversial. Describing the APC power play as a charade and insult to the political sensibility of Ndigbo, the group said it “rejects it in its entirety, no matter those behind it, and will continue to reject it. It said that “while the political goal and aspiration of Ndigbo is beyond the post of the senate president, it cannot identify with a character like Benjamin Kalu, not to talk of endorsing him to represent the political interest of the entire South East as a federal parliamentarian holding the post of the Deputy Speaker”. It added: “For emphasis, the Igbo are a major ethnic group in Nigeria, also one of the tripodal arrangements upon which the nation itself stands – going by the “WaZoBia” scheme. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We cannot be reduced to the background by the APC-led Federal government, no matter the scheming or agenda. The Igbo race, more than many other geopolitical zones in the nation, straddles one region (South East) and spans other regions too (South-South and North Central) with sons and daughters scattered all over the 36 states within the federation. Other regions, barring the South West, have complex ethnic makeups and minorities. In the North, whether east, west or central, there are the Fulani, the Hausa and usually other minorities all claiming each of the entire three zones as home. The South South itself is made up of the Ijaws, Ibibio, Anangs, Ogonis, and Itshekiri, just to mention but a few (of its constituent ethnic nationalities). POLL “How can a region like the South East, with its homogeneous makeup, be relegated when it came to sharing the spoils if not for the phobia APC has about the Igbo nation, which the party has continued to uphold through the Buhari calamitous presidency, and which may likely be repeated by a Bola Ahmed Tinubu presidency? “What respect does the APC have or show towards its foundation members of South East extraction like Dr. Ogbonnaya Ọnụ, who registered the APC as a political party, Rochas Anayo Okorocha and others”, the group queried. It emphasised that the post of a Deputy Speaker is beneath the political aspiration of Ndigbo and it rejects and shall continue to resist it. It called on well-meaning sons and daughters of Igboland to disregard the endorsement of Benjamin Kalu by one individual called Okwu Nnabuife who parades himself as the President of Ohanaeze Youth Council. It said Ohanaeze has made its position and stance known: that they are solidly behind Mr Peter Obi, so any other statement emanating from any quarters that jeopardizes Peter Obi’s chances of reclaiming his mandate is unacceptable and incongruous with the Igbo aspiration, it concluded