The House of Representatives on Thursday urged the Federal Government to direct the National Council on Climate Change in collaborationwith the Federal Ministries responsible for Industry, Trade and Investment, Environment, and Budget and National Planning to immediately implement the Carbon Credit Scheme through the formulation of an Action Plan that is consistent with Section 20 (1) (2)(3) of the Climate ChangeAct, 2021. The resolution of the House was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion sponsored by Hon. Sam. I. Onuigbo, on the “Need to Implement Carbon Credit as Part of the Effort towards Mitigating the Impact of ClimateChange In Nigeria”. In his lead debate Onuigbonoted the devastating impact of climate change in the World, particularly in Nigeria with desertification racing southward at a speed of 0.6km per annum, gully and coastal erosions destroying communities and farmlands, thus drying up Lake Chad. He also noted the frequent cases of herders and farmers’ clashes with attendant deaths and flooding across several States. The House is aware that the 9th Assembly passed the Climate Change Bill which was assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari on November 17, 2021, Section 19(i) of the Climate Change Act stipulates that the Federal Ministry of Environment shall, in consultation with the Federal Ministry responsible for NationalPlanning set Carbon Budget for Nigeria to keep average increases in global temperature within 2°C andpursue efforts to limit the temperature increases to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels;Also aware that Section 4(i) and (j) mandate the National Council on Climate Change to collaborate withthe Federal Inland Revenue Service to develop a mechanism for Carbon Tax in Nigeria and collaborate with the Federal Ministries responsible for Environment and Trade to develop and implement amechanism for Carbon Emission Trading. “Further aware that Section 20(4)(a) of the Climate Change Act states that “the Action Plan shall serve asa basis for identifying the activities aimed at ensuring that national emissions profile is consistent withthe Carbon Budget goals. According to the Lawmaker, “The Legislators have responsibilities for ensuring that measures are taken to avert thedevastating impacts of climate change, hence, the House strongly advocates that Nigeria implements the law on Carbon Credit (reward system) as part of the several measures that can be taken towards reducing the impacts of climate change in the country. “The House is concerned that that the industrial sector contributes a high percentage of greenhouse gas emissions in Nigeria, hence, the need to develop the capacity for implementing a carbon credit scheme to incentivize the decarbonization of the industrial sector in Nigeria. POLL “The House observes that Carbon Credit is a policy where industries are encouraged to reduce their carbon footprint to earn calculated carbon credit (per ton of carbon), while industries which exceed emission thresholds are sanctioned with fines, therefore, the carbon market is a trading platform whereby carbon credits earned by one industry can be purchased by another to make up for their pollution. The House also observes that, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change signed by Nigeria on September 22, 2016, and other international conventions, the Kyoto Protocol is one of such international conventions, adopted in1997 which came into force in 2005 to reduce man-made greenhouse gas emissions, and Nigeria has aresponsibility to implement them internally. The House is worried that except Nigeria takes necessary measures to reduce the impacts of climate change in thecountry, the Climate Change induced calamities will continue; In a bid to address the concern, the House urged the Council and the Federal Ministries mentioned above to present to the NationalAssembly, for approval the Budget derived from the processes in line with prayer 1 above, especially as the implementation of Section 19 (2)(3) of the Climate Change Act about the CarbonCredit/Action Plan is already behind schedule. To this end, the House mandated the Committees on Climate Change, Environment, National Planning, Industry; Commerceand Legislative Compliance to liaise with the National Council on Climate Change and Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to ensure compliance and report back within one (1) week for further Legislative action.