We are celebrating Jesus as the only Way that leads to Heaven, the Truth that sets us free and the Life that sustains us. Jesus is the Way to our Vocation, the Way to our inner Peace. He is the Living Stone which the Builders rejected which has become the Chief Cornerstone. Acts 6:1-7 presents our Lord Jesus Christ as the Way to Divine Vocation. In continuation of His mission here on earth seven men of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom were chosen to assist the apostles in the daily distribution of food to widows and orphans. They were the first Deacons in the Church. They were to carry out humanitarian services in the name of the Church. St. James presents humanitarian service as the essence of the church. According to him, “Pure and undefiled religion is this: to visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world.” (James 1:27) In Luke 4:18 Jesus said He was anointed to preach the gospel to the Poor. He told His followers in Matthew 25:40 “Whatever you did for the least of these brethren you did for me.” Humanitarian service is not and should not be relegated to the deacons only. All hands must be on deck! The gospel of John 14:1-12 presents Jesus Christ as the Way to inner peace. Jesus said, “Let not your hearts be troubled; believe in God, believe also in me.” Child of God, with Jesus Christ, your period of restlessness and sleepless nights are over! Worry not! Your inner peace is hereby restored in Jesus name! Jesus told his followers, “In my Father’s house are many rooms… I go to prepare a place for you? When I go and prepare a place, I will come again and take you to myself, that where I am you may be also.” Jesus is the Way that leads to the Father. In John 10:9 Jesus said, I am the door. If anyone enters by Me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture.” Child of God, as you remain connected to Jesus you will be saved! Your freedom is guaranteed! For St. Peter our Lord Jesus Christ is also our chief Cornerstone. “Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone chosen and precious, and he who believes in him will not be put to shame… The very stone which the builders rejected has become the cornerstone,” (1 Peter 2:4- 9). Child of God, as you remain connected to Jesus; you will not be put to shame! I pull out every garment of shame and disgrace! Your lost glory is hereby restored! Do you want to know your true identity in Christ Jesus? According to St. Peter, “You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood! You are a holy nation, God’s own people! You have being chosen to declare the wonderful deeds of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Indeed, you are born to shine! ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ As Psalm 33 declares, God’s Merciful Love will be upon you as you hope in Him. And so, “Ring out your joy to the Lord, O you just; for praise is fitting for the upright. Give thanks to the Lord upon the harp; with a ten-stringed lute sing him songs.” POLL Child of God, your period of sorrow is over! As you continue to ring out your joy it shall be well with you in Jesus name! Happy 5th Sunday of Easter from Fr. John Damian Adize, ADM.