Local businesses recorded huge sales and profit during the GTCO Food and Drinks event, which was held last week. The 3 days celebration of culinary excellence and beverage innovation, which held in Lagos, was hallmarked by 12 Masterclasses from world-class chefs and showcased the very best in food and beverage offerings from around the world, to suit all tastes. In a tough operating environment like Nigeria, a free platform to promote enterprises such as GTCO Food and Drinks Festival is an edge every local business or SME was happy to leverage on. Consequently, every year for the past 7 years, food and drink entrepreneurs have upped their business game and turned in their applications in the hopes of being shortlisted to partake at the GTCO Food and Drinks Festival which comes with access to free stalls, branding, exposure and access to 250,000 paying customers. This year GTCO expanded its facility, and participating vendors from 142 to 204, impacting more local businesses and providing a more robust purchasing experience for food and beverage lovers in attendance. Segun Agbaje, the Group Chief Executive Officer(CEO) at GTCO.,said: “our aim is to provide attendees with a unique and memorable experience that will leave them inspired and excited about the future of food and beverage.” The festival featured live cooking demonstrations, interactive workshops, and informative talks on a range of topics related to food and beverage while attendees had access to a wide range of locally made or sourced food ware, cuisines, and beverages at the festival’s marketplace. Top-notch chefs with impressive culinary experiences at this year’s edition were Ire Hassan-Odukale, Jessica Craig, August Dewindt, Francesco Mazzei, Aneesh Popat, Millie Peartree, Kelvin Bludso and more who held masterclasses to help attendees spice up their culinary skills. POLL As usual, the street style on the grounds of the Food and Drink festival was a mixture of minimalism and ultra-maximalism. Style enthusiasts took over the scene with delightful and sometimes baffling edgy ensembles guaranteed to make people stop and stare.