The winner of the 2020 Maltina Teacher of the Year competition, Ms. Olubunmi Anani, has won an international grant from the Muhammad Sanusi 11 Sustainable Development Goals Initiative Challenge with a project titled “Quality Education for All”. The grant was awarded to Anani as part of efforts to scale up innovative education projects for improved education in Nigeria. She and nine other teachers from different countries were selected as winners of the Sustainable Development Goals Challenge Showcase for Cohort 2 from the 25 finalists. Each winner would receive a grant of $10,000. She was selected for her commitment to empowering vulnerable out-of-school girls and child mothers in the North-Eastern part of the country. Anani, while speaking on the grant, described it as a huge enabler that would assist the team in making education easily accessible to vulnerable children, especially those who live in rural areas. She said her participation in the MS11 Accelerator program is geared towards accessing resources that would help bring quality education to the reach of vulnerable children in the North-Eastern part of Nigeria. “It is a pure privilege to be empowered to make an indelible impact in our lives and the future of the vulnerable out-of-school girl child in North- East Nigeria. It is a rare humanitarian gesture to invest ten thousand dollars, resources, and mentorship support towards ensuring that the vulnerable populations in Africa and North-East Nigeria are part of the vision for SDGs 4 and 5,” she said. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She further vowed to make judicious use of the resources to achieve the donor’s vision as expressed in SDGs 4 and 5. POLL “We do not take this privilege for granted, and we will do our very best. With the accelerator card given to us, we commit ourselves to His Highness’s vision from the SDGs 4 and 5 in North-East, Nigeria,” she added. The MS 11 SDG project addresses a wide range of issues that include disability, displacement, access to learning materials, girls’ health, digital skills, and many more. It aims to empower teachers to provide inclusive education and drive innovative community projects to overcome education challenges in Sub-Saharan Africa.