LAGOS – MCAnthony Foundation, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), has partnered Owerri Daughters in Minnesota, United States of America to empower rural women in Owerri community, in Imo State. A trustee of MCAnthony Foundation, Mr. Martins Osinachi Nnanna, lamented the level of poverty in Nigeria especial in local communities and the inability of the government to bridge the gap, stressing that despite efforts at reaching out to the less-privileged in the society, unfriendly policies, unemployment and lack of basic infrastructure in the communities remain the misery of the people. Nnanna disclosed this, during the presentation of ‘’One Million Naira Endowment Fund Cheque’’ from the Foundation in partnership with Owerri Daughters In Minnesota USA, presented to some women in Owerri community to support their small scale businesses. He said that the MCAnthony Foundation and Owerri Daughters in Minnesota found out the yearning gap created by poverty and the need to ensure women in the community are dutifully engaged in petty trading and other businesses and to keep away from societal vices A representative of the Owerri Daughters In Minnesota USA, Chief Mrs. Eugenia Anah hinted that MCAnthony Foundation and Owerri Daughters have been carrying out intervention programmes in Owerri municipality because both organisations believe and understand the burden rural women in communities and families face to make ends meet. She pointed out that they believe in the popular saying that teaching people to fish is better than giving them fish. “Our project is focused on helping the selected underprivileged families to start, support, or train in a viable trade that can propel them out of poverty,” she said. While responding on behalf of the beneficiaries of the fund, Mrs. Peace Amadiegu expressed appreciation for the privilege given to them and promised to utilise the amount judiciously, with a pledge that by this time next year, the recipients would have something to show from the fund given to them.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Owerri Daughters Minnesota In USA under the present leadership of Mrs. Chi Ukaga was established to cater and promote the interests of her members and their families, and with her inauguration theme in 2022, focused on the suffering and quest to help the underprivileged women and families in Owerri; the hometown of members, the aim is to basically empower underprivileged women and families. POLL MCAnthony Foundation on its part was registered in Nigeria in November 2021 with the aim of sponsoring youths in vocational skills. Other objectives of the Foundation include providing skills for youths in the area of sports, and to also cater for the welfare of the less privileged and motherless babies in the society and to provide amenities in rural communities, among others.