IBADAN – Oyo State House of Assembly committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters has on Friday maintained that proper consideration of all memoranda at the public hearing on the State Chiefs (Amendment) Bill, 2023 will be consider before the passage of the bill into law. The Olubadan-in-Council and other traditional councils across the state who were present at the public hearing commended Governor Seyi Makinde for timely amendment of the state’s Chief Law. The traditional rulers and other relevant stakeholders, who converged in the House of Chiefs, Parliament Building of the state House of Assembly, Secretariat, Ibadan to participate in the Public Hearing of the Oyo State Chiefs (Amendment) Bill, 2023, gave the commendation. In his keynote address, the Speaker Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon Adebo Ogundoyin, who was represented by his Deputy, Hon. Muhammed Fadeyi, explained that the public hearing on Chiefs (Amendment) Bill, 2023 became necessary as it has pass through first and second readings, stressing in order to ensure balance there is need to have the inputs of the relevant stakeholders before the bill is passed into law. The Speaker emphasized that the essence of the legislative arm of government is to make laws and amend laws considered to be obsolete in order to meet up with the present situation. Also, the Chairman, House Committee on Local Government, Chieftaincy Matters and State Honours, Hon. Akinjide Akintunde expressed his happiness for the turned out of the traditional rulers to express their view on the subject matter. The lawmaker, who is representing Lagelu state constituency, stated that the focus of the House in the amendment is on the section 28 of the Oyo State Chiefs Laws which empowers the state governor or may be after the consultation before giving a beaded crown.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Hon. Akintunde further noted that the Committee has received memoranda from the traditional rulers and all other relevant stakeholders in order for them to work in tandem with House of Assembly rules. POLL The Committee Chairman assured that all memoranda submitted by the stakeholders will be duly considered on the amendment process. The Onpetu of Ijeru land, Oba Sunday Oyediran urged the lawmakers and the executive arm of government to take into consideration before the passage of the bill and implementation of the law, the historical antecedents of the proposed chiefs to be elevated and beaded a crown, the peculiarity of the towns involved and doctrine of necessity. Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy Matters and State Honours, Barrister Olasunkanmi Olaleye, said that the public hearing will avail the stakeholders the opportunity to have their inputs in the bills and to give robust deliberation on Section 28 Subsection (1) of the Chief Law of Oyo State to which amendment is proposed by the Executive Arm of Government In their separate contributions, the representative of Olubadan-in-Council, Otun Balogun of Ibadan Land, High Cheif Tajudeen Ajibola and Bashorun of Oyo, Alhaji Yussuf Akinade, commended Governor Seyi Makinde for the initiative, urged the Committee to ensure all views are considered when passing the bill into law. It would be recalled that, the Oyo State Governor, Engr Seyi Makinde sought an amendment to the Chiefs Law, Cap 28, Laws of Oyo State through an Executive council letter he forwarded to the State House of Assembly on Tuesday, and the bill which was read for the second time was committed to the House Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters. The part sought to be amended is Subsection (1) of Section 28 of the Principal Law.