ISAAC ASABOR If there was any national event that highlights the fact that the leadership of the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), has been relentless in its fight against substandard goods across consumer markets, it is the one that took place in 2011 when the then Minister of State for Trade and Investment, Dr.Samuel Ortom, said that the law establishing SON, will be strengthened to give it more powers to effectively fight the war against production and importation of substandard products. It would be recalled that the minister, now the governor of Benue State, made the disclosure at Sagamu where he supervised the destruction of substandard products worth over N300 million seized by SON. The then Director General of SON, Dr. Joseph Ikemefuna Odumodu had said that over 80 per cent of exports to Nigeria are largely substandard, especially from a particular part of the world. In a statement from the ministry, the minister said that the production, importation and marketing of substandard products to unsuspecting consumers were worse than armed robbery as millions of Nigerians are exposed to dangers from the consumption or use of such products. “The situation requires urgent decisive measures to address the trend. SON will be given more powers and stronger “teeth” through the review of its enabling laws in order to bark and bite harder,” he said. He said that the government will not sit and watch some unpatriotic elements within the country continue to risk the lives of citizens with their nefarious activities. The destroyed substandard products that were imported into Nigeria by unpatriotic Nigerians in collaboration with some foreigners at various borders include motorcyclist helmets, electrical and electronics products, motor vehicle tyres, and food products such as tinned tomatoes, gum and aluminium roofing sheets. POLL Also in the same year, specifically in December, SON at a public forum indicated its intent to crack down on government agencies on its determination to rid the nation of substandard products. Former SON’s Director-General, Dr Joseph Odumodu, at the time, made the declaration during a meeting with state directors of the organisation. Odumodu, said that SON, come 2012, would rid every strata of the economy, including government institutions of substandard products. He said that the organisation would ensure that the various government agencies achieve greater capacity utilisation and standardisation in all its ramifications. He then said, “In 2012, we are moving ahead to standardise government agencies. We want to certify government agencies in the polity management system in such a way that government will produce sustainable outcomes. At this juncture, it is expedient to say that it has been observed that SON in its effort to evacuate substandard goods from consumer markets all over the country that it has not relented in its efforts as it has taken diverse strategic actions to achieve its mission. One of the actions SON recently took is its introduction of digital technology to complement its Conformity Assessment Programme in furtherance of the fight against substandard and counterfeit products in Nigeria. The technology solution known as Product Authentication Mark (PAM) facilitates the verification of the source and quality of products in the Nigerian market. Speaking at a Stakeholders’ Sensitisation Programme on PAM, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, the Director-General and Chief Executive, SON, Mallam Farouk A. Salim, FPSN, stated that, the scheme places the power to detect, reject and report substandard goods in our markets in the hands of the consumers, by simply scanning a QR code with their smartphone or sending an SMS to 281. According to him, ‘’PAM is one of the initiatives of the Organisation to enable consumers to verify the authenticity of all SON-regulated products in the markets to address the challenges posed by the presence of sub-standard products in Nigeria. PAM is a digital technology to complement the SON Conformity Assessment Programmes (SONCAP and MANCAP) in furtherance of the fight against substandard and counterfeit Products in Nigeria”. The Chief Executive added that in line with its mandate, the Organisation over the years has substantially reduced the importation, manufacturing and distribution of substandard products in the country through its Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) and Standards Organisation of Nigeria Conformity Assessment Programme (SONCAP) schemes. He listed the benefits of PAM to include; the protection of genuine manufacturers and importers from the faking and counterfeiting of their certified products; promotion of a level playing field in the market for both locally manufactured and imported products certified by SON; provision of assurance to consumers on products and guarantee value for money, and assurance of effective removal of non-complying products in the markets, amongst others. The SON helmsman further stated, that despite the efforts of the Organization, substandard products are still being imported and distributed in the country through smuggling, and in some cases through the use of fake SON stickers on non-certified products. He reiterated that SON in the provision of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has the mandate to set standards and to prosecute defaulters. He charged importers and manufacturers to adhere to the regulation provided by SON and urged consumers to report to SON through writing, telephone calls and personal visits, any issues on substandard products. Mallam Salim also commended the leadership of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (FMITI), the Minister, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, the Honourable Minister of State, Ambassador Mariam Y. Katagum and the entire Management of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment for their immense support in the actualisation of the scheme. ‘’ The Director, Product Certification Department (PCD), Mr. Tersoo Orngudwem, in his presentation, explained that PAM has come to stay to curb the unrelenting effort of counterfeiters and perpetrators of substandard goods in Nigeria despite seizures, destruction and even prosecution by SON. Mr. Orngudwem, stressed that the need for SON to adequately monitor and control its Conformity Assessment Programmes such as SONCAP and MANCAP cannot be over-emphasised. ‘’PAM is the harmonisation of all SON Conformity Assessment Programmes (MANCAP, SONCAP) to make it easy for the consumers to verify the quality of SON regulated goods, at the Point of Sale before purchasing. SON will implement PAM in partnership with MSP Technologies Nigeria Limited. Product Authentication is not indigenous to Nigeria (SON), it is currently being implemented in other African nations seeking similar feats: Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Uganda, all with similar economic challenges.’’ He enumerated the multiple benefits of PAM to the Nigerian economy and consumers stating that the scheme will increase productivity, and boost job creation thereby leading to security improvement. The President of the Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (PHCCIMA), Sir Mike Elechi, and the Chairman of Manufacturers Association Rivers/Bayelsa, Mr. Vincent Okuku, delivered goodwill messages on behalf of their respective organisations. The event had in attendance representatives of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), the Nigeria Immigrations Service (NIS), the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), Importers, Captains of Industries, Nigeria Port Authority (NPA), International Airport, Oil and Gas, Operating Agents at the Ports, Association of Supermarket Owners, amongst others. It would be recalled at this juncture that the leadership of the SON is not just deepening its efforts toward the protection of consumers from substandard and counterfeit goods across Nigerian markets, particularly when seen from the fact that in 2021, it signed a Memorandum of Understanding, (MOU) with five State Governments to improve standardisation of goods produced in States that cut across Cross River, Jigawa, Kano, Katsina and Lagos. Salim at the time made this known at a one-day Capacity Building Workshop organised for Journalists by the Organisation in Abuja. He said the MOU would go a long way in strengthening the activities of SON with the States towards improving Small and Medium Enterprises, SMEs, and added that SON over the past none months had arrested about 10 fake manufacturers in Kano, Ibadan and Lagos and are currently being prosecuted. According to him, sub-standard tyres and other products worth hundreds of millions of naira have been confiscated by the Agency over the last nine months across the country. Salim explained that SON had been engaging Steel Industries as part of measures to ensure standardisation and towards putting an end to building collapse in the country. The Director-General of SON pointed out that the enforcement activities of the Organisation had been increased to prevent the import of substandard goods into the country. He said efforts were also being made to boost and protect the production of local industries through appropriate monitoring and standard regulations to enable them to take advantage of African Free Continental Trade Agreement, AfCTA. Salim stated that plans were on the ground to improve the salary structure and condition of service of SON’s workforce towards boosting the standardisation of products and protecting Nigerian consumers from substandard goods. Mr. Edwin Ogbomo, a consumer protection enthusiast, while ostensibly throwing light on the motivation behind SON’s laudable fight against substandard and counterfeit goods across Nigerian markets said: “Overtime, SON has been averse to the influx of substandard goods into Nigerian markets as the Director General has at various events in the past disclosed that industries were suffering from counterfeiting, infrastructural problems, the influx of substandard goods, among others, and had noted that the agency was committed to supporting the industry in every way possible”.