ABUJA  – The upper chamber of the Na­tional Assembly has indicted the National Examination Council (NECO) for illegally awarding N6.5 billion in con­tracts for the printing of secu­rity materials. This is even as the bill seek­ing strict implementation and enforcement of the National Assembly recommendations on the Annual Report of the Auditor General for the Fed­eration was backed by some agencies. The agencies are the Eco­nomic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) and Secretary to the Government of the Federation. The decision to endorse the enforcement of National Assembly recommendations on audit reports was taken at the public hearing organised for the stakeholders on the bill by Senate Public Accounts Committee (SPAC) chaired by Senator Mathew Uhroghide. The representative of the EFCC, Director of Finance, Mohammed Hammas, the representative of the Office of Secretary to Government of the Federation, E.O. Ayoola and Dr Mary Ogbe, Permanent Secretary of Federal Civil Ser­vice Commission, agreed with the provisions of the bill but pleaded with the committee to give till next week to make written submissions. On the indictment of the NECO, the Senate upheld the recommendation of the Senate Public Accounts Committee af­ter the NECO failed to defend the allegations. The NECO stated that the contract was awarded through selective tendering which was done to avoid leakage of exam­ination questions. But, the com­mittee observed that the coun­cil did not follow due process in the award of the contract. The Committee, therefore, recommended that the Ten­der Board that awarded the contract should be held liable in line with Financial Regula­tion 3117(1) &11, which states, “Where the award is by a ten­der board, all members of the board shall be sanctioned indi­vidually or collectively.” POLL The query reads, “Examina­tion of records and documents revealed that the Commission’s Tenders Board approved the award of contract for the printing of security materials in the sum of N451 million to a company in March 2017 in contravention of provisions of Federal Government Circular No.SGF/OP/I/S.3/XI/849 of 16th January 2016 which re­iterated the approved revised thresholds for service-wide ap­plication, for which the Para­statal Tender Board can only exercise authority on works whose value is less than N250 million while any sum above this, is to be referred to the Ministerial Tenders Board for approval.”