LAGOS – Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has said that he has forgiven President Muhammadu Buhari even though he took Nigeria from top to bottom. Ortom while speaking on Arise TV on Wednesday said that the Bible enjoins Christians to forgive. “As a born again Christian, the Bible says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, God will not hear me. When you don’t forgive it means God too won’t forgive you. As a born again Christian, I’ve forgiven President Muhammadu Buhari. He has taken us from top to bottom but that doesn’t mean that we should continue to hold it on him. Thank God that the constitution says four years term and after four years, you can go in for a second term and after the second term, someone else will come. “It is good that the incoming administration will provide succour, security, economic development and peace for our people. “We’ve suffered for eight years. So, I have forgiven him, he doesn’t need to go to Niger. He should stay here with us and all of us will work with the incoming administration and by the grace of God we shall move again from bottom to top. He added, “I know that in 2018 when some of us had the privilege of serving with President Goodluck Jonathan, we were taking Nigeria from the bottom to the top to a certain level, but now we are at the bottom. Speaking about the role Aso Rock played in his defeat at the election, he said, “I will tell you the truth, the celebration of my defeat which was orchestrated by the Villa is unfortunate. Money was spent, and every day people talk about corruption. Corruption is from the Villa itself. “I know how much was given to Benue State to ensure that I lost the election. Well, God has permitted it, and I have accepted to move on. POLL “I have accepted that if some other person comes I will support him, if they need my support I will always be there and if they don’t I will go back to my farm. I will go back to my business. I can even be a freelance journalist with even Arise and other media organizations. I will go back to my business where I resigned as chairman in 2015 when I became a Governor. When asked if he will accept a Ministerial appointment from Tinubu or even join the All Progressives Congress (APC) after May 29, he said, “That is not on my table now. I am in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). I work with a Southern president because I believe in justice, equity and fairness. Tinubu and Obi are part of the Southern presidential candidates. I chose to work with Obi because I felt that the presidency should go to that place. “I am in PDP but I worked for the Obi presidency. I can be a PDP but will still work for the interest of this country to ensure fairness, equity and justice. “What I’m saying is that if tomorrow Tinubu is sworn in I will continue to pray for him and support him to succeed as president of this country. “The litigation is ongoing, let it take its course, it is part of the democratic process. Once the result comes out, whatever is the outcome, we’ll accept it and whoever is the president. “I’m a PDP and I’m working there but that doesn’t stop me from ensuring equity fairness and justice for all Nigerians, which I think is the only thing that can help us to be liberated in this country.”