A caucus of over 240 House of Representatives members-elect cut across party lines has promised to review the All Progressives Congress’ zoning arrangement for the 10th National Assembly. The lawmakers-elect, under the aegis of the Nationalists Forum, said it is “undemocratic, authoritarian, and unscrupulous” for the APC to zone offices without proper consultation. In a statement signed by Chief Philip Agbese on Thursday, the Nationalists Forum, in totality, denounced the APC’s zoning formula as “insensitive, flawed, and unattainable”. Agbese said the House must be allowed to elect the most competent member as Speaker as obtained in other democracies. “We want to align ourselves with all the Speakership aspirants who have rejected the zoning arrangements as a mere charade targeted at rubbishing the institution of our democracy in particular and our democracy in general,” Agbese said. “It is shameful that after over two decades of return to civil rule, our democracy is still a joke.“We are a laughing stock. The APC imposing candidates on legislators is the last straw. “We won’t be coerced into accepting the selfish agenda of a few. Nigeria is bigger than these individuals.“Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has spoken in condemnation of this debacle. Other men of goodwill including APC stalwarts must rise above party affiliation to condemn this shameful act” the statement said. Agbese, however, assured that the Nationalists Forum is in serious consultation with relevant stakeholders to arrive at the best possible decision for the nation. POLL He assured that in a matter of time, Nigerians will see dividends, adding that a Speaker with a reputable character, track record and integrity will emerge.Recall that the APC National Working Committee had zoned principal offices to certain sub-regions and individuals.However, this announcement was met with wild criticism, especially from the parliamentarians who have the exclusive right to elect their leaders.Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State had described the template as a “skewed arrangement that reinforces injustice”. E