GOMBE  – The All Progressive Con­gress (APC) in Gombe State has again expelled Senator Bulus K. Amos, represent­ing Gombe-South from the party over gross misconduct against the party during the last general elections. The party had last week handed down the same ex­pulsion notice to its Senator representing Gombe Central and a two-term former Gover­nor of the state, Muhammad Danjuma Goje, over the same offense. Chairman of the Senator Amos ward in Balanga Local Government Area, Moham­med Kaka, said the ward executives, after the party’s deliberations and investiga­tion, have therefore found him guilty for gross miscon­duct against the party during the last general elections and, therefore, expelled him com­pletely out of the APC.” Kaka, along with his ward executives, while addressing journalists in Bambam, said Senator Amos was called and suspended after explaining the allegations against him. He said the Senator was also called earlier to come and de­fend himself over the anti-par­ty activities leveled against him but he failed to turn up, adding that”this is the reason for our meeting today 2nd April, 2023 where we resolved to expel him from the party because he is not with us”. Also on hand to endorse the expulsion were the local government party execu­tives, led by its chairman, Ali Kachalla, who added that Senator Amos failed to deliv­er all the seven polling units in front of his house, includ­ing that of his unit during the presidential election, which he never turned up. “The other time he came, he said no one can expel him from the party, this is a big mistake because even the President is not above the law of the party”, Kachalla stated. In a similar issue, the House of Representatives member for Yamaltu-Deba Federal Constituency, Gombe State, Inusa Ahmed Abuba­kar, was also slammed with expulsion notice for gross misconduct against the par­ty during the last general elections. POLL Chairman, Lubo/Diffa/ Kinafa wyard, Yamaltu-Deba Federal Constituency, Gombe State, Maina Ahmadu, while briefing journalists said, the Rep member betrayed the par­ty by asking voters not to vote APC from top to bottom during the last general elections. “We called him some days ago and he confirmed to us that he did anti-party, which is against the party. This is the reason why we called for this meeting to tell the world that he has been expelled from the party”, Ahmadu stated. Endorsing the action of the Ward party executives’ decision the Yamaltu-De­ba Local Government APC Chairman, Aliyu Samaila, said “instead of Inusa Ahmed Abubakar to come and defend himself after the allegations were levelled against him, he contracted a lawyer and our party is not concerned about any lawyer. We’re just returning to him what he did to the party and that is to ex­pel him”.