House of Reps House Committee Chairman on Science and Technology Hon Beni Lar has attributed her Political achievements to her mother Professor Amb Mary Lar who has been her source of inspiration in her political journey.. According to her “Amb Mary Lar has been her source of joy and hope as well as best friend who has been a mother to her right from her birth and the beginning of her journey into politics . ” I could not have asked for a better mother. I really thank God that she is 88 years old and has done so much for her, immediate communities and Nigeria at large.” According to her, Mama the former Nigeria Ambassador to Netherlands taught us to live a Godly life when we were young and said once you keep to the principles of the word of God, he will always be by your side adding that she has seen it in her life, in Baba’s life and now Iam seeing it in my own life too. “Everything that Mama taught us when we were young is helping us. It shaped who we are today and she has been a mother not only to her children, but to other adopted children or whoever that comes her way. Mama is a gifted woman and one thing about her is that she feared God and loved everyone. She has being a pilar of the Lar’s family, without Baba I did not know how we could have stand, but Mama came to fill in the gap” . The federal lawmaker also said Mama told them to emulate the legacies of my father the Late Chief Solomon Lar, that is why she played a key role in the establishment of the Solomon and Mary Lar foundation, adding that she is the key executor and executive director and through that foundation a lot of lives were touched and thank God at a ripe old age of 88, she is as active as a forty years old person. She further disclosed that it is amazing Mama has gone through so many challenges in life, she lost a son and husband, but all these has not stop her , she is still fulfilling her mission on earth and serving God. “I want to use Mama’s life as an encouragement to all of us, age is not a barrier, at any age you can still serve your country, she is still serving, Mama wrote books, she is very active, and has just published a book last months, so that is one good things about her” . She said.