LAGOS  – The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership, CACOL, has expressed reservations at the flagrant manner outgoing administration, both at federal and state levels, is awarding contracts. The group stated that outgo­ing administrations have been making appointments into sen­sitive positions and presenting supplementary budgets, even at the eve of the expiration of their tenure. CACOL’s Chairman, Mr. Debo Adeniran, in a statement signed by the group’s Director of Administration and Pro­grammes Tola Oresanwo, con­demned the recent actions by the outgoing administrations at the federal and state levels concerning last minute rush to award contracts, sign new laws, and make appointments into key positions, while they are packing their bags and baggage. Adeniran said: “We have noticed that this precedent was set by the President, Muham­madu Buhari who, until now, is still awarding contracts and making new appointments into some federal parastatals even at the twilight of his tenures. “Most of the affected gov­ernors perhaps took the cue from President Muhammadu Buhari in his decision to take an $800 million loan from the World Bank to hand out in pal­try doles to some poor Nigeri­ans as a cushion against the im­pacts of the planned removal of subsidy for premium motor spirit (petrol) from June. Adeniran recalled that on May 10, 2023, the Federal Gov­ernment, rising from its week­ly executive council meeting, announced the award of multi-million naira contracts for various ministries. He said: “The meeting ap­proved a total of N327.34 billion for the ministries of transpor­tation, sports, aviation, federal capital territory and for other works, including Ogoni proj­ects, IRS building in Abuja and Port Harcourt. “We have heard how some outgoing state governors are now enmeshed in this last min­ute rush to award contracts and sign new bills into law. POLL “Recently, outgoing Taraba State governor, Darius Ishaku, made the headline news. First, he was reported to have ap­proved N2 billion for the pur­chase of cars for himself and his deputy. “As if that was not enough, the outgoing governor rushed to commission an uncomplet­ed 500 units housing estate he started in 2017. “Also from Delta State came the news that the outgoing Gov­ernor Ifeanyi Okowa recently presented a N71 billion supple­mentary budget to the State House of Assembly. MrOkowa sent the budget 14 days before the expiration of his two terms tenure. “The supplementary budget was made up of N5.6 billion in recurrent expenditure and N65.5 billion in capital expen­diture.”