ABUJA – The Joint Task Coalition of the incoming 10th Nation­al Assembly has said that it has advanced moves and processes aimed at making the delivery of Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu as Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, respec­tively, a smooth sail on the day of inauguration on June 13, 2023. Recall that the coalition which comprises the eight political parties (APC, PDP, LP, NNPP, APGA, SDP, ADC and YPP) that won various seats in the incoming 10th National Assembly at the just concluded February 25 general elections resolved to work together with a view to implementing the APC zoning arrangement and prevent any form of rebellion within the House against the ruling party and its incoming adminis­tration. Consequently, the group has since backed the nom­ination of Abbas and Kalu by the ruling All Progres­sives Congress (APC) as its preferred candidates for the offices, just as it also seeks to promote cooperation be­tween the legislature and executive, among others. Speaking on behalf of the group on an Arise TV programme entitled ‘This Week’ monitored in Abuja, its secretary a returning member-elect from Kano State, Hon. Aliyu Sani Madaki, said the mem­bers have resolved to give a block vote, adding that the G7, a group of other aggrieved aspirants, pos­es no threat whatsoever to them, saying it would soon fizzle out. He said: “If you look at it, the Joint Task itself is a kind of gang up. I’m from NNPP, the co-chair (Chin­da) is a PDP member, the chairman is of the APC. A few days back, a greater chunk of the opposition came together and en­dorsed Abbas. I can bet you the 10th Assembly intends to work as a group and on that day, we will work as a group and speak as one. “By the time we finish this interview, they could become G2 or G1, these are all people I know who are my friends and who are qualified to be speaker but, we can only have one speaker at a time. And the best amongst all is Hon. Ta­judeen Abbas,” he declared. Madaki also said that the stepping down of the trio of the outgoing leader of the 9th Assembly, Hon. Ado Doguwa, Hon. Abdul­raheem Olawuyi and Hon. Makki Abubakar Yalleman was a needed boost to their campaign. The outspoken lawmak­er added that the country needed the best hand at the national parliament to ef­fectively drive the machin­ery of governance. POLL He also revealed that they from the NNPP have the blessings of the party’s leader, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, to support Ab­bas. “On three contestants stepping down for Tajudeen Abbas that should not come as a surprise to Nigerians. That’s part of politics and politicking. I believe that’s good for our democracy. We at the Joint Task-10th As­sembly Coalition believe that we should have a very robust democracy and ran­cour-free House of Repre­sentatives where our main concern, main focus should be the well-being of the Ni­gerian citizens, and how to do it is to select leaders based on competence, intel­lect, capacity. We believe if that’s done irrespective of party, we will have an As­sembly that Nigerians will be proud of. “As at now, it’s not about having a working relation­ship between the APC and the NNPP. It’s about having a National Assembly that will work for Nigerians ir­respective of tribe, religion or whatever differences we have in this country. “If we don’t have his (Kwankwaso) blessings, you won’t see myself and other members being in the Joint Task. “For this country to move forward, we have to do away with all these sen­timents and pick the best from amongst ourselves. The Joint Task wants to do what’s obtainable every­where. “The best practice in de­mocracies is that the party with majority of members in that Assembly is allowed to pick who will be the pre­siding officers. “But in allowing the party, we at the Joint Task decided to have certain cri­teria, and those are: what’s your level of intellect, your contribution to the House? Abass Tajudeen, if you look at his resume, you will see he has brought 74 bills, and 21 of them have been as­sented to by President Mu­hammadu Buhari. That’s not a small feat. I have been in the parliament for eight years, I have only one bill to my name, although in the eighth Assembly, I have the highest number of mo­tions”, he said. The Secretary of the Joint Task Team, however, disagreed with those who ascribed unpopularity to the person of Abbas, de­scribing it as an “indict­ment on them” to say that a lawmaker who sponsored over 74 bills and got 21 of them assented to by the president was not known amongst his contemporar­ies. Madaki who vouched the credibility, intellectu­ality and comportment of Abbas, said he remains the most competent to lead the 10th House.