ABUJA  – Rejection of Nigeria’s food ex­ports may soon become a thing of the past if collaboration be­tween the National Agency for Food and Drug Administra­tion and Control (NAFDAC) and other government agen­cies at ports is strengthened. Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, the Director-General of NAFDAC, made the claim at the official commissioning of the new NAFDAC office complex at the Murtala Muhammed In­ternational Airport/NAHCO, Lagos, where she lamented that over 70% of Nigerian food exports are rejected abroad, resulting in huge financial losses. This was contained in a statement by the Resident Me­dia Consultant to NAFDAC, Sayo Akintola, which was made available to newsmen on Sunday in Abuja. The statement quoted the DG as saying that the deplor­able state of export trade facil­itation for regulated products leaving the country has con­tinued to be a serious cause for concern for her agency, adding that a trip to NAFDAC export warehouses within the international airport will explain unequivocally the ma­jor reason for the continuous rejection of Nigerian exports abroad. The statement read: “The agency is responding to this great challenge by initiating a collaborative adventure with the government agencies at the ports towards ensuring that goods are of requisite quality and meet the regu­latory requirements of the importing countries and des­tinations before such are even packaged and hauled to the ports for shipment. “This raises the need for a more enhanced regulation of export – packaging, pre-ship­ment testing and certification to provide some quality assur­ance and to minimize rejects.” To save our national reputa­tion in the international com­merce, Prof. Adeyeye called on all stakeholders in the export trade to see this as a call to duty and collaborate with NAFDAC for the sake of country and our collective future. Continuing, the statement said, “The mandate to safe­guard the health of the pop­ulace through ensuring that food, medicines, cosmetics, medical devices, chemicals, and packaged water are safe, efficacious and of the right quality in an economy that is overwhelmingly dependent on importation of the bulk of its finished products and raw ma­terials could never have been actualised without effective presence of NAFDAC at the ports and land borders”. POLL She recalled that this in­formed “our push through the resilience of the past Di­rector, Prof Samson Adebayo on assumption of duties, for the immediate return of NAF­DAC to the ports that eventu­ally happened in May 2018”, stressing that “with gratitude for the approval of the presi­dent and the various arms of the government, the results of our presence at the ports are available for everyone to see”. She, however, commended the Nigeria Customs Service for the symbiotic relationship that exists between its manage­ment and the agency, saying, “Without Customs, we will not be able to do a lot of what we have been able to do. The collab­oration between Customs and NAFDAC is huge. NAFDAC is scrupulous a complex organisation. We are scientific. We are police and we work with DSS. We work with Interpol and FBI because of the few stakeholders that are un. NAFDAC collabo­rates with Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Services, to ensure that due diligence is done be­cause over 70 percent of the products that leave our ports get rejected. Considering the money spent on getting those products out of the country, it is a double loss for both the ex­porter and the country). ­ “Without the police we can­not do much in terms of inves­tigation and enforcement. We have over 80 policemen with us in NAFDAC. They help us a lot when we are doing raids or in­vestigationsasthecasemaybe”. In pursuit of its mandate, she further explained that the agency has embarked on the optimisation and customisa­tion of its processes, stating that the Ports Inspection Da­ta-Capture and Risk Manage­ment System (PIDCARMS) is presently deployed in all of the nation’s ports and land bor­ders to automatically capture and process data for imported regulated products from the Nigeria Customs Information System (NICIS). The DG said the agency is also working assiduously with relevant stakeholders towards implementation of traceability for pharmaceuti­cals in Nigeria, recalling that a traceability pilot was conduct­ed successfully for COVID-19 vaccines distribution and a scale-up is being done as soon as feasible, for medicines and other regulated products. “The Traceability Informa­tion System was developed from PIDCARMS, which un­derscores the integrative sys­tem of NAFDAC. These efforts will further boost our regulato­ry oversight in monitoring the importation and distribution of medicines to ensure that spurious, substandard, and falsified (fake and counterfeit) products are minimised and are eventually blocked out from our supply chain”. The NAHCO office com­plex, according to Prof. Adey­eye, is one of the two facilities commissioned same day as part of her efforts to position the agency as a global regu­lator that is fully equipped to undertake its regulatory oversight in compliance with global best practices. She had earlier in the day com­missioned the Ogun State NAF­DAC office complex in Abeokuta with pomp and ceremony. Seven NAFDAC state office complexes have been complet­ed by the DG across the coun­try in the last five years while many others are at different stages of completion.