BENIN – Ahead of the Bayelsa State Governorship election, the Riverine Peace Initiative in Niger Delta (RPIND) has endorsed the candidature of the All Progressive Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate, Honourable Timipre Sylva, describing him as the best candidate to deliver in the upcoming election in the state. Announcing the endorsement when he led his group on a courtesy visit to the APC governorship candidate, RPIND National President, Comrade Toluwa Mulade, said the group is ready to work for the former Minister of State for Petroleum to emerge as Governor of Bayelsa State to enable him to bring back the lost glory of the state. According to him, the State needs a proactive leader whose track record of outstanding performance is in the public glare and would not disappoint Bayelsans if elected as Governor. “We are ready to work for you to ensure you emerge as Governor of Bayelsa State and we have our strategies intact that would work out in your favour in the upcoming election. “I never liked you as a person before now but from what I have heard about you of recently, coupled with your high level of humility, as you stepped into this arena and humbled yourself by kneeling down to give glory to the almighty God, you have succeeded to renew our group’s confidence that you are indeed a man to work for”. Mulade said that as a peace body, RPIND will continue to associate and work with those who believe in peace because our policy is to ensure the promotion of peace at times. “When the 10 Turkish Nationals were kidnapped in Bayelsa’s River, RPIND was contacted and we swung into action which helped their immediate release without a ransom paid. “As peace promoters, we have been doing our best to ensure peace especially in the Niger Delta Region and as we speak, we wrote to the present Governor of the state to assist our group with operational vehicles or speed boats to enable our work as surveillance but, he never bothered to respond. POLL “Are they telling us that if those 10 Turkish Nationals were killed by the kidnappers, will there be peace in the state? won’t the Turkish Government declare a battle with the State? So, they have shown that they are not in support of Peace promoters, we are ready to work for you and ensure you emerge as Governor of this State.” RPIND President however presented 200 crates of bottled water with the label of Hon Silva on behalf of his group as part of the group contribution to reach the riverine people with the mantra of rescue Bayelsa State 2023. Responding, Slyva commended the Peace body for volunteering to work with his party to restore the lost glory of the State. He disclosed that it was not his ambition to contest the governorship of the state again after ruling the state for one term in the past but due to the clarion call from his people that they need him to recover the lost glory of Bayelsa, he has made up his mind to serve the people for a second term.