LAGOS. -The Chairman of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers(NIESV),Lagos State Branch, Esv.(Mrs.)Olabisi Demola-Alade, has reiterated the institution’s commitment towards eradicating or at least, reducing to the barest minimum, the incidence of quackery in the profession. She dropped the hint, in an address she delivered to mark this year’s International Valuation Day(IVD) with the Theme “Valuation: Key to decision making for asset and resource optimization” held at the institution’s Secretariat at Alausa,Ikeja. According to her this year’s celebration is the second edition purposely meant to create awareness around ‘a Core Competence of Estate Surveyors and Valuers which of course is Valuation’. She said that this year’s advocacy push ‘ is to showcase the institution’s professionalism to Nigerians and the whole world’. Her words: “Valuation Day is being celebrated not only to create awareness, but to also save Nigerians from quacks and non-professionals because once you did not get it right with valuation; it automatically follows that every step action and decision taken on the wrong valuation will not be correct. In other word aluation as the Theme says, is key to making crucial economic decisions”. The NIESV Chairman pointed out, that Estate Surveyors and Valuers are responsible for the determination of economic worth of assets in all its ramifications, adding that they are the only professionals empowered by training and law to value assets and fix monetary value on it. She said: “ We want it explicitly known to the Nigerian public, that only the members of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers(NIESV) are trained and accredited by the enabling law, Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria(ESVARBON) Act No 24 of 1975 (Now CAP E13LFN 2004) to carry out Valuation of assets in Nigeria.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ ”We are the only professionals that have the appropriate recommendations to carry out Valuation and other real estate matters “. POLL She said that it was disheartening in the 21st century that people still engage quacks to carry our Valuation of assets and properties which according to her ‘is a very important requirement for mortgage, insurance and some other crucial financial and economic decisions. She said Nigeria must be guided that only Estate Surveyors and Valuers have the professional competence to undertake the Valuation of assets. Demola-Alade pointed out, that the Council of the institution has been and shall continue to respond promptly, appropriately and accordingly to all kinds of assault against the institution’s Core Competencies, adding that no stone would be left unturned in defending and protecting ‘Our God given profession and heritage’