LAGOS – Mallam Tijjani Musa Isa, 58th President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has lamented that the magnitude of the incidence of fraud has been a deterrent to economic growth and inflow of foreign direct investment into the nation. He stated this on Monday at the Institute’s headquarters in Victoria Island while speaking at the launch of Forensic Accounting and Fraud Examination Certification, run by the Institute and the Nigerian Police Academy. He said that the laudable collaboration between the Institute and POLAC is aimed at closing the skills and knowledge gap of public institutions and individuals charged with the responsibility of investigation of corrupt practices and financial crimes. “In Nigeria, fraudulent practices have become a recurring and seemingly intractable social and economic malady particularly in the public sector. He said that Agencies, like the ICPC, were established with the sole purpose of entrenching probity and accountability across the public and private sectors of the economy. “Unarguably, these agencies have recorded modest achievements, with the prosecution of high-profile individuals in the society and across all levels of leadership. However, the active application of forensic accounting techniques and fraud examination will further ensure the prevention of fraudulent activities and corruption. “The fields of forensic accounting and fraud examination play a vital role in our society, particularly in today’s complex and interconnected business landscape. As we witness an alarming increase in financial fraud and misconduct, it is essential to equip professionals with the necessary skills and expertise to detect, investigate, and prevent such illicit activities. He noted that as Professional Accountants with the mandate to act in public interest, collaborating with relevant agencies in reducing corruption and financial crimes in the society remains a top priority in the Institute’s public-interest mandate. POLL Isa further stated that the Nigeria Police Academy, an approved Academy of learning with a mission to train Police officers to acquire the highest standards of knowledge and skills was willing to collaborate with ICAN for the purpose of providing certified training on Forensic Accounting, Financial Audit and Investigation. He thereby acknowledged and appreciates the Commandant, the Nigeria Police Academy Wudil, Kano, AIG Sadiq Abubakar for his tireless efforts in making this project a possibility. Jamiu Olakisan, Council Member while giving insight into the programme said that the journey for the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) started in 2021 following the signing of the MOU by the leadership of both ICAN and POLAC. He said Forensic accounting is the branch of accounting that deals with the detection and prevention of financial crimes and that it utilises accounting, auditing, and investigative skills to examine the finances of an individual, business organisations, government and its agencies. He said that the main objectives of forensic accounting are to provide evidence that financial fraud has taken place, and present the results of an investigation in such a way that it can withstand cross-examination in court. “There is no doubt in my mind that this laudable collaboration between ICAN and POLAC will go a long way in helping our country to deal with the problem of corruption and fraudulent activities which will pave the way for sustainable economic growth and development. AIG Sadiq Abubakar, Commandant, Nigeria Police Academy while speaking at the event appreciated ICAN for picking the Police Academy for the programme, stating that he believes that it will help a lot of people especially the cadets in the academy. Abubakar who was represented by CP Lawal Badiru stated that he believes that the collaboration will be successful.