ABEOKUTA – Former Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun has revealed that his administration did everything possible including going beyond its duties to retain the $19bn Dangote Refinery at the Olokola Free Trade Zone in Ogun Waterside Local Government Area of Ogun State. Amosun, the Senator representing Ogun Central at the National Assembly hinted that the owner of the refinery, Alhaji Aliko Dangote only took a business decision that was beyond the State. Amosun was reacting to Governor Abiodun, amongst other critics, who alleged him of frustrating the project outside Ogun State, for personal reasons. The former Governor, in a statement signed by Bola Adeyemi from his media office, insisted that it was most uncharitable for anyone to blame him for the relocation of the project to Lagos State. Amosun further revealed that he vigorously engaged Dangote and did everything possible to make the enterprise take off in Ogun State by making a total of 10,000 hectares of land available for the project. “Let me put it straight: The Olokola Free Trade Zone project was not solely owned by Ogun State. From its conception in 2007, it was a Joint Venture. The Federal Government of Nigeria owned the majority 51%, Ondo State government (14.5%), the Ogun State government (14.5%), and strategic core investors (20%). Alhaji Aliko Dangote, according to the information availed us when we took office, subsequently bought, and took over the 20% equity of the core investors. “Ogun State was a minority equity stakeholder only, without proprietary strength and capacity to take sole decisions on the Joint Venture enterprise. “Ogun State, under my leadership, went beyond and above duty and did all we could to ensure that the project saw the light of the day. As Governor at the time, I appointed two (2) carefully chosen stakeholders of Ogun East/Ogun Waterside Local Government extraction to represent Ogun State’s interests on the joint venture enterprise and advise the State. These were Dapo Abiodun (now Governor) and Mrs Kemi Adeosun, then Commissioner for Finance, who incidentally hailed from the host Community of the Olokola project. POLL “After Mrs. Adeosun was elevated and became a minister, another son of Ogun East, Lekan Onamusi, took charge and represented Ogun State on the Joint Venture. “Based on the advice of our representatives on the project, we engaged the majority equity holder, FGN and our joint venture partner, Ondo State Government, who were very responsive and eager to have the project in Olokola Free Trade Zone. “We also vigorously engaged Alhaji Aliko Dangote and did everything possible to make the enterprise take off. A total of 10,000 hectares of land was made available. “As mere holder of 14.5% equity interest, it is most uncharitable for anyone to churn out lies that Ogun State was in a position to unilaterally frustrate the project or was responsible for the logjam. With respect to all sides, it accords more with logic to appreciate the fact that Alhaji Aliko Dangote took business decisions of his own in accordance with the goals of his business strategy and risk assessment. “Our position was that, at the minimum, 500 hectares from the Ogun State portion be reserved for the host Community, Ogun Waterside, as against ceding the entire land of the Olokola Free Trade Zone. “Indeed, at some point and at my instance, our revered Elders, Baba Olusegun Obasanjo and Kabiyesi Awujale, Oba Sikiru Adetona were involved, where we all met to ensure that the project was sited in Olokola Free Trade Zone.” Amosun however dared Abiodun to release facts about his negligence which frustrates the project, saying he wouldn’t have knowingly allow such project slipped off the State. “It is, therefore, interesting to read that the present Ogun State governor holds me responsible for allegedly scuttling the Olokola project. “For the benefit of the good people of Ogun State, Nigerians and posterity, we challenge him, particularly as he was then the chairman appointed to oversee and ensure that the project was sited in Olokola Free Trade Zone, to disclose with facts, where he or the Administration was remis, and which might have led to the project being moved away from Ogun State. “As Governor, I would never have knowingly let any opportunity slip past Ogun State and its people. I did my best to the satisfaction and conviction of my conscience.” Abiodun, in a press release signed by his Chief Press Secretary, had alleged Amosun of brazenly frustrating the project out of the State, adding that Dangote is alive to tell the story. “Governor Abiodun, as the chairman of the committee and a big player in the oil and gas industry himself, did everything possible to make sure the project saw the light of the day. “The then governor, perhaps, having a personal axe to grind with the promoter of the refinery project, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, frustrated all the efforts of Governor Abiodun and his committee. “He (Dangote) is alive to speak on how he was frustrated, despite Prince Abiodun’s pleas and multiple interventions that fell on the deaf ears of the then governor. “Instead of showing enthusiasm towards hosting the project in the state, the former governor brazenly opposed and obstructed the efforts of the Abiodun-led committee in ensuring that the OKFTZ came into fruition.”