LAGOS – Following a heart-breaking 3-0 loss to Brighton, Arsenal will be looking to get back on course in the Premier League when they take on Nottingham Forest on Matchday 37. The Gunners are low on con­fidence ahead of the trip to West Bridgford, which is probably the main reason why away win should not be considered. Gabriel Martinelli limped off with injury in the last league match, but he should recover in time to face Mikel Arteta’s troops. All Saliba, Zinchenko, Tomiyasu, and Elneny remain in the recovery room. The Reds, on the other hand, did well to hold Chelsea to a 2-2 draw at Stamford Bridge at the weekend. Con­sidering that the relegation-threat­ened hosts are tough to beat at the City Ground. With no fresh injury worries to report, Steven Cooper is unlikely to make changes to the team that shared the spoils with the Blues. At the other end of the pitch, Arse­nal will need to keep Taiwo Awoniyi quiet if they are to keep a clean sheet. The Nigerian has been tough to han­dle this season and has averaged 2.4 shots per 90 minutes in the Premier League, more than any other Forest player to play at least 1,000 minutes. The Nigerian has scored back-to-back braces, scoring many goals in his last two appearances as he had in his previous 23 and could become just the second Nottingham Forest player to score multiple goals in three con­secutive Premier League appearanc­es, after Bryan Roy in March/April 1995. After their 3-0 defeat to Brighton, Arsenal’s title chances hang by a thread. The Gunners trail Manches­ter City by four points as things stand, having played a game more, with the trophy looking destined to return to Manchester. POLL That would leave Arsenal needing three points to prolong Manchester City’s coronation as they would still have three games left to play com­pared to the Gunners’ one. A four-game winless run which included three draws and a defeat to Manchester City seems to have done the business for the Gunners who looked comfortable at the top of the table, even while having played a few matches more. For Forest, this will certainly be a crucial game as they continue to fight against relegation. At the time of writ­ing, the Reds are in 16th, two places and three points clear of the relegation zone with two matches left to play. Two wins and a draw from their past four games, beating Brighton and Southampton, while earning a hard fought point against Frank Lampard’s Chelsea have lifted Steve Cooper’s men away from the bottom and things are looking up. However, it’s a tricky end to the season for Forest who, after facing the Gunners, finish away to a Crys­tal Palace side looking revived under Roy Hodgson. Forest won’t want to go into that game needing something to secure safety, but results elsewhere could also do the trick for them. Arsenal are the second-highest scorers in the Premier League this season so naturally they are going to be fancied to find the net, but the Gunners are pretty strong in both halves – rather than favouring one or the other. Only Manchester City (43) have scored more goals than Arsenal’s 38 in the first half of matches this season, while it is once again only the Citizens (46) above the Gunners in the second half (45). Having been something of a bo­gey team for Arsenal in the FA Cup, knocking the Gunners out of the third round in both 2018 and 2022, Nottingham Forest were thrashed in their trip to the Emirates earlier this season. Arsenal will be looking to do the league double over Forest for just the second time in the Premier League era. One player that should be watched out for on Arsenal side is Granit Xha­ka. Xhaka is widely regarded as one of Europe’s most talented central midfielders at the moment and he is on the radar of quite a few high-pro­file sides. Just two seasons at FC Basel proved enough to attract interest from Borussia M’gladbach, who secured his signature in the summer of 2012. The Switzerland international had a slow start to his career in Germany, causing many pundits to start doubt­ing his credentials, but he eventual­ly turn things around to show he is more than capable of playing at the highest level. Acting as a deep-lying playmaker, Xhaka impressed fans and pundits alike with his perfor­mances in Bundesliga and European competitions, and he even managed to score a couple of important goals in the process. Despite his fragile age, the highly regarded footballer has been a key member of the Switzerland nation­al team for quite some time now, scoring six goals in his first 40 caps to establish himself as a real leader of the Rossocrociati. The 2014 World Cup, where he scored one goal in four starts, should prove just the first of many major tournaments to come. In another match lined up for today, Wolverhampton Wanderers would attempt to compound the woes of Everton as they aim to move up the ladder of the league. The race for Premier League sur­vival is really starting to heat up, with Everton scrambling to preserve their top-flight status. Sean Dyche has his men hovering above the drop zone but the complexion could very well change in these final two games. The Toffees have been a top flight club for nearly 70 years, but their standing is in serious jeopardy thanks to another inconsistent campaign. Frank Lampard delivered survival last term, but was dismissed in mid January after failing to kick on. Dy­che now has the reins and is attempt­ing to produce similar late-season heroics to his predecessor. Wolves were bottom of the league when Julen Lopetegui was drafted in during autumn, but the Spanish coach has completely transformed the complexion of their campaign. The West Midlands club have long been assured of safety, and will now be looking to build some momentum heading into the summer. There hasn’t been a draw between Wolves and Everton in the Premier League across the previous eight meetings, so we expect a similarly frenetic contest given what is at stake. Dwight McNeil is the only player to score at least seven goals in the Premier League this term between either club, so he will be looking to build on his tally — a personal best — to keep Everton afloat. Five of these strikes have come since Sean Dyche took charge of the club in February. Also expect some tough midfield work from Wolves skippper Ruben Neves, whose 75 tackles places him in the Premier League’s top 10 for this season. There is a double-edged sword to the Portuguese’s hard work, though, with the club captain picking up 11 yellow cards, the second-most of any player. Another tough and interesting match is that between Fulham and Crystal Palace. While Fulham are 10th on the table with 51 points from 36 matches, Crystal Palace are 12th with 43 points from the same