Leading Fuji music composer and performer in the United States, Fakorede Yusuf with stage names King Dipo Ayinde and K3 De Future has revealed that he learnt a lot from watching music maestro Wasiu Ayinde perform. According to Dipo, “I have been a lover of Fuji music for years. I grew up listening to and watching performance videos of the Late Sikiru Ayinde Barrister, Ayinla Kolington and Wasiu Ayinde. But there is something striking and unique about Wasiu Ayinde’s performance style, mannerisms and audience engagement that made me fall in love effortlessly with his art and personality. I was so addicted that I could sing most of his songs near perfect. “While in the university, I would always entertain my friends by singing Fuji with Wasiu Ayinde’s style. A few years after I relocated to the United States, I developed more interest, did some vocal training and started music professionally in 2019.” Dipo Ayinde who holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Education from Olabisi Onabanjo University, maintains that being a music artiste in the United States is a great thing for him, as the system abroad looks more healthy for growth and enables creativity. In his words, “It is most obvious that most Nigerians here (in the United States) do spend more time with work and other occupational engagements. So, in the little time they have to unwind with Dipo Ayinde band at shows or events, I ensure that they do not miss anything from what those in Nigeria are enjoying, music-wise. I go all out to give them memorable moments with my music at all times. Irrespective of how much I am expanding my network of fans in the United States, I still connect with my fans in Nigeria, the United Kingdom, Canada, and all over Europe via social media platforms such as Instagram @k3dfuture and YouTube with username k3defutureband. I let them watch my live performances from time to time.” With an impressive commitment to the arts, King Dipo Ayinde who released his maiden album in 2022 titled ‘New Beginning’, has perfected plans to release a new body of work titled ‘Guidance’ on May 16 and will be available for streaming on all digital platforms. He also revealed that his career fulfilment would be to take his fuji music to every corner of the world as accomplished by his role model, Wasiu Ayinde Marshall.