ABUJA – Barely 13 days to the inaugu­ration of the leadership of the National Assembly, the former governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu, on Tuesday disclosed that himself and Abdulaziz Yari, former governor of Zam­fara State, have formed an alliance to produce the next Senate President. This is coming barely three weeks after the leader­ship of the All Progressives Congress (APC) announced that the party has endorsed Godswill Akpabio and Barau Jibrin as President of the Senate and Deputy, respec­tively. Addressing newsmen at the National Assembly com­plex in Abuja, Kalu disclosed that the Igbo presidency of the Senate is very much alive. He further said that he has not resigned from the contest of the 10th Assembly Senate President. Expressing concern over the lingering clamour for the position, Kalu said what hap­pened during Saraki period is likely to happen on June 13, as himself and Senator Yari are discussing who should be the Senate Presi­dent and the Deputy Senate President. He said: “I can’t step down for anybody. My group and Yari group are talking. No one zone can produce the President of the Senate. “The partnership will be unveiled. We are in talks and we have decided to be talking. That talk will be unveiled by our sponsors. “Yari and I will be happy to follow what our sponsors decide.” POLL He disclosed that in a cou­ple of days, the plan of who becomes the President of the Senate and his Deputy will be made public. He said: “We are not look­ing for what to eat, we just want to support Tinubu to succeed. If people think what happened during Sara­ki will not happen again they are dreaming. We will congratulate who wins and if we win, they should con­gratulate us.” He, however, revealed that they will support who­ever wins because in the next four years, they are going to be sitting in one chamber. On why he has kept such an ambition secret for some time, Kalu said, “We have the largest press but we decided to go underground. We will unveil our plans on 13th of June. Whether Yari-Kalu, or Kalu-Yari, we will not disap­point Nigerians.” Speaking on the transi­tion that just took place fol­lowing the swearing in of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the president of Nigeria, Kalu said he is happy Nigeria transited to another civil­ian government without rancour. Kalu said: “Tinubu should look into abandoned projects. He should look at the Ajakuta Steel Company, the Jos Flour Mill Company and many other abandoned projects. “Nigeria has over 11,000 abandoned projects which are taking over our debt servicing. Ministries and parastatals that are no lon­ger viable should either be scrapped or merged. “Niger Delta Ministry should be scrapped. NDDC should function because they are not supposed to report to the ministry. Nige­rians should be happy they have Tinubu as President today. “All those days of stealing money are gone. Tinubu is not looking for food to eat. People like us are not look­ing for food to eat. We want to work for Nigeria.”