Arsenal midfielder Granit Xhaka has been heavily linked with a move away from the Emirates Stadium ahead of the summer transfer window Xhaka has had a rollercoaster career in north London, to say the least, but he has enjoyed the best individual campaign of his career this season, netting five goals and providing a further seven assists in the Premier League this term. The Swiss captain has thrived in a new more attack-minded midfield role, admitting that he owes much of his success to manager Mikel Arteta. However, the 30-year-old has been mooted as a potential target for a number of Bundesliga teams having previously enjoyed a successful stint with German side Borussia Monchengladbach before joining the Gunners. With that being said, we’ve taken a look at the latest news on the tough-tackling midfielder’s future ahead of the transfer window. Leverkusen talks According to German transfer guru Florian Plettenberg, Leverkusen are still pushing to prise Xhaka away from north London. Writing on twitter, Plettenberg said: “News #Xhaka: Leverkusen is still pushing to sign him! It’s looking very good. “(Xabi) Alonso wants him as a top leader. Understand that Xhaka wants to take on another challenge this summer. But he’s totally focused on @Arsenal now. Price valuation of around €15m (£13 million). No negotiations between the clubs yet. @SkySportDE (Swiss flag emoji).” Mikel Arteta was probed on Xhaka’s future at the club and whether a stay was possible or if a move was on the horizon. When asked about a new contract, he said: “Obviously where we are with each individual is probably different in terms of timing but the clarity is there. We have communicated to each of them what the intentions are and we are trying to get that done as quickly as possible but respecting and not losing any focus on what is the real deal right now.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ As for reports on a move away, he added: “As you can understand I’m not going to be replying to certain stories. I’m extremely happy with Granit, I think he is having an incredible season, probably the best season he has had at the club and we are really happy to have him.” POLL Transfer value With Arsenal potentially looking to move on Xhaka in the summer transfer window, any funds raised from such a deal would be crucial to reinvest. According to CIES Football Observatory, the 30-year-old is currently valued at £26million in the market, though it remains to be seen which price the Gunners may set. Exit claims Granit Xhaka continues to be linked with an exit from Arsenal as 90Min claims that Bayer Leverkusen and Borussia Dortmund are eyeing a switch. On top of that, TalkSPORT reports that the midfielder is increasingly likely to leave as a new contract is unlikely to be agreed at this stage.