The international trade turf is one that one was privileged to tread shortly after school certificate. My late foster father, F.Omo Okotete, ran a company, Metropolitan Business Consultancy Services which traded raw rubber locally and internationally. We had a small rubber sheets processing factory in Ekrerhavwen, a village in Agbarho clan at the outskirts of Warri, on the way to Ughelli. From this humble factory, we moved lorry loads of raw rubber in bales to Dunlop factory in Ikeja, Lagos and to the Sapele Port for onward shipment to the United Kingdom. We made journeys to London to hold meetings with our oversea buyers. Thus from those early days (the 1970s) of one’s life one had the rare privilege of knowing such terms as stuffing, or hatches of vessels which are stuffed with cargo. A second phase of this touch with international trade was between late 1990s and early 2000s in Lagos, where one had the privilege of managing a bonded commodity warehouse, one that was into commodity warehousing and freight forwarding. This was an advanced phase that involved the whole gamut of international trade – sales contract, export documentation, etc. So when a document like How to Become A Successful Import/Export Agent is given one for review, one naturally gets excited about it. This document is a teaching manual of Multimix Export Academy. It is in four parts – A, B and C and an intimidating fourth part, appendices. Part A is made up of seven chapters, B and C, one chapter each. Part A deals with issues like the basics of the subject in question, starting export business, methods of payment in international trade, import-export practice, export financing, export marketing strategies and export/import business communication – eight chapters on the whole. Part B looks at the legal aspect of international trade, while C deals with negotiating agency agreement. Under basics you get informed about what you benefit for getting involved in international trade. You are told for instance that sales to external market fill-in for the seasonal nature in the demand of some products, that this demand is needed to keep factories in production (this of course is true because the South which we belong to has since the colonial era bee structured to grow primary products for the metropolitan countries in the North); you are told, with international trade, you can achieve lower unit cost of products as a result of expanded production; you are told companies that export in many countries have priority in foreign exchange allocation for machinery importation and raw materials. This vital document touches on one very important basic of international trade – one that all players are very familiar with. Take this: ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The dynamics of international trade demands additional expertise on the side of all operators: exporters, importers, bankers, shipping agents, warehouse managers, consultants and trade agents. In international trade, the overriding consideration is protection: while the importer wants to ensure that he receives goods that conform to his specification, the exporter wants to ensure that he receives goods supplied. The problem of protection, coupled with that of distance and various other problems call for a lot of hard work on the side of operators of import/export organizations.” POLL The author has touched on the sore point in the supply chain. Controls are needed to checkmate those who engage in unwholesome practices – those who stuff bags of cocoa with extraneous matters like granites, chaff, etc., produce inspectors who compromise on bad practices, transporters and ‘wharf rats who brazenly bring about leakages, etc. Fine details on how you can start export are made available and you get all you need to know on methods of payment in international trade – another very important aspect of the trade since you are in the business to make money. Coming along with this is export financing. You are told export financing is a specialized financing comprising of various financing products. And the issue of cheap funding which the exporter loves to have is raised too. This is all we can take in part B. Part B is devoted to the legal aspect of international trade – law of contract – different types of contract, determination of existing contract, and validity of contract, all that goes with sales of good acts. It’s an entire package beautifully delivered. In Part C is negotiating agency agreement, manifesting negotiating fangs clean and clear. Here you get tutored about the undeniable importance of negotiating skills. Your attention is drawn to Claud Cellich’s International Trade Centre, Canada’s key factors you must review and check before any negotiation. These include knowing your position, the other side’s position, competition and negotiating limits and developing strategies and tactics. How to Become A Successful Import/Export Agent is a complete tool for exporters and would-be exporters