…..Ask NNPC To Review the Award of Pipeline Surveillance Contract A Coalition of Isoko Youth Groups in conjunction with Coalition of Urhobo Ex-agitators and Interested Youth Stakeholders has raised alarm over alleged ethnic discrimination and marginalization in the award of pipeline surveillance contracts in the Niger Delta region by the Nigeria Petroleum Development Company Limited ( NPDC ). The coalitions said the marginalization of Isoko and Urhobo in the award of the contracts was a confirmation of the fears that there is a deliberate attempt to deprive them of their quota in this negotiation. In a statement jointly signed by Mr. Iteveh Nur’Ekpokpobe, Mr. Karo Edor, Mr Joseph Figbele, and Mr Abraham Ekokotu after a press conference in Abuja called on the Group Managing Director Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation ( NNPCL), Mele Kyari to institute an alternative delegation to review the processes in the award of the contracts and accommodate the interest of their people. The statement read ” It is sad that over this period of time, all the promises made to us have not been kept. This back-and-forth movement has confirmed our fears and the obvious truth, that there is a deliberate attempt to deprive Isokos and by proxy, Urhobos of their quota in this negotiation. ” On the back of this fact, our clients are stating that the Isoko people cannot fold their arms this time around, because one can only accommodate oppression for so long. Tempers are already high and the need for NNPC GCEO, Mr Mele Kyari to step in and personally address this matter once and for all is now more pressing than ever. ” As you are aware, sometime in August 2022 a contract for the surveillance of an oil pipeline in the entire region was awarded to Tantita Security owned by the family of Mr. Government Ekpemupolo (Tompolo) an Ijaw from Oporoza in Niger Delta, without recourse to any Isoko representation, body or council. ” Again without consultations a subcontract to cover for the pipelines in Urhobo Nation was awarded to Zane Energy Limited owned by the Family of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege who are Urhobos. However, this contract was awarded with a spur into the Isoko axis. POLL ” This move has been interpreted in its entirety to be a total disregard of Isoko Nation and it vibrant youths in their capacity to man surveillance on crude oil facilities in the area. ” In view of these awards of these subcontracts, eleven Isoko Youth Groups came together in a coalition to exhaust all legal channels to press home demands germane to the perceived marginalization. ” As part of our engagement, several letters were written to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL), Office of the National Security Adviser, and the National Assembly amongst others.To better drive home our position, on 10th October 2022, the Isoko Youth Coalition issued a 7-Days Ultimatum to the Federal Government to examine the issues on the ground amidst numerous media engagements both on National and International Media. ” It took the intervention of Retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Felix Ogbaudu who is the National Leader of Isoko Ethnic Nationality, to calm the nerves of the youths who were already irate” He accused the MD of NPDC, Mr. Ali Zahra of terminating the Internal surveillance contract for OML 30 and OML 34 which was managed for years by Momor Marine owned by an Urhobo son, Mr. Morris Idiovwa on December 14, 2022. He said the termination of the contract resulted in pushing over 1000 youths who were abruptly disengaged after being engaged for years to secure the pipelines back to the labor market According to the statement, ” From the foregoing, the Coalition Of Interested Isoko Youth Groups in conjunction with Coalition of Urhobo Ex-agitators and Interested Youth Stakeholders therefore humbly request the GCEO of NNPC, Mr Mele Kolo Kyari, as well as the Presidency to: ” Calling for a meeting between the GCEO of NNPC, Mr. Mele Kyari, and the leadership of the coalition; ” Appealing to Mr. Mele Kyari to institute alternative delegation to review the processes and engage us or better still directly engage us to put a final stop to the back and forth unending negotiations; ” To award a fresh contract to a company of the choosing of the Isoko Youth Coalition and Coalition of Urhobo Ex-agitators and Interested Youth Stakeholders; ” Where the need for a fresh contract becomes impossible, create a sub-contract deriving from the existing one to include the communities that are not reflected in the main contracts and to appropriately give one thousand five hundred (1500) slots to accommodate Isoko Youths both in Delta State and Bayelsa States.