Alhassan Doguwa, a federal lawmaker representing Doguwa/Tundun Wada Federal constituency of Kano State, who is currently facing a murder trial, has declared his intentions to join the race for the 10th House of Representatives speakership seat. In a letter of intent addressed to Members-elect on Sunday, Doguwa expressed his desire to contest for the office of the Speaker of the House. Doguwa stated in his letter: “I want to use this opportunity to communicate my desire to contest for the office of the Speaker of the House. My passion for nation-building has fuelled my desire to seek this office at this critical time when various divergent views of governance exist in different zones in the nation.” The lawmaker is currently facing trial over sundry allegations bothering on conspiracy to commit murder, arson, mischief, illegal possession of the firearm and public unrest, levelled against him by the Kano State Police Command, having been arrested and remanded in prison custody for days before posting an N500 million bail with two sureties. Specifically, the police had detained Doguwa over alleged complicity in the killing of three members of his constituency a few months ago after the February 25th Presidential and National Assembly elections in which Doguwa was a candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The police prosecutor in the case informed the court that Doguwa allegedly committed the offence on 26 February in the Tudun Wada Local Government Area of Kano State. The incident was a result of a violent confrontation between members of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC), which led to the killing of three people and the burning of a campaign office of the opposition party in Tudun Wada Local Government Area of Kano.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ DAILY INDEPENDENT reports that on April 28, a Kano State High Court granted leave for a process that would compel the Kano State Attorney-General and Commis­sioner for Justice, Musa Abdul­lahi Lawan, to immediately file charges against Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, and oth­ers for alleged conspiracy over culpable homicide. POLL The High Court, presided over by Justice Maryam Sabo Mni, granted a Kano retired Chief Magistrate, Muntari Gar­ba Dandago, to apply for order of mandamus to compel Kano number one judicial officer to execute his functions. In her ruling, Justice Sabo Mni upheld that “leave is hereby granted to the applicant to apply for the issuance of an order of mandamus against the respon­dent, that is Attorney-General of Kano State, compelling him to exercise his power under section 211 of the constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) to immediately file a charge against Alhassan Ado Doguwa and his conspira­tors for the offences of criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide, mischief, incitement of public disturbance and possession of firearms before a court of com­petent jurisdiction”. Despite the ongoing development, Doguwa who had since been quiet as an onlooker in the Speakership race suddenly wrote his colleagues a letter of intent declaring his intention to contest for the office of the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The lawmaker was granted bail by Judge Yunusa Muhammad in the sum of N500m, with the condition that he provides two sureties, one of whom must be a first-class traditional ruler, while the other must be a permanent secretary at the federal or state civil service. According to the letter seen by a DAILY INDEPENDENT correspondent on Sunday night, the embattled Majority Leader has now joined the race for the 10th House of Representatives speakership, becoming the latest aspirant to declare interest in the position. He will be competing against several others who have also declared their interests. Those already campaigning for the coveted seat are the incumbent Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), Sada Soli Jibia (APC, Katsina), Muktar Betara Aliyu (APC, Borno), Tunji Olawuyi (APC, Kwara), Abubakar Makki (APC, Jigawa), Tajudeen Abbas (APC, Kaduna), Aminu Jaji (APC, Zamfara), Benjamin Kalu (APC, Abia), and Miriam Onuoha (APC, Imo). No Speakership Vacancy For Kano: However, lawmakers across party lines have been reacting to Doguwa’s declaration saying that Kano does not have any claim to the Speakership seat if the House, even if zoning favours the Northwest. Lawmakers who wished not to be mentioned told DAILY INDEPENDENT that Kano is the only state in the Northwest and indeed Nigeria which has produced two Speakers in the persons of Salisu Bihari in 1999 and Umar Ghali Na’aba in 2000 to 2003. They said while there’s no law preventing any state from producing the Speaker, even if the current zoning were to favour Northwest, Kano, Katsina and Sokoto states will not be considered to field candidates, as lawmakers will not listen to them for reasons of fairness and equity. Already, SADA Solo, from Katsina is in the race, even though not much has been heard of his campaign. With this disposition among lawmakers, Doguwa’s ambition apart from the court case hanging over his head, may be facing another obstacle in the days ahead. Read the letter below: LETTER OF INTENT My Dear Colleague, I am delighted to congratulate you on your election to the 10th Nigerian National Assembly. The call to leadership is one laced with responsibilities and unalloyed commitment to the commonwealth of Nigerians, expressed through a unanimous ballot casting which led to your victories in your various States, The journey to nation-building has commenced, and we are here once again to steer the ship where the collective voices of the Nigerian people, whose trust has been vested in us, have been total to an admirable end. I want to use this opportunity to communicate my desire to contest for the office of the Speaker of the House. My passion for nation-building has fueled my desire to seek this office at this critical time when various divergent views of governance exist in different zones in the nation. Now is the time to align all our interests, aspirations, and trust to work together for the common good of Nigerians. At the same time, discard ethnic, geographical, religious, or political bias that could hinder our collective efforts in this representation. As we look forward to formulating impactful policies for the growth of our nation, I implore us all to bear in mind that all back home will see the results of our stay at the Assembly, thus the need to come together to build a nation where peace and justice shall reign The road to national transformation is not easy, which is why I will use my vast “Legislative Experience and Patriotic Zeal” for all representations within the House of Representatives. Nigeria needs brave leaders whose doggedness can help reduce the myriad of challenges; I am sure we can achieve this with you on board, Thank you, and congratulations again, as I look forward to seeing you at the National Assembly. Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa Majority Leader – House of Representatives.