BENIN – A chieftain of the People Democratic Party, PDP, and former Special Adviser to Comrade Adams Oshiomhole on Political matters, Honourable Charles Idahosa, on Tuesday, berated those agitating for the zoning of Edo 2024 governorship ticket to a particular senatorial district in the state, describing them as “lazy lots”. Idahosa said rather than agitating that the Edo 2024 governorship ticket be zoned to a particular senatorial district based on tribe or religious considerations, any Edo person interested in the governorship should come out irrespective of tribes, ethnic or any other primordial sentiments. According to him, “Those making such agitation that it is their turn to produce the next governor to succeed Governor Obaseki come 2024 are lazy lots. “Whoever is seeking to occupy the number one seat of the state must put the interest of Edo state first and must be someone with the competence and capacity to unite the people. The former commissioner for Information and Orientation under the then Lucky Igbinedion’s administration stated this at a press conference in Benin City, the Edo State capital. Idahosa spoke on the heels of mounting pressure by the people of Edo Central senatorial district to produce the next governor come 2024. He further declared, “Edo state belongs to all of us and the beauty of Edo state is that no ethnic group or tribe in Edo state cannot trace their origin from Benin and it is a statement of fact. We don’t want a situation where a politician will use ethnicity, religion to divide us. We need a true Edolite this time in our quest for a better Edo. “We want a proper Edo person, not Benin, Esan or Afemai, every Edo person is eminently qualified to run for the governorship of Edo state and we are now left to look at their profile and make a choice. POLL “Reducing our choice to an area will not be accepted. There was no time when elections were conducted in Edo state that it was tied to a particular ethnic group or senatorial district. “And of recent is that of governor Obaseki when Obaseki contested no time it was left for the Benins alone; every other tribe in Edo partook in that election and the best person won . “So the issue of somebody or any group of person saying it is this tribe’s turn is totally unacceptable to me and my group. What Edo need now is person who has the capacity to unite every. “If we want to start breaking it down you will discover that each senatorial districts can give reasons why it should be their turn because there are so many advantages some area have had above others. “For example, like the Benin’s, we can say we want to hold on to the governorship because we haven’t produce the Vice President of this country, Late Admiral Aikhomu was Vice President, Akhigbe was Vice President and we the Benins have never done it or have that privilege, there was a time two Esan men were National chairmen of Political Parties, Tom Ikimi and Late Tony Anenih. “Let us leave all this sentiment and look for any aspirants that can be governor to all”.