LAGOS – The 650,000bpd Dangote Refinery is set to begin operation after its inauguration by President Mu­hammadu Buhari tomorrow. The $19 billion plant wit­nessed twists and turns before reaching its current form, and is indeed seen as a model for private sector investment in the upstream sector of the nation’s petroleum industry. Already, the company is put­ting finishing touches on the in­auguration as the government is no doubt counting its gain in the petroleum sector with the birth of the world class plant. Special Assistant to the Presi­dent on Digital Communications, Bashir Ahmad, stated: “Efforts by the Federal Government to make Nigeria self-sufficient in local refining of crude oil to save the scarce foreign exchange used in the importation of petroleum products have received a boost as the 650,000 barrels per day Dan­gote Refinery, the world’s largest single-train refinery, is set for inauguration on May 22nd, 2023, by President Muhammadu Bu­hari.” The birth of the refinery is coming at a time Nigerians are apprehensive over the planned removal of petroleum subsidy in June. Buhari, who before his as­sumption of office, questioned the veracity of the fuel subsidy and promised to yank it off when he wins presidential election, didn’t do anything concrete to withdraw the subsidy. As the contentious subsidy grew,it was obvious the outgo­ing government would play an escapist role by pushing the fate of the subsidy regime to the in­coming government which has promised to yank it off after consultation with stakeholders in the economy. Observers are of the opinion that the government of Nigeria may have been subsidizing leak­ages from the system, making Ni­geria’s fuel cheaper at the border towns than in-country. POLL They also argue that the poor who ought to benefit from the subsidy regime is left in the lurch at the expense of rich Nigerians. Other observers believe that tampering with the subsidy now without putting the country’s ail­ing refineries in good shape will spell doom for the country. Besides, oil workers have con­sistently echoed this demand and vowed to oppose any import-driv­en deregulation of the nation’s petroleum sector. The Lagos Chamber of Com­merce and Industry, LCCI, says the multi-million dollars Dan­gote Refinery in Lekki, Lagos, will impact Nigeria’s economy positively. Dr. Chinyere Almona, Di­rector-General, LCCI, disclosed this in a statement ahead of the inauguration of the 650,000 bar­rels per day, sufficient to meet Nigeria’s need for refined petro­leum products, sufficient to meet Nigeria’s need for refined petro­leum products. According to her, the refinery will save and generate foreign ex­change, create jobs, positively af­fect the value of the Naira, broad­en prosperity for the downstream sector, and provide growth oppor­tunities for businesses. She added: “It will also stim­ulate economic growth by im­pacting the country’s balance of payments. “In addition, the Chamber ex­pects the refinery to fuel further growth and development across its value chain, including cosmet­ics, plastics, textiles, etc. “We also see room for the development of added value in agribusiness, including the Sug­ar Backward Integration projects that plan to create a strong local­ized supply in the sugar industry, benefiting local suppliers across the sugar value chain. “Finally, the Chamber notes that this initiative presents Nigeria as an attractive invest­ment destination for local and foreign investors. Therefore, the LCCI urges the government to strengthen its commitment to creating an enabling environ­ment for businesses” The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) has ex­pressed optimism that Dangote Refinery will be a game changer in the country’s petroleum sector, just as it implored the incoming government to do all within its reach to see to the conclusion of the current rehabilitation effort and initiatives that is currently in place so that the nation’s refinery will come up in no time. Its President, Comrade Festus Osifo, disclosed this on Thursday at the association’s triennial dele­gate conference in Abuja. He added: “Our Association pledge to continue to lend its voice and support to policies that would put the Nation’s Oil and Gas sector in good shape to enable it compete with its: peers in other parts of the world. We welcome the bold move by opera­tors of Dangote Refinery coming on stream soon and hope that its addition will enhance loca pro­duction, reduce products impor­tation as well as end the era of uncertainties in petroleum prod­ucts pricing and evils of subsidy payment.” At the recent tour of the re­finery and petrochemical proj­ect, the National Chairman of Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), Prof. Olalekan Olafuyi, said: “We have heard before about Dangote Petroleum Refin­ery and have also seen that the project is for real. After touring the refinery, we are amazed by the level of work that has already been done and we are eagerly waiting for its completion. We are happy with what we have seen. Dangote is doing a great job with the construction of a world-class petroleum refinery. It is remark­able that a Nigerian company is building a world-class project.” In the Nigeria Economic Outlook Report for 2022 released by the Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), its Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Muda Yusuf, said the activation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) in 2022 and the coming on stream of the Dangote Refinery were expected to impact positive­ly on the economic outlook. “We expect to see positive out­comes as investor sentiments in the oil and gas sector improve on account of the reforms anchored on the PIA. “This will however depend on the political will deployed to drive the implementation of the provisions of the Act. It is also ex­pected that the coming on stream of the Dangote refinery in 2022 will also impact positively on the downstream sector of the econo­my,” Yusuf said. He said the average oil price in 2022 was expected to exceed the budgeted benchmark of $62 per barrel, offering some fiscal headroom. This, he noted, would be pow­ered by higher energy demand driven by the recovery of eco­nomic activities globally. The Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of Fi­nancial Derivatives Company, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, warned that the refinery, when operation­al, would not be a final solution to Nigeria’s economic crises. “The coming on stream of Dangote Refinery will no doubt enhance product distribution across Africa. “Will Dangote refinery solve Nigeria’s problem? The answer is no. But the company is going to make Nigeria an exporter of refined petroleum products,” he said.