Paris Saint-Germain are reportedly considering a shock move for Arsenal captain Martin Odegaard after being impressed by his recent form. The Norway international was one of the Gunners’ most important players as they mounted a valiant title charge. Ultimately, they finished the season five points behind Manchester City. Mikel Arteta will be desperate to keep hold of his best players. So, it could take a monumental offer from PSG to convince Arsenal to sell. n 37 appearances this season, Odegaard scored an impressive 15 goals, along with making eight assists. Interestingly, this gives him the joint third-highest goal lally from any midfielder in a single Premier League campaign, trailing only Matt le Tissier and Dele Alli. Now, according to the Daily Mail, PSG have taken note of Odegaard’s exceptional displays and are considering making a move. However, they note that any potential deal will be difficult. The midfielder is reportedly ‘happy with life in London’ and is ‘key to Arteta’s plans going forward.’ Indeed, if Arsenal want to challenge for the Premier League title again next season, keeping hold of their best players, like Odegaard, is essential. POLL Arsenal reportedly have a summer transfer budget of approximately £180m plus player sales. But, they don’t want Odegaard to leave as they prepare for Champions League football. As noted by TEAMtalk, Granit Xhaka is expected to leave the Emirates to join former club Bayer Leverkusen, despite scoring an impressive brace against Wolves on Sunday. His impending departure will leave a void in Arsenal’s midfield. Now, Arteta is keen on replacing Xhaka with West Ham United captain Declan Rice. The Daily Mail add that Thomas Partey could also be sold to boost funds this summer. So, losing another key midfielder like Odegaard would be far from ideal. With that in mind, as mentioned, a huge offer would be required from PSG to convince Arsenal to sell. The report doesn’t mention any potential price tag. Transfermarkt value Odegaard at approximately £80m, although, it’s unlikely that amount would be enough to force Arsenal’s hand. Along with Xhaka and Partey, Rob Holding and Kieran Tierney are two other players that could leave the Gunners this season. Clearly, there is set to be plenty of change at Arsenal this summer. But, losing Odegaard will no doubt be something Arteta is desperate to avoid.