The Porsche Cayenne has been given an extensive face-lift with more powerful engines and a redesigned digital-first interior. The Cayenne, unveiled recently at the Shanghai auto show, also features a significantly changed powertrain, chassis, design and in-car technology. The midsize Cayenne will deliver more standard features, including high-definition LED headlights, active suspension management, 20-inch wheels and safety technology. Michael Schätzle, Vice President for the Cayenne product line, said the 2024 model is among the “most extensive product upgrades in the history of Porsche.” The Cayenne introduces a driver-focused concept blending digital and analog worlds, while borrowing design cues from the brand’s iconic nameplates. New dashboard elements taken from Porsche’s electric Taycan fastback include a free-standing, curved 12.6-inch digital instrument cluster and revamped center console. A multifunction steering wheel, introduced in the latest-generation Porsche 911, puts driving mode controls and instrument cluster display settings within easy reach. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Cayenne’s gear selector is moved to the right of the steering wheel, making space for a large air conditioning controller on the center console. The vertical air outlets ditch their traditional louvers. POLL An optional 10.9-inch passenger display that debuted in the Taycan takes the fun beyond the driver’s seat. Passengers can use the touchscreen to operate the navigation system or select media content. Screen-dimming technology prevents the driver from viewing the passenger screen. In Europe, the Cayenne gets upgrades to its three engine variants. A 468-hp (474 PS) four-litre V-8 replaces the V-6 in the Cayenne S. A 351-hp 3.0-liter V-6 replaces the 2.9-liter V-6. The Cayenne E-Hybrid uses the same V-6 with an electric motor for a combined 464 hp. Its battery capacity is increased from 17.9 kWh to 25.9 kWh, helping to give the hybrid an electric range of up to 90 km. Outside the European Union (EU), the Cayenne Turbo GT coupe is still the top model in most Porsche markets. The output of the 4.0-litre V-8 biturbo engine has been increased by 19 hp to 650 hp. Stylish comfort The Cayenne gets an updated front with styled fenders, a new hood and redesigned headlights. There is an updated taillight design and new rear fascia with integrated license plateholder. A 10.9-inch display for the passenger side is available in the Cayenne for the first time. The Cayenne lineup rides on a steel spring suspension. New shock absorbers with two-valve technology deliver a comfortable ride at slow speeds, better handling in cornering, and improved pitch and roll management. Porsche said that the optional adaptive air suspension — standard on the Cayenne Turbo GT — provides more stability for on- and off-road handling and reduces vehicle body movement in spirited driving. Digital-first In Germany, Cayenne at prices start at 89,097 euros. In the U.S. prices begin at $80,850, including shipping.