The Police Service Commis­sion (PSC) yesterday met with a delegation of the United Na­tion Development Programme (UNDP) and the German Gov­ernment where it canvassed for support and productive partnership in improving po­licing in Nigeria in line with the ongoing police reforms. This was in continuation of the commission’s stake­holders advocacy meetings for a holistic overhaul of the Nigeria Police Force for opti­mum service delivery. At a meeting held at the headquarters of the Commis­sion in Jabi, Abuja, Justice Clara Bata Ogunbiyi, the re­tired Justice of the Supreme Court, who represented the Chairman said it had been a difficult task to oversee the po­lice with the myriad of chal­lenges facing the commission. Ogunbiyi solicited for assistance from the Organi­sation and the German Gov­ernment in some areas that would help the commission rebuild the Nigeria Police Force for better performance. She mentioned the build­ing of an automated police personnel database and con­duct of a verification exercise on police personnel. This, she said, would en­able the commission to have reliable data on police person­nel in Nigeria. Ogunbiyi also said the commission would need support in carrying out back­ground checks on recruits and cadets in training to assist verify their credentials and determine previous criminal records or involvement in criminal activities.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She spoke on the need for medical/psychiatric evalu­ation of police officers for early detection of illness and preventing sudden deaths while in service. POLL According to her, it would also help discover officers who are addicted to hard drugs or alcohol and rehabilitate them. She added that mentally unstable officers would also be discovered and taking off the streets or their appoint­ments terminated. She further called for sup­port for specialised training of staff of the commission on investigation, communica­tion skills, ICT and adminis­trative procedures of the NPF. She insisted that this would help equip staff with the required skills that would enable them to optimally per­form their duties. Simon Ridley of UNDP Nigeria said the organisation was in the commission to ex­plore how it could collaborate, partner, support and strength­en the ongoing police reforms in the country. Ridley also noted that the organisation was also inter­ested in the commission’s role in police oversight and accountability and to explore opportunities for collabora­tion.