Chief Martins Onovo, a petroleum industry expert and activist, is the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and currently the Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). Ahead the May 29 inaugurations across the country, Chief Onovo spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the need for the laws to me revisited so that election disputes are resolved first, Bola Tinubu’s plan to form a Government of National Unity with Rabiu Kwankwaso, and what Nigeria stands to gain if the Dangote Refinery begins full operations, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: How do you see the reported talks by Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) to form a Government of National Unity (GNU)? Democracy is from the Greek word Demo-kratia. Demo means people and kratia means government. Nigeria is said to run a constitutional democracy. In a constitutional democracy, we must comply with our constitution. In our constitution, it is the choice of the people that determines the political party and the persons that will form a government and not the conspiracy of some political elites. Therefore, the choice of the Nigerian people must be respected. The votes we cast on February 25, 2023 must be correctly collated and the authentic winner must be declared. The results previously declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are clearly fraudulent because they are inconsistent with the authentic results in the possession of polling officers, party agents, stakeholders and even with the results published on the INEC IReV portal. It is definitely unreasonable to try to uphold such obviously fraudulent results. All major stakeholders have rightly rejected the forged results, including all major political parties, local and international observers, Nigerian workers, Nigerian socio-cultural organisations, CSOs, etc. The results cannot be upheld because they are criminally forged and have been democratically rejected. Jagaban Bola Tinubu has no mandate to form any government whatsoever. He should simply retire and go back to Iragbiji and stop fuelling crisis in Nigeria. Going by past experiences of All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), do you think the Government of National Unity (GNU) contraption can work in Nigerian, especially with the All Progressives Congress (APC) that is noted for its winner-takes-all policy? National unity is critical to national development. It is emphasised by our constitution. Therefore, every government in Nigeria should be a Government of National Unity. However, the parties forming the Government of National Unity must have legitimate democratic mandates. The winner-takes-all mentality is unpatriotic, divisive and corrupt. Do you think the Constitution and Electoral Act should be reviewed in future to ensure that electoral disputes are concluded before the May 29 Governorship and Presidential Inauguration? It is necessary to conclude electoral disputes before inauguration. The principles of law require that we preserve the “res” for any matter in court. Also, the Justice Uwais Electoral Reform Panel recommended same. Therefore, we can review the existing laws to state it categorically as it is presently just implied. Section 135 of our Nigerian Constitution is clear that the incumbent remains in office until his successor is sworn-in. So, Gen. Buhari must remain in office until the case is concluded in court. If Gen. Buhari is unwilling to remain in office, then Prof. Osinbajo can act till the case is concluded. Otherwise, the Chief Justice of Nigeria can act. What is your take on interference of external bodies like the President, President-elect, Governors, Party Leaders, etc, in the choice of the National Assembly Leadership? POLL I will not call such interference. All Nigerians including Nigerian politicians have the right to support any candidate they like for the leadership of the National Assembly. All that is required is for all of us to comply with the rules. How would you react to the recent approval of some foreign loans for the out-going Buhari administration by the National Assembly? It is unpatriotic and corrupt. The current leadership of the National Assembly confirmed publicly that it is like a rubber stamp. So, it is not a surprise to us. The unpatriotic and reckless borrowing by the Gen. Buhari regime that is supported by this National Assembly has pushed Nigeria deep into a debt trap and we are now sliding into a debt crisis. As the Muhammadu Buhari administration winds down, what would you say are the major achievements of the administration? The biggest achievement of the Buhari administration is that it resisted the pressure from NATO countries to promote moral abominations in Nigeria against our cultural and religious rights. The Jonathan government also successfully resisted the pressure. We must continue to resist such pressures and assert our cultural and religious rights with sovereign dignity. The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) published that Gen. Buhari, “will be leaving Nigerians less secure, poorer and more in debt than when he came to office in 2015”. We agree with the BBC on that and we will like to add that Gen. Buhari also left Nigerians more divided and more corrupt. The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal rejected the application for live telecast of its proceedings. What is your view on that? It is a rejection of transparency. Live telecast is in accordance with the law and in the interest of the judges. It is practiced all over the world. The laws of Nigeria are clear that court cases must be done transparently in public. Since the space in court is insufficient for interested Nigerians, then live telecast is justified. It is surprising that the tribunal rejected the live telecast of its proceedings. It is the legal right of Nigerians to observe any court proceedings. In this particular case, very many Nigerians are interested in recovering their mandate and it is their right to observe the proceedings. This right is constrained by the limited seats in the court. So, live telecast becomes clearly justified. The presidential election petitions are special this time. It is an extraordinary opportunity for the judiciary to justify itself as ethical and competent or convict itself of incompetence and corruption. Either way, the judgment will impact Nigeria remarkably. As a petroleum industry expert, would you say that the Dangote refinery will end Nigeria’s woes in the areas of scarcity, high costs, and subsidy? The Dangote refinery has not started crude oil refining operations. We have to be patient till they start. They have only achieved the mechanical completion of the plant. There are many more activities before it will start production operations. When it starts production operations, if it is run reliably and efficiently at its 650,000 bpd capacity, without external disruptions like community crisis or constraints in feed supply, it will mitigate scarcity of products. It will mitigate the high costs of petroleum products and it will mitigate subsidy costs. It will provide employment and contribute positively to our GDP. It will also improve our national energy security.