LAGOS  – Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), Lagos has launched an innovative waste recycling programme at its terminal. Oluwatosin Onalaja, BASL’s Head of Corporate Communications, the terminal operator in a statement , said that the innovative was in partnership with the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance of Nigeria (FBRAN). BASL hinted that the synergy between the two organisations was for climate change mitigation and prevention through reduction of plastic waste pollution, among others. Onalaja said that the project, which was launched recently, was an attempt to smartly manage and sort the over 1,000kg of waste generated by the over 10,000 users of the airport terminal daily; including passengers, vendors, shoppers, and employees and convert them into wealth. The statement quoted Ms. Tosan Duncan, BASL’s Acting Chief Operating Officer (COO) as saying that the Green Project Launch at the MMA2 terminal was part of the organisation’s compliance measures to tackle the global crisis of climate change and its resultant harmful effects. Duncan said that with the development, MMA2 is now strategically positioned to contribute to the global campaign against plastic pollution and its harmful impacts on humans and the environment. She said: “MMA2, in collaboration with FBRAN, goes Green. That means we are at the beginning of the right type of collaboration that provides sustainability in crucial areas like the environment and our relationship with it. Incidentally, the environment is the mirror of our personality and values. It reflects who we are and how we treat ourselves. Whatever we put into it, it brings back to us. “Therefore, this is an important alliance to prevent famine, dirt, or exposure to any health hazards that can be posed by unacceptable wastes. And it is going to take a lot more collaboration and awareness to drive this type of campaign round all the nooks and crannies of society, for a better environment and the safety of the people.” POLL Buttressing Duncan’s submissions, Mrs. Nafisat Adeniran, BASL’s Head of Safety, said their extensive sensitisation programme on proper waste disposal and management at the terminal would be followed with strict compliance enforcement. She explained that the feasibility study preceding the project launch featured an inspection of the terminal to understand the type, quantity and source of waste being generated and the best approach to control it. “As an environmentalist, I believe that most of the global catastrophes today are primarily caused by our poor and harmful relationship with the environment, part of which are attributable to poor management of our waste. As this is sorted, we will see its positive impact on the environment. “This was what informed the project and the donation of the recycling bins today by FBRAN and my dear friend, Agharese Onaghise marking the take-off of the go-green project at MMA2 a reality,” Adeniran added.