JOS – Plateau State Governor-Elect Caleb Mutfwang, on Friday at the Jos Township Stadium reassured the people of the state of his commitment to work with other leaders within the Plateau to return displaced persons back to their ancestral homes within the shortest possible time as his administration is set to hit the ground running after taking over power on May 29th. Barr. Mutfwang gave this assurance on Friday during the 2023 Nzem Berom annual cultural celebrations in Jos. This year’s Nzem Berom Cultural festival has a theme, “The Berom Economy: A metamorphosis”, held at the Rwang Pam Township Stadium, Jos. Mutfwang who presence at the stadium received thunderous ovation from the crowd of Plateau citizens at the event, prayed to God Almighty to stop the renewed killings in the state so that citizens that have laboured over the years enjoy the dividends of democracy. Barr. Mutfwang praised the Berom nation for their resilience and commitment towards rebuilding of Plateau State, and urged them to continue in that direction for the greater good of the people of Plateau state. “It is with great joy and satisfaction that I bring my felicitations to the Berom Nation. The history of Plateau State cannot be complete without the history of the Berom, you cannot say you have developed Plateau State without developing Berom land; you cannot secure Plateau State without securing Berom land. “I am glad that today, other ethnic nationalities on the Plateau are gathered in solidarity with the Berom Nation and this is the direction that we must go as people of Plateau State from May 29, by the grace of God. We are going to start a new journey, a journey to secure Plateau, a journey to unite Plateau, a journey to develop Plateau, and by the grace of God, the Berom land will have a chunk of it. “By God’s grace, we will work together with other leaders to ensure that our people that are displaced from their villages are returned to their ancestral land. By the grace of God, the Berom land will flourish again, Plateau will flourish again; and Nzem Berom will attract other people not only from Plateau but other states in Nigeria and internationally. POLL According to him “We will ensure that this cultural festivals and others from the various ethnic nationalities are well developed, well packaged, so that Plateau State will regain its name as a home of Peace and Tourism. I thank you for putting this festival together. It is historic and epoch- making, and I want to congratulate the planning Committee, and to say that this is pace setting, and I am sure that other ethnic nationalities will learn from this and build from it. “Tomorrow would have been the turn of the Mwaghavul Nation to host this similar festival, but because of the crisis that broke out recently in the locality and the number of people that were killed, his royal highness and his council decided to put it off”. Barr. Mutfwang prayed that God Almighty will comfort the bereaved families who lost their loved ones during the recent attacks and asked Him to put an end to the ceaseless shading of blood in various communities in the state. On his part,Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Muhammed, expressed delight for being part of the 2023 Nzem Berom, saying he attaches utmost importance to the festival. He described the Berom people of Plateau state as hospitable and accommodative, assuring that he will work in collaboration with the incoming Governor, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang, to bring about the desired development in the state. “This is an opportunity for me to come and celebrate with my brothers in Plateau and the Gbong Gwom Jos, Da. Jacob Gyang Buba, who has contributed immensely in various ways to the development of Nigeria. “I assure the people of Plateau State that we will open a new chapter of collaboration, development, synergy and understanding with my brother, the incoming Governor of Plateau State, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang.” Muhammed expressed confidence that the Governor Elect, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang will surpass the expectations of Plateau people in view of his competent leadership qualities exhibited over the years. Deputy Chairman Senate Committee on Defence and Senator representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang who doubled as the Chairman Main Planning Committee of the 2023 Nzem Berom warmly welcomed dignitaries to the event and, expressed delight over their sacrifice and support to the Berom Nation. He said “the Berom economy has undergone faces and stages of metamorphosis from the precolonial era, which was widely regimented, characterized by farming, hunting, animal husbandry, among others.” He noted that the festival also offers a great opportunity to strengthen the bond of unity and brotherhood among the illustrious sons and daughters of the Berom nation and other ethnic nationalities in the state. Sen. Gyang expressed hope that the incoming administration will come up with refreshing thoughts that will address the prevailing insecurity challenges that has dislocated various communities in the state. The event was hosted by Jos Monarch, the Gbong Gwom Jos and Chairman Plateau State Joint Traditional Council of Chiefs and Emirs, Da. Jacob Gyang Buba and , was attended by dignatories such as Senator Philip Aduda Senate Minority Leader; Bauchi State Governor, Senator. Bala Muhammed , representatives of His Royal Highness, Tsola Emiko, Ogiame Atuwatse III-Olu of Warri. Others were respected Berom traditional rulers, elders and Former Plateau Governor Senator Jonah David Jang.