Apostle Eyinnaya Okwuonu, the Lagos State chairman of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), in this interview with Christian Benefits Magazine, speaks on his stewardship so far as leader of the Christian body, among other issues. Below are excerpts from the interview. Three years ago, at the passage of late Bishop Olusola Ore, you took over Lagos PFN leadership from him. How will you describe the death of your late predecessor? This is one question I will like to evade. It is one incident I want to put behind me. It was a very traumatic experience. Sola Ore was not only the chairman while I was deputy, he was a friend and brother. We shared a lot together. We traveled together. We slept in the same room together. We were wonderful together. There was no sign that he was going to pass that time. So, it hit me. I couldn’t believe it. We spoke a few days before then about the state of his health and we prayed about it. Unfortunately, he passed on. It shook me to my foundation. I cried for weeks because we were quite close. It was a big shock. Each time we talk about it, tears well up in my eyes. The consolation is that he has gone to a better place. He had done his bits. He had contributed his quota in the development of mankind and the body of Christ. Maybe the Lord permitted it to happen for him to come and have his rest, his crown and his reward. But for me it was disturbing and traumatic. How did you feel taking up the mantle of Lagos PFN leadership at his demise? Thank God we worked so closely that it became seamless for me to carry on with the work he was doing. Bishop Sola Ore was a very humorous, lovable, likeable, straight forward, sincere and honest person. I learned a lot from him; how to love and how not to put things on the mind. I learned relationship as well as leadership from him. Could you share with us how you managed to keep the Lagos PFN intact and moving after the death of Bishop Ore? When it was time for me to enter into the saddle and complete his tenure with the executive that we appointed, I thank God that the people that we were together when he was around are the same people that we are together in completing his tenure. It has not been easy, but we thank God we have built a template in Lagos PFN that it is not a problem to continue with what he left behind. We thank God for his life. He left so many legacies before he passed. I thank God for the time I got acquainted with him. Whenever I talk about Sola Ore, I get a little bit emotional. To the glory of God, Lagos PFN is moving forward because it is the work of God. The late Bishop Sola Ore’s death was just one of frequent transitions of PFN church leaders in recent times. What is your response to these sad occurrences? POLL It is because we are in the times of social media you get to know everything. People die in other professions; not only Christian leaders. Doctors die. Lawyers die. Politicians die. When a pastor dies, it seems as if everything has ended. There is nothing like frequent death. When a person’s time is up, he just has to go home. It is not as if something hit the church and the leaders die at random. Perhaps, it is time to move up to a higher calling in heaven. No mystery about church leaders passing on, though one might say some things could have been avoided. Yes, in some cases, some things could have been avoided. It is a pity sometimes we don’t take precautions. We feel everything is faith. It has been very traumatic for us in Lagos PFN losing Sola Ore. This year 2023, again, we lost his predecessor and our daddy, Prof. Alexander Bamgbola. Unfortunately, in March 2023, we also lost Rev. Femi Asiwaju who was at a time the vice chairman to Prof. Alex Bamgbola. Your question makes some sense. Why this frequent passing of our leaders? Only God knows. My advice concerning the health of pastors is that your health is your first wealth. Your health is your most important wealth. Pastors go through a lot. There is so much stress in ministry because we are still doing ministry the same old way we have always done ministry. Everything rest upon you as a pastor and the people are not helping matters at all. There are so much stress and health issues coupled with the fact that people come to church to take and not to give. Giving is not just about money. You give care, love, concern and time to the man of God. But this is not the situation. Pastors are the givers and not the takers. Pastors are falsely accused. They have issues in the home, issues outside the home, and issues in the ministry. They have issues to contend with the community and with the government. They have issues of ministry as well; handling itineraries and different shades of human beings. This contributes to poor health. Many pastors also have poor dietary habit. Pastors eat quite late and it affects their health. Sometimes you come back home late and you must eat whatever is available because you are hungry. You have expended so much energy and you need to replenish it. Sometimes the food is not balanced. The issues of poor eating habit, poor sleeping habit and poor time management habit contribute to the rate of death of ministers and Christians. If you go to any conventional hospital where you have a traffic of people in ministry coming, check the test they do. Those who have the highest rate of blood pressure issues, ulcer and stroke among other health challenges, unfortunately, a good number of them are pastors because of stress, poor eating habit and poor sleeping regime. What is Lagos PFN policy or programmes on health management and general well-being (welfare) of its affiliated pastors and church leaders? We have a directorate for health/ medical services headed by a professional, the medical director of The Great Physician hospital, Badagry. We also have a platform where pastors can ask any health-related question. We tend to build on that. We plan to strengthen and enable our welfare directorate where we have a team of care givers and doctors from the states to the chapters so that pastors can have access to the HMO concept. These are in the pipeline that we intend to actualise in this regime. On your part, how do you manage and control the stress in ministry? We are all exposed to the same pressure. Much of what I do over the years that has helped me is proper planning. You plan well and follow your daily routine because a man’s secret is hidden in his daily routine. You plan well and know your-to-do list. Have enough time for yourself. Proper planning is one thing I do. Again, I do delegation of responsibilities. I don’t do everything by myself. God has given us able lieutenants. That is one good thing about Lagos PFN. When God brought us on board I assembled a team of professionals who can handle various issues and directorates. I have a very effective think-tank. They take much of the thinking work off me. I do a lot of delegation. I also practice balance in work and leisure. I take time to rest and to have fun. I don’t carry the workload on my head. I do a lot of traveling. I enjoy traveling. I like nature. I go to quiet places. When I relax, I don’t accept every engagement. I identify my stressors. One of the stressors in ministry is speaking engagement. As Lagos PFN chairman, if I am to accept all invites I wouldn’t have time to eat. In addition to delegating, I choose the invites I attend. Many times I decline or have it at my own time. This has helped me. I sleep well. I do some walk exercises. I read a lot. I exercise my brain. I take my supplements; immune booster and vitamin c. I don’t take my supplements for granted. When my health gives me signs I stop what I am doing and check on it. These are my personal health maintenance efforts by the grace of God. In addition, I pray. I take time out to fast, study and believe the word of God; trust God for everything and everything goes well. I don’t allow financial issues to bug me. That is one thing that bugs a lot of pastors. I realize I cannot do everything. I do what I can do and let God do what He alone can do. That takes away stress from me. What are the signs that pastors should note that it is time for them to go for a break (holiday) in order to avoid breaking down and even sudden death? This is a very pertinent question. God has built some warnings in our body systems; what you might call biological clause or biological warnings. Just like a car, before a car breaks down, it gives you some signs. Some mechanisms have been put into the car to let you know that the engine oil is running down. You hear some sound and you know that you have to park the car and check it. Some of these things are in our body naturally. When you begin to feel some signs in your body, to avoid dying suddenly, take note of those things and attend to them. For instance, when you become irritable, easily get angry, flare up and temperamental you need to check some things in your body. You need to slow down. It can be a general malaise. It can be general body pains. Sometimes you don’t know whether it is headache, body pains or whatever. You just feel generally unwell. Your body is giving you signs. When you don’t sleep well (insomnia); it takes time before you sleep at night, is an issue. You have frequent headache (migraine); frontal, back, side or central is an issue. Headache is a critical sign of a health issue. Other signs are loss of appetite and forgetfulness. When your brain is overloaded you tend to forget things you shouldn’t. General body pains; pains in the legs and different parts of your body are signs of health issues. Procrastination is another pointer to a possible health breakdown. Chest pain is one dangerous sign of health issue. Tightness in the chest and pains in the neck are not always signs of malaria. It could be more critical that you need to take a break. What are some of the late Bishop Sola Ore’s legacies as PFN Lagos chairman that you inherited, and which you are building upon as his successor? The late Bishop Olusola Ore left behind quite a lot of legacies. He built a cohesive and effective executive and fellowship. We worked together. I called him an Apostle of Love. That love had always been there. During his time, there was an increase in the numbers of the state provinces from 12 to 19 provinces, and they are very effective and active provinces. During his tenure, we were able to acquire our state secretariats at Onipanu, Lagos. During his time, we had good rapport with Lagos state government, our communities and the PFN national body. The late Ore was indeed a great man of God. He left many legacies we are trying to build on.