For thirteen solid years, and still counting, Nigeria has been battling with terrorism, in which Borno State, Northeast Nigeria, has largely remained the epicenter of the devast­ing atrocities of the mindless terror­ist groups, operating under the code name, Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP), terrorists. Interestingly, despite the humon­gous and devastating effect of this asymmetric warfare on the region, Borno state has not allowed the hor­rifying circumstances to derail her from its statutory responsibility of providing basic necessity of life to in­digenes and non-indigenes, resident in the state. The sub national authority, under the able leadership of Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum, equally refused to give the security threat the opportunity to eclipse, his administration’s vision to provide quality health care for the people of the state. This avowed commitment on health care delivery in the state is in consonance with the traditional saying that health is wealth, and that a healthy society is a progressing so­ciety. Validating this commitment and robust investment in the health sec­tor, amidst the ongoing war against terrorism, the state government, on Wednesday, 17th May 2023, emerged the best performing state in the coun­try in the Leadership Challenge, a flagship programme to revamp the Primary Health Care Under One Roof (PHCUOR), policy in Nigeria by maximising the commitment of state governors to promoting progressive increase in Primary Health Care (PHC) funding. The state government got $700,000 for emerging best performing state overall, and $500,000 for emerging winner in the Northeast for best per­forming zonal awards category. This is not withstanding the dev­asting effect of the ongoing counter terrorism operation by the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN), in the state, to deny the terrorist groups freedom of action. Other winners at the leadership challenge from other zones, got $500,000 each. The performing states include, Kwara for North Central, Jigawa for Northwest, Ebonyi for South East, Rivers for South South and Ondo for South west. POLL The first runner ups in each zone, who went home with no fewer than $400,000 each, are Federal Capital Ter­ritory for North-Central, Bauchi for North East, Zamfara for North West, Abia for South East, Edo for South South and Ogun for South West. The Representative of UNICEF in Nigeria, Cristian Munduate, said, 13 states got awarding prices, totaling $6.1 million, in recognition and hon­our of the exceptional leadership of the governors who have made signif­icant investments in Primary Health Care, ultimately transforming the lives of women, girls and children across the nation. She averred that the awards carry not only prestige, but also a deep ap­preciation for the commitment and positive impact that the recognized governors and their state adminis­tration have had in their respective states. Ms. Munduate, who reflected on the journey that led to the award, said that it all started in November 2019, when the Nigerian governors were hosted in Seattle by visionaries Bill Gates and Alhaji Aliko Dangote. This historical gathering, she not­ed, led to the creation of the primary health care leadership challenge. “This is an initiative organized by the Nigerian Governors Forum, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, and UNICEF, with the generous support of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and the Aliko Dangote Foundation. The challenge is aimed at enhancing the governors commitment to human capital development and primary health care; mobilize state resourc­es, promote accountability and also, innovate for gender specific health outcomes. “As you can see, it has been a long journey, and tonight, we eagerly antic­ipate the announcement of the chal­lenge winners. We will be awarding prices totaling $6.1 million. The best performing state in the country will receive $700,000, while each zonal winner will be awarded $500,000 and the first runner ups in each zone will receive $400,000,” she said. These awards, Ms. Munduate, highlighted the value placed on prog­ress made towards primary health care and will be used by the winning states to further strengthen their exist­ing efforts and initiatives for primary health care. Continuing, she said, “The gover­nors being recognized today, have not only excelled but have also become shining examples for others to follow. Their achievements will be celebrated not only through public recognition, but also through personnel commen­dation by distinguished individuals, such as the Vice President, the Min­istry of Health, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and the Aliko Dan­gote Foundation.” The UNICEF Country Rep further, explained, that the main vision behind these investments lie in shared vision to ensure high quality primary health care services that can be accessible and affordable for all women, girls and children in Nigeria, improve the lead­ership oversight management and delivery of essential health services at the sub-national level where there are building blocks for enhancing an overall health outcome. Ms. Munduate, equally said, the 36 executive governors of Nigeria, under whose leadership we stand today have a unique opportunity to accelerate progress and create lasting challenge. The primary health care Leader­ship Challenge awards, she noted goes beyond monetary values. “They motivate governors to in­crease investments, aligned with the Seattle Declaration and the primary health care under one roof strategy while closing the gender gaps and re­moving barriers in their states. It is important to posit that this leadership challenge fosters strong federal state partnerships to drive evidence based healthcare delivery and improve health outcomes by pooling resources, sharing best practices and overcom­ing challenges together. I’m sure we can all achieve better health care for all Nigerians. So, as we celebrate the accomplishments of these exception­al leaders, let us remember that their success is not achieved in isolation. It is a testament of the hard work and dedication of countless individuals from healthcare professionals, to com­munity health workers, to communi­ty leaders who have worked tirelessly towards the advancement of health. Today we acknowledge their efforts and extend our deepest gratitude to their unwavering commitment. Thank you all for this commitment to the health and the wellbeing of wom­an and children. Let us stand united and work hand in hand towards our future where every child has the right to live, to thrive and to develop,” she concluded The overall winner and governor of Borno State, Prof. Babagana Zu­lum, who spoke on behalf of other governors, thanked the partners, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Dangote Foundation, the Nation­al Primary Health Care Development Agency and the UNICEF, for the awards and assured that they will do everything possible to ensure that pri­mary health care system is enhanced through effective community partic­ipation, inter-sectoral coordination, appropriate technology and support mechanisms to all services.