LAGOS  – For failure to recover over N40 billion double pay and life pensions from former governors who are serving as lawmakers and minis­ters, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has filed a contempt suit against the Federal Government and Abubakar Malami (SAN), Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. It would be recalled that Justice Oluremi Oguntoy­inbo of the Federal High Court, Lagos, had in Novem­ber 2019 ordered the Federal Government to recover life pensions collected by former governors serving as minis­ters and members of the Na­tional Assembly. Justice Oguntoyinbo also directed Malami to chal­lenge the legality of states’ life pension laws permitting former governors and other ex-public officials to collect such pensions. However, the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has failed to imple­ment the judgment. Justice Oguntoyinbo who last month retired from the bench expressed “regret” during a valedictory court session held in her honour that the judgment has not been implemented. She stated: “I remember with pride my landmark judgment in SERAP vs. The Attorney-General. Re­grettably, that order is yet to be obeyed. I find it very disappointing that court orders are often not obeyed. If there’s anything I wish to change, it is the impunity to­wards judicial decisions and the disrespect for the bench.” SERAP last Friday moved to enforce the judgment by filing Form 48 contempt suit at the Federal High Court, Lagos.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ SERAP said: “A certified true copy of the judgment of 26 November, 2019 by Justice Oguntoyinbo has long been served on Mr. Malami.” POLL Form 48 which is the no­tice of consequence of dis­obedience of court orders read in part: “Unless you obey the orders of the court contained on the reverse side of this process you shall be deemed to have disobeyed the orders of the court and shall be liable to be commit­ted to prison for contempt.” In a statement dated May 7, 2023, and signed by SERAP deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare, the organisation said, “It’s unacceptable to take the court, which is the guardian of justice in this country, for a ride. A demo­cratic state based on the rule of law cannot exist or func­tion, if the government rou­tinely ignores and/or fails to abide by court orders. “Despite the service of the certified true copy of the judgment on the Attorney General of the Federation, the Buhari administration has failed and/or refused to obey it. “While many Nigeri­an workers and pension­ers have not been paid by state governors for several months and struggle to make ends meet, former governors continue to collect double emoluments and enjoy opu­lent lifestyles.” It would be recalled that SERAP had in July 2017 requested Malami to “insti­tute appropriate legal action to challenge the legality of state laws allowing former governors to enjoy life pen­sions while drawing normal salaries and allowances in their new political offices and to fully recover public funds from those involved.” SERAP’s letter to Malami read in part: “According to our information, those who are reportedly receiving dou­ble emoluments and large severance benefits from their states include: God­swill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom); Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso (Kano); Kabiru Gaya (Kano); Theodore Orji (Abia); Ab­dullahi Adamu (Nasarawa); Sam Egwu (Ebonyi); Shaa­ba Lafiagi (Kwara); Joshua Dariye (Plateau), and Jonah Jang (Plateau). “At least 22 states start­ing from Lagos State have reportedly passed life pen­sions laws for former gover­nors and other ex-public of­ficials. Other states include Akwa Ibom; Edo; Delta; Ekiti; Kano; Gombe; Yobe; Borno; Bauchi; Abia; Imo; Bayelsa; Oyo; Osun; Kwara; Ondo; Ebonyi; Rivers; Niger; Kogi; and Katsina.” The 20-page judg­ment in suit no: FHC/L/ CS/1497/2017 signed by Honourable Justice Oluremi Oguntoyinbo read in part: “The Attorney General has argued that the states’ laws duly passed cannot be chal­lenged. With respect, I do not agree with this line of argu­ment by the Attorney Gener­al that he cannot challenge the states’ pension laws for former governors. “The question that comes to mind is: who should ap­proach the court where a particular law is not in the best interest of Nigeria as a country or national interest? Who should approach the court where a particular law is detrimental to the interest of the country? Who should institute actions in court for the purpose of recovering public funds collected? “In my humble view, the Attorney General should be interested in the legality or validity of any law in Nige­ria and how such laws affect or will affect Nigerians, be­ing the chief law officer of the federation. “I have considered SERAP’s arguments that it is concerned about the atten­dant consequences that are manifesting on the public workers and pensioners of the states who have been re­fused salaries and pensions running into several months on the excuse of non-avail­ability of state resources to pay them. “SERAP has also argued that there is need to recover such public funds collected by former governors. “Having considered all the facts presented by SERAP on the need for the suit and the counter-Affi­davit against same, I find no reason why the order of mandamus should not be granted. I am of the view that SERAP’s suit has merit. “I resolve this issue against the Attorney Gen­eral, in favour of SERAP. I hold that the motion of no­tice for mandamus dated 6th February 2018 and filed on 7th February 2018 has merit. It is therefore granted in the terms sought. “The Attorney General is hereby directed to urgently institute appropriate legal actions to challenge the le­gality of states’ laws permit­ting former governors, who are now senators and min­isters to enjoy governors’ emoluments while drawing normal salaries and allow­ances in their new political offices and to identify those involved and seek full recov­ery of public funds from the former governors. “I take judicial notice of the essence of the creation of SERAP. I believe that SERAP has the locus standi to bring this suit. More so, this is a constitutional matter. In constitutional matters, the requirement of locus standi becomes unnecessary to a great extent as it may mere­ly impede judicial function. This issue is therefore re­solved against the Attorney General, in favour of SERAP. “SERAP is seeking an or­der of mandamus to compel the Attorney General to file action to challenge states’ pension laws for former governors and recover pub­lic funds collected by them in the public interest, since the Attorney General has failed/ neglected to institute such action. That is the essence of SERAP’s suit. “I believe the Attorney General can institute action in a court of law to challenge states’ pension laws for for­mer governors. I do not see any substance in the submis­sions of counsel to the Attor­ney General on this issue. I therefore resolve this issue against the Attorney Gener­al, in favour of SERAP. On the whole, I find no merit in the Attorney General’s preliminary objection. It is accordingly dismissed.”