This week has not been a heartwarming one for Nigerian football. It was in the week that Rivers United crashed out of the CAF Confederation Cup. The only Nigerian club remain­ing in CAF competition was elim­inated at the quarter-final stage by Young Africans of Tanzania. What made their exit painful was that Rivers United crashed out of the race following their 2-0 loss to the Tanzanians at the God­swill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo. In the reverse fixture in last Sunday, they could only manage a goalless game that eventually ended their hope of a semi-final placing and by extension a big minus to the country’s hope of featuring two clubs EACH in the CAF League It was also in the week that Golden Eaglets were beaten 1-0 by Morocco in their CAF U-17 Afri­ca Cup of Nations second round group game. The loss means that Eaglets must win their last group game against South Africa on Sat­urday to qualify for the knockout stage. Having beaten Zambia 1-0 in their group opening game and South Africa triumphing over the Zambians 3-2, it means the game against South Africa is a must win. It’s not only Nigerian football that is witnessing hiccups of late. Fans of Arsenal football club are ruing the club’s sudden slump of form in the Premier League title race. After three straight draws to Liverpool (2-2), West Ham (2-2) and Southampton (3-3) and a loss 4-1 loss to champions Manchester City at Etihad, the Gunners sur­rendered their advantage follow­ing these sloppy performances. Today, the social media has suddenly gone quiet as Arsenal fans are trying to divert atten­tion from the club’s sudden loss of form. They now result to in­forming us of some of their play­ers’ good outing in the season. Martins Odegaard, Bukayo Saka and Martinelli are some of the players involved in 20+ goals in the season. If not stating these positives, they try to focus on Chelsea’s poor showing. These are meant to divert attention from Arsenal slump of form and focus on Chelsea. However, Victor Osimhen turned a gloomy situation in Ni­gerian football into a jubilant one on Thursday evening as his goal earned his Italian side, Napoli the Serie A title for the first time in 33 years and the club’s third Scu­detto success. POLL The Nigerian, who entered his­tory books was at the right place, and at the right time to smash in an equalizer for the Gli Azzurri in the 52nd minute of a dramat­ic encounter at the Dacia Arena, and Napoli held on for the crucial point that secured the league title. Udinese had earlier sent shiv­ers down the spine of everyone in the away stands when they scored the opener in the 13th minute through Sandi Lovric’s clinical finish in the box. “But if there was someone who could rescue things for Napoli in such conditions, it was certain­ly going to be Osimhen. The in-form forward did not disappoint as, pouncing on to a loose ball in the box and smashed it into the top corner, sending Napoli fans in Udine and those watching via the screens at the Diego Mara­dona into ecstasy,” noted Ayodeji Ayodeji, in an online medium. The draw took Napoli to 80 points for the season, putting an unassailable 16-point gap between them and Lazio who are placed second. Interestingly, it’s Napoli’s first league title in 33 years. It’s also just their third ever league title success as they have had to en­dure a lengthy wait since the leg­endary Diego Maradona led them to two league titles in four seasons (1986/87 and 1989/90). Ayodele also added, “On a per­sonal note for Osimhen, he enters history books as only the second Nigerian ever to win the Scudet­to after Obafemi Martins first achieved the feat in the 2005/06 season with Inter Milan. “In addition to sealing the title for his team, the Nigerian strik­er’s goal on the night also helps him overtake Samuel Eto’o to be­come the African player with the most goals scored in a single Serie A season with his tally of 22 goals so far. Osimhen has scored more Serie A goals this season than any African player has ever managed in an Italian top-flight campaign.” Osimhen also equaled former Ballon d’Or winner George Weah for most goals scored by an Afri­can in Serie A history with 46 goals. Osimhen’s contribution to Napoli’s success cannot be over­stated. Since joining the team in 2020, he has been a standout player, scoring crucial goals and providing assists throughout the season. His exceptional skills, speed, and technical ability have earned him recognition as one of the top talents in Italian football. Winning the scudetto is a signifi­cant achievement for any football player, and Osimhen’s success is particularly notable given the challenges he has faced. In his first season with Napoli, he battled injuries and COVID-19, which limited his playing time. However, he was able to recover and make a significant impact on the team’s performance. Importantly, Osimhen’s suc­cess with Napoli is not only a per­sonal triumph but also a source of pride for Nigeria and African football. He has become a role model for young footballers in his home country, demonstrating that with hard work, dedication, and talent, anything is possible. This achievement is also a testament to the power of teamwork and col­laboration. Osimhen’s success is not solely his own, but the result of a collective effort by his team­mates, coaches, and the entire Napoli organization. Together, they have worked tirelessly to achieve their goals and secure the scudetto. In conclusion, Victor Osim­hen’s scudetto win with Napoli is a remarkable achievement that reflects his exceptional tal­ent, hard work, and dedication. As things stand, Napoli are cham­pions with five games to spare, while the Super Eagles striker, Osimhen, is on course to win the Paulo Rossi Award, as he is the leading goalscorer with 22 goals in 27 games. Osimhen next target will to be the UEFA Champions League next season and also win the Af­rica Cup of Nations for Nigeria.