P/HARCOURT – The Federal Government has expressed worries over the menace of organised crimes in the country in particular, and the Gulf of Guinea at large, noting that about 80% of people live in countries plagued with crimes, according to global crime index. Professor Fidelis Allen, the Head, Department of Political and Administrative Studies, University of Port Harcourt, made the observation, in Port Harcourt, in a Keynote address, during the National Conference on ‘Organized Crimes in Nigeria and the Gulf of Guinea’ , and the official launching of the network. Prof Allen noted. “Among the countries with highest rate of criminality and low resilience in 2020, Africa ranked second after Asia. “The role of state actors has been sadly implicated both in the scale of the problem and in the resilience of the countries, as well as in the vulnerability of society, particularly in security and wellbeing issues.” He insisted on a huge share of the problem in the Gulf of Guinea, pointing out that the region is known for playing a significant role and being of value to the world, when it comes to natural resources and accounting for at least 45% of the entire Sub-Saharan Gross Domestic Product. The professor saw the need for the policy community to act more decisively and commit itself to combating organized crimes, to its scale, transnational nature, low resilience of countries, vulnerability of innocent people, and the impact it has on general security, development. He hoped that the conference outcome would focus on building a collaborative response to the threats posed by the domestic and transnational organised crimes. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It’s important to note that the gloomy picture painted in the analyses on the state of organised crimes, in the Gulf of Guinea region, delineating state actors, as part of the problem, through corruption shows that, no significant progress can be expected, without the widening of the policy community, to include more state, and non-state actors” POLL “As the Gulf of Guinea is the primary hub for organized crimes, the hosting of this conference in Nigeria underscores the role, the country can play, in galvanizing collective measures, to deepen the fight against organised crime,” he submitted. Fyneface Dumnamene Fyneface, the Executive Director, Youth & Environmental Advocacy Centre (YEAC), In his welcome address, described organized crime as ‘a continuing criminal enterprise, that rationally works to profit from illicit activities, which are often in great public demand’. He stated that, it’s continuing existence is maintained through corruption of public officials and the use of intimation, threats or force, to protect its operations. Comrade Fyneface asserted that Nigeria is one of the countries in the Gulf of Guinea, facing challenges associated with domestic and Transnational organized crimes. “These organised crimes manifest in the form of pipeline vandalism, crude oil theft, artisanal refinery. Others include illegal bunkering, Kidnapping, banditory, insurgency racketeering, cybercrimes popularly called (Yahoo-Yahoo) etc. In their various contributions, legal luminary, public opinion analysts and Maritime operator in the personalities of Barr Ikiri Abraham Joe, Sunny A. Dada and Nnaemeka Ikediashi, respectively, urged the federal government to provide the coastal communities basic conveniences of life. The advised the government to set up the National Coast Guards, and entrust the duty of coastal protection in the hands of such professionals. “The Nation’s high seas are too large for the Navy alone to control, and when the responsibility gets too much for the security to manage, they compromise.” They regretted also, what they described as progressive decrease in the interest of the leadership, to address the needs of the masses and provide them those basic life needs as electricity, good roads, employment opportunities, good education, among others. Representatives of the President Muhammadu Buhari and Rivers State governor Barr Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, were conspicuously absent at the occasion.