LAGOS – Dominic Alancha, a Public Affairs Analyst and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, President-elect to stay away from power sharing in the National Assembly (NASS). Alancha said that allowing the decision of the National Working Committee (NWC) as regards the leadership of the National Assembly to stand would destroy the independence of the legislative arm of government. Faulting what NWC called consensus, Alancha in an interview on Wednesday noted that what the NWC has done is not consensus. He said, “When you talk about consensus you will agree that Mr. A should take this, and Mr. B should take that, and all of them will agree, and that is when you can say that there was consensus. “In this case, senators, and members were not consulted. You can see in the South-East when they met, there was no single senator contesting for that position that was consulted, whether Osita Izunaso, Orji Uzo Kalu, they are the two major candidates from the South-East that are contesting for Senate Presidency. “It is the same for the House of Representatives. Aminu Jaji was not consulted, Betara was not consulted, Idris Wase, the current Deputy Speaker and the highest ranking officer in the House was not consulted, and even the only female contestant was not also consulted. He added, “Which was why in the letter that the party released to the press a few days ago, they tactically advised the leadership to engage in further consultations. It also tells you that the party was not properly carried along. Believe me that has put the party in a very bad state, and in a very bad position. POLL “People are pointing accusing fingers at Aswiaju Bola Tinubu for endorsing this kind of a thing. I think he should stay away from that. “Recall that about a year ago when the NWC came out and announced Lawn as a consensus presidential candidate, as a democrat he (Tinubu) said he was going into the election. He went against the position of the party, delegates supported him because he canvassed for their votes, and he was elected as the flag bearer of our arty and today he is the president-elect. “We mobilised and worked for him. As a true democrat, I think he should stay away and allow the members-elect and senators-elect to elect somebody they feel can lead the 10th Assembly and then they should be conscious of zoning. “The North-West is taking the Speakership, it is also taking the Deputy Senate President position. It is unacceptable, even certain regions from their own permutation contributed less in terms of voting strength, not to talk of the region that gave their all to the party. “I think that merit was not considered in this zoning and we are calling on the leadership of the party to reverse this decision. “The way things are going in the National Assembly, they have ignited a situation where there will be rebellion, and the 2015 arrangement will come back to the table,” he said