LAGOS  – President/Vice Chancellor of Babcock University, Professor Ademola Tayo has called on the 2023 graduating students to use the opportunity of the career fair to interact with employers of labour and careerists that would teach them how to position themselves and be competitive in the labour market. Professor Tayo, stated this while speaking at opening of the 2023 Graduating career week, which took place at the University Amphitheatre. Professor Tayo, who said he never had such opportunity during his own time, said the career fair could be the time God wants to position employers of labour that may eventually need their services. According to him, “gone are the days when employers of labour go after job seekers as they are now the ones who are after employers due to the saturated labour market.” During the programme the students were taught how to write CV; how to become a volunteer and how to become those organisations or employers of labour would be looking out for. He advised them to take copious notes, ask pertinent questions and should not use the time to roam about but to listen to those who have walked this path before them He said even though they may come out with a first class, 2.1 or 2.2 what matters most was their emotional quotient, the soft skills they have that would put food on their table and not necessarily the academic qualification. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Mrs. Olojumoke Malachi, the guest speaker and head of Talent Acquisition, Wema Bank, enjoined the students to imbibe “can-do spirit,” “sense of order and structure” and deliberateness in putting God first, to make the difference. POLL She said the God-factor, apart from helping her to get a degree that is well accepted, it also helped to open the doors to more degrees. According to her, what would set them apart was their emotional intelligence, staying agile, taking initiatives, never being afraid to learn from others and never being afraid to build relationships. She also said acquiring new skills, building excellent communication skills, not being rude to people, being a team player were the keys that would set them apart from the crowd.