LAGOS – The United Nations Women, Ford Foundation, Council of Traditional Leaders of Africa (COTLA) and other women groups have resolved to strengthen advocacy to address the harmful cultural practices that perpetuate Gender-Based Violence (GBV). This was the focus at a roundtable of Cultural and Faith leaders on ending violence against women and girls held recently at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos, to end negative gender norms and harm women’s and girls’ health and safety. The collaboration with the select leaders, according to the UN Women, was informed by the role of the leaders as custodians of culture and religion and their influence to promote positive or negative social norms. Ms. Beatrice Eyong, the UN Women’s Country Representative to Nigeria, in her welcome address said the roundtable was meant to discuss the critical role of the cultural and faith leaders in addressing one of the gravest forms of human rights violation. She emphasised that the United Nations Universal Human Rights Declaration adopted in 1948 by the UN General Assembly, recognizes the inherent dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family as the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world that Dignity, Sanctity, GBV in all forms violate the core principles of life and fairness and values enshrined in many religious and community doctrines including those that Nigerians and Africans subscribe to. Ms. Eyong lamented that globally, an estimated 736 million women – almost one in three-have been subjected to physical and, or, sexual intimate partner violence, non-partner sexual violence, or both at least once in their life, saying that 1 in 3 Nigerian women have experienced physical violence by the age of 15. “At least 200 million women and girls, aged 15-49 years, have undergone female genital mutilation in 31 countries where the practice is concentrated. Half of the countries are in West Africa. In Nigeria, 43 percent of girls are married before the age of 18. Once married, only 1.2% of those aged 15-19 have their contraception needs met, leading to high levels of early and teenage pregnancy, increasing the burden of maternal mortality and several other negative health outcomes.” The Convener-General of the Council Of Traditional Leaders of Affrica (COTLA), HRM Oba Aderemi Adedapo, Alayemore Of Ido-Osun, appreciated the involvement of the group in the advocacy to end GBV, saying harmful practices such as female genital mutilation, child early and forced marriage and rape remained a public health concern and human rights violation all over the world. POLL The Monarch acknowledged their role and significance as traditional and faith leaders in preventing gender-based violence (GBV) and harmful practices in communities. With the launch of the “Traditional and Cultural Leaders for Ending GBV by Advancing Advocacy, Policy and Social Norms Change in Nigeria and West Africa (LEAP)” project, l am pleased that the achievements and work of traditional and religious leaders across Nigeria and West Africa would be sustained. He added, “I wish to deeply appreciate Ford Foundation for the investment in the LEAP project. It is an essential step towards creating a more just, equitable, and sustainable world. By preventing GBV and harmful practices, we can promote human rights, improve health, increase economic productivity, foster social cohesion, and advance gender equality.” Hilary Pennington, Ford Foundation Executive Vice-President For Programmes, in a message to the gathering, explained that the roundtable was simultaneously geared towards listening and learning from the experiences of cultural and religious leaders in tackling the challenge of violence against women and girls and expressed the hope that the dialogue would lead to a positive synergy that would accelerate positive attitudes, addressing issues of sexual and gender-based violence in line with the 2013 sustainability development goals agenda as well as the African Union’s 2063 agenda. “I wish to end by saying we owe this to ourselves and our communities to ensure that we eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls,” she added. She lauded the composition of the COTLA made up of male and female citizens of substance, saying, “We have seen changes, we have seen things like the money marriage in frustrated states that have been totally abolished.”