Adeola Balogun, Founder and Chief Operations Officer, Limlim Foods Production Company Limited, in this interview with SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, speaks on what led her into food processing, her journey so far in her line of business among other salient issues. Excerpts: What do you do at Limlim Foods? Limlim Foods Production Company is the First Company in Nigeria to convert locally grown produce into freeze dried fruit snacks and vegetable powders. It recently successfully produced freeze dried egg powder as well as a ready-to-drink pepper-soup range being the pioneer in Nigeria. Freeze drying is the best-in-class method of preservation that helps maintain product structure and keeps nutrient intact. We are a National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved facility that is constantly improving on its Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) standards to meet international standards. We partnered and work with farms as their off takers thus helping them reduce post-harvest losses and work closely with other food manufacturers as their natural food ingredient supplier. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ This way we work with these food processors from product conception stage to product launches by providing them with customised best in class products that can compete favorably with world standards. POLL How did you come about the business and how has it been since you started? We started in 2017, reading about the huge waste post-harvest spurred us into action surely there was something we could do to reduce this. I have a passion for driving innovation, change and food security in the Agric food processing value chain in Africa. My mission is to help reduce post-harvest losses in Nigeria by partnering with the right stakeholders, helping to build sustainable Agric food processing businesses, and providing knowledge and guidance to new entries in the industry. How did the cash crunch affect your business? We lost huge sales and even seasonal buying opportunities. Our farmers in the rural communities who do not have banking facilities close by, lost most of their harvest and could not even sell due to lack of cash and banking facilities. We had an instance where a rural farmer asked us to give some cash to a transporter when delivering goods to us but she never got the funds. How did you cope during this time and what has changed? We could not buy cash thus we had to wait it out. We paid for some goods since January but due to the cashless policy we are yet to get them. What are some of the challenges you are facing as a female entrepreneur? Many female entrepreneurs do not have collaterals to access funds for scaling, hence you find a lot at the bottom base of SME’s. What do you think the Government needs to do to support female entrepreneurs like you? In everything there must and should be a means to verify the business. Once this has been established progressive facilities should be given to female led businesses and their model can be such that they gradually build cash collateral which can be invested in bonds and in turn used as collateral by female led and owned businesses. Do you think that Female entrepreneurs deserve special treatment? For years the women have been relegated to being house wives and thus a large number not being economically empowered. But, in recent times given the economic realities, women economic growth are now a fulcrum of any home. Given our influence with the children it’s important that women are given all the encouragement needed to grow their businesses as this will also positively impact the children as they grow and develop. What should be done to encourage female entrepreneurs like you? Honestly as a female in the agro processing space that is helping to reduce post-harvest losses and ensuring food security, access to low cost, single digit funding is all that is required. You are also into the production of egg powder, Nigeria is said to be spending a fortune on the importation of egg powder; what is stopping Nigeria from tapping into huge production of egg powder, so as to also export to rake in foreign exchange for the country? Egg powder production is highly technical and requires a high standard of bio security to ensure that the finished product is free from any microbial contamination, hence it’s not a business that just anyone who has funds can venture into. For such industries to thrive it requires steady and continuous power as basics. It has taken us over three years to get to this stage. Having said this, there is huge room for collaboration and partnerships to invest behind a world class egg powder facility and indeed facilities in this country. I personally believe both private sector and government needs to partner to get this running and sustainable. Government in the area of policies that will discourage or eliminate importation of egg powder or heavy import tariffs on egg powder, local input incentives for companies in the country using locally sourced egg powder, low cost funding and tax breaks for companies going into the production of egg powder. I believe with the above there will be more private sector investment behind this. It is a serious misnomer to have poultry farmers annually burying eggs worth millions of dollars due to egg glut whilst we have companies in the same country spending millions of dollars importing the same eggs as powders, something is not right. Do you know how many jobs and businesses can be created from the egg industry powder industry? Why should Nigeria still be at basic use of eggs in this time and age? If you are to set an agenda for the president elect as a female entrepreneur, as regards ease of doing business, what would it be? We can learn great examples from Rwanda where businesses can be registered within 30mins. Reduce the multiple taxes and just simplify things. We are currently killing a lot of businesses with all the hurdles they need to over come to fully run. Sometimes one asks oneself is it truly worth all this stress and hassles at the end of the day? SME’s are engine room and building blocks for any economy yet they are faced with so many hurdles from local to state to federal government with so many regulations. As you are getting out from one another rears it’s head. You generate your water, power and sometimes roads yet you still end up paying so many levies everywhere you go.