Senator Abdullahi Adamu, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress has admitted that the timing of the fuel subsidy removal would be especially difficult and challenging for the new national and subnational government. Speaking when he received governors of the All Progressives Congress under the aegis of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) at the party’s secretariat on Wednesday Adamu said the governors are coming in at difficult time as chief executives of their states , and against a backdrop of the removal of the nagging fuel subsidy regime. As State governors who live and interact closely with the people, he said the governors bear the brunt of the of policies of government acting as shock absorber, even as he urged them to get down to work and implement the manifesto of the party. He said the party is ready and willing to give them good advice if needed, warning them however that individual governors will carry their own Cross. “For us, anything that we will want to say to you is adherence to the manifesto as much as you can. We have a general framework for the governance of the country and you represent those who fly the flag of the party and it is expected that whatever you do, you will have in mind the manifesto that the party gives the country. “You as the Chief Executive Officers of the states must key into this manifesto but there are peculiarities, there are priorities you must have set and you are bound to do as much as you can to meet the expectations of those who voted for us. “We are in a very difficult moment and you have come at a very difficult period. Even with the timing so, of the lifting of the fuel subsidy, this is going to be very specially challenging to us, particularly to you because you are where it matters most. From national politics, you are the shock absorbers in the various states of the federation. ” You live with the people. You wake up with the people and you work with them. The expectation is that you could have a better appreciation of their pains as citizens of this country. So, a lot of expectations will be on you as governors of the federating units of this great country. POLL “As far as the party is concerned, we will give you every cooperation you need. If you have any problem, turn to us and we will give you the best advice as we can. But whatever we do with you, you are the one wearing the shoes and know where it pinches”. Adamu alerted the governors to the quick passage of time, noting that only two years is available to the Chief executive for governance activities while the rest would be spent at the tribunals . He urged the governors to work closely with President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who he said is equally desirous to deliver on his mandate. “Two years are for actual governance. Before you know, you will finish with the tribunals, it will be getting to two years and you will start seeing posters and billboards flying, newspaper publications. This is a tradition in our democracy, fortunately, or unfortunately. We must be ready for that. So, you have no time to waste. ‘Fortunately, you are lucky to have a president who will listen to you. He has come with the same urge, the same desire to deliver. So, you are lucky. But whatever you do, do not forget that you will bear your cross. You will bear your cross. We will not as a party stand in your way of a good programme. If someone does so, please draw our attention so that we will stop it”.