MAKURDI – The Transition Committee of the outgoing administration of Governor Samuel Ortom and that of the incoming administration led by Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia are divided over the modality of presentation of handover notes to the incoming government. The disagreement between the two Committees ensued when the transition committee of the incoming administration insisted that the transition committee composed by Governor Ortom make available to it a detailed report on the state of affairs in Benue. However, the Transition Committee of Governor Ortom led by Prof Tony Ijoho SAN, who is also the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) has stated that the demands by the transition team of the Governor-elect were unconstitutional and an aberration because Governor Ortom ought to handover to the Governor-elect and not the Committee. Some of the requests by the Alia Committee include knowing the debt profile of the state and the total number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the state among other detailed reports spanning the period between 2015 and 2023. In a statement made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Wednesday and signed by Chief Mike Iordye and Dan Ashiekaa, Chairman and Secretary of the Alia Committee alleged that the outgoing administration was dilly-dallying on a report it ought to have submitted weeks ago. According to them, “Our joint meeting with the outgoing administration’s team on the 27th of April 2023, the SSG informed us of the inability to get the reports ready but that he will arrange for MDAs to brief us in one week’s time on his return from his trip abroad. “This lackadaisical attention to a serious matter like this calls for concern, as this information is necessary to enable our smooth takeoff on the 29th of May, 2023.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We, therefore, urgently demand the release of the following from the outgoing administration; the comprehensive handover notes covering the period of the outgoing administration i.e. 2015 – 2023 for all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), including the debt profile and the state of finances of the State. POLL “Organize an inspection tour of all ongoing projects; any ongoing negotiations that are not yet frozen as a contract; updated employee list for State & Local Governments and payroll for the month of November 2022. “The comprehensive list of IDPs and their respective camps; pension payroll for the month of February 2020 for the State pensioners and that of the local governments and any other vital information that may be of use to the incoming administration.” Reacting to the demands, the SSG, Tony Ijoho said, “We read a press statement issued by the team constituted by the Benue State Governor-elect in which the group accused the state Transition Committee put in place by the Governor of the State of delaying the presentation of handover notes to it. “The group further demanded among others, ‘Comprehensive handover notes covering the period of the outgoing administration i.e. 2015 – 2023 for all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), including the debt profile and the state of finances of the State’ “It must be stated in unequivocal terms that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria does not provide for a parallel government in any state. “Governor Samuel Ortom remains the Governor of Benue State till May 29, 2023, and he is expected to hand over to the Governor-elect and not a transition committee. “The demand made by the team of the Governor-elect is therefore unconstitutional and an aberration. “The Benue State Transition Committee already held its inaugural meeting where it was agreed that Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies will subsequently brief the Committee. “We expect the team of the incoming Governor to cooperate with the outgoing administration for a smooth transition of power, instead of going to the press to raise unfounded alarms” he advised.