Members of the Sector of Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes And Associated Institutions (SSAUTHRIAI) have tabled some of their demands before the federal government for prompt and effective action over issues affecting them. SSAUTHRIAI in a communiqué issued at the end of their meeting held at the National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI), Umudike, Abia State on Wednesday 10th and Thursday 11th of May, demanded 40% of Peculiar Allowance, and better government policies, with good working conditions for their members. A copy of the communiqué that was made available to Daily INDEPENDENT on Sunday which was co-signed by the sector chairman, Comrade Baba Mohammed and Sector Secretary, Comrade Ademola Olajire stated that the council-in-session after thorough deliberations on matters affecting Research Institutes in Nigeria, resolved as followings: Payment of 40% Peculiar Allowance. The council expressed dismay at the exclusion of Research Institutes from the payment of 40% peculiar allowance despite the fact that workers in Research Institutes are equally faced with harsh economic realities as quoted by the Hon Minister of Labour and Employment as reasons for the payment of this allowance to Nigerian workers. The council, therefore, called on Federal Government to be fair to all and include Research Institutes among those that will benefit from the 40% peculiar allowance. Parts of the communiqué reads: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT GAME-PLAYING TOWARDS THE PLIGHTS OF RESEARCH INSTITUTES‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The council expressed displeasure over the nonchalant attitude of the Federal Government towards addressing critical issues that affect Research and Development in Nigeria. POLL This is evidenced by the industrial actions regularly embarked upon by Research and Associated Institutions to demand better policies and working conditions for workers. Consequently, the council unequivocally calls on the government to take all issues that have bedeviled Research Institutions seriously if we want to make any meaningful progress toward graduating from the league of Underdeveloped/ developing economies. SUSPENDED JORAISU STRIKE ACTION: Despite the suspension of the thirteen (13) months old JORAISU strike action, the council expressed displeasure over the continued refusal of the Federal Government to address the issues that led to the strike action. These issues include but are not limited to the following, release of the approved scheme and conditions of service and full implementation of the skipping of CONRAISS 10 in all Research Institutes in Nigeria. Payment of 53.37% salary increase arrears.Retirement age of 65 years for all Research Institutes workers among other things. The council, therefore, calls on Federal Government to promptly address the issues without further delay. NON-SKIPPING OF CONRAISS 10 The council also frowned at the non-compliance by some Institutes to the circular directing the skipping of CONRAISS 10 in Research Institutes and call on Chief Executives as well as the supervising Ministries of such Institutes to ensure immediate compliance with this directive to ensure continued industrial harmony. PAYMENT OF PROMOTION ARREARS The council appreciates the Federal Government for her efforts towards approving the payment of all outstanding promotion arrears. The council hopes that the recent directive to furnish the government with details of all outstanding arrears will be met with prompt payment. STATE OF THE NATION The council appreciates the effort of the Federal Government to end insecurity, high rate of inflation and unemployment in the country. However; Federal Government is advised to do more towards finding a lasting solution to the issue of insecurity of life and property.