The second round of the inaugural edition of the Ibadan City Basketball League (ICBL), is expected to tip off on the 31st of this month. The organizers of the League, Oyo State Basketball Association (OSBA), made this known on Friday. At the end of the first round of matches, Showtyme Hoopers are dictating the pace in the Olubadan group with eight points. Trust Hoopers are second in the group with seven points, one more than third-placed The Polytechnic. Hoop Dreams are the front runners in the GSM group with six points while Unibadan are on five points and Liberty Spears have four points. The Scribe of the Oyo State Basketball Association (OSSA), Mrs. Oluwatosin Adekunle explained that the break will allow the team to x-ray their outing so far and map out plans for the busy business end of the City League. “It’s been an interesting and exciting journey so far, am really happy with the way it has been organised. The technical Committee of the League has done a fantastic job,” she said. She further stated that “What makes ICBL exciting is the fact that fans turn out in large numbers to drum support for their various teams. Some school principals allow the entire students to watch games.” POLL Meanwhile, the Vice Chairman of Oyo State Basketball Association (OSBA), Barrister Damola Awosika made a passionate appeal to well-meaning individuals, and corporate bodies in and around Oyo State to support the Ibadan City Basketball League (ICBL). Board members of the Oyo State Basketball Association (OSBA), are currently footing the bill of League. He stressed that OSBA cannot do it all alone. “We have done a comprehensive package for anybody or organisation interested in supporting the slamming and dunking game in Oyo State, the home of the game in the South West region of the country.” The Vice Chairman stated. “Individuals or corporate organisations with deep pockets and passion for basketball can pick up any of our various sponsorship packages: Endorsement, full sponsorship, associate sponsors, partners and suppliers and the benefits are massive,” Awosika added. The OSSA is already planting the seeds of a Secondary School Basketball Championship as a result of the success story of the ICBL. The Ibadan City Basketball League (ICBL) which started on the 29th of April has nine teams participating and six venues are hosting games. The clubs are:✓ Showtyme Hoopers✓ Adamasingba Spartans✓ The Polytechnic✓ Loyola Warriors✓ Liberty Spears✓ Trust Hoopers✓ Hoop Dreams✓ Egbeda LG✓ Unibadan The six venues for the city league are: ★ Lekan Salami Sports Complex, Adamasingba★ Ajani Sports Complex, Alakia★ Liberty Stadium Basketball Court★ University of Ibadan Basketball Court★ The Polytechnic Basketball Court★ Loyola College Basketball Court The top two teams in each of the groups qualify for the City League play-off and about a million naira has been set aside as prize money for the League that will run for ten weeks.