ISAAC ASABOR Without sounding exaggerative in this context, constant power supply remained a major criterion for a nation’s economy to grow. It is against the backdrop of the foregoing fact that Nigeria’s efforts to restructure and reform the energy sector, which included the privatisation of state-owned energy assets can be understood. Thus, to supply constant electricity for Nigeria’s economic growth, adequate power must be generated, transmitted to all parts of the country, and efficiently distributed to Nigerian business firms and citizens for business and personal consumption. Unfortunately, despite the combined efforts being exhibited by the federal government, Distribution Companies (DISCOs), Generation Companies (GENCOs), and Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) which all came into being by virtue of the unbundling of the defunct National Electric Power Authority (NEPA), and have since then been working in synergy to ensure that Nigeria attains regular power supply, epileptic and erratic power supply have remained the norm. It would be recalled that since NEPA was unbundled in 2005, as a result of the signing into law of the Electric Power Sector Reform (EPSR) Act, which enables private companies to participate in electricity generation, transmission, and distribution that electricity consumers hardly have value for their money as they have perennially remained underserved. Despite efforts so far put in place to improve customer experience in the Nigerian electricity market, statistics obtained from Statista, a data-focused online platform, “Nearly 36.4 thousand gigawatt hours of electricity were generated in Nigeria in 2021, up from around 35.7 thousand gigawatt hours in the previous year. Notable producing companies in the country include Egbin and Azura-Edo. Fossil fuels form a major part of the overall production. POLL In 2020, 22 terawatt hours of electricity were from fossils. That year, gas and hydro sources accounted for the largest share of fossil fuel power generation”. As gathered, there has been a lack, or epileptic distribution of electricity despite an unceasing annual supply. For instance, as of 2020, more than 55 percent of Nigeria’s population had access to electricity. Since 2011, the population with electricity access has kept stable at around 50 percent. The absence of electricity is most visible among households in the North-East and North-Central zones, contrary to those in the South-East and South-South regions. Nonetheless, to ensure continuous electricity use, generating companies (GENCOS) in the country have supplied over 30,000-gigawatt hours of power since 2017. For instance, in 2021, GENCOS distributed approximately 35,700-gigawatt hours of electrical energy to the population. Despite the high electricity demand in Nigeria, the country exports a proportion of the energy it produces to other countries. For instance, in 2019, electrical power exports to Benin and Niger reached around 1,300-gigawatt hours and one thousand gigawatt hours, respectively. Overall, Nigeria’s revenue from electricity exports amounted to approximately 84 million U.S. dollars in 2020. From the East, West, North, and South, electricity consumers across the country have experienced serious power outages. At best, they get an epileptic power supply and crazy estimated bills. Without a doubt, the fits-and-starts situation that characterises the power sector has over the years remained persistent so much that electricity consumers across the country have continued to experience bad customer experience more than ever before; depending on the locality being underserved by the concerned Disco under whose jurisdiction the onus of electricity distribution falls into. Across the divide, the story and experiences appear the same but differ in magnitude. Recently, electricity consumers in satellite towns of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) decried the epileptic supply by the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) in their areas. The electricity users who spoke with Journalists in Abuja described the situation as ‘inhuman and insensitive’, especially during the Easter celebration. Mrs. Agnes Agada, a customer at Area B, Nyanya, lamented that the electricity supply dropped drastically in the area during the Easter holiday. She lamented that AEDC did not explain to customers the cause of the epileptic power supply in the area, especially during the holidays. ”Throughout this holiday, we did not see light. Even on Easter day, when the company is supposed to give us light, we used generators all through. ”I think this is very unfair as it is not in the spirit of Easter,” she said. In a similar vein, Mrs. Ada Atuanya, another customer at Jikwoyi, said she lost some of her perishable food items to the poor electricity supply, and in that light appealed to the relevant authorities to address the electricity issue to boost supply and businesses. ”I normally buy my food stuff in bulk for the family, especially during celebrations like this. ”The tomatoes, meat, and soup that I made this season almost got soured because there is no light, and my generator has issues and it cannot power the refrigerator”. Regarding why Abuja has been in darkness, the leadership of AEDC has listed reasons why Abuja and other franchise areas have been thrown into the darkness since this year. In a statement, AEDC said that the technical challenges were due to a combination of inclement weather conditions, vandalism, routine maintenance, and technical installations at various locations within its franchise areas. “While we sincerely apologise for any inconveniences caused, we assure you that the ongoing technical installations across our franchise areas are aimed at improving our power supply,” they said. It would be recalled in this context that Donald Etim, the Chief Marketing Officer of the company, in a statement, in January, said that the vandalism of the company’s facilities has seriously impeded the company’s efforts to deliver stable and reliable power supply to its esteemed customers. While condemning the acts, he said that the surge in cases of vandalism within AEDC’s franchise areas has become quite worrisome, especially as the vandals have increasingly utilised unfathomable methods to perpetrate their criminal acts. On the prospect of consumers enjoying regular electricity supply, Mr. Casmir Iwegbue, a consumer protection activist said, given the recent assent that President Muhammadu Buhari gave to 16 constitutional alteration bills, that there is hope. To buttress his optimism, he said the signed bills, which include transferring more power to state governments, especially granting them autonomy to generate electricity, which is no doubt a move that will break the monopolistic grip of power generation, transmission, and distribution by the federal government. In his reaction to the development, on the heels of the assent, former minister of power, Professor Barth Nnaji, said the country would now begin to see huge investment in power generation and the much-anticipated competition in the industry. Nnaji said states like Lagos, Rivers, and Akwa Ibom that had spearheaded the drive for autonomous power structures would substantively create better opportunities and an environment that will drive economic growth. The former minister said states would no longer apply for licenses to generate their own power and they would now have the latitude to regulate generation, distribution, and transmission, adding that they would now have the opportunity to create end-to-end alternative power transmission lines. He, however, stated that States that are not liquid enough will have challenges raising the required capital to invest in the sector, stating that it will cost about $150-$200 million to develop a 100 Megawatts power generation plant.