LAGOS – Analysts have called on the fiscal, monetary policy authorities of the incoming government to calibrate reform policies that will ensure FX liquidity conditions to remain frail in the absence of reforms to attract US dollar inflows into the economy. They also implored the fiscal and monetary authorities in the country to show more concern to suboptimal exchange rate management, monetization of fiscal deficits, import and foreign exchange restrictions, adding that low FX liquidity conditions will also be driven by lingering global uncertainties and higher global interest rates, limiting foreign inflows to the economy. Their advice was sequel to the uncertain outlook and persistent current account deficit in Nigeria, as a consequence, foreign investors will need some convincing actions as regards flexibility and clarity in the FX framework going forward. They argued that the persistently high commodity prices will continue to be held back by structural problems—including electricity shortages, transport and logistic inefficiencies, as well as labour and product market rigidities. They told Daily Independent that the Federal Government should prioritise greater investment in physical capital, education, and social safety nets, as well as more support for retraining and re-allocating workers to new and better jobs that will lead to the transformation of the economy to make it smarter, greener, and more resilient and inclusive. World Economic Forum (WEF), in its recent Chief Economist Outlook, said the localisation and diversification of supply chains is expected to create a new geography of growth, new jobs and opportunities for small- and medium-sized enterprises and new entrants. However, the global movement of people and exchange of goods, services, technology and ideas remains fundamental to growth and prosperity for developing economies, addressing inequality, expanding living standards for all and addressing the climate crisis. “Poverty anywhere is a threat to prosperity everywhere,” said Gilbert Houngbo, Director-General, International Labour Organisation. POLL “We have gone through a big wave of globalisation and we have left too many people behind. If you read the story of industrial towns all over the world, people were left behind,” said Sander van ’t Noordende, Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Executive Board, Randstad “It’s the right thing to make sure that that doesn’t happen again, and it is needed because we need all hands on deck.” Nearly a quarter of all jobs – 23% – are also expected to be disrupted over the next four years, according to the Future of jobs report, released just ahead of the summit. Sustainability and green investments are expected to be a net job creator while tepid economic growth, supply shortages and high inflation are seen as the biggest risks to job growth. The impact of artificial intelligence was widely debated, with polarised views on its potential for fully displacing lower-skilled, white-collar work or augmenting workers’ productivity in various professions with faster access to knowledge. Leaders from business, government, unions, academia and civil society agreed that a renewed push for growth is needed to raise living standards across the world. But, they also cautioned against focusing solely on GDP growth, calling for greater integration of other urgent priorities including tackling the climate crisis, reducing inequality, building societal resilience and managing the disruptive power of new technologies. “My hope is that we can find big opportunities from the exploration of alternative drivers of growth, such as intra regionalisation, that have been untapped. This is how we keep global growth going,” said Razia Khan, Head of Research and Chief Economist, Africa and Middle East, Standard Chartered Bank. “There is enormous inequality in productivity,” said Ricardo Haus Growth Lab, Harvard University. mann, Founder and Director of the “People in different locations are baking pies of radically different sizes. The process of development is a process of transformation of the way we do things, the way production is organized so that the whole can be more productive. The pursuit of green technology is in the forefront of our minds,” said Mmusi Kgafela, Minister of Trade and Industry, Botswana. “But it has to be a just transition.” Rania Al-Mashat, Minister of International Cooperation, Egypt, emphasized the need for financing in the developing world. “For just transitions to happen, we need just financings.” A key element in the new agenda for growth is the need for significant investment in skills in both advanced and emerging economies to build competitiveness and to prepare workers for the jobs of the future. “AI won’t take your job – it’s someone using AI who will take your job,” said Richard Baldwin, Professor of International Economics, Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva. “We know the jobs that we’ll lose, the jobs that we need and someway we have to make it work” said Claudia Azevedo, Chief Executive Officer of SONAE, as part of a discussion on the importance of closing the skills gap through upskilling and reskilling. We are nowhere near where we need to be to meet the scale and the speed of the demand that is coming our way for green skills. We need to start investing now – and heavily – to put the reskilling and upskilling programmes in place needed to meet the climate challenge,” said Sue Duke, Head of Global Public Policy, LinkedIn. When you look at care jobs – both childcare and elderly care – we still see elevated demand compared to pre-pandemic levels,” said Svenja Gudell, Chief Economist, Indeed. Leaders also emphasised the importance of diversity and inclusion as a channel to both promote equity and to accelerate growth and innovation. “Diversity of ideas is essential,” said Maria Leptin, President, European Research Council. Dr Muda Yusuf, Executive Officer of the Centre for Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), in a chat with Daily Independent, reiterated the central bank’s insistence on lowering inflation may signal more hikes in subsequent months. “To address the looming catastrophe, the fiscal and monetary authorities must adopt a more flexible and predictable foreign exchange management model to regain the confidence of foreign investors. Yusuf, who argued that the technical computation of the inflation figures is not in dispute, said: “the reality of the impact of the intense inflationary pressures over the past one year is at variance with the official inflation data. “For the basket of goods consumed by most households, prices have jumped by between 30-100% over the past one year. The same is true of businesses. “The pressure of spiking inflation on household budgets has been intense and distressing. Purchasing power has been massively eroded, real incomes have collapsed, and the poverty situation has consequently worsened. “Businesses have been similarly impacted as they have been experiencing a slump in sales, turnover and profits margins. The impact on small businesses is even more severe because of their limited capacity to absorb economic shocks. “The spiraling inflation dynamics deserves an urgent policy response at the highest level of government. The impact on citizen’s welfare is severe. The effect on SMEs is troubling. There is worsening social discontent, driven by poverty inflicted by inflation”. An executive director of one of the new generation bank in a chat with Daily Independent, implored the Federal Government to urgently tackle the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities, reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate, reduce volatility and stimulate foreign exchange inflows to address the lingering fiscal challenges “If the Federal Government can address foreign exchange liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures; address the challenge of high transportation and logistics cost; reduce fiscal deficit monetisation to minimise incidence of high-powered money in the economy; manage climate change consequences to reduce flooding and desertification the 3.8 growth potentials of the nation’s economy in the remaining quarters of this year is guaranteed”, the banker said The bankers also urged the Federal Government to ensure the restoration of normalcy and good order at the nation’s ports to reduce transaction costs; reduce import duty on intermediate products and raw materials for industries to reduce production costs, especially in the light of the sharp depreciation in the exchange rate; address concerns around high energy cost and create an investment friendly tax environment. Auwal Musa Rafsanjani , the Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC),in a chat with Daily Independent, said Nigeria was not an exception as prices of goods and services were moving northwards with the potential implication of shrinking production of goods and services. He said that if the conditions persist, production volumes would be impacted by the raw materials supply chain disruptions, the rising cost of diesel, and other internal security crises. “Job losses are also very likely due to constrained production and disrupted supply chains, and all of these will likely depress growth potential in the remaining quarters of this year “The manufacturing sector for instance, will likely suffer some shocks from the rising cost of diesel, logistics, foreign exchange illiquidity, domestic inflationary pressure, weakening purchasing power, poor public infrastructure and port-related challenges. “These may continue to present as headwinds to the sector’s performance”, he said Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) told Daily Independent that the naira depreciation has a significant impact on headline inflation, especially the core sub index. He said: “To tame the current inflationary pressure, he suggested that government should reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate and reduce volatility, address forex liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures, address the security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities and address productivity issues in the real sector of the economy”. Cordros Researchers in their Weekly Economic and Market Report of May 5, 2023 stated that over the short-to-medium term, we expect FX liquidity conditions to remain frail in the absence of reforms to attract US dollar inflows into the economy. “The low FX liquidity conditions will also be driven by lingering global uncertainties and higher global interest rates, limiting foreign inflows to the economy. “ Thus, foreign investors will need some convincing actions as regards flexibility and clarity in the FX framework going forward”. Recall that the President had in December 2022, sent a request to the National Assembly, seeking approval to convert the W&M advances to 40-year bonds that will be sold to investors at a 9.0% interest rate, with a three-year moratorium. Contrary to previous expectations that the securities will be issued to the public, the DMO stated that it will be issued to the CBN by the FGN. Given that the arrangement involves the FGN issuing the securities to the CBN; it means the W&M outstanding will remain in the CBN’s balance sheet. In our view, the securities remaining in the CBN’s books, introduces a moral hazard issue. Nonetheless, this development will ensure that the public debt profile reflects its true picture, bringing debt sustainability to the forefront of policymaking and, possibly, ensuring the next administration consciously embarks on fiscal consolidation.