AWKA  – Prince Collins Agbasiere, one of the aspirants for the position of State Secretary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State, has stated that the party may regret her actions should sentiments decide the state congress of the party slated for today. Agbasiere, who spoke exclusively with our correspondent in Awka, emphasized that with the presence of the Labour Party in Anambra, Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo and other stakeholders of APGA should be very careful about whom they handover positions of leadership to avoid betrayal at the 11th hour. He said, ” With the presence of Labour Party in Anambra state, Mr. Governor, stakeholders and leaders of APGA should be very careful about whom they handover positions of party to hold on trust for us.” He noted that the reason he spoke on it was because in the last elections, APGA had to work extra hard to overcomethe pressure from Labour party. He said if not for some of them who were committed to the party in the state, APGA would have lost most of the House of Assembly seats in various constituencies. Agbasiere maintained that APGA urgently needed very competent hands to match the force of the Labour Party and other opposition elements. “If APGA is handed over to those who barely have the interest of the party at heart, they would compromise at the most time of need and the party will suffer for it,” he said, adding that there is need for very thorough scrutiny of who will handle leadership positions in APGA. He said Anambra state is the only state controlled by APGA in the federation; that adequate care should be taken not to give offices to people unknown to the party, saying that credible people and people who will not compromise the integrity of the party should be allowed to run the affairs of the party for the greater good of APGA. POLL He said, “If sentiments and not love for the party is introduced in this congress; if favouritism and godfatherism is introduced in this congress and competence sacrificed on the altar of mediocrity, the party will blame herself at the end of the day.”