ABUJA  – Despite Federal Executive Council, FEC, parceling out the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, NAIA, in a concession arrangement to a private aviation company, the federal government has continued to reequip the airport. Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, NAMA, installed surface radar system at NAIA and the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, as part of project meant to lift the stature of the airport to global standards. Matthew Lawrence Pwajok, the Acting Managing Director, NAMA, made the disclosure during his speech at an event in Abuja but failed to say why such radar re-equipment isn’t better handled by the new concessionaires. The NAMA boss, said the site acceptance tests for the facilities had been completed, noting that newly installed surface movement radar and ground control systems were deployed in Abuja and Lagos airports. The new systems will allow air traffic controllers to monitor aircraft and vehicular movement during low visibility or nighttime conditions, improving safety and efficiency. During the test, a Pwajok said NAMA representatives expressed satisfaction with the radar equipment’s performance and demonstrated confidence in its ability to enhance the agency’s operations. This development is expected to bolster Nigeria’s aviation industry and ensure seamless air travel for passengers. Pwajok said: “The surface movement radar can be used when aircraft land in poor weather conditions. In most cases the airport is shut down because pilots can’t see and can’t taxi so they would have to wait until there is weather improvement. But with the surface movement radar, we can guide aircraft on landing, to the parking gate, and, on departure; we can guide them from the parking gate to the runway for takeoff as everything is displayed on the console. POLL “The same way the radar sees aircraft in the air, this one will see aircraft and vehicles as they are moving on the ground. “Surface movement radar would therefore enable the controller to see clearly that the aircraft is in the right link. It would enhance safety on the ground by preventing collisions between aircraft. The issue of delaying aircraft by waiting for the weather to improve will be a thing of the past,” he said. The surface movement radar, he said, would boost Category III Instrument Landing Systems operations. According to him, with CAT III, aircraft can land at zero visibility while the surface movement radar will enable the air traffic controllers to separate and control aircraft to the gate as well as those taxiing from the gate to takeoff very efficiently. He said: “In Lagos, we had a major challenge of the tower being blocked by the Legend Hotel, Executive Jet, and aviation terminal. And that necessitated the deployment of the surface movement radar. So, with this, that problem has been solved. It has reduced stress on the air traffic controller as he can now see everything from the console. He added: “Abuja, the Chinese terminal also blocked the tower and controllers can neither see the international terminal nor the presidential wing. At the moment we are using the mobile tower to augment the view. But, with surface movement radar, we won’t need the mobile tower there anymore as every part of the airport is visible from the console.” In a separate statement Federal Government says concession of the Nnamdi Azikiwe happened just like was also done on the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA). Like the concession deal, it was  approved, too, by Federal Executive Council. Personal assistant to the minister of Aviation, Dr James Odaudu, said in a statement that Corporacion American Airport Consortium has emerged the preferred bidder for the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA). The consortium composed of The Corporation American Airports, Mota Engil Africa and Mota Engil Nigeria and is globally recognized for its superior technical expertise in the design, construction, management and operation of infrastructure. Mota Engil Nigeria is a joint venture between Mota-Engil, a public-listed Portuguese contractor and Shoreline Group, an energy and infrastructure conglomerate owned by Kola Karim. Karim, 54, is one of Nigeria’s wealthiest men and owns Shoreline Group, which has interests in power, energy, infrastructure, engineering, agriculture, and telecom. Recall that in 2018 Shoreline Group, a Nigerian energy and industrial conglomerate founded by Karim, partnered with Mota-Engil, a publicly listed Portuguese contractor, to establish Mota Engil Nigeria. Mota Engil partnered with Shoreline Group to leverage the latter’s clout in Nigerian business and political circles to access target large-ticket infrastructure construction projects in Nigeria. Mota-engil holds 51% of mota-engil nigeria, while shoreline owns 49%. Mota-Engil is active in civil construction, public works, port operations, waste, water, and logistics. The statement further added that “following a thorough and comprehensive evaluation process that commenced with the Request for Qualification (RFQ) advertised in local and international media on 16th August 2021, and subsequent rigorous evaluation of technical and financial bids, coupled with due diligence visits conducted from December 27– 29, 2022 and January 9– 10, 2023 the Corporation American Airport Consortium has emerged as the preferred bidder. “The consortium, composed of The Corporation American Airports, Mota Engil Africa, and Mota Engil Nigeria, is globally recognized for its superior technical expertise in the design, construction, management, and operation of infrastructure. “The Corporation American Airports, a New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listed airport operator, has presence across three continents, managing 53 airports in six countries and serving approximately 82.4 million passengers in 2019.” The statement added: “The concession of NAIA and MAKIA will considerably enhance the operational efficiency and profitability of these airports, repositioning them to operate optimally and competitively. “This agreement, under a Public-Private Partnership arrangement, will be effective for 20 years for NAIA and 30 years for MAKIA.