ISAAC ASABOR If there is anything that can be considered to be a blight on the landscape of the advertising industry globally, and in this context of Nigeria, it is unarguably controversial advertising that has been used by brands. Against the foregoing backdrop, one of the most thought-provoking adverts that recently stirred the sensibilities of not a few Nigerians, particularly those in Christendom is that of Peak Milk. Recall that FrieslandCampinaWAMCO Nigeria Plc, the manufacturers of Peak Milk recently released an Easter-themed advertisement that sparked a backlash from Nigerians. The advert featured the picture of a dented tin of Peak Milk pierced on two sides with a nail, a metaphor for the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, to promote their product on social media. Many Christians found the ad to be offensive and disrespectful to their faith. In a statement, the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) called for a boycott of Peak Milk products and demanded a public apology from the brand. CAN also condemned the advert for being insensitive to the Christian religion, and called on the Nigerian government to take action against companies that promote divisive messages. POLL For the sake of clarity, CAN is a religious organisation that represents Christians in Nigeria. In the past, they have spoken out against companies and individuals who they believe have insulted or disrespected their faith. In response to the backlash, Peak Milk issued an apology on its social media platforms, stating that the advert was not intended to promote any form of discrimination. At this juncture, it is expedient to say that the controversy surrounding the Peak Milk Easter advert highlights the importance of sensitivity in advertising. Brands have a responsibility to ensure that their messaging is respectful to all consumers. In a similar vein, it is expedient to recall the MTN’s ‘Mama Na Boy’ commercial that also stirred controversy as a man calls his mother in the village to tell her of his wife’s delivery of a baby boy. The excitement about the baby’s gender was obvious from his body language. The commercial depicted the prevalent preference of male children in traditional Nigerian society. The barrage of public outcry that greeted the commercial, particularly from women’s rights groups and some religious organisations forced MTN to pull out the advert as the mobile service provider was vehemently accused of insensitivity, and placing no value on the worth of a female child. Condemnations that trailed the commercials were in no way controverted as male child preference syndrome still bites in our societies, even among the educated and enlightened. A male child vacuum implies not having a complete family as the belief suggests in most places. When a woman is delivered of a baby, the question that usually follows is, “What is the gender of the baby?” If the baby is a male child, more showers of compliments pour in. The excitement that greets a young couple’s first issue with a male child has a premium attachment to it. The baby’s father gets more compliments for the bundle of joy, not minding that the wife carried the pregnancy for months until delivery, besides the labor pains involved. For the family that had longed for a male child, the joy and celebration that follows the arrival of a male child knows no bounds. Where the baby’s mother had anticipated a male child and the opposite happens, the expression paints her mood. For a non-male child in a family, mothers, in particular, are at the receiving end of this unpalatable experience. Against the foregoing backdrop, not a few experts and observers in the sector are wondering why controversial adverts elude the prying eyes of the Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria (ARCON). Mr. Joe Kalu, an advertising enthusiast, when asked how far can the council go in preempting controversial adverts in Nigeria, he said, “The Legal and Regulatory Framework governing advertising in Nigeria is well spelled out, and they are within the purview of ARCON as a regulatory body”. Given his response, it is expedient to say that advertising in Nigeria is governed by various laws that cut across “The Advertising Practitioners Registration Act, The Advertisement Practitioners Council of Nigeria Vetting Guidelines (or “The Vetting Guidelines”, The Nigerian Code of Advertising Practice, Sales Promotion & Other Rights/Restrictions on Practice or “The Advertising Code”, The Standards Organisation of Nigeria Act, The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) Act.” In fact, not a few experts and observers are of the view that compliance with Advertising laws and regulations as well as the vetting of Advertising concepts in Nigeria is administered by the Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria (APCON) and the Advertising Standards Panel (ASP) will sanitise the advertising landscape, and preclude it from experiencing controversial adverts. Given the foregoing legal backing, there is no denying the fact that the council can go far in ensuring that controversial adverts cease to crop up on the advertisement landscape in the country. Thus, the council’s announced a plan in October 2022 that it was working towards the recognition of companies and brands that had distinguished themselves in the area of compliance, with the Advertising Standards Panel (ASP) Award, at this year’s edition of the National Advertising Conference. Mr. Tunji Adeyinka, the Chairman of the Planning Committee and President of the Experiential Marketers Association of Nigeria,(EXMAN), made the disclosure, in Lagos, at a media briefing, witnessed by heads of industry sectoral groups, to intimate the public of the then three-day event. He stated that the ASP Award will be part of the Gala Nite, and planned to draw the curtains on the second edition of the conference, scheduled for Abuja, between November 29 and December 1, last year. According to him, the conference tagged “The Marketing Communications Industry: New Trends, Challenges & Prospects”, will feature industry giants and stakeholders, who will engage in intellectual discourse and conversations, aimed at repositioning the advertising industry for growth. He explained that the decision of the industry’s apex regulatory body to put together the conference in 2019, stemmed from the need to provide a platform where stakeholders and practitioners, and businesses in the advertising ecosystem, could converge and discuss industry-related issues. “The conference has been designed to bring together the three pillars of the industry, the advertisers, marketing agencies, and the media, and strengthening all of that is the regulator that facilitates and ensures that the industry can grow”, he stated. Also speaking at the event, the Committee’s Head of the Marketing Team, Bassey Uduak, explained that the committee is already in talks with some airlines, hotels, and companies with the plans of forging some partnerships that will enable it to organize the conference smoothly. One of the incentives the committee intends to give to participants, he added, is the ‘early bird’ discount or the few individuals that make pay their registration fee early enough. In his welcome address, the Director General of ARCON, Dr. Lekan Fadolapo described the conference as part of the council’s efforts at further stimulating the industry, intellectually. Also, on the heels of the controversial advert placed in favour of the branding and marketing of Peak Milk, the ARCON has warned that all advertisements and marketing communications must be duly approved before exposure, as the agency will not hesitate to institute appropriate sanctions in accordance with the law. The apex advertising regulatory agency gave this warning in a statement signed by the Director General of the agency, Dr. Olalekan Fadolapo. It reads: “The Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria (ARCON) noted with concern, the series of advertisements exposed during the recent Easter celebration by advertisers, media owners (traditional and online], and advertising agencies. “The advertisements were not only provocative, insensitive, offensive, and incendiary but were also not submitted nor vetted by the Advertising Standards Panel in accordance with the provisions of section 53[1] of the Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria Act No.23 of 2022. “The Council will take necessary actions to ensure that the rights, sensitivities, and religious beliefs of any sect, or group of people are not ridiculed, disparaged, or exploited for commercial gains or otherwise”. According to the statement, the regulatory agency had observed with concern, a series of unpleasant advertisements during the Easter Celebration which were deemed offensive and demeaning to the Christian faith. Advertisers, advertisement agencies, and media/media owners have been advised to ensure all advertisement and marketing communications are approved by the Advertising Standard Panel, ASP before exposure to avoid sanctions. So far so good, the question remains, “How far can ARCON go in preventing exposure of controversial adverts?”