The Oyo State Police Command under the constructive leadership of CP Adebowale Williams has warned residents of Oyo state against the unauthorized possession of firearms during the inauguration of Governor Seyi Makinde and his deputy, Bayo Lawal on May 29th, 2023. As the Commissioner of Police disclosed the Command’s readiness in collaboration with its sister agencies plans for a hitch free inauguration ceremony come May 29, 2023. This was contained in a statement on Saturday by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Oyo Command, SP Osifeso Adewale. According to the statement, “This is In line with the express directives of the Inspector General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba towards a successful outing, the security architecture of the state has been beefed-up to comprehensively cater to residents and guests. “In furtherance of the above, adequate personnel have been detailed to protect the length and breadth of the state, inclusive major roads and highways, airport, critical infrastructures and boundaries in and out of Oyo State. “There shall be; high octane joint patrols with other sister agencies, intensive Stop and Search at designate points across the nook and cranny of the state, Intelligence led surveillance activities and visibility policing in line with Standard Operational Procedure. “So, also residents shall witness high level deployment of command’s operational, intelligence and tactical assets with a view to fortify the inauguration venue and areas in proximity. “Furthermore, with genuine concerns for public order and safety of the general public, the Oyo State Command sternly warns those with no business around the inauguration ceremony or with the intent to foment trouble to steer clear. POLL “Moving forward, in line with its proactive nature and for ease of traffic, the Command wishes to inform the general public about diversions at the following areas:Bola Ige/Christ High School junction liberty road; (Alternative Route: Imalefalafia to Ringroad),Jogor Center/Liberty road junction(Alternative Route: Iyana-Adeoyo through Ososami to Ibadan Central Mosque to Molete Oke-Ado Road). “Ansarudeen/Liberty road;(Alternative Route: Bola Ige Junction through Ososami to Iyana-Adeoyo), Bodija/Ajibode Road(Alternative Route: There would be a road diversion to one-way from Ajibode junction to Bodija/ UI Junction.) “In addition,the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Police Command, CP Adebowale Williams, therefore enjoins residents to adhere strictly to all laid out safety and security regulations regarding the inauguration program and as well report any suspicious activity to the Police or other relevant security agencies. “In a similar direction, unauthorized possession of firearms and weapons inclusive of pen knives by persons other than accredited security agents is strongly prohibited at the venue and surrounding environs with defaulters risking heavy sanctions and prosecution. “Lastly, the Oyo State Police Command wishes all law abiding residents of the state a great outing and reiterates its unwavering commitments towards the safety of all before during and after the inauguration. “In cases of emergencies, the Command can always be reached through these emergency control room numbers: 615(Tell free) (Oyo State Security Trust Fund), and Oyo State Police Command Emergency lines 07055495413 and 08081768614”.