LAGOS  – Following the failure to inves­tigate allegations of electoral violence and other electoral offences including bribery against some state governors and their deputies during the 2023 elections, the Socio-Eco­nomic Rights and Account­ability Project (SERAP) has filed a lawsuit against the In­dependent National Electoral Commission (INEC). According to reports, the recently concluded presiden­tial, National Assembly and governorship elections in some states witnessed widespread reports of voter suppression, voter intimidation and the de­struction or theft of election materials by political party agents and thugs across the six geopolitical zones. In the suit number FHC/ ABJ/CS/583/2023 filed last Fri­day at the Federal High Court, Abuja, SERAP is asking the court for an order of manda­mus compelling INEC to seek the appointment of indepen­dent counsel to investigate al­legations of electoral offences against state governors and their deputies during the 2023 elections. SERAP is seeking “an or­der of mandamus compelling INEC to promptly, thoroughly and effectively investigate re­ports of electoral violence and other electoral offences com­mitted during the elections, identify suspected perpetrators and their sponsors, and ensure their effective prosecution.” SERAP is also seeking “an order of mandamus directing and compelling INEC to pros­ecute all arrested electoral offenders in the 2023 general election in the custody of law enforcement and anticorrup­tion agencies.” In the suit, SERAP is argu­ing that: “By allegedly engag­ing in electoral violence and other electoral offences in so blatant a fashion, suspected perpetrators and their spon­sors have clearly acted in vio­lation of constitutional provi­sions, international standards and the Electoral Act.” “Identifying, arresting, in­vestigating and prosecuting any politicians and their spon­sors suspected to be responsi­ble for electoral offences during the elections would end the im­punity of perpetrators. It would also advance Nigerians’ right to freely participate in their own government.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Addressing the brazen im­punity and reports of electoral violence and other electoral of­fences during the 2023 general elections would also send a strong message to politicians that they would be held to ac­count for any infringement of the electoral process.” POLL The suit filed on behalf of SERAP by its lawyers, Ko­lawole Oluwadare, Andrew Nwankwo and Ms. Blessing Ogwuche, read: “Election vi­olence is a threat to fair and representative elections. “Election violence is incon­sistent and incompatible with the principles of democracy, the rule of law, transparency and accountability for politi­cians to allegedly use violence to disrupt the electoral process. “Section 52 of the Indepen­dent Corrupt Practices and Oth­er Related Offences Act allows INEC to seek the appointment of an independent counsel to probe allegations of electoral violence and other electoral of­fences that may have been com­mitted by any state governors and/or their deputies. “When politicians and their sponsors decide to engage in electoral violence and other electoral offences rather than contest fairly for people’s votes, there are possibilities that such politicians will show a disre­gard for democratic rules and a disposition to adopt illegal means becomes inevitable. “Ending impunity for elec­toral violence and other elec­toral offences would promote accountability of suspected perpetrators and their spon­sors, ensure justice for victims, and ultimately advance the people’s right to vote as well as bolster voter confidence in the electoral process. “Electoral violence and oth­er electoral offences reported­ly committed during the 2023 general elections are contrary to the express provisions of the Nigerian constitution 1999 [as amended], the Electoral Act and international standards. “The Nigerian constitution provides in section 14(1)(c) that, ‘the participation by the people in their government shall be ensured in accordance with the provisions of this constitution.’ “Sections 121 and 127 of the Electoral Act prohibit elector­al bribery and undue influence before, during and after any election. “Section 145(2) provides that, ‘a prosecution under this Act shall be undertaken by le­gal officers of INEC or any le­gal practitioner appointed by it.’ Under section 2(b), the com­mission ‘shall have power to promote knowledge of sound democratic election processes.’ “According to a report by the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), several polling units recorded vio­lence and/or fighting across the country. “These violent incidents were often focused in political strongholds of opposition or perceived opponents which suggest that the use of BVAS – which limits over-voting when properly used – has resulted in a more concerted effort to stymie citizens casting their votes in opponent’s strongholds. “Similar incidents of intim­idation were reported in the six geo-political zones. “In several states, political thugs, apparently with the support of law enforcement officials, disrupted and sent back voters intending to vote for opposition parties. Party agents were reported to be di­recting people who to vote for while those unwilling to do as directed were denied ballot papers and forced to leave the polling units. “There were reports of de­struction of used ballot papers and vandalization of entire polling units in some states. Violence was also used to tar­get BVAS machines in order to disrupt the process and ensure the cancellation of results. “According to the CDD, there are reports of vote trad­ing in zones across the country, with both cash and goods used by all political parties in an ef­fort to entice voters to cast their ballots at their direction. The CDD noted vote buying at poll­ing units during the elections across the country.” No date has, however, been fixed for the hearing of the suit.