The Supreme Court of Nigeria, on Friday, dis­missed a suit seeking to disqualify the presi­dential candidate of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shetima from contesting the February 25, 2023 presiden­tial election on account of double nomination. The decision of the 5-man panel led by Justice John Inyang Okoro was on a suit filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The PDP had, in the suit filed on July 28, 2022, challenged the validity of the Tinubu/Shettima ticket for the 2023 presidential election, arguing that Shettima’s nomination as the running mate was in breach of the provisions of Sections 29(1), 33, 35 and 84(1) (2) of the Electoral Act, 2022, as amended. The PDP claimed that Shet­tima had a double nomination, arguing that his nomination as a vice-presidential candidate, as well as the candidate for the Borno Central Senatorial seat, contravened the law. Therefore, the PDP sought an order disqualifying the APC, Tinubu and Shettima from con­testing the presidential election. Apart from praying the court for an order nullifying their can­didacy, the former Vice President and the opposition party, the PDP also prayed for an order compel­ling the INEC to remove their names from its list of nominated or sponsored candidates eligible to contest the election. But after hearing the suit, Jus­tice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on January 13, 2023, dismissed the PDP’s suit, describing the party as a busy body to have instituted the legal action. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and the All Progressives Con­gress were joined in the suit as defendants. POLL Consequently, Justice Ekwo slammed a N5million cost against the PDP for dabbling into issues that were the internal af­fairs of the APC. Miffed by the trial court’s judg­ment, the PDP headed to the ap­pellate court to seek redress by having the judgement set aside and dismissed. However, the Court of Appeal in its judgment, led by Justice James Abundaga, on March 24, held that the PDP failed to estab­lish its locus standi. Leading a three-man panel of the appellate court, Abunda­ga refused the application by the PDP to reverse Justice Ekwo’s judgment. Again, not satisfied with the outcome of the appeal, the PDP approached the Supreme Court for it to reverse the judgement of the court. Delivering the lead judgment on Friday, Justice Adamu Jauro held that the Plaintiff/Appellant (PDP) lacked the locus standi (le­gal right) to file the suit against Tinubu and Shettima. The apex court, in a unani­mous judgement held that the appellant was unable to show that it’s civil right had been in­fringed upon, and how the action of Tinubu in picking Shettima as his running mate had affected or caused injury to it. Justice Jauro noted that for a person to have the locus standi to challenge a nomination process of a political party, the person must be a natural person, an aspirant to that position and a member of that party. “A political party has no right to challenge the action of anoth­er party or the decision of INEC in respect of another party,” the court said. Another reason while the suit of the appellant was “shaky”, the court said, was that “no matter how manifestly wrong an action might be, it is only a person that has locus standi that can initiate a cause of action”. Consequently, Justice Jaur, while dismissing the appeal, held that the suit by PDP was “vexa­tious, frivolous and lacking in merit” just as he described the party as a “meddlesome inter­loper and a busybody” that is peeping and poke nosing into the internal affairs of another party. The panel agreed with the findings of the trial and appel­late courts that the PDP has no locus standi to file the action, and therefore it was needless to delve into the substantive matter. On his part, Justice Okoro held that there was evidence to show that the APC and Shettima had on July 6, written letters to the INEC, on the withdrawal of Shettima as the nominated can­didate for Borno Central Senato­rial seat, having been nominated for the position of the Vice Pres­ident.