Oyo State Police Command under the gallant leadership of CP. Adebowale Williams has on Sunday paraded five Yoruba nation agitators that were among the intruders that allegedly invaded and hijacked Radio Nigeria Amuludun FM station, Moniya Ibadan at the early hour of Sunday May 28, 2023. While addressing journalists over the development at the state police Command Headquaters Eleyele Ibadan, the Capital City of Oyo state on Sunday, the state commissioner of Police, CP. Adebowale Williams gave the names of the arrested agitators as Noah Atoyebi, Male, aged-30, Gbenga Adeleke, Male aged-25, Abdulganiyu Mustafa Kolawole, male, aged-35, Bashiru Kehinde, female, aged 30 and Fajola Elija, male, aged – 45yrs. CP. Adebowale in his address stressed that the Oyo State Police Command remains unwavering and committed to the statutory constitutional requirements of protecting lives and property and as well preserving law and order even as the State and indeed Nation gears up towards the Monday 29/05/2023 Inauguration Ceremony for its Elected leaders. He maintained that in line with the express directives of the Inspector General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, psc (+), NPM,NEAPS,fdc,CFR towards a successful outing and beyond, hence the security architecture of the State, just like in other Commands has been beefed-up to comprehensively tackle any evolving or emerging security challenge which could pose a threat to the Nation’s Stability. He said, “Preliminary Investigations about today’s incident revealed that today being Sunday 28/05/2023 at about 0600hrs the valiant and eagle eyed Operatives of the Command while on intelligence driven patrols intercepted a distress call about some members of a group driven by a separatist agenda who had forcefully hijacked a Radio Broadcast Station, Amuludun 99.1 FM located around Moniya,Ibadan with the intent to declare liberation from the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Thankfully no personnel from the establishment or any other persons were hurt as the Command responded swiftly in a well coordinated rescue operation.” “I have personally detailed an investigation team led by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal Investigation Department to demystify circumstances around the incident and as well expand the network of arrests through thorough, painstaking intelligence driven investigation.” “While declaring this act as criminal, unpatriotic and a clear case of terrorism which would be meted with adequate sanctions under the laws of the land, I assure good citizens of the State that the Security architecture of the Command in concert with relevant Sister Agencies has been strategically modified for optimum effectiveness not only for tomorrow’s epoch making ceremony but beyond.” POLL “So also, Parents, guardians and leaders wielding various degrees of influence are advised to prevail on their Children,wards and proteges against being used to disrupt tomorrow’s event as heavy sanctions await defaulters and other unpatriotic elements sharing the same sinister motives.” “This far, the suspects in possession of various criminal charms were arrested in connection with the incident.” “The Oyo State Police Command enjoins residents to be generous with information and cooporate with the Command in a bid to rid the State off Criminal elements with the intent to propagate their separatist agenda.” “In cases of emergencies, the Command can always be reached through these emergency control room numbers: 615(Tell free) (Oyo State Security Trust Fund), and Oyo State Police Command Emergency lines 07055495413 and 08081768614.” Adebowale said. Speaking with journalists over their arrest, one of the agitators, who claimed to be a Clergyman from Enugu state said, “I came to Ibadan from Enugu state on Friday, I’m a Prophet, one man named Black Lion called us from United State, he was the one that instructed us to go to the radio station to make live broadcast that United Nation as given us freedom, he told us that United Nation has ordered Yoruba Nation to break away from Nigeria entity, so that is why we went to radio station peacefully this morning to make live broadcast.” “We don’t have intention of fighting anybody, we were told to go and make a live broadcast that Yoruba Nation has been announced by the United Nations, that is the information we were given and that is our mission at the Amuludun Radio station this morning, we did not go to that station with guns nor anything that can harm anybody, all these charms is for our protection should in case of any attack.” Noah said.