It started in red-hot sunshine and ended in it too. Metaphorically, however, there were more dark clouds over the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. Two goals from Bryan Mbeumo in the opening 17 minutes of the second half gave Brentford a 2-1 win in Tottenham’s last home Premier League game of the season. Daniel Levy has spoken in his programme notes about this being an “immensely difficult” campaign before repeating his claim of two years ago that they would “spend the period ahead of next season working relentlessly to position our club for on-pitch success and football you will love to come and watch”. The chairman has been the focus of louder and louder calls for his head and those were replicated in the ground after the second, Brentford turning round a 1-0 half-time deficit courtesy of a stunning Harry Kane effort. With seven minutes to go, the frustrations got even louder although this time with the team as passes went sideways instead of forward. Shortly after cries of ‘Daniel Levy, get out of our club’ came from the North Stand with smatterings from elsewhere in the ground. The result leaves European football of any sort in severe doubt, and in truth, probably beyond them. But three wins in last 12 league games tells the story and hints at the reason for the fans’ ire, although it is far from the sole grumble. POLL A third two minutes from time sealed the deal for Brentford and sent home supporters towards the exit. The announcement of nine added minutes to go brought more moans from the crowd. It sums up the mood at the club at the moment. It was all a far cry from the opening 45 minutes. Ryan Mason made four changes from the 2-1 loss at Aston Villa. In came Davinson Sanchez, Arnaut Danjuma, Dejan Kulusevski and Yves Bissouma with Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg, Richarlison, Cristian Romero and Pedro Porro the quartet to go out. Brentford meanwhile made one change from the side that beat West Ham last time out, Mikkel Damsgaard being replaced by Frank Onyeka. With the unrest and poor results of late a good start was needed and who else but Kane provided it. And even by his high standards, this was a special goal. Oliver Skipp had won a free-kick a little more than 25 yards out and after Kulusevski had back-heeled it even more central, Kane simply ran onto it and curled an unstoppable effort high into the top corner, David Raya diving to his left but never getting close. It could have got better four minutes later but Heung-Min Son couldn’t get the ball under control quickly enough and it allowed Aaron Hickey to get back. The South Korean still managed to get the shot in but Raya batted it away. Royal also went close when he connected with a Son cross but Rico Henry was able to clear the header off the line. Son also found Danjuma but with the Dutchman stretching backwards, he couldn’t direct the header on target. At the other end Fraser Forster was relatively untroubled but still managed to be a pivotal part of the Spurs attack with some quick and long throws. One slipped under the foot of a Brentford defender and gave Danjuma a chance to run forward. He had to check back and when he tried to find Kane, Brentford were able to clear. Four added minutes brought two glorious opportunities. First Son was found by a clever pass by Kulusevski but somehow Ben Mee was able to get back and produce a stunning block. Then Kulusevski got in behind after a quick throw but his drive was pushed over by Raya. It had been comfortable without being dominant but at least there were chances being created and a bit of spark in the attacking third. Within five minutes of the game restarting after half-time, the sunny disposition of the home fans had gone – and it came from the expected outlet. Spurs had looked vulnerable down their left all game. One point in the first period had seen Ben Davies up against three black shirts until Skipp had come to his aid. This time though he was on his own when Mbeumo got the ball off an equally unmarked Yoane Wissa. He shifted the ball to his left and curled the shot round Forster for a simple equaliser. It shifted the entire momentum onto the visitors too as Spurs looked listless again, their only attempt a woefully miscued attempt by Kane high into the South Stand. Kevin Schade hit the side netting and then Mbeumo volleyed straight at Forster as the Bees’ fans roared them on. A second was not a surprise either. Kane was robbed in midfield and from there a couple of passes saw the ball slipped inside Davies for Mbeumo to run onto. The finish was the same as the first, guided to the right of Forster and into the corner. There was huff but very little puff from Spurs after that and they gifted Brentford a third with two minutes to go when Skipp was robbed 20 yards out, Yoane Wissa supplying the finish. Spurs did rouse themselves in stoppage time, Richarlison denied by Raya twice in quick succession, the first with the help of the post. It was too little, too late though, and not enough to bring one final round of boos at the final whistle, even if the PA did their best to drown them out with instant loud music.