SAMUEL OGIDAN; KINGSLEY BENNETH ABUJA – The upper chamber of the Na­tional Assembly has directed the clerk to transmit Constitution Alteration Bill No. 20, which provides for uniform retire­ment age for judicial officers in the country. The clerk was directed to send the letter to President Mu­hammadu Buhari for assent in line with the provisions of the Authentication Act. The directive was sequel to the consideration of a motion titled, ‘Passage of Constitution (Fifth) Alteration Bill No. 20 (Uniform Retirement Age for Judicial Officers), 2023’, spon­sored by the Chairman of the Senate Ad Hoc Committee on Constitution Review, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (APC/Delta Central). The motion read: “Recall that on Tuesday, 4th April, 2023, the Clerk to the National Assembly was directed to transmit Con­stitution Alteration Bill No. 47 (Establishment of State Securi­ty Council), after it met the re­quirement of section 9(2) of the constitution to Mr. President for his assent. “Recall also that Sokoto State House of Assembly was among the State Houses of Assembly that were yet to forward their resolution, others are Gombe, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kwara, Plateau, Sokoto and Taraba State Houses of Assembly. “Aware that Sokoto State House of Assembly has for­warded its resolution; and con­vinced that with the approval of Sokoto State House of As­sembly, the Constitution (Fifth Alteration) Bill No. 20 (Uniform Retirement Age for Judicial Offi­cers), has met the provisions of section 9(2) of the constitution, for passage.” In his contribution, the Dep­uty Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (APC/Niger North), said that this is one of the key elements of the ninth Senate legislative agenda to reform the judiciary. POLL “Having a uniform retire­ment age for the judiciary will remove the backlog of cases and ensure speedy dispensation of justice,” he said. In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, who presided over the plenary said, “This is very important amendment to the constitution. And we are happy that it is going to be part of our legacy as the 9th National Assembly.” Meanwhile, President Mu­hammadu Buhari has sent a letter to the upper chamber of the National Assembly asking it to confirm the re-nomination of Abike Dabiri-Erewa as the Chair­man/Chief Executive of Nigeri­ans in Diaspora Commission for a second term. The letter was read on the floor of the Senate by the Pres­ident of the Senate, Ahmad La­wan, at the plenary on Tuesday. According to the letter, the nomination is in accordance with the provision of section 2 sub section 2 of NIDCOM Estab­lishment Act 2017. In another letter, President Buhari also requested for the confirmation of six federal com­missioners for the Revenue Mo­bilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC). The request is in accordance with the provision of section 154 sub section 1 of the 1999 constitu­tion as amended. According to President Bu­hari, the appointment of the nominees is to fill the existing vacancies of the respective states. The nominees for the posi­tion of federal commissioners are Senator Ayogu Eze from Enugu State; Peter Opara, Imo State; Hawa Umaru Aliyu, Jiga­wa State; Rekiya Tanko Haruna, Kebbi State; Ismaila Mohamed Agaka, Kwara State, and Ko­lawole Daniel Abimbola, Oyo State. The Senate is yet to take any legislative action on the two let­ters. Senate Moves Against Planned Dem­olition Of Lagos Aviation Agencies’ Offices Meanwhile, the Senate has moved against the planned demo­lition of aviation agencies’ offices by asking the Minister of Avia­tion, Senator Hadi Sirika, to halt the planned demolition of some aviation affiliated agencies’ of­fices and headquarters in Lagos until the upper chamber hears from its Committee on Aviation. The Senate’s decision fol­lowed a motion by Senator Bio­dun Olujimi (PDP/Ekiti South) on the urgent need of the upper chamber to intervene in the in­tended warning strike by avia­tion unions. She called the attention of the Senate to the intended warning strike by the Union of Air Trans­port Employees, Air Transport Services Senior Staff Associa­tion of Nigeria, Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals, National Association of Aircrafts Pilots and Engineers etc. According to her, the strikes have become too many and too frequent to be let low as issues in contention are not new, some of which, according to her, have lingered for over eight years with several agreements signed between the unions and govern­ment but not honoured. She stated that continuous threats of outright demolition of the aviation agencies (FAAN, NCAA and NAMA headquar­ters) in Lagos by the ministry without making reasonable pro­visions for befitting alternative offices, is causing the affected unions to fight back through strike actions. She, therefore, urged the Sen­ate to intervene in the matter by mandating its committee to in­terface with all stakeholders for a possible way out of the crisis. After exhaustive debate on the motion, the Senate mandated its Committee on Aviation chaired by Senator Olujimi to organise roundtable with all parties in­volved in the crisis.