…As FCTA Applauds Journalists For Supporting Abuja’s Dev’t ABUJA – Journalists have been urged to continue playing a vital part in strengthening Nigeria’s democracy because it is their duty to uphold it, adding, this is why the media is referred to as the fourth estate of the realm. Mr Anthony Ogunleye, Director, Press, Office of the FCT Minister, made this known during a media discussion to commemorate the World Press Freedom Day in Abuja, saying, journalists have contributed to the development of the Territory. Ogunleye praised media professionals for consistently defending the democratic principle, keeping the government on its toes, and carrying out the essential function of journalism, which is to enlighten, entertain, and educate the public. He noted that the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) led by Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, over the last seven and half years has worked very closely with members of the press, and together, they have been able to achieve as much as they did towards developing the FCT. According to Ogunleye, ‘Press freedom is something that is held very much high in Nigeria, as since the return of democracy in 1999, there has been tremendous freedom of the press, without which democracy cannot thrive. “We don’t hear of journalists being incarcerated or killed, molested, harassed or prevented from doing their jobs. “Without journalists going out to do their work, to gather facts about issues concerning the society, and to also give the government the tools to make the right decision; and members of the public the knowledge they need to continue to build their society, nothing can work. POLL “I would like to use the opportunity to congratulate Journalists in the FCT, and commend them for the great work they are doing, not just here in the FCT, but across the country. “I urge them to continue to do their job. And for those here in the FCTA, as we look forward to welcoming the new FCT Administration after May 29, I will ask them to continue to cooperate with us, work together and let us build the FCT of our collective dreams,” he stressed.