ABUJA  – Senator Ovie Omo- Agege, Deputy Pres­ident of the Senate, on Thursday told a visiting entourage from the Old Boys of his alma mater, St. George’s College Obinomba, Delta State, that he had had enough of the Senate and needed to move on to other endeavours. He stressed that he re­solved against contesting for the Red Chamber for a third time, hence his at­tempt at the governorship ticket of the All Progres­sives Congress (APC). “When I came here to the National Assembly, my mind was made up on what I wanted to do. I don’t be­lieve that one stays in pow­er in perpetuity. You come, make your contribution and move on. I was deter­mined to ensure that eight years is good enough for me in the National Assembly. If I am not able to leave my mark in eight years it means that I was not pre­pared in the first place. “I came here, I knew what I wanted to achieve and I have achieved it. And before the APC primaries, I made up my mind that the Nation­al Assembly was enough for me. That was why I took the decision that my services would be better appreciat­ed this time if I am to serve as the governor of the state. And I very much believe this decision will come to fruition”, he explained. The Deputy Senate Pres­ident who was first elected into the National Assem­bly in 2015 and reelected in 2019, sponsored 41 bills in the Ninth Senate. The Delta Central law­maker said he was upbeat of retrieving his stolen mandate from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to him, St George’s College has given so much to the Old Boys and they owed it a duty to give back. “That I am here is be­cause of the upbringing, discipline, what we were taught about life, relation­ships that brought us here today. And that is what has made all of us excel in our chosen endeavours. POLL “For as long as we are alive and God continues to bless us, we will be there to assist the school in any area where help is needed”, he said. In his remarks, the Na­tional President, St Georges College Obinomba Old Boys Association, Cosmos Nwan­wene said that they were there to thank the DSP for facilitating the execution and completion of various projects in the school. According to him, the projects include 100 capaci­ty hostels each for boys and girls, two floors classroom block, e-library, adminis­trative building and dining hall building among others. He said that they were a promise made and kept by the lawmaker, as he insist­ed that the school has never witnessed such a face-lift since its establishment in 1960.