ABUJA  – Hon. Alhassan Ado-Dogwua, the Majority Leader of the House of Representative, has said he had paid his dues and that it was time to reward his stewardship in his bid to become the speaker of the 10th House of Representatives Doguwa said this while de­claring his intention to run for the office of speaker of the 10th House of Reps on Wednesday in Abuja. The lawmaker said: “I have paid my dues; it is time to reward my stewardship to both the par­liament and the nation. “I stand out as the oldest serv­ing member from the Northwest Zone in the House and with the support of my colleagues, I am the leader of the Northwest and the leader of the APC caucus in the house.” He promised to be the speaker that would see through the imple­mentation of the “Renewed Hope 2023-Action Plan for a Better Nigeria” anchored by the presi­dent-elect, Bola Tinubu. The lawmaker said he would leave no stone unturned to gal­vanise the support of the House to ensure the actualisation of the laudable programs and policies of the Tinubu-led administra­tion. Speaking on his mission, he said he would strengthen the role of the parliaments towards effective representation while restoring the public confidence and participation in governance.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ This, according to him, is by way of facilitating, coordinat­ing, monitoring, and evaluating strategies for public involvement in governance and government business. POLL Doguwa said he would en­sure that the House conducts its business in a transparent and accountable manner, where ev­ery member of the House would be held responsible and account­able by the people he represents. According to him, “if elected speaker, we will ensure cohe­sion and harmonious working relationships amongst the three arms of government. “I am uniquely positioned to unite and stabilise the House, while creating an avenue for all actors to play vital and critical roles to stabilise the polity. “I am determined to work according to the principle of checks and balances amongst all sectors to ensure that the House conducts its business for the people and by the people’s representatives”