Recently, JAMB commissioned a 1000-seater Mega Professional Testing Centres 1-4, located in the heart of Kaduna and envisaged a time would come when the Board would develop capacity to conduct its examinations in one swoop. Apata Oyeniran writes on the deliberate investment in infrastructure development. The development of infrastructure in Nigeria to meet the standard required for the conduct of computer-based test assessment has become integral to enhance the level of growth in Sub-Saharan African economies. Consequently, the need for policymakers to augment their investments in digital infrastructure and human capital to raise the level of inclusive growth has become imperative. To further address the challenges of infrastructure in the conduct of digital examination, the Board recently commissioned Muhammadu Buhari 1000-seater Mega Professional Testing Centres 1-4, located in the heart of Kaduna State solely for digital assessment activities. Over the years, the conduct of the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) by the Joint Admissions Matriculation Board (JAMB) has become a great concern to students, parents and other stakeholders in the education sector. Since the establishment of JAMB 45 years ago, the conduct of the national examination for admission into the nation’s tertiary educational institutions has never been without a hitch. In response to these complaints, JAMB introduced a full-scale computer-based test (CBT) in the 2015 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) as it rested its paper-based test to eliminate examination malpractices and to facilitate examination registration and prompt release of results. Computer Based Test Centres However, the introduction of the full CBT examination led to partnership with the private computer business operators. This development also came with myriads of challenges bordering on fraudulent practices, menace of miracle centres, compensation, and WAEC result falsification, among others. POLL Investment In CBT Centres Since the introduction of the Computer-Based Testing mode in 2013, the Board has built a total of thirty-two CBT centres across the six geopolitical zones of the country. These are: North-Central: seven centres of 250 capacities each; North-East: four centres, one centre of 250 capacity and three centres of 500 capacity; North-West: five centres, three centres of 250 capacity, one centre of 500 capacity and one centre of 1000 capacity: South-East: five centres, one centre of 250 capacity, three centres of 500 capacity and one centre of 750 capacity; South-South: three CBT centres, one centre of 250 capacity and two centres of 500 capacity; and finally the South-West: eight centres, five centres of 250 capacity and three centres of 500 capacity. The 1000 Mega Kaduna Capacity Professional Test Centre Speaking at the commissioning of the Muhammadu Buhari 1000-seater Mega Professional Testing Centres 1-4, located in the heart of Kaduna, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, the Registrar, Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), said the mega centre can conveniently register 40 candidates cumulatively for prompt and efficient service delivery. He said the four-wing Nasiru El-Rufai Holding Halls 1-4 edifice would be commercialised for seminars and conferences. Furthermore, Prof. Oloyede disclosed that the Board would also be erecting a Guest House within the complex to cater for the accommodation needs of its teeming clients and stakeholders at at affordable rates. He expressed the hope that this mega centre and many others including the proposed Direct Entry Guest House would give the National Headquarters Annex, Kaduna, pride of place among other facilities of the Board. The Muhammadu Buhari 1000-seater Mega Professional Testing Centres 1-4 and the Nasiru EI-Rufai Holding Halls 1-4 Complexes were commissioned by the immediate past Governor of Kaduna State. Speaking about the facility, Prof. Oloyede explained that each of the Nasiru El-Rufai Holding Halls 1-4 was attached to each of the four Professional Testing Centres of the Muhammadu Buhari 1000-seater respectively, therefore, candidates assigned to sit their examination in any of the PTCs would not be able to mingle with those assigned to other halls. He also made it known that each of the Professional Testing Centres not only had its own adjoined holding hall but also a registration point. As such, instead of the standard ten candidates that could be registered at a go in other JAMB-accredited Computer-Based Test (CBT) centres, 40 candidates would be registered cumulatively at the Mega PTCs for prompt and efficient service delivery. The Mega project consists: of four distinct fully equipped, Professional Test Centres with combined seats of one thousand one hundred (1,100), four well-equipped Holding Halls with a cumulative capacity of one thousand (1000) seats, four Professional Registration Centres (Biometric/Prometric Centres) capable of processing 40 registrants simultaneously, four fully-equipped Control/Server Rooms, 500 KVA Generators (with 8 units of 9KVA generators), 500 KVA dedicated transformers, 10KVA solar facilities to serve as alternative independent power sources; and 100 Extra Systems/Servers and other accessories for the use of the centres. “It is, therefore, my pleasure to announce the commissioning of this edifice, which is dedicated to the administration of e-exam to 1000 candidates in one sitting. This is not only a boost to the board’s efforts at deepening the use of CBT in the conduct of large-scale examinations in Nigeria but also one that would also substantially contribute to the efforts of the state government to facilitate digital literacy, among many other possibilities.” “The complex is the largest so far in the country, if not in Africa and with the spate at which we will be concentrating on infrastructure and manpower development, a time is coming when UTME would be conducted in just one session in any given year rather than the current multiple sessions,” he disclosed. In his assessment of the Mega Centre, the former governor, Mallam Nasiru El-Rufai praised the Prof. Oloyede-led administration for its tenacity, hard work and service to the nation. According to him, JAMB has proved that Nigeria can record appreciable progress if public institutions are manned by upright, honest and dedicated public servants. Similarly, the Hon. Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, represented by Mr. Andrew Adejoh, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, acknowledged the efforts of the Board in sanitising the nation’s admission process through the adoption of innovative strategies. “The Board has demonstrated capacity and determination and all it needs at this moment is the support of all. It is the prudent management of resources that provided the means for the Board to conceive and fund the project.” “It is no longer news that the Board today is a leading light in the management of public resources given the number of projects it has executed despite its humongous remittances to the public coffers,”he disclosed. Mr. Muyideen Subair, whose ward went through harrowing experience during the just concluded UTME, seeks for further collaboration between JAMB and other critical stakeholders in the education sector.