Ilkay Gundogan will be a free agent in the summer, and he has been linked with clubs like Barcelona. There have been reports that he could now sign a new contract at Manchester City and stay beyond this summer. According to a report from The Athletic, Arsenal are now hoping to sign the 32-year-old this summer and could look to make their move in the coming weeks. Arsenal will be hoping that Gundogan does not renew his contract with Manchester City so that they can sign him in a Bosman move. The German international has been a key player for Manchester City since arriving from Borussia Dortmund, and he has helped them win multiple domestic trophies. He will be hoping to guide the Premier League champions to the UEFA Champions League title this year. Manchester City have reached the final of the competition and will take on Inter Milan in Istanbul. Gundogan is undoubtedly one of the best players in the world, and he could prove to be an exceptional acquisition for Arsenal. The Gunners need to bring in more quality in the middle of the park. And Gundogan is someone who will help them control proceedings in the midfield. Apart from his ability to control the tempo of the game, he will add creativity and goals to the side as well. Mikel Arteta needs to bring in a quality partner for Thomas Partey during the summer transfer window and the Manchester City star would be an exceptional acquisition. It remains to be seen whether Gundogan is prepared to join a Premier League rival this summer. But recent reports have claimed that Barcelona lead the race to sign him. He has already proven himself in the Premier League with Manchester City and could look to join a foreign club if he leaves this summer. A move to Barcelona could be ideal for the German midfielder. The Blaugrana are in the market for a successor to Sergio Busquets, and the versatile Gundogan fits the bill. Meanwhile, Arsenal have managed to secure UEFA Champions League qualification for the next season and they will need a better squad to compete across all fronts. Signing players like Gündogan will certainly help them improve immensely.