The pan-Yoruba socio-po­litical organisation, Afenifere, has commend­ed the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and gov­ernment of the United States of America (U.S.) for warning those who might be thinking or planning to disrupt the inauguration of the President-elect, Asi­waju Bola Tinubu, on May 29, 2023. In a press statement issued by the organisation’s Nation­al Publicity Secretary, Jare Ajayi, Afenifere noted that the journey to the present demo­cratic dispensation has been hectic and nothing should be done to truncate it. According to the organi­sation, since the conclusion of the presidential election on February 25, 2023 and the announcement of Asiwaju Tinubu as winner, reports are rife of efforts being made to prevent the inauguration of the President-elect on May 29, stressing that some peo­ple advocated for an Interim Government, which has been largely condemned. The statement reads, “Apart from the statement made by the Vice Presiden­tial candidate of Labour Par­ty (LP), Dr. Datti Ahmed, who spoke along that line, one Dr. Simon Okeke, chairman of a Non-Governmental Organi­sation, while addressing the media at Chelsea Hotel, Abu­ja penultimate weekend, also asserted that inauguration of the President-elect on May 29 might be an open invitation for anarchy. To him, all cases in the court in respect of the election must be settled before the inauguration. Afenifere recalled that the Department of State Securi­ty (DSS) and the Military in April confirmed the move to scuttle the scheduled inaugu­ration and warned those who may be contemplating such. “Four residents of Abuja, the Federal Capital Territo­ry (FCT) led by one Ayaneg­bunam Ubala Okoye, are presently in court to use the legal process to stop the in­auguration. It could be that there were other clandestine efforts along the same line, hence the warning issued on May 4 this year by the De­fence Headquarters of the Nigerian Army to those it described as ‘unscrupulous politicians’ who were bent on disrupting the May 29 inau­guration. “It appears that those making the move are still hell-bent in their unpatriot­ic contemplation, hence the strong warnings that were issued separately by the IGP, Usman Alkali Baba and Antony J. Blinken, U.S. Sec­retary of State, on Monday this week.”