FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc has reported a turnover of N324.7 billion for the financial year ended December 31, 2022. The company stated this at its 50th annual general meeting (AGM held in Lagos. FrieslandCampina WAMCO recorded a growth in net sales due to a focus on revenue growth management. However, there was a drop in volume which was mainly a result of high inflation and a reduction in the overall consumer purchasing power. Turnover increased by 21 per cent from N268.4 billion in 2021 to N324.7 billion in 2022. Profit before tax increased by six per cent from N12.7 billion in 2021 to N13.5 billion in 2022 due to lower finance costs and cost management measures. Ben Langat , Managing director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria, said: “to mitigate the extremely difficult global economic challenges coupled with unprecedented inflationary pressures witnessed in 2022, we upscaled our commercial execution with relentless focus on Revenue Growth Management and redistribution initiatives to stay agile and competitive.” He added that, “we made investments in our brands via diverse initiatives, optimising market spend with an increased focus on physical availability. Leveraging our strong brands and superior commercial expertise has helped to sustain our leadership position and deliver significant top-line growth “Aside the afore-mentioned metrics, I am proud of several achievements in the year under review that supported our stability and performance. These include but are not limited to the launch of Peak Yoghurt 1L pack and successful brand activations like the annual Three Crowns mum of the year campaign.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We also introduced Nunu yoghurt, Nigeria’s first drinking yoghurt made from 100 per centlocally sourced milk and produced in a unique mobile factory, also the first of its kind in Nigeria. This is yet another success recorded in the actualization of our sustainability and backward integration plans in support of the dairy development policy of the federal government.”