For the fourth consecutive year, Zenith Bank Plc has been named as the Best Corporate Governance ‘Financial Services’ Af­rica 2023 by the Ethical Boardroom. The award, which was published in the Spring 2023 edition of the Ethical Boardroom magazine, is in recognition of the bank’s adherence to global best practices and institutionalisation of cor­porate governance, setting an industry-wide example of best practices in that field. Speaking on the recogni­tion, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive of Zenith Bank Plc, Dr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu, said: “I am extremely pleased that Zenith Bank has been awarded the Ethical Board­room Corporate Gover­nance Award as a regional governance champion for the fourth year run­ning. No doubt, the bank’s board has pioneered the exemplary governance culture for which we are now renowned. Indeed, this recognition reflects our steadfast commit­ment, discipline and high ethos in the conduct of our business and dedication to the principles of good cor­porate governance. This award will motivate us to strengthen this culture in­ternally and advocate for good governance at every forum”. He dedicated the award to the founder and Group Chairman, Jim Ovia, for providing the template for an enduring and very successful institution; the board for their vision and outstanding leadership; the staff for their dedication and commitment; and the bank’s customers for their unwavering loyalty to the brand. Ethical Boardroom is a trailblazing and leading in­ternational magazine that delivers in-depth coverage and critically-astute anal­ysis of global corporate governance issues to help boards stay ahead of the governance curve. Zenith Bank has been generally adjudged a Cor­porate Governance compli­ant bank by the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) hence its listing on the Premium Board of the Exchange. The bank continues to sus­tain this reputation and reappraise its processes to ensure that its business conforms to the highest global standards at all times. The bank’s track record of excellent performances has continued to earn it numerous awards includ­ing being recognised as the Number One Bank in Ni­geria by Tier-1 Capital, for the 13th consecutive year, in the 2022 Top 1000 World Banks Ranking published by The Banker Magazine; Bank of the Year (Nigeria) in The Banker’s Bank of the Year Awards 2020 and 2022; Best Bank in Nige­ria for three consecutive years from 2020 to 2022, in the Global Finance World’s Best Banks Awards; Best Commercial Bank, Nigeria 2021 and 2022 in the World Finance Banking Awards; Best Corporate Gover­nance Bank, Nigeria in the World Finance Corporate Governance Awards 2022; Best Commercial Bank, Ni­geria and Best Innovation in Retail Banking, Nigeria in the International Bank­er 2022 Banking Awards. Also, the bank emerged as the Most Valuable Banking Brand in Nigeria in the Banker Magazine Top 500 Banking Brands 2020 and 2021, among others.