BENIN  – The Management of the NNPC E&P Ltd, on Saturday, held its 2023 Annual Scholarship Screening for over 329 students from its host communities in Delta, Edo, Rivers, and Imo. The scholarship screening exer­cise was conducted simultaneously in Warri, Egbema, and Port Harcourt. Speaking during the exercise in Warri centre, the Managing Director, Ali Zarah, said that the scholarship programme was part of the NNPC E&P’s Cooperate Social Responsibil­ity (CSR). Represented by Chinedu Emelife, team lead of the Warri examination centre, Zarah said a total number of 232 students took the exam at the Warri center, 28 in Egbema and 69 in Port Harcourt. Zarah noted that the scholarship scheme has since inception benefit­ted over 11,000 students from its host communities. Zarah explained that to ensure transparency, the Federal University of Petroleum Resources (FUPRE) was engaged to conduct the examination. “NNPC E&P Ltd advertise through the media and the community came forward to pick forms, did nomina­tions and we processed the nomina­tions and forwarded the nominations to FUPRE to conduct the examina­tion. POLL “The best would be selected in each community for the scholarship award. “As a responsible company NNPC E& P takes its CSR seriously by build­ing the capacity of our host communi­ties, state and Nigeria at large. “By this exam, we want to ensure quality and affordable education in our host communities so that they can go to school, acquire knowledge and contribute to the development of the nation,” he said. According to him, students from over 53 communities are participating in the Warri center. In her remarks, Prof. Prekeyi Tawari-Fufeyin, Coordinator of the NNPC E&P scholarship examination, (FUPRE) commended the NNPC E &P for the initiative. Tawari-Fufeyin who described the programme as a free gift, urged the students to take advantage of the op­portunity to acquire knowledge at no cost to their parents. Miss Sarah Egerigao, a nursing sci­ence students, Delta State University, Abraka, who thanked NNPC E&P for the opportunity, said her expectation was to pass the exam and be awarded the scholarship.