BIRNIN-KEBBI – The National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), says it has begun training of 50 youths across three states in mechatronics and repairs of heavy-duty vehicles and tractors. Kabir Mustapha, an engineer in charge of the Training from Braintask Value Resources, made this known to newsmen in Birnin Kebbi on Thursday. He said that the 14-day- training was aimed at developing the capabilities of heavy-duty auto mechanics, auto electricians and tractors. According to him, the youths have been drawn from Sokoto, Zamfara and Kebbi states and are expected to cascade the same to others in their respective states, thereby reducing the rate of unemployment rate in the country. Mustapha said that the training would help reduce the gap between the modern world and old-fashioned ways of mechatronics and repairs of heavy vehicles and tractors. “The youth are trained to understand brand new vehicles and know how to fix them as well as how to use computerized machines to diagnose faulty vehicles. “It is also the Council’s contribution towards nipping in the bud the incessant crashes as a result of the inability of the technicians to cope with the repair of modern vehicles with electronically controlled systems,” he said. Mustapha said it was also important for the trainees to know that technology in the auto sector advanced continually and at a very fast pace. POLL ” Most heavy-duty vehicles today are built with a lot of electronically controlled systems. ” The only way to meet up with this advancement is through training and retraining,” he added. Mustapha also urged the participants to be attentive in order to learn and spread the knowledge so that other technicians would tap from the knowledge as well. A cross-section of the participants when interviewed said the training had opened their eyes to the modern way of repairing heavy vehicles and tractors. They thanked President Muhammadu Buhari and Director General of the NADDC, Jelani Aliyu for making it possible for them to undergo the training.