Scores of aggrieved workers at Bayelsa State government-owned media outfits are protesting against the plan by the Ministry of Information, Orientation and Strategy to move into the Ernest Ikoli Media Complex in Yenagoa, the state capital. They contended that the edifice was built by Governor Douye Diri for the three state-owned media houses namely, the State Broadcasting Corporation, operators of Glory FM97.1 (popularly called Radio Bayelsa); the State Newspaper Corporation, publishers of New Waves; and the Niger Delta Television. They have warned that the situation could result in a face-off if the ministry insisted on pushing its plot through. The magnificent building was inaugurated by a former national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Iyorchia Ayu, on the invitation of Diri as a part of activities to celebrate the second anniversary of his administration in February 2022. The media complex with 430 offices, 107 restrooms, two restaurants and other facilities, is named after one of Nigeria’s foremost nationalists and first editor of Daily Times newspaper, Ernest Ikoli, from Bayelsa. Some of the media outfits’ workers, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were afraid of victimisation, argued that the ministry was not supposed to be accommodated in the media complex going by the governor’s pronouncement. They said that staff members of the media houses were denied office space while several vacant office rooms had been ‘forcefully’ reserved for the workers of the ministry. One of the media personnel said, “We wonder why we cannot be accommodated in the newly-built edifice, and we are operating from the old site due to lack of office accommodation. But we observed that there are vacant office rooms that are under lock and key for the ministry’s use when, clearly, they were not the reason the media centre was built.” POLL Another media worker stated: “We may attract sanctions from supervising and regulatory agencies like the National Broadcasting Commission and the Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria over possible ward-off of opposition candidates, especially with the off-season (governorship) election coming up in November because the broadcast houses are expected to provide a level playing ground to all political parties.” The angry staff members therefore called on the governor to wade into the brewing crisis as they suspected that his office was not aware of the ministry’s plan to move into media complex, instead of remaining at the Information House within the state secretariat buildings. They also urged Diri to embark on a surprise tour of the media complex to personally see things for himself rather than relying on feedbacks from his aides. Efforts to get the reaction of the Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Strategy, Ayibaina Duba, did not yield any positive result as he could not answer calls placed to his phone as of the time of filing this report.