BENIN  – The National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN), sitting in Benin City, Edo State, has declared the June 8, 2022 directive of the Edo State government, which suspended trade unions’ activities in tertiary institu­tions in the state, as uncon­stitutional, illegal, null and void and of no effect. Delivering judgment on suit No: NICN/BEN/41/2022 in Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities (SSA­NU), National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT) and Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) against the gover­nor of Edo State, Edo State government and the Attor­ney General of the State as defendants, Justice A. A. Adewemimo held that the government’s suspension order was an infringement on the rights of members of SSANU, NAAT and NASU as guaranteed by the Constitu­tion and Trade Union Act. Consequently, the court declared the directive of the Edo State government, which suspended trade unions’ ac­tivities in tertiary institu­tions in the state, as uncon­stitutional, illegal, null and void. It would be recalled that the Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, had on June 8, 2022 directed the suspension of trade unions’ activities in Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, and other state-owned tertiary institutions in the state. The suspension order af­fected the activities of SSA­NU, NAAT and NASU in the university. Angered by the govern­ment’s action, SSANU, NAAT and NASU in a joint suit No: NICN/BEN/41/2022 challenged the legality of the suspension, praying the court to declare that the gov­ernor’s decision suspending the activities of the unions in the university as not in consonance with the provi­sions of the Trade Union Act (as amended) and, therefore, illegal, unlawful and of no effect whatsoever. They also prayed the court to declare the governor’s ac­tion as an interference in the affairs of trade unions in the university, even as the unions sought for an injunction re­straining the governor and others in carrying out the suspension of union activi­ties in the university. Justice Adewemimo, in the judgment, granted all the prayers sought by SSA­NU, NAAT and NASU. POLL In a swift reacting to the judgment, the Chairman of the university’s branch of SSANU, Comrade Onofua Thomas, said that the judg­ment was in consonance with the expectation of all members of SSANU, NAAT and NASU, saying that “To God be the glory”.