ABUJA – On Wednesday, the Gishiri neighbourhood witnessed chaos and tears as the Federal Capital Territory (FCTA) officials arrived with bulldozers to clear the area for planned infrastructural development. The Katampe District area was last inspected for demolition in 2006. Since then, despite government warnings, homeowners have continued to construct on areas with significant electricity and water stress. The majority of the grieving victims admitted that the structures had been designated in March, April, and early May of 2023 but pretended to be unaware of the various notices. One of the female victims who don’t want her name mentioned, said: “I parked into this area in March 2022 and just renewed my rent in March 2023, which cost N400,000.00, where can I park to now? If I had known I wouldn’t have come to this area”. The Senior Special Assistant to the Minister of FCT on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement Comrade Ikharo Attah, hinted the demolition was necessitated by the need to reclaim the place for infrastructure development. Saying, the victims took advantage of the proximity of the area to the Federal Capital City and flouted the Abuja master plan rules, turning the area to a haven for bad eggs. Attah, however, regretted that some of the unauthorized structures in the area were a hideout for drug dealers and suspected criminals that terrorize mostly Maitama and Asokoro residents in the city.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL According to him: “We came here today to attack the triple illegalities associated with squatter settlements, the criminals’ den inside the cashew plantation in Gishiri, where we recovered cocaine and other hard drugs. “It has been cleared because we had warned the indigenes about giving out places for the erection of makeshift structures. ” Today the bulldozer hit the area. All the cashew trees have given way for the removal exercise, so that we can save the city; those that were built into the flood corridor, and the issue of contravening FCT Urban and Regional Planning Act as well as the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) Act, which stipulates what people are expected to do on land. All of these infractions are removed”, he added. Meanwhile, the Director, Department of Development Control, Tlp.Murkhtar Galadima said the exercise which is mother of all demolitions was to rid the city of illegal structures. His words: “The cleanup exercise is to rid the city of illegal structures. When you see demolition like this is because of the magnitude of illegal structures, in this particular area over 10 years ago we have been marking and removing but no headway but today we got a headway. “This area is a water pipeline corridor coming from lower Usman Dam to various tanks in town, some of the buildings are on flood plain, this demolition is mother of all demolition because it contains everything. Any land that is not approved by development control is illegal, and therefore will be removed” he said.