Of all the four (4) frontrunners for the pres­idency of Nigeria 2023, at least three (3) are established multibillionaires. These are Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC; Wazi­rin Atiku Abubakar of the main opposition Peo­ples Democratic Party, PDP, and Mr. Peter Obi of the Labor Party, LP. Dr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso of the New Nige­ria Peoples Party, NNPP, may actually be a multi­billionaire, but he really does not identify as such simply because his politics is modeled after that of the late Mallam Aminu Kano, the leader of the talakawas – the poor masses. Mallam Aminu Kano (1920-1983) was a radi­cal politician who dominated Kano politics and known to have led a very frugal lifestyle and his fa­mous devotees known as ‘talakawas’ are the mod­ern day equivalent of the ‘kwakwansias’ who are the followers of Dr. Kwankwaso that gave him and NNPP nearly one (1) million votes in Kano State alone, two (2) senators and seventeen (17) mem­bers of the House of Representatives in the north during the just concluded 2023 general elections. While Tinubu and Atiku are owners of private jets, Obi claims he is averse to it and Kwankwaso, owing to his radical lifestyle cannot be associated with such luxury. It is interesting that wealth was not such a cam­paign issue during the hustings. And that is probably because none of the front­line presidential candidates has not occupied pub­lic office, so they did not want to risk throwing stones when they all live in glass houses. Expectedly, at the end of the race, only one per­son was declared the winner and it is the APC candidate, Asiwaju Tinubu, who garnered nearly nine (9) million votes nationwide, which is about 1.8m higher than his closest rival’s score, Wazirin Abubakar. As such he received the winner’s certif­icate from the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, in the wee hours of the 1st day of April which confers on him the title, president-elect. POLL Arising from the above, for the first time in the annals of Nigeria, we are on the verge of having a multibillionaire, private jet owner as president. So, when Asiwaju Tinubu gets sworn into of­fice as president and commander in chief of the armed forces of Nigeria on May 29, in more ways than one, our country would appear to be shadow­ing events in the United States of America, USA, whereby the 45th President Donald J Trump (2016-2020) was a private jet owner and multibillionaire. Since the adoption of American type presi­dential democracy in 1979 after practicing Brit­ish constitutional monarchy type of democracy when the country attained independence from Britain in 1960, Nigeria has had as president, a school teacher, Shehu Shagari, 1979-1983, and an ex-military dictator, General Olusegun Obasanjo, OBJ, 1999-2007. After OBJ, there were two (2) school teachers, President Umaru Yar’Adua, 2007-2010, and the im­mediate past President Goodluck Jonathan, who has also presided over the affairs of our country. The current President Muhammadu Buhari, 2015-2023, is the second army general and ex-mil­itary dictator and head of state to reincarnate as a democratically elected president of our country. That means that out of the five (5) presidents that have ruled over Nigeria in presidential style democracy, three (3) were school teachers and two (2) have been ex-soldiers. And by the time President-elect Bola Tinubu is sworn into office as president on May 29, he would be the first president that is a fully qualified char­tered accountant with a formidable track record of private sector orientation to lead Nigeria. Would Tinubu’s business orientation be an as­set and the possible game changer for our country to operate less as a bureaucracy and more busi­ness-like, since it would be the first time that a president who is highly literate in economics and very business savvy would be calling the shots from Aso Rock Villa? My gut feeling is that the private sector would very likely find it easy to key into the policies of Asiwaju Tinubu’s government owing to his ped­igree as a past major stakeholder in the business world by virtue of having been the treasurer of Mobil Oil in Nigeria. And the fact that he speaks the language of business would likely inspire confidence in busi­ness leaders locally and internationally which would motivate those that had exited our shores to relocate their business back to Nigeria and es­tablish new ones as well. Such a development would boost our country’s Gross Domestic Product, GDP, when more busi­nesses are established as increased Foreign Direct Investment, FDI, would flow into Nigeria thereby creating employment, prosperity and ultimately fostering higher and better standards of living for the masses. It may be recalled that in the heat of the cam­paigns before the party primaries conducted to select their flag bearers at about this time last year, I noted in an article titled, ‘Thankfully, 2023 Presidential Hopefuls Are Literate In Economics’, and published on July 12, 2022, that it was a good thing that all the front runners are literate in eco­nomics, so they would not need a master class to understand the language of business or identify good opportunities for public private partnership, PPP, whenever the need arises. Below is how I made that projection about ten (10) months ago which remains relevant today as pulling our economy from the brinks of collapse must be the priority of the incoming president: “So, without further ado, it is pertinent that we get down to the brass tacks by shining the light on the private sector background of the likely can­didates that would become president of Nigeria next year. “In any case, with the economy and security likely to occupy the left and center of the political debate when the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, officially opens the space for campaigning on September 28, Bola Tinubu and Atiku Abubakar who are thankfully not economic illiterates would be going head-to-head. “Remarkably, the terrific and encouraging thing about the candidates is that both of the APC and PDP candidates, plus the LP candidate Peter Obi can read the balance sheet because they are all business savvy, having been private sector practitioners.” As predicted in the referenced article, today the trio are in the tribunal fighting for the heart and soul of our country as all the three are lay­ing claim to the presidential mandate, even if the elections umpire, INEC, had declared Asiwaju Tinubu, the winner of the contest and therefore president-elect. And the future of Nigeria that is already in a precarious situation could have been in worse jeopardy if someone as blind as the three (3) blind mice in the famous kindergarten fable and lullaby, in terms of literacy in economics had become the president-elect of Nigeria at this critical point in time that the economy of our country is in dire straits, if not nearly comatose. Put in colloquial language, Nigeria could have literally jumped from frying pan into fire, if it so happened that the three (3) of the front liners be­fore February 25 polls, who have private sector blood running in their veins, were not the ones that the system threw up for one of them to clinch the ticket. As things currently stand, it is a good thing that the presidential pendulum that was swinging be­tween the trio of Bola Tinubu, Atiku Abubakar or Peter Obi, from end of May last year to February 28, this year, when the elections exercise ended, settled on former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Tinubu with Wazirin Atiku Abubakar and Mr. Peter Obi being in that pecking order. So, in case the current push comes to a shove, Nigeria would still have a business savvy presi­dent to save the economy from total collapse. Without a doubt, right now, Nigeria needs an astute manager of her abundant but sub opti­mized human, material and financial capital to pull the economy and people back from economic peril that it is faced with as it has been dragged literally into a cliff hanger situation owing to a debt overhang estimated to be up to N77 trillion and annual debt servicing liability of about 96% of its income that the outgoing administration is leaving behind, according to World Bank report. Another ‘can’ as the Americans would put it that is being kicked down the road by the outgo­ing government for the in-coming government to deal with is the burden of removing the obnox­ious petrol pump price that by some estimates the authorities have sunk funds in the region of $15 billion in the past decade. It may be recalled that just last year alone, a whopping six (N6) trillion naira was budgeted for petrol subsidy and just for the half of this year alone (January to June) three and half (N3.5) tril­lion was also appropriated as petrol subsidy in budget 2023. That is a total of nearly ten (N10) trillion naira sunk into subsidy for petrol in less than two (2) years in a country that the government is bor­rowing money from banks and relying on ways-and-means (printing the naira) to pay salaries to civil servants. In the same category of what I would like to categorize as escapist tactics that reflect political spinelessness of the outgoing administration is the case of the naira that had been propped up in the past eight (8) years via the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, intervention policy of injecting billions of dollars into the Foreign Exchange, FX, market resulting in trillions of naira being ex­pended to defend the local currency. Despite, the interventions, government ex­change rate or Import and Export, I&E window which was about N160 to $1 in 2015 had reached N450 to $1 by this time last year and it is currently N460.53 with the black/parallel market rate hov­ering around N747 to a dollar. Going by the rate at which the gap between CBN and black/parallel market rates is closing up since the dollar injection to defend the naira stopped, it appears as if the CBN may be left with no better option than to allow for the two (2) mar­ket rates to converge sooner than later. And should the matter continue to be out of the control of the CBN, since the Nigerian National Petroleum Company, NNPC, currently a limited liability company that is about to be privatized is no more remitting crude oil income to the CBN which in turn is no longer able to intervene in the exchange market by pumping dollars into the system through multiple bureau de change outfits selling dollars to the highest bidders to shore up the value of the naira, our local currency may soon be exchanging at about N1000 to one United States dollar by this year’s end. That may be the reality that the new admin­istration under President-elect Tinubu’s watch may have to deal with immediately upon assum­ing office, especially as the current governor of the apex bank, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, highly stressed and distressed due to the enormity of the burden of managing Nigeria’s complex and complicated financial system has been reported in the media to be planning to go on study leave validating the rumor that he would be quitting his role as the curtain falls on the stage for the current admin­istration.