The development all over the world is that countries are turning to export earnings and proceeds of repatriation as veritable means of bolstering foreign reserves, thereby maintaining a robust balance of payments position and a stable source of foreign exchange inflows. In this report, BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI writes on the success that has been recorded since the launch of the RT200 FX Programme. On February 10, 2022, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) ), in collaboration with the Bankers’ Committee, took the bull by the horn by launching the RT200 FX programme which is targeted at raising $200 billion in Foreign Exchange (FX) earnings from non-oil proceeds for the country over the next three to five years. The RT200 FX Programme is hinged on five key anchors namely, Value-Adding Exports Facility, Non-Oil Commodities Expansion Facility, Non-Oil FX Rebate Scheme, Dedicated Non-Oil Export Terminal and Biannual Non-Oil Export Summit. According to the CBN, the programme is expected to provide concessionary and long-term funding for businesspeople interested in expanding existing plants or building brand new ones to add significant value to our non-oil commodities before exporting same. A major anchor of the programme, it added, is the Non-Oil Export proceeds repatriation Rebate Scheme. “The rebate scheme is designed to incentivise non-oil exporters to encourage repatriation and sale of export proceeds into the forex market. It was borne out of the need to develop new strategies aimed at earning more stable and sustainable inflows of forex, to insulate the Nigerian economy from shocks and forex shortages. “Only exporters of finished and semi-finished goods are eligible for this incentive, adding that exporters whose proceeds are sold at the Investors’ & Exporters’ Window (I&E) would be suitable. Under the rebate scheme, eligible exporters would get a rebate of N65 for every $1 repatriated and sold at the I&E Window for other third-party use, and N35 for every $1 repatriated and sold into I&E for own use on eligible transactions only. “However, the spread should not be more than 10 Kobo. Payment of the incentive shall be made quarterly. The accounts of exporters that qualify for rebates shall be credited latest one week after the end of the quarter, ‘the CBN said. POLL It, however, warned that any exporter that presented fraudulent document(s) or tries to undermine this Scheme shall be banned from accessing the incentive for 24 months and all accounts shall be placed on Post No Debit (PND). 2023 Summit The summit, with the theme, RT200: Challenges and Prospects To Success, brought together players in the export industry including bankers, shippers, shipping agents, exporters, the Nigerian Customs, and the Nigerian Ports Authority amongst others. This is to enable the players to discuss and come up with solutions to challenges that are encountered in the export sector. Previous summits had brought out challenges that exporters face over time and policies had been made towards addressing these challenges. One of such at the last summit that was held earlier this month was the decision of the CBN to begin publishing the names of beneficiaries of the RT200 rebates as well as sanctioning shippers and shipping agents who are involved in undocumented exports in the country. Whilst noting that, in some countries, the period of repatriation ranges from less than six months from exportation of the product and could result in prosecution if proceeds are not repatriated on time, the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele said, in Nigeria, it had become a matter of compulsion. Resounding success 16 months after the launch of the audacious, it has been from one success story to the other as it has helped boost the repatriation of funds into the country by 40 per cent in one year. At the bi-annual Export Summit, the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, noted that the programme had become expedient considering the challenges facing Nigeria. According to him, these challenges require the enactment of unconventional, innovative, supportive and complementary macroeconomic policy actions that are inclined towards a market-based financing system. The success of the programme started slowly with only $62 million recorded in the first quarter of 2022 which consisted of data from February when the programme started and March. By the second quarter it had risen to about $600 million and by the third quarter, it had risen to over $900 million. As at the end of the first three months of 2023, available data showed that the RT200 programme had raked in $1.7 billion in export proceeds. Emefiele said, “I am happy to note that the RT200 programme has made good progress in export proceeds repatriation since its establishment in February 2022. Available data shows that repatriation due to the programme increased by 40 per cent from $3.0 billion in 2021 to $5.6 billion at the end of 2022. “The momentum for 2023 is equally showing solid numbers and impressive prospects. In the first quarter of 2023, a total of $1.7 billion was repatriated to the economy while about $790 million was sold at the I&E window year-to-date. “The balance of the proceeds remained in the Export Domiciliary Accounts of exporters. Please note that proceeds that are not sold at the I&E window cannot and will not be eligible for the rebate. So, we encourage holding their export proceeds in their domiciliary accounts to take advantage of the rebate by selling at the I&E Window. “We all know that a nation that continues to consume more than it produces, a nation that imports more than it exports, is a nation that is destined to fail as there will be no meaningful development of any nation without harnessing its export sector potentials for the good of the country. In the case of Nigeria, we know that developing the non-oil export sector is imperative, given that this holds vast potential for generating a significant amount of foreign exchange earnings. “In some countries, the period of repatriation ranges from less than six months from exportation of the product and could result in prosecution if proceeds are not repatriated on time. In Ghana for example, export earnings must be repatriated to the country, at least 40 per cent of which must be converted to the domestic currency within 15 working days of repatriation. Exporters may hold the remainder in a Foreign Exchange Account (FEA). “In India, the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act permits the realisation and repatriation of the export proceeds within nine months from the date of export. For any export to a warehouse established outside India, with the permission of the Reserve Bank of India, export proceeds can be repatriated within 15 months from the date of shipment. Many countries of the world have these requirements to ensure effective export repatriation. “You will agree, that the challenges facing our country today are many and evolving. These challenges require the enactment of unconventional, innovative, supportive and complementary macroeconomic policy actions inclined towards a market-based financing system. Some of these innovative ideas could spring from deep system thinking and be powered by technology to engender growth and rapid transformation. Unfolding global economic development suggests that monetary policy was reaching its limit and would need complementary help from other spheres of the economy to propel for sustainable advancement”. He called on exporters, flying the flag of Nigeria in the international market that the Bankers’ Committee and the CBN stand ready to partner with them to achieve their goals as he said that they stand to benefit from the many financial programmes introduced by the CBN through their banks and as such grow their business exponentially. To ensure transparency, Emefiele said the apex bank will begin to publish and advertise the names of companies that benefit from the non-oil export rebate payment under its ‘Race to $200 billion in FX Repatriation (RT200FX) initiative. Fertilizer success story Also at the summit, the CBN governor said Nigeria which used to import fertilizer with several scams involved is now an exporter of Fertilizer. In Nigeria today, Indorama has a 3 million metric tonnes capacity, and Dangote fertilizer has a 3 million metric tonnes capacity. Nigeria has grown to be a country that has a 6.5 million metric tonnes capacity we have grown from being a country that imports fertilizer, Nigeria’s requirement is only one million metric tonnes, so the country has grown from importing fertilizer to a country that has achieved import substitution in fertilizer production and is now exporting fertilizer to the world. “So, we have transitioned from being an importer to a country that produces for its use and we have transited further down to being exporters of fertilizer. Many other products are being exported but, the giant of them all comes on May 22 when that fertilizer plant begins to flair and a few weeks after that we will feel that Nigeria now produces its petroleum products. That is what goes into a commitment that translates into action. “We are ready to break our backs for exporters to achieve this goal and that is the reason we said when we launched this programme that we have about N500 billion available for you as facilities to be able to do whatever you want to do to process your export materials. The disbursement of that facility is sub-optimal. “By being responsive to exporters we can source export proceeds that help our economy, we can generate export proceeds that weans us away from depending on the CBN as our source of forex to meet our imports.”