CHIBUIKE CHUKWU After weeks and up to months of speculations regarding the zoning of the leadership of the tenth National Assembly, the All Progressives Congress (APC) doused the tension and announced the composition of the leadership of the next National Assembly. The APC officially announced the immediate past Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godwin Akpabio, as its consensus candidate for the position of Senate presidency in the 10th Assembly. Akpabio is to be assisted by the current Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriation, Senator Jibrin Barau, who would be the new Deputy Senate President. In the Green Chamber, the seat of Speaker of the House of Representatives was zoned to popular Kaduna lawmaker, Tajudeen Abass, while the reps-elect from South-East, Benjamin Kalu, clinched the Deputy Speaker slot. The decision might have put paid to the week-long agitation over which regions would take what as far as the tenth National Assembly was concerned. Rising from its three-and-a-half hour crucial meeting of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, the National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka, told journalists that only the zoning of two principal offices in both the Senate and House of Representatives has so far been decided. It is obvious that the outlook of the Senate in the 10th National Assembly is unique because of the diverse and more inclusive composition of the new upper chamber. Unlike in previous congregations, where three political parties, as in the case of 1999 had footprints and disproportionately composed with one of the parties dominating overwhelmingly, the yet-to-be constituted hallow chamber draw senators-elect from the All Progressives Congress (59); Peoples Democratic Party (36); Labour Party (8); New Nigeria Peoples Party (2); Social Democratic Party (2); All Progressive Grand Alliance (1) and Young Progressive Party (1). This makes it very unique and one the ruling party would have to guard very well with emphasis on ensuring that no mistake is made. Meanwhile, a noticeable lapse in the whole arrangement is the exclusion of North-Central, which has confirmed earlier fears leading to assemblage of demonstrators who stormed the APC secretariat to register their displeasure about the alleged marginalisation and the position of the party on the zoning arrangement. POLL However, analysts have pointed the influence of the president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as given the go on Akpabio, Abass and other officers of the tenth National Assembly. Tinubu has never hidden his preference for the former Akwa Ibom State governor and has been alleged to be his choice for the plum job. For instance, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State recently said that APC governors and its inner caucus had endorsed Akpabio as the party’s concensus candidate for the Senate President of the incoming 10th Senate. Ganduje said: “The Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria will come from the South-south and no other person than the former governor of Akwa Ibom, the uncommon governor, , the uncommon minister who will be the uncommon president of the senate. “We have resolved that, so we are giving you assurance. We are waiting for the day of the deal to be the Senate President of Nigeria.” Ganduje’s position is an indication of the fact that Tinubu is in sync with the choice of the party’s NWC because the outgoing Kano State chief executive is known to be a strong backer of the president-elect and was obviously speaking from that angle. Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State also confirmed this, saying in dropping his bid for the presidency of the senate, he spoke with Tinubu who advised him to shelve his ambition for the former Ministwr of Niger Delta Affairs. “I discussed the issue with him when he was in Paris and on return to the country, he invited me. “It was an honour to be invited by the president-elect and he told me that he had made commitments. “It is his right as the president-elect to make commitments and anyone running for such office makes promises. “I did not want to be a clog in the wheel of his progress so I accepted,” he said. Meanwhile, the position taking by the NWC of the APC has received mixed reactions, though with so many watchers applauding the party for toeing the path of the president-elect. While it is the prerogative of the National Assembly to elect its principal officers, it is also incumbent on the legislative arm to have a harmonious working relationship with the executive arm of government, on the basis of which, some Nigerians seem to be at home with the president actually having a hand in who becomes the president of the senate and the speaker of the House of Representatives. Speaking with our correspondent, Hon. Ifeanyi Uchendu, the deputy speaker of the Abia State House of Assembly, averred that the practice of the president backing president selecting someone for the plum positions is not the best, however, admitted that it could actually be consented given the political trajectory of the country. “It may not be entirely right for the president etcetera, to have a hand in the leadership of the National Assembly to ensure checks and balances. “A lot of things come into play when such happens but may be because of where we found ourselves; I mean a country like Nigeria, it may be good to engender administrative harmony and good working relationship,” he said. But analysts will easily point to the fact that the eighth National Assembly failed to work harmoniously with President Muhammadu Buhari because the then newly elected president distanced himself from the election of heads of of NASS and he took an indifferent approach towards who emerged the senate president and speaker of the House of Representatives. It is on record that the leadership of the senate under Bukola Saraki in the eighth National Assembly never had a smooth ride with the president, even as proponents of that Assembly said it was for National interest that the Senate led by the former Kwara State governor was not always in tandem with the president. For instance, the senate under Saraki turned down a $30 billion loan for execution of key infrastructural projects across the country between 2016 and 2018. Speaking on why that loan was turned down, the then Shehu Sani, who was the chairman of the Senate committee on local and foreign debt, said the eighth Senate did not want the country to be recolonised by creditor banks. Meanwhile, in 2019, the president threw his weight behind Senator Ahmed Lawan from Yobe North who later emerged the president of the senate. There is no arguing the fact that the senate under Lawan has seen a robust working relationship with the president, but this is leaving a sore taste in the mouth of Nigerians as their refusal to question everything thrown at them by the president has plunged the country into a very weighty debt as the present government is leaving a whopping over N77 trillion debt for the incoming administration, a situation that could have been avoided if the leadership of the National Assembly was independently elected. This is where National interest comes to play a role. Lawan, on election as the senate president in 2019, publicly said he would not refuse anything from the president, a speech that was later confirmed as the ninth senate has been adjudged the worst in contemporary Nigeria in terms of checks and balances. This is why the resolution by the APC NWC has continued to attract mixed reactions. On the other hand, some Nigerians have also questioned the decision of the APC to not only zone the principal officers but pick individuals from the zones instead of allowing qualified federal lawmakers from the benefitting zones to select amongst themselves. Dominic Alancha, an APC member and media aide to the deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris Wase, while speaking in a monitored Programme on television, accused the leadership of his party of trying to cause disaffection in the APC, questioning the zoning and picking of individuals. “Even if there will be zoning, what is the rationale for micro-zoning the positions? “I think it is just right to allow senators of House of Representatives members (in the case of speaker) to pick or among themselves who will be their choice. “The micro zoning now shut the doors to others which is not good and I hope the NWC will reverse this in the interest of democracy. “My position is very clear; don’t microsome it, allow people from the region where it is zoned to contest it,” he said. He also rued the exclusion of the North Central, where he comes from, arguing that with the zoning of the deputy speaker of the House of Representatives to the south east, it was unfair to the north central which amassed much votes to the ruling party. But Oludemi Ibitoye, a public affairs analyst also a guest in the same Programme, applauded the APC for not only zoning the positions but also micro-zoning them. He said those who have been considered are people of character who would help the president elect to build a virile country. “They have done well and when you look at the antecedents of those considered and the regions they were coming from, you will know that the NWC of the APC had done well. “This is good because it will help the incoming president to work harmoniously with the National Assembly which is what we need now,” he said. Meanwhile, some members of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) have warned against picking Senator Godswill Akpabio as the next Senate President. Musa Saidu, who is the leader of the Arewa community in Southern Nigeria, warned that Akpabio’s emergence as Senate President would spell doom for Nigeria. Saidu noted that no true Northerner would endorse Akpabio for the Senate Presidency. A statement by Saidu reads partly: “We hereby dissociate ourselves from the endorsement of Akpabio for the Senate Presidency. “No true Northern group will want to endorse Akpabio for a sensitive position like that of Senate President because he is not friendly with the North. “We are the people who know Akpabio because we are resident in the South; we know those who are friendly with the Northern people, and Akpabio is actually not one of them.” Whichever way, Nigerians should hold the ruling All Progressives Congress to account in the next dispensation given the traumatized country the Buhari-led government has bequeathed to them following the government’s failure in the past eight years to up the ante in economy, infrastructure and security – the tripodal fronts on which the president convinced, solicited and got the votes of Nigerians in 2015 and 2019.