The National President of International Council for Ifa Religion(ICIR),Dr Sholagbade Popoola has urged worshippers to ensure its propagation spreads the more and prevent it from going into oblivion. Dr. Sholagbade disclosed that about three hundred and fifty million people within the six continents of the world are ardent believers and worshipers of “Ifa” deity and religion. The ICIR President gave the admonition  at the weekend while declaring opened the maiden edition of the World Ifa Festival Conference, tagged: “Oke Igeti festival 2023” held at the Royal Hall of the Ewi’s Palace in Ado-Ekiti,the Ekiti State.capital. He explained that his members including some notable traditional rulers who were up to three hundred and fifty millions were spread across 54 countries of the world. The aim of the conference,according to the ICIR President is targeted towards rejuvenating members and move closer to the gods they serve. Speaking on the theme of the conference entitled: ”That We May Not Forget”the ICIR National President said during the pilgrimage as part of the activities of conference,that traditional worshipers in their hundreds would visit some traditional shrines in Erinjiyan, Ijelu and Ire-Ekiti in Oye and Ekiti West Local Government Areas of the State respectively. In similar vein,a Senior Lecturer at the Department of Linguistics and African Languages, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Ile-Ife, Dr (Mrs) Adeola Ifaleye,in a lecture delivered as part of the conference,however stressed the need by the people to promote the culture and traditions of the Yoruba race. Expressing worry on the level at which the culture,norms and core values of the Yoruba extraction in the country seemed to be going into extinction,Dr. Ifaleye called on the traditional worshipers to continue in their avowed commitment in propagating the traditional religion,saying that its only through this culture and traditions that Yoruba race would further be popularized amongst comity of nations. POLL The OAU Senior Lecturer also maintained that the untoward attitude of some parents who she said have failed in their bids to inculcate good moral attitude on their wards also responsible for the rot in the society. She identified lack of proper consultation from “Ifa oracle” on any action to be taken concerning their life,as well as lack of proper care to some observations they made among others. She mentioned several “Ifa corpus” to buttress her submission and described Ifa religion as one of the best with a call on the traditional worshipers to intensify more efforts at promoting the religion. The festival had in attendance,traditional rulers within and outside Ekiti State,including the Olohan of Erijiyan-Ekiti,Oba Adegoroye Oludare Omoseebi as well as traditional worshipers from various countries.