SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA LAGOS  – President of Trade Union Congress of Nigeria, Comrade Festus Osifo has faulted punctured planned privitazation of the Transmission Company of Nigeria, saying there are chances that the development will fail if the asset changes hands. He said the sector was still performing at sub-optimal level, adding that pushing the TCN to the private hands will spell doom for the nation’s power sector. He spoke at the National Executive Council meeting of TUC, ahead of the May Day festivities billed to kick off in Abuja He added: “We say no to the privatization of the transmission Company of Nigeria. Because if you have privatized the Generation Company the (GENCOS), you privatized the Distribution Companies (DISCOS) and today they are performing at sub optimal level. What is the rationale to tell the Nigerian people that you are going ahead to also privatize the Transmission Company of Nigeria? So it a no for us”. He also opposed planned privitazation of a number of Federal Medical Centres in the country, saying past experiences were exercises in futility Osifo said: “It is a no no to the privatization of the Federal Medical Centers. For us it is not something that we will tolerate. Because most of the privatization that has taken place in our dear country has been an exercise where friends of those in government were rewarded. So for us, we say no to such privatization. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “In another related development, the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isah Pantami came out and said that they are going to dismantle and strip NIPOST of its assets. POLL “TUC wonders why is it that when government cannot manage a particular establishment, the first thing that they do is to strip it of its assets. Who are they going to give these assets to? “We have been wondering and we reject the Minister’s position on this completely. It is fundamentally not right because NIPOST national asset. They should go to different parts of the world and see how the national postal services are be managed. You look at the Royal mail. Look at them all over the world. Look at how they are being managed. But in Nigeria, we are quick to strip them of their assets. We say no to this. “We even learnt that recently, the Ministry of Finance released the sum of 8 billion naira to completely put these assets down and strip it of its relevance and the major points of this money is being given to the companies that will manage those assets and only a paltry sum of about 600 million is being given to Nigeria postal services. “Why should we be engaging all this in the twilight of this administration? This administration is winding down, in the next few weeks they are gone. So we disburse that money. They should keep the money and everything intact. When next administration come, we will start having delibhereby call on government not to erations with them. Because if they go ahead, they will have Nigerian workers to contend with, because our assets should be our precious jewel. We should rather do everything possible to protect and make it functional instead of selling them off. “Few months ago, a lot of State most especially in the southwest, against the law, against regulations banned the activities of Road Transport Owners Association of Nigeria, an affiliate of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC). And in doing this, they brought in some touts to start managing the affairs of road transportation their states. We know that part of the considerations were the elections and its attendant effects”