JOY ANIGBOGU The expectation of Nigerians is that the 10th National Assembly would be led by leaders who would be true representatives of the people. They detest a repeat performance of the 9th National Assembly, seen as an appendage of the executive arm of government. With what is playing out at the National Assembly concerning the leadership of the 10th Assembly where the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) handpicked some persons to superintend over the affairs of the two chambers for the next four years, signaling a battle that the party may be the worse loser if not properly handled. The party has recently come under fire as over 80 percent of the members-elect and Senators-elect are at daggers drawn and are ready to go against the party’s decision concerning the zoning and endorsement of these key positions in the two chambers. The aggrieved lawmakers on their part have vowed that if the party leadership fails to rescind its decision they were prepared to ensure that there would be a repeat of what happened during 8th Assembly, when Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara emerged Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively, against the ruling party’s directive. Confirming readiness for a showdown with the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, Senators-elect across the North-Central geopolitical zone from different political parties, rejected the zoning formula for the 10th National Assembly leadership announced by the party’s leadership. Recall that the APC had in the zoning plan, endorsed Senator Godswill Akpabio from the South-South geopolitical zone as the President of the 10th Senate while Senator Barau Jibrin from the North-West was picked as his deputy. POLL Also in the House of Representatives, the APC endorsed Tajudeen Abass from the North-West as the Speaker and Benjamin Kalu from the South-East as deputy. The development forced the North-Central Senators-elect to write an open letter to the National Chairman of APC, Abdullahi Adamu, explaining the rejection of the zoning formula because it excluded their region. Specifically, the elected federal lawmakers noted that only the North-Central geopolitical zone was excluded despite the fact that neither the President-elect nor the Vice President-elect comes from the zone. The letter by the lawmakers-elect was titled, “Resolution of the North-Central Caucus of the 10th Senate on NASS Leadership Zoning.” It was signed by 18 Senators-elect. They are, Senator Mohammed Sani Musa (Niger East); Senator Ashiru Oyelola Yisa (Kwara South); Senator Sadiq Umar Suleiman (Kwara North); Senator-elect Mustapha Saliu (Kwara Central) and Senator Isah Jibrin (Kogi East). Others are, Senator Abba Moro (Benue South); Senator Godiya Akwashiki (Nassarawa North); Senator-elect Ahmed Aliyu Wadada (Nassarawa West); Senator-elect Ireti Kingibe (FCT); Senator-elect Sunday Karimi Steve (Kogi West); Senator-elect Ohere Sadiku Abubakar (Kogi Central) and Senator-elect Peter Ndalikali Jiya (Niger South). They also include, Senator-elect Napoleon Binkap Bali (Plateau South); Senator-elect Mwadkion Simon Davou (Plateau North); Senator-elect Diket Plang (Plateau Central); Senator-elect Mohammed O. Onawo (Nasarawa South); Senator-elect Emmanuel M. Udende (Benue East) and Senator-elect Titus Tartenger Zam (Benue West). Part of the letter reads, “We the North-Central Senators-elect Caucus met on Monday the 8th May 2023 and resolved as follows: “That the North-Central as a geopolitical zone in Nigeria has paid its dues in the political stability of the country and shall continue to do so, but where we see open denial of our rights and privileges, we will have no option than to voice out in the interest of the zone and its people we represent. “It is pertinent to know that we are fully committed to supporting the incoming administration of the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for a better Nigeria. “This can only happen if fairness, equity and justice are ensured. It is on record that the North-Central gave the APC 41 per cent of her votes to victory, hence we equally deserve as others. “Our caucus reviewed the proposed zoning structure released, and we are not pleased and comfortable with the allocation of the Positions of the Deputy Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the 10th National Assembly to a particular geopolitical zone of the country (North-West), we hereby reject it. “The convention has always been that the six geopolitical zones of the country will have one each of the six positions. “Now that the South-West and North-East have produced the President-elect and Vice President-elect respectively, it is only fair and natural that the positions of the Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives should be shared amongst the other four geopolitical zones that is the North-Central, South-South, South-East and North-West. In a similar vein, the Senator-elect from Kano South Senatorial District on the platform of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Suleiman Kawu Sumaila, has warned the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, to avoid sycophants from deceiving him to take a wrong decision on the National Assembly leadership issue. Kawu, who addressed journalists in Abuja on Tuesday, said the only way the 10th National Assembly lawmakers could face the challenges facing the country was to have the Constitution as their guidance. He said the majority of the lawmakers-elect were already discussing working against the zoning arrangements announced by the APC. “We are in touch with 109 senators and I will assure you that we have a serious number to stop imposition in the Senate or in the House of Representatives. Yesterday the House showed Nigerians a lesson. Again, the Plateau Elders Forum has insisted that the House of Representatives should be led by an indigene of the state. Rising from a meeting in the house of the chairman of the Forum, Ambassador Yahaya Kwande, in Jos, the executive council members of the non-partisan organisation called on elected members of the House of Representatives, both old and new, to back a Plateau State candidate for the position of the Speakership in the green chamber. It will be recalled that two frontline candidates vying for the position in the North-Central geopolitical zone are from Plateau State, and they include, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, the out-going Deputy Speaker and Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi. A press statement signed by Jonathan Ishaku, spokesman of the Forum, on Wednesday, noted that the two candidates possess unassailable credentials. “As Deputy Speaker in the 9th Assembly Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase has served diligently using his long legislative experience and has deputized effectively for the Speaker of  the House of Representatives. “On the other hand, Hon Yusuf Adamu Gagdi, on account of his legislative dexterity and skills has sponsored the highest number of bills by a member in a single first term, with six having been assented into law by the President. According to the elders, apart from the resourcefulness of the Plateau State candidates, it is in the interest of fairness and justice that the state be given the opportunity to lead the House. The group maintained that while the North-West and the North-East geopolitical zones have produced the Speaker four times and one time, respectively, the North-Central has never produced one. They argued that if the rumours making the rounds that the Speakership position has been zoned to the North-West in addition to the Senate President position, are true, it would be unfair to the North-Central zone which would get nothing. “In the interest of equity, therefore, we insist on zoning the Speakership to the North Central and particularly to Plateau State,” the Forum noted. Expressing displeasure over what it described as betrayal and breach of trust, the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, on Wednesday, led some speakership aspirants and ranking representatives elected on platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on a protest visit to the party’s national headquarters. The party members who registered their grievances during a meeting with members of the APC National Working Committee (NWC), led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, said they were shocked to read that the various leadership positions of the 10th Assembly have been zoned and micro-zoned to individuals without necessary consultation as promised by party. They lamented that those who were aspiring for different positions were not even invited to the meeting where the decision was taken by the party hierarchy to support some of the candidates. The deputy speaker said the action of the party amounts to betrayal and breach of trust, and demanded that the whole matter be revisited. He was equally embittered by the decision to micro-zone two principal offices to North-West while denying the North-Central geopolitical zone of any office. Wase decried the rumoured criteria for the nomination of candidates for the House Speaker, wondering when PhD and the number of bills passed have become qualification criteria for those aspiring to lead their colleagues in the green chamber. The Plateau State-born lawmaker said he was particularly irked that when he confronted the current Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, over the issues, he vehemently denied that he was propping a particular candidate for speaker against time tested ranking arrangement. He accused Gbajabiamila of allegedly misleading the President-elect, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, while plotting to produce the speaker and deputy speaker of the 10th Assembly. Wase argued that assuming he (Wase) is not qualified to succeed Gbajabiamila, same cannot be said of Doguwa, the Chief Whip, and Betara, the House Appropriation Committee chairman, both of whom he said have served the party at high levels. “As I speak to you sir, I want to say categorically that none of us here was approached or consulted even for a second to find our opinion and thoughts on what was going to be done or what has happened. First, we say on social media any plan could come up. Wase reminded the party of the Tambuwal revolt and the issues that led to the emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki as Senate President, warning the party not to be arrogant, especially because APC doesn’t enjoy the majority stake in the House of Representatives. In his response, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, the APC National Chairman, assured his visitors that the party will take a second look at the endorsement and get back to the House members. Adamu said the matter is tricky and would require the buy-in of all stakeholders of the party. “This is a controversial subject matter, every National Assembly regime has always been a controversy. For those who have been following history, it is a matter of us to sit and take a very good look at what is going on and be honest to ourselves, honest with the country and to our party, and we hope to get to the promised land. We lost time because we could not talk of sharing power at the National Assembly level without our President-elect. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has also joined to criticise the zoning and endorsement describing it as skewed. He said the zoning arrangement would reinforce injustice and enhance inequity in the federation. This was contained in a statement personally signed by the governor on Wednesday in Akure, the Ondo State capital. The statement read inter alia: “It is with great concern, and indeed, with a huge burden that I read in the news of the purported zoning arrangement released by the National Working Committee of our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), as regards the leadership positions in the yet-to-be inaugurated National Assembly. “Aside the unpretentious ambiguity in the purported press statement issued by the leadership of the APC, the contents, intentions and motives of the zoning formula represent early signs of steps aimed at attempts to cabin the hard-earned presidency for our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, by a few individuals with eyes on Aso Rock power buttons. “It is trite to aver, that, it stands logic on the head that one geo-political zone, North-West in this regard, will be favoured with two presiding officers positions out of four while North-Central suffers the consequences for its innocence and shrewd loyalty by having none. “It is an insidious permutation that North-East will be deprived in the face of the unsavoury generosity dispensed through two slots to a particular geo-political zone. It is self-repudiating for one to argue, therefore, that the speaker of the House of Representatives cannot also emerge from the North-East. “Therefore, the move to zone the National Assembly leadership positions on the behest of interested personalities with perceived closeness to the President-elect manifestingly lays the dangerous foundation of distrust, needless suspicion even as it structures nothing but a combination of booby traps. We must avoid all these. “Let the North play a stronger, more robust and all-inclusive role in the emergence of the positions zoned to the region, especially the speakership. “Furthermore, it strikes a huge ingratitude that the role of the Progressive Governors Forum appears unimportant. As leaders of the party in their respective states, there cannot be a greater disservice to them that a consensus was yet to be reached when the NWC hurriedly released a dangerous tool for the opposition in the guise of a zoning formula. To me, even on this note, it’s unacceptable. “Does it not also exude a serious discomfort that the aspirants to the speakership were not consulted, approached and effectively engaged before the purported zoning formula? It does, and clearly so. “It is in this regard that I salute the courage of the speakership aspirants for their show of solidarity, companionship and applaudable love for the party in their rejection, resentment and objection to the brazenly teleguided zoning arrangement that is skewed and targeted against some zones and identified individuals. Their action is commendable just as they are urged to ensure they pursue this to a logical conclusion. This is an unworkable arrangement that reinforces injustice and enhances inequity; and I join them in rejecting this zoning formula.” “In this particular case, and for the purpose of avoiding a repeat of untoward situations, it is advised that the APC NWC immediately summons the National Executive Committee (NEC) after robust national caucus/stakeholders parley to agree on terms that would strengthen our great party.” While sending a serious warning to the party leadership of a possible repeat of the 2015 scenario, Dominic Alancha, a public affairs analyst and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) urged Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, President-elect to stay away from power sharing in the National Assembly controversy. Alancha said that allowing the decision of the NWC to stand would destroy the independence of the legislative arm of government. Faulting what NWC called consensus, Alancha in an interview on Wednesday noted that what the NWC has done is not consensus. He said, “When you talk about consensus you will agree that Mr. A should take this, and Mr. B should take that, and all of them will agree, and that is when you can say that there was consensus. “In this case, senators, members were not consulted. You can see in the South-East when they met, there was no single senator contesting for that position that was consulted, whether Osita Izunaso, Orji Uzo Kalu, they are the two major candidates from the South-East that are contesting for Senate Presidency. “It is the same for the House of Representatives. Aminu Jaji was not consulted, Betara was not consulted, Idris Wase, the current Deputy Speaker and the highest ranking officer in the House was not consulted, and even the only female contestant was not also consulted. He added, “Which was why in the letter that the party released to the press a few days ago, they tactically advised the leadership to engage in further consultations. It also tells you that the party was not properly carried along. Believe me that has put the party in a very bad state, and in a very bad position. “People are pointing accusing fingers at Aswiaju Bola Tinubu for endorsing this kind of a thing. I think he should stay away from that. “The North-West is taking the Speakership, it is also taking the Deputy Senate President position. It is unacceptable, even certain regions from their own permutation contributed less in terms of voting strength, not to talk of the region that gave their all to the party. “I think that merit was not considered in this zoning and we are calling on the leadership of the party to reverse this decision. “The way things are going in the National Assembly, they have ignited a situation where there will be rebellion, and the 2015 arrangement will come back to the table,” he said Recall that the 8th Assembly suffered same fate when the power drunk executive arm of government tried to foist its loyalists on the two chambers of the National Assembly, unfortunately the party and the schemers ran out of luck after the primaries conducted by the party produced Senator Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila as official candidates for the positions of Senate President and House of Representatives Speaker eventually worked against the party. This is as the two main challengers, Senator Bukola Saraki and Hon. Yakubu Dogara, have insisted that they will not respect the outcome of the mock election. At the end of the power tussle the lawmakers elected their leaders at the 8th National Assembly and there is this speculation that there will be a repeat of that scenario if the leadership of the party in collaboration with the executive arm of government fail to stop meddling in the affairs of an independent arm of government. Consequently, the duo resolved to go ahead with their ambition with or without the party’s support. The duo fortunately enjoyed the blessings of the PDP which held the aces. So, it became clear that the opposition PDP would determine the leadership of the two chambers. The party in a statement issued in the wee hours disclosed that it had endorsed Saraki, former Kwara State Governor for the position of the Senate President, and also adopted Dogara for Speakership of the House of Representatives. The statement signed by PDP National Publicity Secretary, Olisa Metuh, urged all Senators and Reps members on its platform to respect the directive. The leaders of the Assembly were chosen by the lawmakers and so the APC lost control of the 8th Assembly and so there are also strong indications that the 10th Assembly will suffer the same fate if the party doesn’t check its excesses.