BENIN – Former Head of state, General Yakubu Gowon, has urged the federal government to invest more in Nigeria’s health sector to meet up with its citizens’ health demands. He made the call at the grand finale of the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) 50th anniversary held in Benin City. General Gowon said the healthcare system is evolving and that it is pertinent that the country moves in the same direction by investing in the training and retraining of healthcare practitioners to enable them meet with the present health demands. “As we celebrate this milestone of UBTH, we should also remember the challenges that lies ahead in our healthcare system. “Our healthcare is currently evolving and we should continue to adapt and innovate to enable us meet the challenging needs of patients. “Let’s us renew our commitment to providing healthcare to all Nigerians, let us work together to build a healthcare system that is accessible and affordable and equitable for all. “Let us continue to invest in our healthcare infrastructure, trained more healthcare professionals and provide the necessarily resources to make sure that Nigerians have access to the best medical care,” Gowon said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Also speaking, the minister of health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said UBTH is the public health sector’s oldest and arguably best asset in the South-South zone of Nigeria and has been a cradle of quality education for medical doctors and nurses as well as a regional referral and treatment center for other health facilities from inception. POLL He said the strategic location about half way between east and west and as the gateway to the Niger Delta region, gives it a central role in the national strategy to build a resilient health system by ensuring availability of critical services within reasonable travel distance. Ehanire added that a strong, resilient health system is the first and best line of defence against pandemics and public health challenges. Speaking also, the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, he called for a more dynamic and functional model for financing educational institutions in Nigeria through robust partnership with the private sector. On his part, the Chief Medical Director, (CMD) UBTH, Prof. Darlington Obaseki said while most of the founding fathers of the hospital may not be present, but their main vision, which was to establish a hospital that offers quality healthcare solutions, still remains its mission. He said that has constituted the beacon that has propelled all their actions, stressing that the founding fathers foresight and commitment is commendable. The CMD said in the last fifty years of the hospital existence, it has grown and increased in leaps and bounds just as he said that its contributions to the health and wellbeing of its immediate community, Edo State and other neighbouring states have been phenomenal. Prof. Obaseki added that the hospital has introduced life-saving treatment innovation s, cutting-edge medical equipment, and modern processes and technology to ensure that it provides quality health solutions to its clients.