ABUJA – Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State has emerged as the new Chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) the umbrella body of governors elected under the All Progressives Congress(APC). The Imo State governor emerged through consensus, according to Yobe State Governor, Malam Mai Mala Buni, who introduced him during a consultation visit of the APC governors to the Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. He succeeds Atiku Bagudu, former governor of Kebbi whose term elapsed with the coming of a new administration Speaking when he led some serving and newly elected governors to the APC National Secretariat on Wednesday, Uzodinma said the governors will ensure that the promises the party made to Nigerians in its manifesto is translated to concrete action. He told Senator Adamu that the governors are aware that APC owns the government where the state executives are serving as salesmen, assuring the NWC that under his watch, the PGF will work closely with the party to attain the desired goal.His words:“We are very delighted to be with you in this meeting after the last electoral victory of our great party. To also use the opportunity to congratulate you, members of the National Working Committee (NWC) for the wonderful showing you did during the last elections. “There is no doubt that Progressives Governors Forum has been in place before this time and there is no doubt that we are loyal members of our great party. “I want to assure you that the APC governors understand very clearly that the government each of us are presiding over belongs to the party and we know both at the federal and sub-national level,the government belongs to APC, it is APC-led government. “Under my watch, we will be very close to the party. The purpose of the forum is to have impetus to the activities of the party and the government. We are only going to act as salesmen that will market the policies and programmes of the government. POLL “Arising from the manifesto promised to the people before the election, I can assure you that you had a team and working together with the men I have seen as Progressives Governors members, I think we have gotten all it would take to ensure that policies of our government were fully market “APC is the only party we’ve got in Nigeria. The APC governors seem to be the most active governors in Nigeria. So, my assurance is that we are just constructive partners to work with the party and our loyalty to the party is absolute. “And indeed, the party will become the envy of other parties in Africa. He assured that APC that what it failed to achieve in the immediate past will be recovered under his leadership as chairman of PGF. “Whatever that we did not get before, I’m sure under my leadership, the party will get it. It is going to be a synergy, we can’t do much without you and conversely, I don’t think you can do much without us.so we are married in this business and there is no going back”. Other Governors in attendance includeMai Mala Buni (Yobe), Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Abduallahi Sule (Nasarawa ), Mohammed Bago (Niger) Uba Sani( Kaduna) Inuwa Yahaya – (Gombe), Nasir Idris (Kebbi ) and Dapo Abiodum (Ogun)