LAGOS  – Rebuild Lagos Trust Fund, non-profit, public-private partnership (PPP), has made progress on foundation works for the redevelopment of the old colonial building of the High Court of Lagos, Igbosere. Daily Independent confirmed this in a press tour of the High Court of Lagos, Igbosere redevelopment project hosted by RLTF in Lagos. Our reporter also confirmed that the Fund has commenced demolition works on the old Babalakin building ahead of the piling works for phase 2 development of the court multi-storey edifice. Engr. Olujimi Hotonu, Chief Executive and Project Director of the Rebuild Lagos Trust Fund, disclosed that the ground-breaking ceremony of the court was done in December 2022 and was chaired by the governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu in the presence of the deputy governor, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat; the chief judge of Lagos State, Justice Kazeem Alogba, and the attorney general and commissioner for justice, Hon. Justice Moyosore Onigbanjo. Amid all their line up projects, Engr Hotonu said, greater attention is being given to the High Court of Lagos, Igbosere to accelerate the delivery of the project so that the lawyers that have been deprived of their offices can go back to their offices because the court is an important aspect of administration. “The ENDSARS incident has helped to build more modern project. The project is the biggest in the country. We came up with a project Lagos and Nigeria will be proud of,” he said. He said the Fund was incorporated on Monday, 26 April 2021 after the ENDSARS incident of 2020 to fix those things that were destroyed and to be a catalyst that helps rebuild Lagos for tomorrow. According to him, the phase 1 is an eighteen months project from the ground breaking in December 2022, while the entire project is for forty eight months, noting that progress is being made across its line-up of project implementation exercise into second quarter of 2023, (Q2 2023). POLL “The milestone marks a significant step towards completing this iconic project, which will serve as a symbol of justice and fairness for the people of Lagos. The redevelopment of the court is still being executed in two phases- the restoration of the colonial building and the development of a multi-storey edifice. The old colonial building has been redesigned and will be restored with major interior upgrades to meet modern-day design requirements but the external façade inclusive of its relics will be maintained. “The Phase 1 redevelopment is a state-of-the-art facility designed to meet the highest standards of excellence. It is re-designed by a consortium of reputable consultants and executed by top-grade construction companies. The colonial building will comprise a modern court complex, auditorium, administrative offices, parking facilities, and other ancillary facilities.”