LAGOS  – The Minister Of Transportation, Mu’azu Jaji Sambo has commissioned newly built Abuja zonal Oofice of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). Sambo in an opening remarks said the role of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency cannot be understated in the delivery of Nigeria’s economic potential. He added that there was a strong need to put in place strategic and tangible structures that would yield quantifiable and intangible dividends in the years to come. “I am delighted to commission the NIMASA Abuja Zonal Office today, the 16th of May, 2023, here in the Diplomatic Zone of the Central Area, Abuja, Federal Capital Territory. “As a nation at the cusp of an Economic Renaissance, with boundless opportunities in its Maritime Domain, the role of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency cannot be understated in the delivery of Nigeria’s economic potential. “However, for us as a nation to achieve our potential, there is a strong need to put in place strategic and tangible structures that will yield quantifiable and intangible dividends in the years to come. “As we flag off the Commissioning of all Completed Projects by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, what will become apparent for all to see is the intentionality, commitment and focus of the Federal Government of Nigeria to ensure that the proper foundation is put in place so that as a people, we can continuously build towards a greater tomorrow. “Today, we are gathered here to commission the newly acquired NIMASA Abuja Zonal Office. At the same time, there may be those who will raise questions about the need for a Maritime Administration to secure an office in Abuja, where there is no ocean. POLL “But I assure you that the acquisition of this office is not to fulfil another bureaucratic justification but due to the responsibilities and functions that the zonal office plays in discharging NIMASA’s mandate. “The Abuja Zonal Office serves as the nexus point between the NIMASA and the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the National Assembly, and all other relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies, as well as critical stakeholders like the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited (NNPCL), amongst others.