As alignment and realignments continue by lawmakers and the All Progressives Congress to balance the 10th leadership of the National Assembly, the North-East All Progressives Congress Youth Coalition for Better Nigeria has expressed happiness over the zoning of the 10th National Assembly Deputy Speaker to Lawmaker representing Bendel Federal Constituency, Abia State, Hon. Benjamin Okezie Kalu. The Convener, Comrade Aliyu Sa’ad Mohammed, said in a statement he made available to media in Kaduna that, Kalu deserves the position based on his capacity and capability as one of the vibrant vast-growing political bigwigs the country has produced. He, therefore, appreciated the APC National Working Committee (APC-NWC) and President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu for considering Kalu who is the Chairman of the House Committee on Media and Public Affairs for the Job as one among equals. According to Sa’ad, “It is with great delight that we welcome the zoning of the seat of Deputy Speaker of the 10th National Assembly to Hon. Benjamin Kalu from Abia State. “This is because we have seen his competence, patriotism, and commitment to a prosperous Nigeria through positive synergy between the Executive and Legislature. “Haven served as Senior Special Adviser to former Governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu (now a Senator) on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and later MDGs, the one time Local Government Chairman of Bende Local Government was also student leader – all which have prepared him for greater responsibility. “The APC National Working Committee could not have made a better choice for the Deputy Speakership than Hon. Kalu even though he is also eminently qualified for the Speakership of the 10th Assembly on merit. “We are optimistic that with Hon. Kalu as Deputy Speaker, the incoming administration of Asiwaju Tinubu will get all necessary legislative support to deliver the mandate bestowed on him and our Party the APC to the good people of Nigeria”, He said. POLL He then called on other elected lawmakers in the Green Chamber of the National Assembly to support Hon Kalu’s emergence as the deputy speaker in the interest of the Party and the Country.