LAGOS – Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos state government has said that providing adequate, affordable and decent housing is a major challenge faced by megacities all over the world. He made this assertion on Thursday while speaking at the official commissioning of Ndubuisi Kanu Housing Estate, 72 home units in the Gbagada area of the state Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat his Deputy said, “for us in Lagos State, we face an additional challenge of limited land size with a huge population which, according to the 2016 statistics, increases with a daily influx of 123,840 people. “A large percentage of this number are here to seek economic opportunities and therefore do not intend to leave in a hurry. We have converted this challenge into a good opportunity to serve our people and display our capability to respond to their needs. “It is equally gratifying for me to let you know that as I speak, another two housing schemes are being commissioned at Agbowa and Ikosi-Ejirin as part of activities to usher in our administration’s second tenure,” he said. Sanwo-Olu said that during the first electioneering campaign as a gubernatorial candidate, he made it clear that the provision of housing will be a priority for his administration, and a major deliverable under the “Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy” pillar of our T.H.E.M.E.S agenda. POLL “Our main goal under this pillar is to substantially reduce the housing deficit through a number of strategies including partnering with the private sector to deliver a significant number of housing units that are affordable, safe and decent.” He said in the past four years, a lot has been done by his administration in the housing sector through the cumulative efforts of the Ministry of Housing, Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC), Lagos Building Investment Company (LBIC) and very importantly the private sector. “This is in spite of the counter effects of high inflation necessitating constant variations, which have the effect of increasing the cost of providing one housing unit. “In spite of all these challenges, I am delighted to note that we have succeeded in completing 19 housing estates in different parts of the state including this particular estate which we have named after a former military governor of this state and a foremost democrat who played a frontline role during the June 12 struggle, late Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu. Speaking further he said, “We are intentional about continuing to think outside the box when formulating plans and strategies that will continue to support the well-being of every citizen of this great State and I must say that a lot has been done to set new benchmarks in our activities that are hinged on the T.H.E.M.E.S development agenda of this Administration,” he added. Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, Commissioner for Housing while speaking said that the last four years have been filled with positive activities as the state government has consistently strengthened its efforts to actualize its housing agenda. He said the aim is to make decent homes available and accessible to Lagosians irrespective of their social class or income level. “The ultimate goal is to make Lagos comparable to 21st economy all over the world in terms of the availability of beautiful communities with adequate infrastructure where people can live and call their homes. “The first step was to complete all housing projects set aside by the previous administration. The second strategy was to empower joint ventures or partnerships that could lead to the provision of affordable homes,” he said.