The Leader Of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Ayodele has warned judges against giving judgments that will disunite the country at the ongoing presidential election tribunal. In a statement signed by his media aide, Osho Oluwatosin, Primate Ayodele stated that the unity of Nigeria lies in the hands of the judges and any judgment that doesn’t portray fairness will lead the country into a serious crisis. He advised them not to do anything out of human pressure because it will not end well for Nigeria as a nation. He noted that the world and the younger generation are watching the process just in case of any form of injustice. Primate Ayodele called on them to shun money exchange by all means as it will influence their judgments on the recently concluded presidential election. ‘’The unity of Nigeria lies in the hands of our judiciary. Whether Nigeria will remain peaceful or not, it depends on them. The ongoing presidential election tribunal goes beyond just giving judgment, it will determine so many things including the unity of Nigeria’’. ‘’I want to call on the judges to do what is right because it will help the country a lot. The world and younger generations are watching, they are ready to do anything if the judgment isn’t fair. The judiciary must live up to its responsibilities as a commission for justice at this sensitive period’’ ‘’ They will be offered a huge amount of money but it will be in their best interest not to accept it. Let the truth prevail at all costs. Don’t let us create unnecessary tension and fear in the country by giving a judgment that isn’t fair. Our judges should rule with the fear of God’’‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Furthermore, Primate Ayodele called on security operatives to be on alert because there will be revolt no matter the outcome of the judgment. POLL ‘’I also want to call on security operatives to be fully prepared for revolt after judgment has been given. No matter who is favoured, there will be an uproar by other parties. The police, Nigerian army, and other security agencies should stay on alert’’.