ABUJA  – Investigations into the near fatal crash landing of a Max Air plane on Sunday at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja (NAIA), will continue even as the airport reopened on Tuesday this week for business. Explaining the reason, the Director General Nigeria Civil Aviation Agency, Captain Musa Nuhu, who confirmed this in a statement,said: “Several flights both domestic and international flights were stranded at Abuja airport, while incoming flights diverted to other airports. “The damaged wheels of the aircraft were replaced and the aircraft taxied on its power from the runway to an assigned parking position. “The runway was inspected and swept for damage and debris by officials of NCAA, FAAN and NAMA, after which the runway was declared safe. Subsequently, the airport was reopened for resumption of flight operations after 8pm.” He also said: “the Nigeria Safety Investigation Board (NSIB) and or NCAA will conduct a thorough investigation of this incident to determine the root cause and make appropriate recommendations to prevent any recurrence of such incident. “The traveling public should be rest assured that NCAA and other aviation agencies will spare no efforts to ensure the continued safe flight operations in Nigeria as have been the case over several years.” Meanwhile, Nigerian Safety Investigation Bureau (NSIB) said it has commenced an investigation into a serious incident involving a B737-400 with Nationality and Registration Marks 5N-MBD operated by Max Air, which occurred around 1405 (Local Time) earlier in the week. The aircraft, with 144 passengers and six crew members onboard was en-route Abuja from Yola when it had a tyre on landing on the runway of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, Nigeria. POLL In a statement by Tunji Oketunbi, general manager, Public Affairs, NSIB said the first responders arrived at the accident site and evacuated the passengers; there was no injury or fatality. “The NSIB, hereby, solicits information from the general public in the form of pictures, video or recording evidence to help assist in conducting a comprehensive investigation. “The Bureau can be reached through info@aib.gov.ng and NSIB_ Nigeria on its social media platforms. The Bureau can also be reached on its emergency line.”