IBADAN – The International Press Centre (IPC), Nigeria, has disclosed that no fewer than sixty-six journalists from various media organisations across Nigeria suf­fered different range of attacks in the year 2022. It further disclosed that these attacks ranged from unlawful arrests, detention to physical assaults, threats to life and ab­duction. Others include invasion, threats of sanction, media shut­down, robbery, hacking of social media accounts, threats to dis­close sources, denial of access to information and murder. These disclosures were made by the IPC Programme Officer, Melody Akinjiyan, while present­ing a 2022 report on the safety of journalists and dimensions of press freedom violation during a stakeholders’ forum organised by the International Press Centre (IPC) in collaboration with Open Society Foundations (OSF) in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital to mark 2023 World Press Freedom Day (WPFD) with the theme: She disclosed that the attacks were recorded between January and December last year at the forum, which was attended by seasoned journalists, editors, me­dia managers, and teachers from both the print, electronic and on­line media as well as educational institutions across the country. Akinjiyan stressed that the figure was higher than what was recorded in the previous years. According to her, “In this re­gard, the Safety of Journalists Alert Desk of the International Press Centre (IPC), Lagos, Ni­geria documented nothing less than 66 incidents of attacks affecting journalists and other media professionals”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Also speaking, the IPC Execu­tive Director, Lanre Arogundade, earlier in his welcome address, explained that the overarching framework for the establishment of the Centre for Safety and Pro­tection of Journalists (I-CSPJ), was the strategic objective of expanding the frontiers of press freedom in Nigeria and Africa of which the safety of journalists is an integral part. POLL He added that the forum was part of the activities to commem­orate this year’s World Press Freedom Day. In his submission, Mr Bolaji Adebiyi, one of the lead discus­sants, explained that a lot of is­sues needed to be tackled to ad­dress the plights of journalists across the country. Also speaking, the Chairman of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Council, Chief Ademola Babalola, said that the topic of the forum, ‘Protecting Freedom of Expression in the Age of Misinformation and Dis­information’, was apt to discuss, agree and come up with a road­map on the way forward for press freedom in the country. He insisted that freedom of expression is the inalienable right of every Nigerian.