ABUJA – The Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) and Permanent Representative of Nigeria in the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO), Professor Mansur Bako Matazu has said that Brain drain is a significant challenge for the Nigerian aviation sector. Matazu stated this Wednesday expressed during while presenting a paper on ‘Mitigating the impact of Brain drain in the Aviation Industry in Nigeria”, at the 2nd edition of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) National Conference with theme: “Sustainability of the Aviation industry in Nigeria” in Abuja. According to him, brain drain is a situation where highly skilled and experienced aviation professionals leave the country for better opportunities and working conditions abroad, stressing that pilots are leaving Africa for better job offers. He stated that brain drain comes with negative implications/impacts on the growth and development of the industry, as well as on the economy and society. The NiMet boss further said Brain-drain in the aviation industry refers to the loss of highly skilled professionals such as pilots, engineers, air traffic controllers, aeronautical meteorological professionals, airline crew, and others, to other countries. According to him, this is a significant challenge for the aviation sector in many countries. He said “for the Nigerian aviation sector, where highly skilled and experienced aviation professionals leave the country for better opportunities and working conditions abroad. “It is not different in Nigeria where the trend is causing a shortage of qualified personnel resulting in a reduction in the quality of services provided. POLL “Nigeria’s aviation industry has been historically underfunded, leading to limited investment in infrastructure and facilities. This is a significant cause of brain drain in the industry. “Aviation requires huge investment in infrastructure, facilities, and equipment to operate efficiently and safely. “According to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) in 2019, Nigeria would acquire more than ₦1.5 trillion to fix the airports infrastructure gap. ” Lack of investment in infrastructure and facilities has led to Poor working conditions, Inadequate training and developmental programmes for professionals, and Limited access to modern technology and equipment/instruments,” he said.