The United States on Monday said it has taken steps to impose visa restric­tions on specific individuals in Nigeria for undermining the democratic pro­cess during the 2023 general elections. In a statement on US State Depart­ment website, Antony Blinken, Secre­tary of State, said the United States is committed to supporting and advanc­ing democracy in Nigeria and around the world. According to him, the imposition of visa restrictions are specific to cer­tain individuals and are not directed at the Nigerian people or the govern­ment of Nigeria as a whole. The statement said, “Un­der Section 212(a)(3)C) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, these individuals will be subject to restrictions on visas to the United States under a pol­icy covering those believed to be responsible for, or complicit in, undermining democracy. “These individuals have been involved in intimidation of voters through threats and physical violence, the manipu­lation of vote results, and other activity that undermines Nige­ria’s democratic process. “The decision to take steps to impose visa restrictions re­flects the continued commit­ment of the United States to support Nigerian aspirations to strengthen democracy and the rule of law.” The statement did not name any person. It would be recalled that the February 25 Presidential and National Assembly elections and the March 18 Governor­ship and State House of As­sembly elections were marred by widespread violence and electoral irregularities. POLL Many observers described the elections as the worst in the history of electoral process in Nigeria. The elections held so much promise with the introduction of technology by the Indepen­dent National Electoral Com­mission (INEC), which was generally believed would solve the problem of rigging and the assurances by the commis­sion’s Chairman, Prof. Mah­mood Yakubu, that the election results would be transmitted real time to the commission’s central server where every­body would have the opportu­nity to see the results. However, INEC failed to de­liver on its promise as the result of the presidential election was not uploaded as promised giv­ing room for manipulations and falsifications of figures. The vio­lence that was recorded during the polls took place in virtually all the states of the federation. Prof. Mahmood Yakubu de­clared the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as win­ner of the 2023 presidential election. Tinubu defeated 17 other candidates who took part in the election, scoring a total of 8,794,726 votes According to him, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP) came sec­ond, polling a total of 6,984,520 votes, while Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) came third with a total of 6,101,533 votes. Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi have filed petitions chal­lenging the victory of Bola Tinubu. Tinubu will be sworn in on May 29.