LAGOS – Despite several prophesies, intimidation, pronouncements and courts’ injunctions aimed at truncating the much-awaited May 29 inauguration ceremony of the new administration of the winner of the February 25, 2023, general elections, a Lagos-based group, Movement for Greater Lagos (MGL), has said that nobody can stop Tinubu’s inauguration because it has been ordained by God. The Spokesperson of the group, Alhaji Rasak Akanni, made the disclosure on Thursday in Lagos during the inauguration of additional 2,000 members to the fleet. The MGL, which is being sponsored by a former Chief of Staff in Lagos State, Otunba Olukunle Ojo, has contributed in one way or the other in support of the incoming administration and has vowed to further support the new government till it reaches the exalted position. Akanni described Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as a progressive politician, astute administrator and a detribalised Nigerian, who has shown commendable progress when he was Lagos governor. He appealed to all meaningful Nigerians to show solidarity with the President-elect and further support him so as to realize his plan for the country. Akanni, who commended the Alhaji Mujahedeen Asari Dokubo-led organizing committee for the success of the sit-out, appealed that the support should be extended to the government that will be inaugurated on 29th, May 2023. Recall that the Pan-Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere, has said that all hands must be on deck to ensure a hitch-free inauguration on May 29, just as the group applauded the Inspector General of Police, (IGP), Usman Alkali and the government of the United States of America for their warning to potential trouble-makers to steer off the inauguration venue.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The IGP, in a statement on Monday, said the Police and other security agencies were determined to deal with anyone caught trying to disrupt the exercise. POLL Also, the U.S. on Monday announced that it would impose visa restrictions on specific individuals for undermining the democratic process during elections. Against all these pronouncements, the group urged all Nigerians to rally round him to allow him use his wealth of experience to bring a new Nigeria we have all been clamoring for. “Whether anybody likes it or not, a new government must take place on the 29, May, 2023 and no other person would be sworn-in than the democratically-elected President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Let’s all rally round him, pray for him and support him for a renewed hope. Here is a man popularly elected by the people of Nigeria.” He added: “He are happy to be part of this epoch-making exercise for the President-elect and we shall not fail to appreciate our financier, Otunba Samuel Olukunle Ojo (a.k.a. Baba Ojo) for the support so far. He has been behind us as a group, bankrolling our outings. We will continue to show appreciation.” The Coordinator of MGL promised that members of the group would be powerfully represented at the inauguration of the President-elect on May 29.