A pastor in Christ Chapel International Churches (CCIC), Elekima Ekine, has said it is wrong to discourage people from mourning their loved ones that passed away. He stressed that “those who mourn are blessed because they will be comforted.” He gave the advice at the wake-keep of a Senior Pastor in the church, Mrs. Dotun Ayodele, who died recently at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) after a brief illness. The wake-keep took place at the Ojokoro, Lagos chapter of CCIC on Wednesday, May 10. Ekine said, “People who don’t mourn to express their grief do themselves a lot of harm.” Making allusion to one of the beatitudes, a set of revolutionary teachings by Jesus on the Mount, he said, “In Matt 5v4, Jesus said, blessed are those who mourn for they shall be comforted. Jesus knows that people will mourn. “So people should be allowed to mourn their dead especially when the person dies in Christ. But the keyword is that those who mourn are blessed because they will be comforted.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “When a believer mourns, he is assured of being comforted by God himself. You do yourself damage by not crying. Let people cry, it will do them good.” POLL Ekine said he came to the realisation that it is good to cry when he lost a loved one. He said it was after he had had a good cry that he was able to come out of the grief he experienced. He said, “The blessing is not that you mourn. But you will be comforted. So mourn and allow comfort to come. When God comforts you, he will add something to you. “When God comforts you, he does it his own way. We have to open our hearts to his comfort. God will do what is necessary to bring comfort.” The cleric said further that people who grieve should open themselves to the comfort of God. “The God of all comfort will comfort you by all means. How he will do it is left to him. We should take him at his word. We shall be comforted.” He also said that the loss of a loved one is a trial of faith. “The question is: Do you still see yourself as someone more than a conqueror after losing a loved one? Death must not reduce you in any way. Death is not the end for a child of God. It is a transition to glory.”