Solicits for the cooperation of Counsels against unnecessary technicalities BAUCHI – Bauchi State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal (GEPT) has assured that it will complete its assignment within 180 days in accordance with laws. The Chairman of the three-man panel however called on Counsels to try as much as possible to avoid technicalities that will cause unnecessary delays. The Tribunal Chairman who doubles up as the Secretary refused to disclose his name assured that the Panel is prepared to hear and determined all the petitions brought before it within the time frame urging the Counsels to cooperate with the Tribunal. He announced adjournment of sitting to next week Monday when hearing of the petitions will commence calling on the Counsels to be time conscious. Speaking to Journalists after the inaugural sitting, lead Counsel to APC and its gubernatorial candidate in the election in Bauchi state, Hakeem Afolabi SAN said that his team is prepared to pursue the petition to a logical conclusion. The Legal Practitioner assured that the petition will be argued within the time frame stipulated stressing that his team will cooperate with the Tribunal in the dispensation of justice.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Hakeem Afolabi who is leading other Counsels to prosecute the APC and its gubernatorial candidate’s petition assures the Tribunal of the best of professional conduct throughout the petition. POLL In his own remarks, one of the Counsels to PDP and its gubernatorial candidate, Barr Ben Ogbuchi assured that his legal team is ready to defend the case brought against his clients by the APC. “We are ready to defend the mandate massively given to Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir as the Governor of Bauchi State by the people. As you can see, he was elected by the people of Bauchi State and we will stoutly defend the people’s mandate.” “We are well prepared to respond to the petitions, we have nothing to fear because the mandate is given by the people of the state,” he said. The Secretary of the Tribunal refused to oblige Journalists coveting the proceedings, names of the three-member Tribunal panel saying that she was not mandated to do that in spite of pleadings by the journalists.