OLUSEGUN KOIKI; CHIDI UGWU Flight operations were on Sunday disrupted at the Nnamdi Azikiwe In­ternational Airport (NAIA), Abuja, fol­lowing a tyre burst incident involving Max Air aircraft at the airport. The Max Air flight had 143 passen­gers and an infant on board. Daily Independent gathered that the flight departed Yola at about 14:05p.m and was scheduled to arrive in Abuja at 15:00p.m. Information gathered by Dai­ly Independent indicated that the aircraft’s tyre burst on landing at the airport, which forced the aeroplane to crash land. It was gathered that the air­craft, a Boeing 737, departed Yola airport with passengers onboard for Abuja airport. The incident led to the shut­down of the Abuja airport runway, which prevented other aircraft from landing or taking off at the airport. The Aerodrome Rescue and Fire-Fighting Service (ARFFS) operatives of the Federal Air­ports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) at the airport were im­mediately mobilised to prevent fire from oozing out of the tyre. POLL As at the time of filing in this report, Daily Independent gathered that the aircraft was still on the runway. Besides, Mr. Tunji Oketun­bi, the General Manager, Pub­lic Affairs, Nigerian Safety Investigation Bureau (NSIB), confirmed the incident to Daily Independent. He said that the bureau was immediately informed of the incident and had since de­ployed its investigators to the scene of the incident. Also, Mr. Sam Adurogboye, the General Manager, Public Affairs, Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), said its in­spectors were already aware of the incident and were on ground. “The airport is a 24 hours aerodrome. Our men are on ground 24 hours because the airport is 24 hours aerodrome. We are already aware and on ground,” he said. Besides, Mr. Kabir Mu­hammed, General Manager, FAAN, Abuja airport, said ef­forts were in place to remove the aircraft from the runway. Daily Independent, however, learnt that the tyre burst inci­dent occurred after takeoff at Yola airport. The management of Max Air has declared that all pas­sengers and crew on board are safe and are being taken care of presently. “We are pleased to report that all passengers and crew on board the aircraft are safe and sound. The airline has taken all necessary steps to ensure that the passengers are comfortable and are being taken care of during this time. “They have been conveyed to the arrival terminal with their luggage and belongings. “The aircraft tyres are being replaced and the aircraft will taxi to the ramp for Max Air is committed to providing safe and reliable air travel to all. “We thank all the passen­gers for their patience and understanding emergency ser­vices, and all relevant agencies who responded promptly and the airline would like to extend its appreciation to the airport authorities, professionally to ensure the safety of all passen­gers and crew on board”, said Max Air in a statement. Former President of the Nigeria Medical Association, Dr. Mike Ogirima, who gave an account of the incident to a reporter, was quoted as saying that the tyre burst occurred af­ter takeoff at Yola airport. Ogirima said, “We thank God. We are still on the runway and the pilot has reassured us. He has called for the stairs and we are now disembarking from the runway to be evacuated to the air­port building at the arrival hall. “We bless God because we have witnessed the pull out of the tyre right from the airport in Yola and we went into a prayer session. “I never announced it as a surgeon so as not to cause any panic but we bless God,” he added. The passengers were safely disembarked.