BENIN  – A professor of History and International Studies and Diplomacy and Director Ad­vancement Office, Universi­ty of Benin, Eddy Erhagbe, yesterday, said the media has a patriotic duty to en­courage things that would engender the unity of the country rather than fanning the embers of its disunity. He disclosed this while speaking as a special guest lecturer on the theme: “Shaping a future of rights: Freedom of expression as a driver for all other human rights” during the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) World Press Freedom Day organized by the Edo State chapter of the NUJ in Benin City. Prof. Erhagbe said the problem of the country is not about the structure and that those who are calling for its break up due to its size, should look at other countries like Europe and see how they are doing and making progress in their en­deavours. “I want to end the con­tentious issue of the unre­pentant advocates of the restructuring of Nigeria; especially those that are al­ways wielding the specter of breaking up the country. “As a historian and expert in international studies, I be­lieve and hold the view that the problem with Nigeria is not the structure of the coun­try of Nigeria but the running of the affairs of the country. “There are certain extant fallacies about the authen­ticity of certain geopolitical configurations of pre-colo­nial Nigeria, this must be corrected, so that we can fo­cus more on conscientious­ly and truthfully working to emancipate our people rath­er than hoodwink them by parochialism and religious and ethnic bigotry. “As stated above, break­ing up the country cannot eschew ‘marginalization’ in Nigeria, it cannot stop com­munal conflicts, it cannot guarantee religious harmo­ny, and worse still, it cannot guarantee a better life for millions of Nigerians.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Developments in the international community point to the fact that even countries of Europe are moving into bigger unions, such as the European Union. POLL ”Furthermore, the size of countries such as the USA and the diversity of their population has not stopped them from developing”, Er­hagbe said. He added that he is join­ing his voice with those that believe that the country can make it with the right lead­ership, stressing that this is the area the Nigerian media can really demonstrate their strength as it has always done.