Christian leaders, General Overseers and others have been encouraged to take advantage of global technologies in spreading the gospel and winning more souls for Christ, youths in particular as targets by adopting new trends to ensure that the gospel reaches the remotest parts of the earth. Adopting new trends in mode and channels of preaching, managing churches and as well being ready to embrace changes of an all-inclusiveness, the former chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev (Dr.) Matthias Echioda said has become necessary in order to capture the minds of both present and future generation. The former CAN chairman made the declaration in his opening address to the 4th edition of the, Life and Leadership Conference with the theme: ‘Leading the 21st Century Church’, which took place in Minna on Saturday. In order to meet global trends in reaching out to especially the youths, Echioda argued that Christians and Christian leaders must be ready explore new opportunities and avenues of carrying everybody along towards reaching out to the lost souls. “The church must be willing to embrace new methods, concepts and technologies to reach a new generation. This includes integrating social media, core values and teachings. To me this is innovation! We must meet the people and targets where they are, 1 Cor 9: 22”. For growth and spiritually focused in the 21st Century spread of the gospel and winning souls for Christ, the former CAN chairman said leaders and General Overseers must consider, “Relationships, Technology, Inclusiveness, Change, Personality and Contemporaries”. Also in his presentation titled, ‘Media and the Internet’, the Senior Pastor House on the Rock, Minna PetRock Sadiq encouraged churches and Christian leaders generally to explore the internet as most viable platform in spreading the gospel to the youths and future generations.       Our correspondent reports that the interdenominational event which took place at His Mercy Ground, Km 2, off Bida road Nyikangbe, Minna, Niger state capital over the weekend had in attendance church leaders, pastors, business men/women from within and outside the state.