…Bags Auchi Traditional Title The Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola has commissioned Passport Front Office in Auchi, Edo State, which he said was part of effort towards effective service delivery to Nigerians. This is coming just as he disclosed that the ministry has finalized plans to launch a home delivery service of passport. The Minister who spoke while launching the Nigeria Immigration Service Passport Front Desk Office in Auchi, Edo State, on Saturday, said it is the intention of the Government to provide passport for anyone desirous of it within a reasonable time at affordable price and without any stress. According to him, the launch of another Passport Front Desk Office is significant as the Nigerian Passport is a proof of existence especially for those outside the country as Inability to produce it on demand may bring untoward consequences. “What we are doing here is significant for two main reasons. The first is the right and the necessity of Nigerians, especially those in the diaspora to hold the Nigerian passport. “Except for those travelling outside the country or intend to, most of those who hold the passport do so for identification purposes. “For some, it is also a thing of pride to be able to brandish the green back of the passport. But for those outside the country, the passport is the proof of their existence and the inability to produce it on demand may bring untoward consequences. “The government therefore wants to provide the passport for anyone desirous of it within reasonable time, at affordable price and without any stress whatsoever. POLL “The second is the need, flowing from the first, to break out of the regular”, he maintained.” The Minister also promised to conclude negotiations with NIPOST on the usage of its speedy mail service to start delivering passport to Nigerians who opt for such service. He said his ministry is in the final stage of concluding negotiations with NIPOST to begin using its speed mail service to deliver passports to Nigerians wherever they are in the world after production. Aregbesola also revealed that Edo State has one of the highest passport applications in Nigeria, adding that the waiting period between application and collection would likely increase due to the recent increase in demand. He said “Our current working schedule is that fresh application would take six weeks after biometric data registration and three weeks for renewal. This is reasonable, competitive and in line with the global best practices. “The challenge however is the waiting period at the point of application and data registration.All applicants would be put on a queue, depending on the centre of their choice, to determine the registration date. “Regrettably, it might take two months in some highly competitive centres where application is very high. We have no control over this” he said. He however disclosed that the Federal Government was intentional about opening more front desk offices, in order to increase the registration centres and reduce the waiting period before biometric data capturing. “It is our projection that by the time we open more front offices like this, the waiting period will not be more than three days. Indeed, the more front offices we have, the less the waiting period. Our long term plan will be to involve private operators who will provide the lounge for a fee, but the equipment and personnel will be provided by the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS)”, he added. While commending the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) for improving on their services, including issuance of top quality passport booklet, Aregbesola affirmed that Nigeria is among the first five countries in the world and the first in Africa to have the enhanced e-passport. “The reform introduced to the NIS led to the Automated Passport issuance process which has eliminated touts and racketeers in Passport administration, introduction of E-border Management, MIDAS and the commencement of E-Passport across Passport Control Offices and Diplomatic Missions”. The Interior Minister also advised applicants not to go through third parties but apply on any internet enabled device through the Nigeria Immigration Service portal. He lamented the prevalence of a few unscrupulous officials subverting the system, cornering applications, inflating prices, extorting from applicants and hiding already produced passports. “I will therefore plead with applicants not to go through them and other touts hanging around passport offices, soliciting for applicants. “The application can be done in your bedroom on your android phone through the Nigeria Immigration Service portal. You do not need a third party. Those who patronise them are the ones encouraging their nefarious activities and frustrating our efforts on transparency and providing seamless service.” The minister also urged applicants to plan ahead for their travelling, as travelling requires long term planning, whether for education, work, leisure or migration, except for urgent national assignment or medical emergency. He recalled that this year alone, he had been to Daura in Katsina State, Alimosho in Lagos, Ilesa in Osun, Zaria in Kaduna and Oyo in Oyo State to commission Passport Front Desk Offices. The Comptroller General of the Nigerian Immigration Service, Isah Jere Idris, in his remark said that the choice of Auchi front office is apt, as Edo State ranks fifth amongst states with the highest volume of passport applications locally. According to him, “In the past 365 days, Edo state has processed 56,291 applications out of the 1.5 million passports produced in Nigeria. The commissioning of this front office will no doubt go a long way in reducing the traffic in Edo State and other neighbouring States. The NIS CG restated the necessity for prospective applicants to synchronize the data in their passport application with the information in their National Identification Number. “May I quickly add that for the enhanced e-passport, it is essential to ensure that prospective passport applicants synchronize the data in their passport application with the information in their NIN (National Identification Number).” While maintaining that the unveiling of front office and others like it, are crucial to achieving the NIS mandate of ensuring that the e-passport issuance process is brought closer to the people, Jere seized the opportunity to affirm the commitment of the Nigeria Immigration Service to meeting the rising demands for Passport services globally, thereby repositioning the Service towards attaining a truly world-class status to compete with its counterparts worldwide. Meanwhile, during a visit to the Otaru of Auchi’s Palace, the Otaru, HRH, Alhaji Aliru H. Momoh, Ikelebe III, turbaned Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, and then installed him as the Rafeeq of Auchi Sacred Kingdom. The traditional ruler revealed that the title means Ogbeni Aregbesola a bossom friend of the Auchi Kingdom. In response, the minister declared that, “everything happening here today is a surprise to me. I am excited, happy and joyous because it is coming at the right time. The depth of my joy has no word to describe it. When I retire, I plan to always wear my turban as a true and proper Muslim,” the minister declared..