LAGOS  – Several leaders under the auspices of The Apostolic Roundtable gathered in Lagos on Monday May 1, 2023 to seek a way forward for Lagos, in particular, and Nigeria, in general, after the 2023 general elections. The event, with the theme ‘After the Storm’, was held in collaboration with the Civil Conscience Global Initiative (CCGI), a body made up of top religious leaders. It attracted eminent citizens like Archbishop Emeritus of Methodist Church of Nigeria, His Grace, Archbishop Sunday Ola Makinde, who chaired the occasion; Rev. Dr. Bolaji Akinyemi, the Convener of the Apostolic Roundtable; Mrs. Folusho Odenuga, former governorship candidate of Osun State. There was also Rev. Solomon Adegbolagun, the Chairman of the CCGI; Bishop Funso Awe, the Bishop of the Lagos West, Orthodox Anglican Church, Nigeria. Bishop Dr. Matthew Hassan Kukah, the Bishop of Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, who was joined by Zoom. Sheik Ahmed Gumi, the controversial Islamic scholar, and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo were also joined by Zoom. The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 election, Abdulazeez Adediran (Jandor) was also present as well as several other Nigerians who grace the occasion, which was also beamed live to Nigerians at home and in diaspora. The event started with a short documentary on the governorship election in Lagos State, showing how thugs disrupted the process in parts of the state, unleashing mayhem on the voters. Speaking at the occasion, Rev. Adegbolagun spoke of the need for reconciliation of every strata of the Nigerian society after the general elections, just like what Uhuru Kenyata did in Kenya by calling out every one in his country for reconciliation. He stressed that since then, it is not surprising that Kenya has been peaceful. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He also noted that because the opposition could not agree among themselves and work together, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) could not have returned to power. He stressed: “Nigerians prayed. The Church prayed. Here we are.” POLL Dr. Bolaji Akinyemi, the Convener of the Roundtable, in his speech, maintained that “The basic problem in Niger is the absence of agreement. Can two work together unless they agree? The Constitution is the basis. The Constitution handed over to us which was put together by the Military is a deception. That document can lead us to nowhere. There has to be a true constitution that will help us to be together.” He, however, disclosed plans in the pipeline to get the constitution translated and printed in several major Nigerian languages to enable the citizens to become conversant with the contents of the document. Archbishop Makinde, in his speech, thanked God that the tension in the country is evaporating, unlike what obtained in three or four months ago when things were really tough among the citizens. Makinde also thanked the Lord that the situation in the country during and after the general election did not deteriorate to a war situation as is happening between Ukraine and Russia as well as Sudan.