The Nigeria Labour Congress President, Joe Ajaero, has stated reasons why the incoming government will face several industrial crises. Ajaero said this on Wednesday when he appeared on the Channels TV programme, Politics Today, explaining that owing to the previous government’s failed agreements with the various groups they entered into agreements with. Therefore, he expressed “pity” to the incoming Tinubu administration, saying there are several inconclusive industrial challenges left unattended to by the outgoing regime of the President, Muhammadu Buhari. In his assessment of Nigerian workers’ welfare under the Buhari regime, the labour president stated, “There will be a spillover effect on the coming administration.” He added that despite the outgoing president’s best efforts, it was not enough to meet the needs of Nigerian workers. According to him, several industrial crises seem to be looming due to failed agreements with lecturers, doctors and the power sector. He stressed “The Buhari administration tried its best in ensuring there is industrial peace and harmony to the best of its ability and capability but it was not enough as most of the industrial disputes the government treated are unfinished. “You are talking about a doctor’s strike, the agreement signed was not implemented and is waiting for the incoming government. The ASUU issue is pending and waiting for the incoming government. There is hardly any agreement that was conclusively decided and exhausted, and that is why I pity the incoming administration. A lot of industrial crisis seems to be looming. POLL “There is going to be a spillover effect on the incoming government because when you apprehend issues, it is to an end that you resolve the problem. When asked about possible solutions to avert strike actions, Ajaero explained that proper technocrats must be allowed to handle the sector, insisting that the implementation of agreements seems to be the beating heart of many of today’s crises. “The best way to go is to sit down and study the situation. If this is done. They will be able to handle the issues one after the other and it will do them a lot of good if they bring in proper technocrats to handle that sector. Trade unions and their leaders are not unreasonable. If you have a new government that is listening and have the right calibre of people to address those issues, they will be resolved but the major problem is implementation where agreements made five, or ten years ago are not implemented. “The implementability of agreements seems to be the reason for the crises we are having. Check ASUU, resident doctors, the power sector and other sectors. It is not usually too difficult to reach an agreement and strike a balance, but respecting the sanctity of such an agreement by the government side has been a problem. Any agreement not forced on the government is expected to be honoured,” he pointed out.