LAGOS – The Akarigbo Palace in Sagamu, Ogun State has refuted the story making the rounds that the Paramount Ruler of Remo-land, His Royal Majesty, Kabiyesi Alayeluwa Oba (Dr) Adewale Babatunde Ajayi travelled abroad to plead the cause of Prince Dapo Abiodun with Sir Kessington Adebukunola Adebutu, saying that it’s far from the truth and was aimed at mischief. The palace stated that the insinuation that the trip was sponsored at the instance of the Governor was not only misleading but also an insult to the Akarigbo in particular and the Remo Traditional Council in general. In a statement signed by Barrister Adebayo Onafuwa, the Bamofin of Remo-land on behalf of Akarigbo Palace, stated that the publication being circulated against the well-respected monarch was the writer deliberately doctored the prepared speech delivered at the meeting with Sir Kessington to suit the author’s political intentions and deceive unsuspecting members of the public. It further noted that: “While the Akarigbo Palace is not out to throw itself into the fray of partisan politics, we believe we owe our Indigenes and all well-meaning people a duty to set the records straight because a lie that is told unchallenged has the tendency of being mistaken as the truth.” “As the custodian of the customs, tradition, culture and norms of Remo people, we felt, and still feel, concerned about the fallouts of the recent elections in Ogun State in which two of our sons from the same town (Iperu) vied for the Governorship position. This aftermath of the said elections has been a source of concern to well-meaning people of the State in general and Remo-land in particular, leading the Alayeluwa Akarigbo and his entourage to make a reconciliation visit to London. If others outside our Remo Division of Ogun State could deem reconciling our subjects, then, it behooves on us to up what we have been doing internally, to stem the no- love-lost. The individual sponsorship by members of the entourage was made unambiguous in the address delivered in London and for anyone to try to smear the image of the top-notch personalities that made the trip on their own accord is most uncharitable. The Akarigbo has done what is naturally expected of any occupant of the stool and Kabiyesi Alayeluwa will continue to work for peace and tranquility not only in Remo-land but also in all parts of Ogun State in his capacity as Akarigbo and Paramount Ruler of Remo and also the current Chairman of Ogun State Council of Obas. POLL We will therefore not be drawn into partisan politics or be dettered by antics of politicians.” In the same vein, a group under the ageis of Ogun Integrity Vanguard lauded the statement released by the Akarigbo of Remo, clarifying that the trip he made to London with other traditional rulers to interface with billionaire lotto entrepreneur, Sir Kessington Adebutu, had nothing to do with the Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun. The group, which gave the commendation in a statement signed by its Secretary, Duro Thomas, and made available to newsmen on Sunday, said that the foremost traditional ruler’s statement had put paid to the lie that the governor was seeking an out-of-court settlement with Adebutu’s son, Hon Ladi Adebutu, over the governorship election petition he (Ladi Adebutu) submitted challenging the governor’s victory during the March 18 governorship election in the state. “Saying that it was unconscionable for mischief makers to seek to rubbish the exalted throne of the Paramount Ruler of Remoland and President , Remo Traditional Council, and those of other Remo kings for political gain, the group added that Governor Abiodun remained fully focused on transforming the fortunes and enhancing the living standards of the Ogun populace, and would not be drawn into the political game meant to distract him front his renewed mandate. Condemning the deliberate doctoring of the Akarigbo’s speech at the meeting with Sir Kessington to suit the intentions of the mischief makers and deceive unsuspecting members of the public, the group said: “Before the Akarigbo’s clarification through Barrister Adebayo Onafuwa, Bamofin of Remoland, mischief makers on social media had claimed that Prince Abiodun was begging Ladi Adebutu to withdraw his petition challenging Governor Abiodun’s victory.” “Indeed we agree with this royal submission. It is saddening that these individuals without conscience and lacking any shred of integrity sought to rubbish royalty, but the Akarigbo and other Remo obas have now shown those behind the fake news to be pure mischief makers. ” As the Akarigbo’s statement indicated, the Remo rulers as the custodian of the customs of the Remo people only felt concerned about the fallouts of the recent elections in Ogun State in which two of their sons from the same town (Iperu) vied for the governorship position and sought to hold peace talks with them in the interest of Remo Kingdom and Ogun State in general. “Therefore, it is uncharitable to insinuate that the trip was sponsored by Governor Abiodun to placate those he defeated in an open contest. How could they insult our revered traditional rulers in this manner? “We condemn the misrepresentation of facts by these mischief makers and warn them to cease and desist from dragging our exalted traditional rulers into their perverse politics. “Seeking to draw Prince Abiodun into their vile game is an exercise in futility.”