…Tasks ODIEC On Free, Fair Election Reputable AKURE – The Ondo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday declared its readiness to participate in the December 16, 2023 local council election in the state. This was disclosed by the state Chairman of the party, Fatai Adams while addressing newsmen at the party’s Secretariat at Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital. PDP didn’t participate in the last local council election held in the state in 2021 on grounds that it didn’t trust the leadership of the Ondo Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC) that it would conduct free, fair and credible elections. Adams revealed that the party decided to participate in the December council poll in order not to deprive members of the party of executing their political ambitions. Besides, he said the current leadership of the state electoral body was reputable and beloved and would conduct free fair and credible polls. According to Adams, “Our members are agitated to exercise their civic role by participating in the local government election. “We held meetings and members gave different opinions on the issue. Right there, we agreed that the party must participate in the election. POLL “We have reputable people at the helm of affairs of ODIEC now until they prove otherwise. “As a party, we have put necessary machinery in motion which will culminate in our electoral victory at the polls and we are participating to win. “It is against this background that our party will participate in the Local Government Election, so as to bring development to the grassroots again, as it was under previous PDP administrations. “Our resolve to participate is to reverse the uneventful and uninspiring narratives. It is to restore the lost glory of local government administration and its pride. “This resolve is deliberate and we are conscious of the agenda of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu to continue to muzzle the local government administrations by foisting his stooges on the people. We can therefore gauge his temperature and the mood of the APC as well as the inconveniences this our resolve may cause its members who erroneously see local government as their cash cow, being the reward for their hypocrisy and sycophancy to the Governor. “We are passionately appealing to the Chairman and other members of the Commission to always act on the side of the people bearing in mind that their Commission is being financed by the taxpayers’ money and not from the APC government which merely appointed them. “They should ensure utmost transparency of the electoral process, exhibit decency, decorum and discipline that is expected of their high offices and not compromise for any self-serving or pecuniary gains so that posterity will be kind to them at the end of the day. “We are assuring the general public that we are prepared to participate in the electoral contest with the fervent hope that the Governor and his APC will allow the Commission to perform its role without undue interference and interruptions.” The PDP chairman, however, declared that the people at the grassroots would resist All Progressives Congress (APC) because they were the people who have bearing the brunt of inept, colourless, unenviable, dry and retrogressive governance at local council.