LAGOS  – Justice Mojisola Dada of an Ikeja Spe­cial Offences Court on Monday fixed July 23, 2023, for the trial of a social media celebri­ty, Ismaila Mustapha, a.k.a Mompha in the alleged N6 billion money laundering case brought against him by the Economic and Fi­nancial Crimes Commis­sion (EFCC). The judge fixed the new date for trial following in­formation made available to the court that Mompha had been arrested. Mustapha is facing an eight-count charge bor­dering on conspiracy to launder funds obtained through unlawful activity, retention of proceeds of criminal conduct, laun­dering of funds obtained through unlawful activity, failure to disclose assets and property, possession of documents containing false pretence and use of property derived from an unlawful act, During resumed pro­ceedings, EFCC prosecut­ing counsel, Sulaiman Su­laimam, told the court that the agency’s international partners succeeded in ar­resting Mompha. Sulaiman informed the court that the defendant was not yet in their custo­dy in Lagos. He prayed the court for a new date for trial while as­suring that the defendant would be in court by the next adjourned date. During proceedings, counsel to the defendant, Gboyega Oyewole (SAN), was absent in court. Justice Dada granted the request of the prose­cution and fixed July 23 for trial. POLL During proceedings on November 16 and 22, 2022, the absence of defence counsel stalled the de­fendant’s trial before the court. On September 22, 2022, Justice Dada ordered that the trial of Mompha would continue in absentia fol­lowing failed efforts by the EFCC to arrest him after jumping bail. On June 10, 2022, Jus­tice Dada revoked the de­fendant’s bail but released him to his counsel, who pleaded for one week to investigate the allegation by the prosecution that the defendant procured anoth­er passport different from the one submitted to the court, as part of conditions for his bail. The prosecution had told the court that the de­fendant used a new pass­port to travel from Ghana to Dubai thereby violating his bail terms.