Your Excellency Sir, President Mu­hammadu Buhari, GCFR, I greet you with utmost respect and salute your courage in the last eight years in steering the affairs of this nation with great potentialities. Nigeria is a work in progress but should not be limited by the challenges we face to­day as a developing nation as we all must play our roles in rowing the nation to the desired destination of the overwhelming majority who yearns for a functional soci­ety where all would be equal stakeholders. It is our firm belief that Nigeria will ulti­mately take its proper seat in the comity of developed nations. Thank you Mr. President for the personal sacrifices you have made in the course of nation building. My gratitude to you will always be assured. To Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the President-elect, I say congratulations on your electoral victory, and as you prepare to take the baton of leadership from the outgoing President, I like millions of Nige­rians, at home and in the diaspora whose expectations are high of you, we are using this medium to again express our support and partnership to build a prosperous and peaceful nation. I would like to also acknowledge and applaud the innovative, creative, flexible, and result oriented management team of the NNPCL led by Group Chief Executive Officer, Mallam Mele Kyari. When the Federal Government of Nige­ria and the NNPCL awarded the pipeline surveillance contract to Tantita Security Company, amongst others, in the month of August 2022, it had done so borne out of the evident vandalisation of pipeline in­frastructures and the humongous theft of crude oil running into billions of dollars by a criminal few and the subsequent rapid and steady decline of national income. It took the political will of the Federal Government and the iron clad resolve of the NNPCL manage­ment to step out of their boxes. Besides the vandalisation of national as­sets and its heavy toll on the finances and economic development of the country, the illicit trade of stolen crude had become a perennial and hydra headed problem – it had brought in its wake a plethora of problems and existential angst in the region, chiefly an unprecedented assaults on our environ­ment, our ways of life – subsistence farming and fishing, a disturbing and upward curve of violence amongst our young men and the threat to our communities, traditional lead­ers and constituted authorities. Accepting to undertake this work meant more than just the usual contractual obliga­tions and incentives. As a nation, we were at the brink economically and as a region we were in a make or mar situation occa­sioned by all the negatives of this illegal and environmentally hazardous trade. It is the respective combination of national and regional interests that ignited our will to accept and sign the contract. POLL Since August of 2022, it has been sleep­less nights and restless days. The manage­ment of Tantita Security Company and the Nigerian Armed Forces, respectively, have worked tirelessly with the ever present dan­gers to the lives of our staff on this national assignment, in some cases we have record­ed casualties. From the onset we were clear about the enormity of the task laid before us and as such we developed a critical and stra­tegic template to execute – from our firm de­termination and demonstration of inherent dynamism to dealing with the dynamics of pipeline vandalism and to the understand­ing of the region’s delicate balance – the na­ture of this illicit trade, the socioeconomic situation and cultural distinctiveness. Through the management of NNPCL and the Federal Government, we are beginning to get public acknowledgement for the rever­sal of the ugly trend of pipeline vandalism and theft of crude oil and our hitherto rav­aged communities are also reporting pro­gressive indices on the environment and security, all of these would not have been possible without the commitment of the communities and royal fathers who keyed in wholeheartedly from the beginning of this onerous national assignment. From the discovery of the mind blowing illegal pipeline of the Trans-Forcados to thousands of other illegal tapping points crisscrossing the length and breadth of the Niger Delta and to the dramatic seizure of a number of vessels involved in the illegal trade of stolen crude, the resultant effect has been a steady progression of crude oil pro­duction as reported by the NNPCL and the Federal Government, crude oil exports is on the rise so is our national earning, investors’ confidence is better, there is a northward economic rebound, again we seem to be in good stead in the comity of OPEC. To the Niger Delta royal fathers, com­munities, youth leaders and women group that have worked so hard and tirelessly since August of 2022 to make Tantita Security sur­veillance of the pipelines successful and have become agitated lately and are asking a lot of questions regarding the continua­tion of their engagements as a result of the obvious transition to a new government, we appeal that you calm down and that gov­ernment is a continuum and the successful appraisal and benefits of our work in the last ten months is collective and not limited to the outgoing administration. Our position remains that the Federal Government and the oil and gas industry must invest in the region – in infrastructure, job creation, schools, health facilities, and in our youths so as to change the narrative of our socioeconomic trajectory, the factors that drive and make pipeline vandalism, oil theft attractive and the attendant violence are ever present and looming in the region, it is only a holistic approach and the political will to do it differently that will usher in a new and progressive social, economic and political orientation and consciousness. As we continue to secure the nation’s hydrocarbon assets that guarantees the much needed foreign exchange earnings and secure the potentialities for economic growth, investors’ confidence, development and employment of Nigerians, we look for­ward to a mutual working relationship with the incoming administration. In the voyage of this arduous and hazard­ous national assignment, we have built com­mendable and invaluable partnerships with the Armed Forces – the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Navy, the Nigerian Police Force, the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigerian Civil Defence. We greatly ap­preciate and salute you. We thank the Niger Delta royal fathers and people that continue to unequivocally demonstrate their support for the award of the pipeline surveillance contract to Tantita Security Company and their collaborative work with the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We say thank you to the Nigerian media that has affirmed its position as the fourth estate of the realm, a true partner in nation build­ing and the people’s voice. The task remains to be completed. To President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, we say thank you, better late than never, it is a partnership that should have been in place earlier, we wish you a well and deserved rest. To Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Presi­dent-elect, we enthusiastically await your swearing in and also reaffirm our readiness to work with you and help build a peaceful and prosperous nation where the rights and security of all will be second to none.