The State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Ebonyi State, Mrs. Bamai Mercy, has expressed optimism that the scheme would continue to be useful and relevant in the growth and development of Nigeria. Bamai stated this on Tuesday while speaking with Journalists shortly after the NYSC Unity Walk to mark the 50th Anniversary of the scheme in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State Capital. She said contrary to the insinuations in some quarters that the scheme had outlived its usefulness, it had become more useful than ever and would continue to be useful and relevant. Bamai said: “Looking at the mandate given to us, the NYSC has achieved so much, and the NYSC is not tired of selfless service. “The NYSC has created impacts not only in national unity and integration but in all areas of life, that is why it has become a household name “In the educational, and health legal sectors, we are into youths empowerments, social economic development, national unity, and integration. “The Corps members apart from being selfless are also benefiting from the scheme because the NYSC instill in them the spirit of self-reliance.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Most of them have acquired skills, some of them are still acquiring skills, and some of them are already making money even as Corps members with the skills they have acquired. POLL “It is not true that we have outlived our usefulness, we are even more useful than we have ever been, there is so much to achieve, and NYSC will continue to be useful. “Most of the establishments in this state cannot do without the NYSC, there is currently a request for corp members even while the orientation course is still ongoing because, without them, the organizations would not make headway, and NYSC will always be relevant.” The Ebonyi State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Chief Charles Akpuenika, who was represented by the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Mr. Ben Okike, congratulated the management for celebrating the 50th anniversary of the scheme, saying it’s a worthwhile celebration. He observed that the scheme had achieved a lot, especially in the maintenance of peace, unity, and national integration, even as he admonished Corps members to be disciplined and good ambassadors of the scheme.