LAGOS  – There are indications that the cost of air freight may soar higher following the last week’s upward review of exchange rate of foreign currency to airline op­erators in the sector by the Fed­eral Government. Our correspondent gathered that barely one month after the exchange rate was raised from N444 for the airlines to N551 and later to N610, the government may have reviewed it upward again to N634 to a dollar, thereby bringing it nearer to the black market rate of N750 per dollar. With this, the price of impor­tation and exportation of goods and cargo may once again sky­rocket as the new rate of N34 per dollar would affect business organisations, especially inter­national ones. Speaking on the issue, Mr. Samuel Oluwole, the Managing Director of Precision Aviation Handling Company Limited (PAHCOL) said that businesses would be negatively impacted by the rise in the exchange rate. According to him, the current situation was propelled by the in­ability of the foreign airlines to repatriate their funds out of Ni­geria as expected in over a year. Oluwole said that as a busi­ness entity, the operators would device a mean of remaining in business inasmuch their funds were still trapped in the country and operating into Nigeria. He, however, said that busi­ness community would have to pay the brunt, which would later be extended to the end users. He explained that with this, consumers should be expecting a rise in commodities, lamenting that purchasing power would continue to nosedive, while pov­erty would consistently rise in the country. POLL Oluwole, however, challenged the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency address the is­sue of the trapped funds in order to bring relief to the flying public and business organisations. He said: “The current situa­tion was caused by the exchange rate for the airlines and since they cannot repatriate their funds out of the country due to the current situation at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), they have been forced to adopt this method in order to stay in business. “They are not government enterprises, but private compa­nies. For reason of appropriate pricing, they have done all those indices. When you look at our country for instance where the take home pay is not enough to carry you to the bus stop, then, one begins to look at it as outra­geous and crazy, but in terms of them staying in business, they have done what they could. “However, the approach is go­ing to affect business negatively. Whatever you are bringing in on cargo flights, then, it affects your profit margin as an importer and the only thing you can do is to transfer some of these increas­es in rates and fares to your cus­tomers. “Also, if you are paying tax for example and your profit is eroded in that direction, the tax revenue accruing to the govern­ment equally drops. “From all these angles, whether on the pas­senger or cargo flights, there is negative impact and government has a duty to address the issue.” Oluwole further expressed that the foreign airline operators had gone overboard with their consistent increase of airfares out of Nigeria. Explained that despite the fact that the airlines are con­fronted with the same challenges of trapped funds in some other countries, especially West Afri­can countries, they were yet to increase their airfares as much as they do out Nigeria. According to him, the airfares in those countries are lower with about 30 per cent when compared with Nigeria, stressing that they are taking the advantage of the situation to take Nigerians for a ride. He added: “They believe in Nigeria, anything goes and they know how to sort things out behind the scenes. They act with impunity when it concerns Nigeria. Same six hours flight, they are charging less within oth­er countries in West Africa. All these are not good for the Nige­rian economy. The government has to look into the effect of this on the economy.” Besides, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of Aviation Round Table (ART), said that the gov­ernment had failed in recent time with their inability to allow the foreign airlines repatriate their funds as planned despite the promises. He lamented that Nigeria alone owed about 44 per cent of the world’s foreign airlines’ trapped funds at $744 million as at the end of March 2023. He explained that in a bid to mitigate the loss, some of the for­eign airlines are gradually with­drawing their seats from Nigeria. He stated that some of the airlines now sell their seats from Ghana, Lome, United States and elsewhere, while the same pas­sengers board from Nigeria. He added: “That is what we call Point of Sales (PoS). And that runs to millions of dollars yearly. Our travel agents are losing busi­ness; they are firing staff. “In this month of April, book­ing figure has collapsed by 50 per cent. Go and check the figure of Wakanow and other travel agen­cies. The seats are not available to sell. “The aviation industry in Ni­geria is facing serious calamity. I don’t know if it is a government policy not to remit airlines’ funds. If it is not a policy, it is a breach of international trade. “Bilateral Air Service Agree­ments (BASAs) that bring these airlines here stipulate that all air­lines net earning must be moved to their head offices. Why are we not doing that here?” Late last week, Mr. Bankole Bernard, the Group Managing Director, Finchglow Travels, told the media that the new exchange rate of N634 per dollar would halt business growth while Nigeri­ans travelling out of the coun­try would pay more for a plane ticket. He pointed out that the trapped funds had increased to $800 million from $744 million as at the end of March. One-way ticket prices in econ­omy class via Air France as of May 10 are now N1.01 million from N978,440, Lagos to Man­chester: $1,108, also increased from N675,880 to N702,472. Lagos to France: $939, now N595,326 from N572,790, Lagos to Spain: $1,354, now N858,436 from N825,940.