LAGOS  – First Independent Power Limited (FIPL), a Sahara Group Company, has emphasised the need for Nigeria to strengthen local content in the power sector. The company said the development was necessary in order to promote job creation, funds retention, and the development of skills and competencies of Nigerians. Speaking at the Nigerian Content Conference organised by the Nigerian Society of Engineers in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Chief Executive Officer, FIPL,Dr. Kenechukwu Nwangwu, said the Act symbolises the intention of the nation towards growing local capacity. He implored all stakeholders to explore all possibilities in holistic and transparent manner. He said: “It is a laudable thing for us to deliberate on the impact of the local content Act in the power sector at this forum. A robust local content in the power sector will lead to job creation, funds retention, and domiciliation of the operations of foreign companies in Nigeria while enabling the development of skills and competencies of Nigerians.” He also said retooling and investing in shoring up local capacity has the potential of transforming the power sector. He implored regulators to drive compliance, stating, “We already have a formidable regulation in the sector, all we need now is implementation across the value chain, in strict compliance with the provisions of the law.” Nwangwu said FIPL remained a frontline promoter of local content in Nigeria, adding that FIPL continues to “bring energy to life responsibly to over 6 million lives with the collaboration and support of community stakeholders, suppliers, artisans, health and safety workers who we support with training, sustainable impact projects and capacity building opportunities.” POLL He restated the company’s commitment to increasing power generation and sustainability impact in the sector through robust local capacity optimization. He noted that the ongoing transformation of FIPL is driving the top-flight performance of the 541MW capacity power plants in Rivers state. “It has been a privilege for us to serve the nation through the professionalism and expertise of our people and the drive and investment of our parent company, Sahara Group. FIPL is here to make a difference and this remains our overarching pursuit,” he added. He said the human capital transformation program at FIPL had demonstrated that with the right training and exposure, there would be less demand for foreign expatriates in Nigeria. He commended the NSE Port Harcourt chapter for assembling prominent industry leaders and professionals to discuss the impact of the Nigerian Content Act 2010 – 2020 on the oil and gas sector and the power industry. The two-day conference provided an excellent opportunity for FIPL to network with other industry leaders and professionals, exchange ideas, and showcase its commitment to the sustainable development of Nigeria’s power sector.