The Bayelsa State Government has directed the leadership and stakeholders of communities that are yet to form vigilantes to complement the efforts of conventional security agencies to do so immediately. The deputy governor, Lawrence Ehwrudjakpo, who gave the order while granting audience to some stakeholders of Ovom community in Government House, Yenagoa, explained that the move would enable government to improve on the prevailing peace and security in the state. Ewhrudjakpo in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant in Media, Mr Doubara Atasi, stressed the need for people to always see security as a collective responsibility, adding that “the present administration will spare no effort in making Bayelsa the safest state in the country where meaningful business and social activities will thrive unfettered.” “We urge the vigilantes in the various communities to volunteer actionable information to security agencies and also take deliberate steps to curtail the activities of cultists and other criminal elements”, he said. Commending the Ovom people in the Yenagoa Local Government Area for their patience and understanding so far as hosts to the seat of power in the state, he stated that government would do more to improve their socio-economic wellbeing and development. While responding to some requests made by the delegation, Ehwrudjakpo pointed out that the philosophy of the prosperity administration was hinged on empowering Bayelsans to create wealth for themselves. The deputy governor also promised that government would look into their other requests such as construction of more internal roads, a public events pavilion, solar-powered street lights, health centre as well as employment and appointment of Ovom indigenes. Speaking earlier, the leader of the delegation, Chief Lambert Ototo, expressed gratitude to government for its magnanimity to Ovom through appointments of their sons and infrastructural development. POLL Ototo, who is the chairman of the State Local Government Service Commission, said the meeting was part of efforts to strengthen the existing mutual relationship between government and his community. Delivering the community’s address, Mr Bile Simeon, requested government to construct more internal roads, an auditorium, installation of solar-powered street lights, and the building of comprehensive health centre. Others are the upgrading of the existing Ovom traditional stool to first class status, appointment of sons and daughters into political offices as well as employment into the state civil service.