ENUGU  – Shortly after his inau­guration, Enugu State Governor, Dr. Peter Mbah, hit the ground running by signing three Ex­ecutive Orders for the effec­tive governance of the state. The others are: Order 001 of 2023, which is an Executive Order for the Development of Citizens’ Charter; Executive Order 002 of 2003, which is Order for the Removal of Un­authorised Street Barriers Across the State Within 100 Days; and Executive Order 003 of 2023, which is for the Pro­motion of Economic Growth through Transparency and Efficiency in Government. The governor explained that by Order 001 for Citizens Charter, the government un­dertook to provide the citizens with a “peaceful and tranquil living environment devoid of insecurity and all threats to life”. Also, the governor said that by Order 002, which is pursuant to the authority vested in his office by the 1999 Constitution (as amend­ed), and the Laws of Enugu State, seeks to eliminate every barrier to free movement of persons and goods in the state, noting however that the Order was limited to state and local government roads only. While acknowledging the reason for security adduced for the erection of the barriers, Dr. Mbah assured the people of the state that the government would step up its efforts to ensure the security of lives and property. Giving details on Order 003, the governor said that in order to facilitate government services, “every MDA of the Enugu State Government shall publish a complete list of all requirements or condi­tions for obtaining products and services within the MDA’s scope of responsibility, includ­ing permits, licenses, waivers, tax related processes, filings, and approvals”. Meanwhile, Mbah, who was earlier sworn in along­side his deputy, Barr. Ifeanyi Ossai, by the Chief Judge of Enugu, Justice Raymond Ozoemena, had in his inau­gural speech pledged that his administration would not be business as usual, saying “Enugu will rubbish ‘Japa syndrome’, not by legislation, but by creatively addressing the challenges to the future of our youths”.