LAGOS  – A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered the government of President Muhammadu Bu­hari to account for the spending of $460 million Chinese loan to fund the failed Abuja Closed-Cir­cuit Television (CCTV) project. The court further ordered the government to publish the total amount of money paid to Chi­nese and local companies and contractors and specific details of the names of the companies and contractors and status of the implementation of the project. Justice Emeka Nwite made the orders while delivering judgment in a Freedom of In­formation suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/1447/2019 brought by Socio-Economic Rights and Ac­countability Project (SERAP). The suit followed the disclo­sure in 2019 by the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, that “Nigeria was servicing the loan”, adding that she had “no explanations on the status of the project.” She reportedly said, “We are servicing the loan. I have no information on the status of the CCTV project.” In his judgment, Justice Nwite agreed with SERAP that “there is a reasonable cause of action against the government. Accounting for the spending of the $460 million Chinese loan is in the interest of the public. It will be inimical for the court to refuse SERAP’s application for judicial review of the govern­ment’s action.” Justice Nwite also said that “the Minister of Finance is in charge of the finance of the country and cannot by any stretch of imagination be oblivi­ous of the amount of money paid to the contractors for the Abuja CCTV contract and the money meant for the construction of the headquarters of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB).” Justice Nwite also ordered the government to provide the details clarifying whether the sum of N1.5 billion paid for the failed contract meant to con­struct the headquarters of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) was part of another loan ob­tained from China. Justice Nwite’s judgment, read in part: “SERAP’s core ob­jectives are to promote human rights, transparency and ac­countability and anticorruption in Nigeria. POLL “I am of the humble view that there is a reasonable cause of action against the government [through the Minister of Fi­nance] and I so hold that SERAP has made out a case to be entitled to the reliefs sought. “The law is well settled that where a document or letter is sent by post, it is the law that same is taken or presumed to have been delivered. “Following this principle of law and relying on exhibit OS2, SERAP’s Freedom of Informa­tion request sent to Ms. Ahmed is deemed to have delivered. Therefore, the averment by the government [through her] that they were not served with the let­ter is hereby discountenanced. I so hold.” Joined as defendants in the suit are Ms. Ahmed and the Min­ister of Police Affairs. Justice Nwite granted the following orders of mandamus against the Nigerian govern­ment: “An order of mandamus directing and compelling the gov­ernment [through the Minister of Finance] to provide and make available to SERAP information on the total amount of money paid to contractors, with specific details of names of companies, local contractors involved, from the $460 million loan obtained in 2010 from China by the Federal Government of Nigeria to fund the failed Abuja CCTV contract. “An order directing and com­pelling the government (through the Minister of Finance) to pro­vide the details of the local com­panies and Chinese contractors that have received funds from the $460 million loan for the finance of the Abuja CCTV contract as well as details of the status of implementation of the project. “An order is directing and compelling the government [through the Minister of Fi­nance] to provide the details clarifying whether the sum of N1.5 billion mobilisation fee re­portedly paid to the contractors for the construction of the head­quarters of the Code of Conduct Bureau in Abuja was part of an­other loan from China. This is the judgment of the court.” Meanwhile, SERAP deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare, has said that: “The onus is now on President Buhari to immedi­ately comply with the court’s or­ders. We commend Justice Nwite for his courage and wisdom, and urge President Buhari and Abu­bakar Malami, Attorney-Gener­al of the Federation and Minister of Justice to immediately obey the court orders. “This is a victory for justice, rule of law, transparency and accountability. The judgment shows the way forward in the fight against corruption and impunity of perpetrators. We will do everything within the law to ensure full compliance by President Buhari with this ground-breaking judgment on Chinese loans. “We call on President Bu­hari to use the judgment as the basis for publishing details of spending of all Chinese loans and other loans obtained by his government since May 2015.” Nigeria’s total borrowing from China climbed from $1.39 billion to $4.29 billion between June 2015 and December 2022, according to data from Debt Management Office (DMO). Nigeria’s 2023-2025 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP) revealed earlier in the year that the Federal Gov­ernment will spend N6.31 trillion on debt servicing in 2023, which amounts to about 74.6% of the government’s projected revenue of 8.46 trillion for the year. Nigeria risks losing key national assets to China in the event that it defaults in paying back loans obtained from China. According to a report, Nigeria may have defaulted on Chinese loan repayment and stands the risk of paying a penalty amount­ing to N41.31 billion. The report quoted the DMO, which said Ni­geria has failed to fully service its debt to China, which has ac­cumulated to N110.31 billion in the last two years. It would be recalled that SERAP had in December 2019 filed a lawsuit against Ms. Ahmed over failure to “disclose informa­tion and specific documents on the total amount of money paid to contractors from the $460 mil­lion loan obtained in 2010 from China to fund the apparently failed Abuja CCTV project.”