Indeed, Bola Ahmed Tinubu has made it. As he freely confessed before us all at the beginning of his campaign for Nigeria’s most abused office, to be president of Nigeria had been a life-long ambition. Now, he has all but achieved it. Today is May 28, 2023 – the eve of his rise to power as the 14th person to head the government of Nigeria amid political tremors. He could as well sing one of my favourite nursery rhymes: Row, row, row your boat/ Gently down the stream/Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily/Life is but a dream. Life, indeed, is a dream when it turns out beautiful, a nightmare when it goes awry. Incidentally, every nightmare begins as a dream but that is not a reality to be scared of at this point because – all things being right – he is about to step into a most privileged position which only very few Nigerians – not up to a hundred out of more than 220 million – can attain in a century. That alone is something to cheer about. So, from here: congratulations. On April 1, 2021, I wrote a piece in this same medium, entitled ‘Letter to Bola Ahmed Tinubu’, when it had become certain that he was truly strategizing for participation in Aso Rock 2023. That was about two years ago. In that unsolicited intervention, I suggested that he began to distance himself from Muhammadu Buhari because it would be dangerous for his political ambition to identify with a glaring leadership misfit. Available evidence indicates that he didn’t come across my suggestion, and that even if he had come across it, it would be more politically expedient to ignore it. That’s okay since he has been declared winner of the election despite telling everyone that he would continue where Buhari stopped. Even as recently as Thursday, Tinubu still found it necessary to eulogise Buhari when the latter conferred the Grand Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (GCFR) honour (Nigeria’s highest) on him at the State House Conference Centre, Abuja. But it is relieving that despite his insistence on attributing non-existent virtues to Buhari, he betrayed a sense of awareness of the source of the present mandate and the task ahead. These words, which he spoke on that day of his investiture, are noteworthy. “I am a simple man who is the beneficiary of the support and goodwill of the people of Nigeria. The people have put their trust in us. You have done your part, Mr. President. Now, that great duty descends on me. I understand the meaning of the honour given to me today and of the task that awaits. I must run this race and must do it well. On security, the economy, agriculture, jobs, education, health and power and in all other sectors we must make headway. The people deserve no less. In this, I shall disappoint neither them nor you, Mr. President.” And this is my concern. In two years short of a full decade, the All Progressives Congress (APC) of Buhari demonstrated a complete disregard for human life in not only looking the other way while hundreds were murdered in cold blood but in also failing to address social drift and the gradual but ignominious pauperization of the majority of Nigerians. The accretion of evil in government has reached such monumental levels that will shake even the most incurable optimist, yet this is the reality that Tinubu must confront when he is sworn in tomorrow. Again, I suggest a complete break from the past, from Buhari – if the incoming president is truly willing to succeed in the key areas he has outlined. But this will require very brave decisions. Will Tinubu, for instance, be brave enough to redress the imbalance in public service appointments? Will he have the guts to insist on the constitutionally enshrined Federal Character principle? Will he be brave enough to dig deep into the core of terror and banditry, wipe them and their financiers out in the most decisive manner? Will he be brave enough kill the mind-boggling monster of corruption which some critics have associated him with? Will he be brave enough to rid the forests of the North and South of killer herdsmen who have long become sacred cows in Nigeria? Will Tinubu be brave enough to take the most drastic and defining economic measures that will address fraudulent policies put in place to provide space and cover for a privileged few, especially in the financial and oil sectors? Given his personal predisposition and political allegiances, will he be brave enough to keep faith with his promises to the people? Let him be reminded – for all it is worth – that his primary responsibility is to the people of Nigeria and not to his cronies, affiliates, or ethnic claimants, as past heads of government, especially Buhari, had believed. This has been a major source of resentment and agitations in some quatres. There is, in fact, a greater urgency for him in respect of addressing resentment on account of the bitterness and agitations that have attended the political event through which he emerged. The expectations are many as the bitterness is thick among the people, but the most effective way to address both is to rise beyond the ordinary in ideas and responses to socio-economic developments in every part of the country. And, as I have pointed out in a previous piece, these are no ordinary times; they are the most critical times in Nigeria today, and the man that must address the challenges must be a man of extra-ordinary mind. Does Tinubu fit the bill? POLL Now, like most Nigerians, I have little basis to predict Tinubu’s government. The last time he was in charge of government as governor of Lagos State, it took him quite a while to get on his feet. Today, the challenges and the weight are more. It is therefore my sincere wish that he will realise this on time and deploy the most effective instruments to engage them. At the core of the solution is the team that he will appoint to help him accomplish his vision and mission. Reputed to have a knack for discovery excellence, Tinubu is not expected to have difficulties in this regard. But this is only speculative. Tinubu is about to step into global spotlight and the experience will be different from any he has had before, whether as governor or party leader. And his capacities will be tried on different fronts and in different ways – it is hoped that he will grow more responsive to emerging developments rather than withdraw disappointingly as his predecessor did. It will also be futile, after applauding Buhari now to turn round later to claim he never knew that the rot in the system had become unassailable – a claim made several times by Buhari and his aides to excuse their inadequacies. I therefore congratulate the incoming president once again for achieving a life-long ambition and wish him God’s and not man’s guidance as he begins his new functions tomorrow. I also wish to suggest that time is very essential to achieve the new vision and run the new programmes. The programmes have to be different from anything in place at present. The reason is simple: Buhari’s government’s programmes were predesigned to be financial conduit pipes and wealth-to-waste schemes. There are certainly no reasons why Tinubu should not succeed as long as he refuses to be distracted by useless foreign trips and party politicking. Luckily, outgoing First Lady recently informed us that Aso Rock Clinic, a N21billion affair, is good enough for the medical needs of a president even though her husband declined to use it. As for politics, Abdullahi Adamu and whoever else comes along as party chairman should be able to handle the never-ending intrigues in that head-shaving organization. Certainly, a man who bears an elephant on his shoulders should spare himself the additional burden of searching for crickets with his toes. Welcome, Bola Ahmed Tinubu.