BENIN – Over four years after the presentation of their book, two Ni­gerian journalists and authors have appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to redeem his pledge to them before taking his exit from the seat of power on May 29, 2023. The two journalists, Tony Osauzo and Nowinta Igbota­ko, who wrote a book titled “The Fight and Strides of Muhammadu Buhari against Corruption”, made the appeal in a statement in Benin city on Tuesday. According to the authors, “we are calling on the Pres­ident to live up to his rating as a man of integrity and redeem the pledge he made during the public presenta­tion of the book on February 12, 2019 at Bolingo Hotel and Tower, Abuja. “At the event where former Minister of State for Works, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, pre­sided as Chairman, President Muhammadu Buhari was represented by his Special Ad­viser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina. “While speaking on the oc­casion, Adesina pledged the President’s financial support for the book in view of the honour done to the President by the authors and pledged in addition that his office as Special Adviser, would also give financial support for the book project. “One year after the book presentation, we didn’t get feedback from Mr. Adesina. We then contacted him and he told us to write a letter of request through him to Mr. President, as the first one he asked us to write was no lon­ger tenable. “We complied and after a period of time, he informed us that President Muham­madu Buhari had given a “generous financial approv­al” for us and we were happy and appreciated him because he (Adesina) also wrote the foreword to our book on Mr. President. “From that moment on, each time we made enquiry about payment of the mon­ey, Mr. Adesina repeatedly assured us that he would get the money paid to us before the end of President Buhari’s administration. POLL “Subsequently, he stopped responding to our commu­nication. We are therefore appealing to President Mu­hammadu Buhari to fulfill his pledge to us as a man known for integrity before he leaves office,” the author stated.