CHIBUIKE CHUKWU The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) recently stirred the hornet’s nest when it zoned the core principal officer positions of the 10th National Assembly (NASS) in a decision that was almost unilaterally done without recourse to equity, fairness and justice. The zoning almost polarized the party that is gasping for cohesion ahead of the May 29 inauguration as some chieftains of the ruling party saw divided loyalty after the last party primaries that threw up the president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. However, after what almost became a national backlash, even from the members of the opposition parties, the APC retracted and admitted that it erred in announcing the zoning which threw up Senate Presidency seat to Sen. Godswill Akpabio (South South), the Deputy Senate President to Sen. Jubril Barau (North West) while the position of the Speaker of the House of Representatives was zoned to Tajudeen Abass (North West) and Deputy Speaker went to Benjamin Kalu (South East). Admitting that it might have erred in that decision, the party assured that the burning issue which had forced most of the lawmakers-elect from both chambers of the National Assembly to openly threaten to go against the zoning arrangement of the ruling party would be revisited in no distant time. National Chairman of the party, Sen. Abdulahi Adamu, gave the assurance when he received some of the aggrieved senators, who had indicated their interest to contest for leadership positions in the upper chambers. Adamu told the trio of Senators Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara West), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia North) and Sani Musa (Niger East), who presented a joint position paper to him that as a leader of the party, he has taken responsibility for whatever misgivings that followed the zoning arrangement. “As chairman of the APC and members of the National Working Committee (NWC), we take responsibility. As chairman, I take responsibility for what has gone on air. I don’t have to share with you how it got to be shared. I take absolute responsibility for that. We received members of the lower chamber who are also contesting for the speakership in the lower chamber and we had similar pronouncements – words of disagreement from them. POLL “Yes there was no sufficient or adequate consultations with you who are contesting and it is a simple principle of democracy that you get views and opinions. But, the circumstances that we found ourselves in after the elections frustrated our desire. “We must as democrats open up. So when NWC was very clear, yes we have received with respect, the outcome of the meeting with party leaders, comprising leadership of the Senate, the House of Representatives and the party, the NWC. We will go back to the drawing board. We owe our party that duty to take a look whether what was done cannot be changed; what was done needs some changes or reviews. We will take a look at what necessary compelled us to do by the grace of God. “Hold the fire until the last word is heard from us. We are the custodians of the party as NWC but we are not acting alone. The voice of the President-elect is an essential voice. We must accommodate him, the best we can. I will not compromise on that. So, he is right now outside the country and by the grace of God when he comes back we will go back to the drawing board and put our heads together again and see what we will get. I cannot preempt that, I will wait until we hold that meeting with Mr. President-elect, the same team that we had the same meeting with. If we need to enlarge the committee we will do so we will be better informed through contributions that will be made. “We will go through your memo, line by line and ensure that we are able to capture the spirit of your presentation and see what will be the best way out of the situation we have. Whatever you heard is the art of human endeavour and we are not perfect as human beings. We can make mistakes. So, if we find in the course of further consultations the mistakes that need to be looked at, we will look at them”. Reassuring as the words of the APC chairman sounded, many analysts have pointed to the fact that it was time the party allowed members of the National Assembly to choose their leaders without executive influence. Speaking on the issue, Kawu Sumaila, a senator-elect (Kano South), said it was very imperative now for the federal lawmakers to make the choice of who and who would lead the National Assembly: “In exercising principles of democracy and separation of powers, the executive should allow senators and members-elect to choose our leaders that will pilot the affairs of the 10th National Assembly. “The legitimacy of the National Assembly before the Nigerian people can be enhanced or diminished by the quality of its leadership. “National Assembly is a constitutional representation where every part of Nigeria is represented to foster development through lawmaking process and advance the will of the people. “Our democracy will benefit significantly if the legislature performs its primary duties of law-making and oversight functions against the Executive and pursues a vision for Nigeria that will make it a great nation”. According to him, constitutional provisions should be upheld in deciding the presiding officers of the National Assembly. “Anything short of this may undermine the output and impact of the 10th Assembly, which presents a rare opportunity for the legislative institution to reassert itself as the pillar of democracy and earn public trust.” However, while the call is commendable, there should be an effort to ensure equity, inclusiveness and justice in the election of principal officers of the legislative arm of government. Also, after the election, there was a call for the senate presidency position to go to the South-East or South-South in the spirit of equity and according to APC caucus, as revealed at a time by Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano State, the former Akwa Ibom State governor, Akpabio, was highly favored for the position, hence his earlier announcement as the preferred choice by the NWC did not come to many as surprise. However, the APC threw equity and inclusiveness into the trash can when it ignored the North-Central in the allocation of principal officers. That was even as North West had both deputy senate president and speaker of the House of Representatives. Although Tinubu got over two million votes in the North-West, he pulled an impressive figure in the north central, winning in states that was earlier tagged ‘a Peter Obi prospect’ like Benue and Plateau, hence the call for equity. Analysts believe that while the choice of Akpabio may not be a bad one considering that the zone, as well as the South-East, was earlier touted to produce the president of the senate, zoning the deputy to North-West should automatically make the same region not worthy to produce the speaker of the House of Representatives. This position was reinforced by a group, ‘North Central Democratic Coalition’, during their march to the headquarters of the APC, demanding the speakership position of the tenth NASS. Leader of the group, Dr Ben Amodu, while addressing the press, said there was the need for inclusiveness in the allocation of NASS positions, saying leaving North-Central was not right. “We have come here today in our numbers to demand the zoning of the speakership position in the North-Central region of the country. A non-action implies that the North-Central region would be left out of the scheme of things because the Vice President is from the North-East, and the North-West is in strong contention for a Senate leadership position. “Therefore, the need for accommodating the North-Central in the scheme of things must be addressed. We dare say that the North-Central region has been neglected by previous administrations, which does not augur well for our democratic experiment. For example, the current arrangement does not include the North-Central region, with the president from the North-West, the Senate President from the North-East, and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation from the North-East.” DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that there is efforts to ensure equity and the inclusion of the North-Central but an APC chieftain from Abia State, Chief Uka Iro, while in a chat, said while zoning is okayed by the party, there was the need to still allow elections in the different chambers in order to at least get the best from the regions. “I will advise my party to allow for elections. We should do things differently because the oppositions are watching us. “Even if we zone, let us allow the zones allocated positions to bring out contestants and they will be voted for. If that will be done, we will have a National Assembly that will be up and doing,” he said.