Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), on Monday, said that over 1.4 million transactions have passed through the eNaira platform from inception till date. Emefiele gave the hint during the opening ceremony of the 34th Seminar for Finance Correspondents and Business Editors held with the theme: “Implementing a Robust Payment Architecture: prospects, Opportunities and Challenges” in Calabar, the Cross River State capital. He said the apex Bank said the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic triggered rapid advancements in financial technology leading to speedy digitization of money and finance with CBN taking advantage of the opportunity to launch the eNaira in October 2021. According to Emefiele, eNaira was developed to broaden the payment possibilities of Nigerians and foster digital financial inclusion, with the potential for fast-tracking intergovernmental and social transfers, stressing that since its launch, the CBN has continued to modify its features to make it more accessible to a wide range of users. “Today, one does not need a smartphone to use the eNaira as it has become compatible with all generations of mobile devices (old and new). “Another initiative of the bank, Emefiele said is open banking aimed at expanding the cache of customer data warehoused in the financial sector for use in developing innovative products to service the needs of the public. “The opportunities presented by open banking are diverse and it serves to enhance financial inclusion and encourage healthy competition in the financial services space as well as promote efficiency.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The Bank also initiated the Regulatory Sandbox to provide the opportunity for innovators to test their ideas and products to regulators in a controlled environment where the risks and potential of the products could be assessed. POLL “The Bank recently opened the first cohort of the sandbox. He assured that the CBN will ensure that the data exchange will be done in a way to safeguard the privacy and concerns of the customers who own the data in the first place. The CBN boss further stated that startups with innovative ideas are invited to apply to the sandbox. On cardless and other contactless payment options, Emefiele said that the industry is quickly evolving towards cardless and other contactless payment options, including QR codes, NFC, etc. He said, in this regard, the bank has issued robust regulations to standardize operations of contactless payments in Nigeria. “Through contactless payments, financial transactions can be consummated without physical contact between the payer and acquiring devices. It is an innovative payment option for the safe and efficient conduct of low-value, large-volume payments. The CBN boss also noted that the Bank Verification Number (BVN) has continued to feature in the apex bank’s KYC requirements as part of plans to ease the constraint associated with poor identification of banking customers. “He said “We have continued to support the aggressive enrollment of prospective banking customers in the informal sector onto the BVN system. “With a total enrollment of 57,431,355 as of 31st March 2023, the BVN is supporting the development of credit profiles for banking customers, which will assist in improving access to credit for credit-worthy borrowers by banks. “The BVN has also helped the industry in investigating fraud and other related crimes,” he said. Emefiele listed some of the challenges faced by the bank in implementing these initiatives, including weak social infrastructure, activities of unlicensed entities, cyber threats, and fraud. He said, in response to the challenges posed by cyber threats, the CBN has put the following initiatives in place. “The Nigeria Electronic Fraud Forum (NeFF): consists of all relevant stakeholders, to proactively address challenges and safeguard the integrity of the e-payment channels. “Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard: mandatory for any entity that processes, stores/saves, or transmits payment card data. “The Financial Industry Cybersecurity Fusion Centre: serves as a sectoral Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) for the Nigerian Financial Services Industry. Speaking further he said, other Initiatives against cybersecurity and fraud in Nigeria include Cybercrime Acts’ enacted in 2021 to address National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy, endorsement of the SWIFT Sanction Screening Service & SWIFT Cross-border payments security (ISO20022 Standard) for banks, risk-based Cybersecurity framework for Payment Service Providers (PSPs) and Deposit Money Banks (DMBs), enforcement of Two-factor Authentication(2FA) requirement on all electronic banking products and enforced the Installation of Anti-Skimming Device on ATMs. Emefiele maintained that with these initiatives in place, the CBN has demonstrated irrevocable commitment to ensuring the stability and safety of the Nigerian payment system. “Accordingly, we shall continue to deepen our oversight of the activities of operators in the payments system as well as ensure full compliance with regulations. He said the bank will also continue to adopt a collaborative approach to achieve minimal cybersecurity threats in the payments system, adding that a holistic mechanism for addressing cybersecurity threats requires policy and operational actions by all stakeholders. “As you are aware, effective January 2023, the Bank issued a Risk-Based Cyber-Security Framework and Guidelines for Other Financial Institutions, to ensure their operational resilience in the face of cyber-security threats. ” I am happy to note that this suite of initiatives has helped to open a vista of new opportunities in the payment ecosystem. With these revolutionary technological developments, the market has witnessed the deployment of new payment solutions. Artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and contactless payments are some of the areas creating new opportunities for operators. “The Payments System Vision (PSV) 2025, launched recently, also contains several recommendations aimed at driving the implementation of some of the latest technologies to ensure the system’s resilience and safety. “We remain proud that the Nigerian payments and financial services sector is ranked among the best in terms of innovation, regulation, and resilience. To sustain the successes achieved, the support of all financial institutions and stakeholders is imperative. In this regard, the CBN stands ready to continue to strengthen the institutional and regulatory frameworks that would encourage further development of the payments system and promote the usage of secure and credible electronic products as stipulated in the PSV 2025 strategic plan” Emefiele said.