JOY ANIGBOGU May 29, the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will take over the mantle of leadership from the outgoing President Muhamadu Buhari as the 16th President of the federal Republic of Nigeria. Expectations are high as Nigerians look forward to the exit of President Muhammadu Buhari who has served eight years having won an election in 2015 for the first term and a reelection in 2019. There are speculations that the administration of the Katsina State born retired General is marked with hardship, killings and all kinds of agitations across various groups with some people saying that his regime has divided Nigerians across ethnic and religious lines as never before in its history. While it is true that the election that gave victory to the former Lagos State Governor is adjudged as the most controversial election in Nigeria, as well as the issue of popularity, where the President-elect got less than 40 percent of votes to emerge winner. Recall that Tinubu polled 8,794,726 votes to defeat 17 other candidates. His two closest opponents, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Governor Peter Obi of the Labour Party, are calling for the cancellation of the 25 February poll, alleging that it was tainted by voter suppression and the failure of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to upload polling units results from the over 176,000 polling stations to INEC Result Viewing (IReV) portal as stipulated in its guideline. However, INEC has dismissed the claims of the candidates, whose agents walked out of the national collation centre, where the returns from the states were tallied, and advised them to take their grievances to the election petition tribunal, as stipulated by law. Tinubu, adjudged to be a great political strategist, has consistently played major roles in party politics since 1992 when he was elected senator for Lagos West District. POLL He has since then been governor of Lagos for eight years. His victory at the February 25 presidential election means that he took the prize on first attempt, just like Shehu Shagari, Olusegun Obasanjo and Umaru Yar’adua, since he has never contested for that position in the past even at the primary level. By his victory in the presidential election, Tinubu became the third person from the South-west to be elected president in 30 years and in the entire history of the country. However, the election of the first one, Moshood Abiola, was annulled and he died in prison under the military while insisting on the de-annulment of the 1993 presidential election and revalidation of his mandate. Despite the hard way he secured his victory, the president-elect is going to the Aso Rock Villa with a reputation of a successful governor, party builder and political strategist. This will raise expectations among Nigerians and outside the country about the prospects of Nigeria on his watch. After the security and economic crises of the past eight years, many believe Buhari is not a tough act to follow. Some reports a few weeks ago stated that Nigerian stocks rose upon information that Tinubu was heading for victory. Tinubu made an almost anonymous entry into the political terrain during the political transition programme of General Ibrahim Babangida. He was a member of the Peoples Front, a political association founded by the late Shehu Yar’adua but the group and others were denied registration as political parties by the junta. Instead, it established two parties, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the National Republican Convention (NRC). The Yar’adua group moved into the former and it was under the party that Tinubu was elected senator in July 1992. After Sani Abacha, the military successor of Ibrahim Babangida, scrapped the transitional democratic institutions, including the National Assembly, threw Abiola into jail and went after his supporters with an iron fist, Tinubu joined in the formation of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) which sustained a campaign against military rule. His involvement in the pro-democracy struggle forced him into exile. When he returned to Nigeria after the June 1998 death of Abacha, Tinubu joined in forming the Alliance for Democracy (AD) and was elected the first governor of Lagos State in the Fourth Republic in 1999. He was the only one among the six governors of the party, all of them in the South-west, to retain office in 2003 after Olusegun Obasanjo’s PDP seized control of the region during the president’s reelection that year. Tinubu’s legacy as governor of Lagos State include pioneering the Bus Rapid Transit System and LAGBUS, establishment of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) and creation of 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs). As an advocate of true federalism, he referenced at least 13 matters related to the principle of federalism to be tested by the Supreme Court. His creation of the LCDAs led to the federal government seizing the allocations to local governments in the state from the federation account until he and former President Obasanjo left their different offices in 2007. After his tenure as governor, Tinubu concentrated on rebuilding his party to reclaim the Southwest from the PDP and to build alliances outside the region for influence in national politics. In 2006, Atiku, at that time a vice president, who had fallen out with former President Obasanjo and was being hounded by the PDP, crossed over to the Action Congress of Tinubu to run unsuccessfully in the 2007 presidential election. After further incarnation as Action Congress, Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN), Tinubu’s party merged with two other legacy parties, the All Nigerians Peoples Party (ANPP) and the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and factions of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the PDP to produce the APC in 2013. The party was an instant hit with the Nigerian voters and it defeated the ruling PDP in the 2015 elections. Many leaders of the APC spoke on various occasions about the pivotal role of Tinubu in the formation of the APC. Tinubu carried out his campaign along with the Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima on the slogan of “Renewed Hope”. Some Nigerians believe that he has the capacity to deliver having successfully initiated the transformation of Lagos State to the position that it is today, through the role that played in ensuring that successive governors after him are gurus in the business of governance. According to reports, Bola Tinubu served as the governor of Lagos State between May 1999 and May 2007. He inherited in 1999, a dilapidated state with failed infrastructure, collapsed businesses, dwindling economy, dirty environment, decayed public transport system, terrible healthcare, security issues, an educational sector on the brink of collapse, and a justice system that was unorganised amongst other things. The report further stated that Lagos State as at May 1999 had not filled any financial reports for the past two years, there was no record to show income and expenditure. The state was generating about 600 million monthly but when Tinubu left office Lagos State was generating about 15billion monthly an increase of over 1000%. Lagos took her rightful position on the world map after the Tinubu effect and that momentum has been sustained by subsequent administrations and giant and greater strides have been achieved as a result of Tinubu’s template. So, when he is sworn in on 29 May, Tinubu will become Nigeria’s fifth president of the Fourth Republic. Controversy persists over aspects of Tinubu’s biography, especially his date of birth, parentage and early education. However, his records established that he was born on 29 March 1952. He went to the United States in 1975, where he studied first at Richard J. Daley College in Chicago and then at Chicago State University. He graduated in 1979 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting. His working career showed that Tinubu worked for the American companies Arthur Andersen, Deloitte, Haskins, and Sells, and GTE Services Corporation. He returned to Nigeria in 1983 and joined Mobil Oil Nigeria as an auditor, and later became an executive of the company. He is the author of at least two publications: “Financialism: Water from an Empty Well”, which was co-written with Briane Brown; and “Common Sense Revolution”, which was presented at the seventh Bola Tinubu Colloquium. He has many honorary academic awards, including: Doctor of Civil Law (DCL) (Honoris Causa) by the University of Njala, Freetown, Sierra Leone; Doctor of Science (D.Sc) by Kano State University of Science and Technology; Doctor of Science (D.SC) in Management Sciences by Ladoke Akintola University of Technology; Doctor of Political Science and Diplomacy by Adeleke University, Osun State; Doctor of Business Administration by University of Abuja, and Doctor of Business Administration by Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto. The former governor of Lagos State also holds many chieftaincy titles, including Asiwaju of Lagos, Aare of Ile Oluji, Eze Obalu Dike Gawu na Oko, Jagaban of Borgu, Are-Ago of Egbaland and Wakilin Raya Emir of Gusau. Tinubu is married to Oluremi, a current senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, representing Lagos Central at the Red Chamber of the National Assembly and by May 29, she will be the first lady of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.