EJIKEME OMENAZU The Kingdom Missions Outreach (KMO) Inc, a missionary outfit, has said that its 2023 Mission Summit will hold between August 30 and September 2, 2023. The programme, according to the missionary outfir, is in its effort to raise ministers for the expansion of the Kingdom of God here on earth. KMO President, Apostle Kanayo Success Uchime, in a statement, said: “We’re glad to announce that our 2023 edition of All Abakaliki Finishing The Task Mission Summit’, has been scheduled to hold this August 30 to September 2, 2023.” The event, according to him, will hold in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital in the South East of Nigeria. He said the venue for the event is the Nigeria Reformed Church, 1 Ogoja Road, by Kilimanjaro, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. Apostle Uchime stated: “This year’s theme is ‘There Remains Much Land To Possess’ taken from Joshua 13:1. “The theme is aptly captured realising that much work is still remaining to be accomplished in global missions. Our trust at summit, therefore, is to come up with ways and means of engaging the vast unreached people’s groups. POLL “As expected, we will be partnering with Asia For Jesus Ministry, USA; the Nigerian Evangelical Missions Association (NEMA), Southeast Zone, and the Body of Christ in Abakaliki. “We will be having two sessions this time – morning session 9.am-2.pm, and the afternoon session, which will start by 3.30-7.30pm. “The first day will be arrival and welcome, and will commence by 3.pm -7.30pm, while the next day starts by 9.am, then departure date is Saturday. “Our thanksgiving service will be on Sunday September 3 at the same venue.” He said the resource persons are drawn from both foreign and indigenous speakers who will bring to bear their long experiences as missionaries to the summit. According to him, all materials for the summit and some books will be given out free to the first 100 participants to register and complete. Uchime stressed that registration for the summit will be free, including feeding and accommodation, adding that this is the third in the series, “and we trust God that this year’s edition will be more rewarding than the previous ones.” He said the major objective of the summit is to sensitise the church for full involvement in global missions, adding, “We’re therefore expecting that the summit will be outcome based. A communiqué will be issued at the end of the summit. “Volunteers who will like to join our planning committee are cordially welcomed. They may call any of our telephone numbers. We expect to receive both old and new participants. “Importantly, we solicit for financial support at whatever level to enable us execute this heavenly vision. Contact us privately for this, and the good Lord will bless you.”