…Needs Fund For Medical Treatment AKURE – A visually impaired man, Mr. Babatunde Kareem, on Monday fell into a drainage in the front of Department of Establishment at Ondo State Secretariat, Alagbaka, Akure. According to a statement jointly signed by that th Chairman and Public Relations Officer of state chapter of the Nigeria Association of The Blind, comrades Akilo Ojo Matthew and Nasirudeen Oladele respectively, the victim fell into the open drainage after alighting from a motorbike and sustained serious injuries. He was said to have been pierced by some spikes of rod in the drainage which pierced his uterus and urethra. Babatunde is currently undergoing treatment in a private hospital in the state capital, Akure, and would need to go through some surgeries. According to the statement made available to newsmen on Saturday, the association has called on Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to come to the rescue of the victim. The state reads in parts: “A visually impaired youth named Mr. Babatunde Kareem has suffered a life-threatening injury on Monday 22nd of May 2023 while entering into the establishment office at Alagbaka Akure. “Mr. Babatunde after alighting from the bike fell into the uncovered gutter at the front of the establishment office. The worst part of it is that the gutter contains of rods which injured him in his uterus and Utrera which caused him internal bleeding and since then has been hospitalized. POLL “The first hospital he was rushed to rejected him due to the severity of the injury and asked he should be taken to the federal medical centre Owo before another private hospital accepted to rescued him because the bleeding was getting out of hand. “A surgical operation has been done on him to stop the bleeding and the Doctor have said another surgical operation would still be carried out. “This is a clarion call to the Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Odunayo Akeredolu to come to the rescue of Mr. Babatunde Kareem’s life and call for the construction of culvert on all the frontage of public offices most especially deep gutters and one with metals to fall stall future occurrence of such. “The sector that left the gutter uncovered in spite of knowing it could be a death trap should not be left unquestioned because this action of theirs does not meet up with the best global practices. Mr. Babatunde need urgent attention to bring him back to normalcy and good health condition.”