LAGOS – An Islamic cleric and Chief Imam of Mogaji Central Mosque, in Lagos Island,Alhaji Imam Abdur Rahman Mogaji has commended a popular Lagos-based building professional and property developer, Olanrewaju Sikiru Nollah for exceptional forthrightness and professionalism. Mogaji added that Nollah remains, “a shining light among building developers in Lagos who has displayed uncommon bravery, extreme openness, integrity and kindness in the discharge of his professional duties. “Quite unusual with the brazen notoriety and sharp practices that many property developers are known for, Nollah doesn’t cheat family owners while developing or managing property. He also doesn’t compromise, keeps to agreement and hands over property promptly,” he noted. The cleric made the remarks while reacting to controversies about a demolished building at Church Street, Idumota, Lagos. Mogaji, who also hails from the late Pa Sadiku Bolarinwa Ogabi Eletu Odibo branch of the Kumeifo Oba Olaribigbe Family clarified that Nollah committed no wrongdoings over the property demolition allegation. He explained that the property belonged to the late Eletu Odibo family and it was the family who instructed Nollah to demolish it after the Lagos state building control agency marked the building for demolition and published the same in its bulletins after it failed integrity tests. The move was said to have become necessary to prevent needless loss of life and property and the risk of forfeiting the distressed property to the government should it collapse totally. Mogaji added that all tenants were given due notices to vacate, first for six months and an extra month grace during which no payment was collected from them, so, no issue of ejection. POLL He revealed that while the property was already ceded to the Sadiku Bolarinwa Ogabi Eletu Odibo by a family meeting resolution of 26th September, 1998, but wasn’t released until 13th August, 2021 by the other three family branches which later in 2022 illegally and shockingly released same property to Hakeem Olawuyi, a property developer, without the knowledge and consent of the Sadiku branch who are the real owners. That was the cause of the confusion and it was Alhaja Muinatu Aramide Disu and Mr Lateef Bello Bamgbaye who engineered the crisis in the family, collecting rents and leasing family property without any accountability and transparency to other members. He disclosed that the Eletu Odibo branch has petitioned the Inspector General of Police over the matter.