Welcome to the Assisted Reproductive Technology series with Dr. Ken. Here, we discuss Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) as a means to tackling the problem of infertility. In the last release, we considered the IVF success rates, and highlighted certain factors that could mitigate the success of the procedure, and also outlined lifestyle changes that guarantee better outcomes. Today, we shall be answering the million-dollar question of: Are IVF Babies Normal? In my many years of practice and experience as a Consultant Gynecologist, with specialty in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART), I have had to answer a lot of questions from couples who come to my office on a daily basis. One of the questions often asked after consultation and suggestion of the IVF procedure as a means to conception is: Are the IVF babies, normal babies? Normally I try to maintain my calm, smile broadly, observe the environment, look at the couple and ask them: Where are we getting the eggs and sperms to be used for the procedure? I get the obvious answer of “from us”. I then proceed to ask: In whose womb will the embryos be implanted? I still let them supply the answer themselves. After that, I throw back the earlier question they asked to them: What then is abnormal about the babies that will be born? From 1978 when the first recorded case of successful IVF was done till this point, over 10 million children globally have been born through the IVF process and they are doing just fine – as fine and healthy as the children conceived spontaneously (through the normal cycle). It should therefore be settled in your mind that there is nothing artificial about the process or babies born through IVF. The only difference is that here, for some reasons, fertilization was aided and done externally. Even in the case of a donor sperm or eggs, and even using a surrogate as the case may be, the gametes used are not manufactured in the lab. After fertilization is achieved, the embryos are transferred to the uterus of the woman where implantation and eventual pregnancy occurs. The fate of the pregnancy is the same as that of a child conceived spontaneously. The woman is eventually delivered of a baby. You feel the baby, handle the baby, breastfeed the baby, watch the baby grow like any other normal child, he or she attends a conventional school and does everything normally. There is absolutely nothing abnormal about the baby. In fact, if I am to take it to the extreme, I could say that IVF babies have the tendency of even being more normal than children conceived spontaneously. This is because in the spontaneous conception, there is usually no control over anything as everything happens randomly. The woman ovulated a certain kind of egg, and the man releases millions of sperms during intercourse, all of which race towards the egg. One randomly gets to the egg before the others and breaks the shell, fertilizing the egg. The others then die off. The zygote which eventually becomes the baby inherits the code of its building component. There is absolutely no control over the process as selection is purely random. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In the case of conception through IVF however, a lot could be observed and avoided through the advanced approach of Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) where the embryos can be screened for possible genetic defects before they arre transferred to the uterus. There is also the possibility for sex selection here which is not possible in the spontaneous cycle. POLL The future of gene editing we have looked forward to, is becoming a present day reality using the CRISPR technology, all agreeing with the fact that the IVF process as a form of Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART), is here to change the reproduction narrative for good. I have personally seen children who should have still been alive, leave this world in miserable conditions due to genetic complications. And if the IVF treatment serves as a means through which some of these situations can be averted, then it a great development that should be embraced by everyone. In a nutshell, IVF babies are as normal as babies conceived spontaneously, and if extreme sides are to be taken, I will say they have the tendency of being more normal than spontaneously conceived babies. Thank you for staying with me today. I am always here to provide expert information on Assisted Reproductive Technology, and how this can help make your dream of a complete family a reality. Until next time, stay fine, and always remember that conception and child bearing is a possibility for everyone that so desires. Dr. Kenneth Egwuda is a consultant Obstetrician and Gynecologist with specialty in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). He has over 16 years of practice and experience. He trained in the UK, India, Bulgaria, Italy, and Germany. His Facility, ALPS Hospitals and Diagnostics, Jos, Nigeria, stands at the center stage of Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) in Nigeria. It holds the record of the oldest first-time delivery mum in Africa through IVF at the age of 63. For more, visit www.kennethegwuda.com.ngAnd follow on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter @AskDocKen You can also subscribe to his YouTube channel @AskDocKen 