Chief Barr. Ifeatu Obi-Okoye, an astute politician and very strong contender for the office of the State Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance in Anambra state, has predicted that APGA will win the governorship election in 2025 and that he has what it takes to make it happen as state chairman of the party. Obi-Okoye who was Special Adviser on Political Matters to the Anambra State Government when ex-governor Willie Obiano won all the 21 local government areas in the 2018 governorship polls; was equally very instrumental in Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo’s electoral conquest in 2021; a time when some members of APGA in Anambra became dissidents and sabotaged Soludo’s gubernatorial aspiration over alleged pecuniary interest in the opposition camp. He recalled that as the state chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra state, he won all three senatorial seats in the 2003 National Assembly elections in Anambra state. Obi-Okoye further disclosed that as the state chairman of the PDP, he midwifed the party to win 10 out of the 11 Federal House of Representatives Seats in Anambra state in the 2003 National Assembly elections. That as the state chairman of the PDP, he equally midwifed the party to clinch all the 30 seats in the State Assembly elections of 2003. He said the above feat will be re-enacted in 2025, if he becomes APGA chairman in Anambra state. According to him, the incoming leadership of the party should understand the fundamental principles of the national leadership of the All Progressives Grand Alliance in order to drive the party. He added that the state leadership must equally understand the positive disruptive endeavours of the present regime. He said APGA has to be re-engineered in many ways and the party must not depend on stipends and subventions from the government instead he would work out ways to raise revenue for the party if he becomes the next state chairman of APGA in Anambra.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Obi-Okoye maintained that if he gets the blessings of party members to be the next APGA chairman, he would set up Truth and Reconciliation Committee to address intra-party issues, the conduct of primaries and congresses as well as set up cooperatives for members of the party. POLL Although he pointed out that there would be a big battle in the 2025 governorship election in Anambra state due to the new ‘Obidients’ and that APC will become stronger with Bola Ahmed Tinubu as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, he believes APGA will win again in 2025.