KANO – A Senator-elect, Abdulrahman Kawu Sumaila, on Thursday called on the President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to allow senators and members-elect to choose their leaders that would pilot the affairs of the 10th National Assembly. Kawu Sumaila, Senator-elect (Kano South), said, “Bola Ahmed Tinubu, being a democrat who has fought for the return and sustenance of democracy in Nigeria to, as a matter of priority in exercising principles of democracy and separation of powers, allow Senators and Members-elect to choose our leaders that will pilot the affairs of the 10th National Assembly.” Sumaila, who halted Senator Ibrahim Gaya’s streak at the Red Chamber noted that “The National Assembly is a Constitutional representation where every part of Nigeria is represented to foster development through lawmaking process and advance the will of the people.” In a statement signed by the Kano firebrand politician that was made available to newsmen in Kano said: “Our democracy will benefit significantly if the legislature performs its primary duties of law-making and oversight functions against the Executive and pursues a vision for Nigeria that will make it a great nation”. The NNPP stalwart in the statement declared “Constitutional provisions should be upheld in deciding the presiding officers of the National Assembly. Anything short of this may undermine the output and impact of the 10th Assembly, which presents a rare opportunity for the legislative institution to reassert itself as the pillar of democracy and earn public trust. The Proprietor of Al Istikamah University explained that “This struggle must start with the quality of leaders’ we elect in June and in addition to our sensitivities, merit must be the highest consideration.” He cautioned that “The legitimacy of the National Assembly before Nigerian people can be enhanced or diminished by the quality of its leadership.” The former Deputy Minority Leader in the 6th and 7th National Assembly explained that “More than at any time under the current dispensation which started in 1999, we need independent-minded leaders who can foster the independence of the legislature if our country must make progress.” POLL The erstwhile Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (House of Representatives) in the 8th National Assembly stated that “The National Assembly therefore should be encouraged to choose leaders with rich legislative experience who can carry everybody along, command the respect of their colleagues and restore the dignity of the embattled legislative institution. He maintained that “Above all, positions of leadership should be given to those with the capacity to execute the job; and there must be no imposition of leaders under any guise. Kawu Sumaila explained this singular move would “surely go a long way in upholding the tenets of democracy in Nigeria.” He further tasked “Senators and Members-elect, the executive and indeed all Nigerians to join hands in making the New Nigeria Project succeed.”