The APC Youth Leaders Aspirant Forum in collaboration with the coalition of Peoples with Voters Card and 19 other Youth groups thrown its weight behind the ambition of the deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Ahmed Idris Wase, to run as Speaker ahead of the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly in June, this year. The Convener of the group, Kabir Hassan Sambo who stated the position of the group during a press conference held at the BIC plaza in Bauchi on Tuesday, said that electing good leadership for the upcoming 10th assembly is of utmost importance as it determines the direction and progress of the country, stressing that good leadership is essential for effective decision-making, policy implementation, and overall development. Kabir said that the North Central geopolitical zone has never produced a Speaker of the House of Representatives since Nigeria’s independence in 1960, pointing out that some stakeholders believe that it is time for the zone to produce the next Speaker of the House of Representatives in the 10th Assembly. “Zoning the seat of the Speaker to the North Central zone will promote national unity, equity, and fairness. Every region in Nigeria should have a sense of belonging and representation in the government. By zoning the position to the North Central zone, it will create an opportunity for competent individuals from the zone to occupy such a critical position in Nigeria’s government” “Hon Ahmad Idris Wase is a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and has been a member of the House of Representatives since 2007. He represents Wase Federal Constituency in Plateau State. He has served in various capacities, including Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Federal Capital Territory and Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Business. He is known for his commitment to legislative excellence and his ability to build consensus across party lines. He was the Deputy Majority Leader in the 8th Assembly and was seen as a highly experienced and capable legislator. “Wase has also built a reputation as a bridge-builder and a unifier, having worked closely with members from different political parties during his previous tenure in the National Assembly. He is a seasoned politician and lawmaker who has dedicated his life to serving the people of his constituency and Nigeria as a whole. He was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2007 and has since then been re-elected four times. “As the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Wase has been instrumental in driving the legislative agenda of the House. He has played a key role in the passage of several important bills such as the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, and the Police Reform Bill, among others.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Hon Wase has also been a strong advocate for the empowerment of women and youth in his constituency and across Nigeria. He has initiated several programs aimed at providing skills acquisition and entrepreneurship training for women and youth, as well as providing financial support for smalland medium-scale businesses. In addition, Hon. Wase has been a vocal advocate for the unity and progress of Nigeria. He has consistently called for peaceful coexistence among all ethnic and religious groups in the country, and has worked tirelessly to promote national unity and integration” POLL “We are proud of the achievements of Hon. Idris Wase and we believe that he will continue to serve his constituents and Nigeria with dedication, integrity, and commitment. Hon. Wase is an experienced legislator who has served in the House of Representatives for over a decade and has distinguished himself as a dedicated and committed lawmaker. He has also demonstrated an unwavering commitment to the ideals and principles of the APC, making him a worthy candidate for the position of Speaker”. “We appeal to NWC of the APC to consider zoning the seat of Speaker of the House of Representatives to the North Central geopolitical zone, as the North Central region has been an integral part of Nigeria and has played a pivotal role in the success of the APC in the past elections. “We are confident that if given the mandate, Hon. Wase will provide strong leadership and work tirelessly to promote the interests of the legislative arm and ensure a harmonious working environment with other arms of government for the betterment of our people to advance our shared goals of promoting good governance, economic development, and social progress”, the group said.