The stakeholders in Oyo state health sector, converged at the Ilaji Hotels and Sports Resort, Ibadan, to brainstorm and develop programmes and accountability framework for the Health Ministry, related ministries, departments, and agencies. The workshop, organized by the Ministry of Health and US President Malaria Initiative for State Project in Oyo state, is expected to produce a document that will serve as a tool for health systems strengthening. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Bode Ladipo, while delivering his address at the three-day programme, explained that the accountability framework document, after final computation, would add value to the health service delivery in the state. Ladipo, who spoke through the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Olusoji Adeyanju, said it became imperative to pay attention to the current nomenclatures of health personnel in government facilities and other observations made by the participants during group presentations He maintained that the importance of proper documentation in the attainment of programme objectives cannot be overemphasized, urging the participants to come up with a document that will stand the test of time. Dr. Ladipo lauded the US President Malaria Initiative for State Project,for sponsoring the workshop, as well as participants for their input. Also speaking, the Executive Secretary, of Oyo State Health Insurance Agency, OYSHIA, Dr. Olusola Akande, said there is a need to review the existing structures in government health facilities, adding that this will promote the unity of command among the heads and attainment of set goals. Dr. Akande thereafter advised the gathering to look into the existing accountability framework document and make the necessary amendments. POLL Furthermore, Oyo state Coordinator, US President Malaria Initiative for State Project, Dr. Ayandipo Esther Oluwayemisi, said the idea behind the development of the accountability framework document is to achieve seamless and perfect healthcare delivery in various health facilities. She noted that it was essential to hold individuals responsible and accountable for actions taken, considering the massive investments of the government in the health sector. Dr. Ayandipo, who attributed some challenges confronting the state’s health facilities to the behaviour and attitudes of some health personnel, revealed that her organization would also support the government in the documentation of the accountability framework and its dissemination to health care providers at the grassroots. “We are here to develop a state health accountability framework document, this is to ensure that we are all held accountable for the things we do” You can see the government is spending a lot to improve healthcare service delivery in the state, procuring commodities, making the things we need available “. “The government will set up an implementation committee that will be holding quarterly reviews to access the level of document implementation. Moreover, there will be sanctions for erring personnel and reward for good behaviours”.