LAGOS – Chief Bode George, the former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rated the outgoing President Muhammadu Buhari an abysmal 5%  in the management of the country for eight years, stressing that he has failed Nigerians and that history will judge him. George who spoke with journalists yesterday maintained that Buhari presided over what he described as a one-man-show government, where he reneged on the primary responsibility of government. He said, “Has Buhari’s government impacted positively on the lives of Nigerians? My personal assessment is that he failed, though not completely in every sector. If you do an exam and you are required to have a minimum of 33 percent to go to the next class. But Buhari didn’t attain that 33 percent, I will give him 5 percent, even the 5 percent requires retrospection. The security, economy, education sector, health sector, infrastructural sector, the agricultural sector are all poorly managed. “The most important thing that you must guarantee your people as a government is the security of lives and property. Nobody is safe now, whether a poor man, rich man, or middle-income man. When you are walking you have to look, front, left and back. It is heartbreaking that the number one job, to guarantee the security of lives and property, has failed. Atona Oodua added, “When he was coming in, oga (Buhari) told us, he would fight corruption, secure lives and property, and made all kinds of promises. So, let’s put those promises into perspective. That is the kind of promises that would put him on the pages of history. Whatever a leader does, will be seen on the pages of history. We have another president on 29th, we must be full of prayers. I have worked with oga (Buhari) before, maybe age is not on his side. On the general elections, he said, “He came out around the middle of last year, publicly and internationally stated that he would leave one legacy and that the electoral processes in this country would be second to none in the world. He promised that they would buy technology, remove interloper’s manipulators, and that results would be transmitted straight from polling units, through Bimodal Voter accreditation system (BVAS) into the control centre. “They bought the equipment and did the test run in Anambra, Ekiti and Osun States, and it was flawless. As regards the general elections, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu did a broadcast, ensuring Nigerians that they had done a test run and everything was okay. “On that day, Yakubu told us that there was a glitch. It was disgraceful. It was shambolic. He wrecked my heart maybe because in my profession I was a specialist in weapon technology. POLL “We have almost hit the bottom in all the sectors. There was a time when university students were at home for nine months. Looking at our economy, the interest rate was increased by the Central bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele to 18.2 percent. Who can borrow at that rate? The inflation rate is 22.2 percent. Nigeria is like a ship that is taking in water and you are not stopping it,” he said. On whether he would work with the President-elect Bola Tinubu if called upon, he said that he has nothing personal against the former Lagos State Governor. “This country has trained me and I have to give back,” George said.