As the National Drug Law En­forcement Agency (NDLEA) has intensified operations at drug joints and routes nationwide ahead of the inauguration of the new administration today across the country. This is just as its operatives have intercepted a consignment of 32 pieces of Improvised Ex­plosive Devices (IEDs), being taken to bandits’ camp in Niger State. According to Femi Babafemi, Director, Media & Advocacy, ND­LEA Headquarters Abuja, the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Agency, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd), has since ordered the immedi­ate transfer to the military a suspect, Musa Muhammadu, allegedly caught with the explo­sives on Monday, May 22 along Wawa Road, Kainji, Niger State. Babafemi said the arrest was made barely a week after NDLEA operatives at the SAH­CO export shed at the Murtala Muhammed International Air­port, Ikeja Lagos, intercepted a London-bound consignment of 30.10kg methamphetamine and another shipment containing 379 grams of the illicit substance concealed in the false bottom of six black soap containers packed in a carton containing local hand fans and heading to Cyprus in Europe. He said the drugs were recov­ered at a courier company in La­gos by officers of the Directorate of Operations and General In­vestigation (DOGI) in the agency. He said in Adamawa State, operatives on stop and search pa­trol along Michika- Bazza Road on Friday 26th May arrested a Cameroonian, Ndawai Emma Ngalou with a pair of Nigerian Army camourflage uniform bearing Sunday U. and two ATM cards belonging to Turaki Mo­hammed and Ekene Izuegunam. POLL Two ladies Bilkisu Yusuf, 33, and Kauna Katsina, 25, were on Monday May 22, arrested in Nin­gi town, Bauchi State with 11,080 pills of tramadol, while Uche Shadrach, 22, was arrested with 20,480 pills of the same pharma­ceutical opioid on Wednesday 24th May along Okene-Lokoja highway, Kogi State on his way from Onitsha, Anambra State to Minna, Niger state. In the same vein, two sus­pects, Surajo Adamu and Mu­hammad Ali, were arrested on Friday, 26th May with 379,200 tablets of Diazepam in the Ali­mosho area of Lagos, while the MMIA Command of the Agen­cy took custody of 22 cartons of Tramadol 225mg weighing 1,144.30 kg and 12 cartons of Tra­madol 120mg with a total weight of 320kg, all containing 2, 317, 400 pills transferred to the Agency by the Airport Command of the Nigeria Customs Service, on Thursday 25th May. In Delta State, NDLEA oper­atives supported by men drawn from the Nigerian Army, NSC­DC, and the Police on Wednes­day 24th May raided the notori­ous Abbi town, Ndokwa West LGA where three suspects, Eu­nice Eneh, 52; Animan Ifeoma, 26, and Chuks Webema Dennis, 35, were arrested with a total of 343.9kg cannabis recovered from them. Babafemi also disclosed that a similar mop-up operation in Bayelsa has led to the arrest of a wanted suspect, Ozoemena Egbochue, 38, at the Swali mar­ket in Yenagoa on Monday 22nd May, following the earlier arrest of his sales boy, Morgan Eredeo­wei, with 11,748 pills of tramadol and diazepam. While commending the of­ficers and men of the agency across all Commands nation­wide for their professionalism and synergy with other law enforcement agencies in the mop-up operation, Marwa urged them to sustain the offensive, even after the Monday 29th May handover ceremonies.