ABEOKUTA – Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has stated that he has delivered on all promises made four years ago to the people of Ogun State. The Governor said this in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital during his inaugural speech to commence his second term in Office. According to the Governor, he has delivered his promises in areas of infrastructure, social welfare and well-being, education and human capital development, youth empowerment, agriculture, “You will agree with me that we have delivered on virtually all the promises we made four years ago.” he said. Governor Abiodun, who took the oath of office at the MKO Stadium in Abeokuta, the state capital, ordered the release of 49 convicts currently serving jail terms in different correctional facilities across the State. The governor also commuted the death sentences of three convicts to life in prison. Abiodun said some of the inmates had been behind bars for more than 20 years, while “three of these convicts are over 60 years old, with one being 84 years old.” POLL The governor said “I have signed the appropriate warrant ordering the immediate release of 49 convicts who are currently imprisoned in different correctionalfacilities across Ogun State. “I have also signed a warrant ordering that the death sentences imposed on 3 death row convicts be immediately converted to prison sentences. “The convicts who have received this gesture today, are inmates who have served long prison sentences with some having been in prison for more than 20 years. At least two of these convicts have serious medical conditions such as tuberculosis and HIV which even render them a health hazard to the prison community. “Three of these convicts are over 60 years old, with one being 84 years old. Others already have less than two years of their sentences to serve anyway. All of these convicts have shown remorse for their crimes, they have acquired skills and certifications in prison, and they have demonstrated verified good conduct during their imprisonment.” He promised to consolidate on the achievements recorded in the last four years, saying “We will not betray this trust reposed on us.” Abiodun added that “The Ogun State of our dreams is not only for one class of persons. It is not for perfect. It is an inclusive State that gives opportunities to the law-abiding, and second chances to deserving offenders.”