ABUJA – President Bola Tinubu on Tuesday received accolades for his promise of a fair and equitable government. The President was also commended for his beautiful plan for omnibus job creation and prosperity bill, his aggressive plan on industrialization, and his agenda to take the battle against electricity generation and fight to uproot insecurity. Commending President Tinubu, a group under the aegis of the Coalition of Civil Society Groups, said that indeed there is hope in the renewed hope agenda of his government. Addressing newsmen, the newly inaugurated President of the Coalition of Civil Society Groups, Olakunle Olatunji Oladimeji called on Nigerians to please have patience with President Tinubu. He said: “We salute the President on his promise of the fair and equitable government, his beautiful plan for omnibus job creation and prosperity bill, his aggressive plan on industrialization, his agenda to take the battle against electricity generation and fight to uproot insecurity and say that indeed that there is hope in the renewed hope agenda “We, therefore, call on all Nigerians to please have patience with the President. The energy must be positive and the support sincere. Now we have a government with clear determination and agenda and a clear commitment to unity, justice and does not have the plan to witch hunt but move from the present to a flourishing future and prosperity for all. “We wish him well and pledge the support of the coalition to his administration in order to ensure that he succeeds.” On the alleged plan protest, the group said, “It is important to state categorically that the Coalition of Civil Society Groups did not plan any protest against the CBN Governor or the CBN because there was no reason to organize such protest. POLL “However, where any such blackmailing or extortionist plans to protest against the CBN exits, it is hereby called off and members of the public are urged to disregard any such plan for any purported protest.” Speaking about the group, the President said, “It is our desire to update you on the happenings in the Nigerian Civil Society Community aimed at restoring the integrity of the community and ensuring focus in the nation-building activities of the community.”