General Overseer of the El-Buba Outreach Ministries International (EBOMI, Prophet Isa El-Buba, has lamented the loss of over 100 people in the recent mayhem in Plateau State. According to El-Buba whose ministry is in Jos, Plateau State, over 100 people were killed in the recent attack in the state by unknown gunmen. The killings started in Mangu villages and spread to Fungzai, Hale, Kubwat, and Bwoi. Communities of the Kombun District of Mangu Local Government Area and some communities in the Riyom Local Government Area were also affected. Hundreds of houses were burnt, while thousands of people were displaced as a result of the invasion of about 22 villages. El-Buba said some people had earlier made some threats, adding that the killings were a confirmation of their threats. He said: “We are going to have a protest march. We are going to mobilise more. Shetgingri made a threat and that threat is coming through. We lost over 100 human beings. “It was the same local government I passed through when we went for the burial of Sheik Galadima. It was the same local government I passed. There was nothing. POLL “Suddenly a few days later, these evil, wicked mindless heartless creatures unleashed mayhem. If you keep quiet when your neighbour’s house is burning your own house will catch fire. “If you are truly my disciples you will get other people and we will get on the street. to tell the world that enough of these killings. You can’t overrun us in the plateau. “You can’t overrun us in the middle belt, the church of God is marching on. Along the line, I am going to say some things. But don’t worry, if they are going to take me on, I am ready for them.” Reacting, the Christian Association of Nigeria in a statement signed by its President, Archbishop Daniel Okoh condemned the killings. The statement reads: “It is disheartening to see innocent citizens being killed and their properties destroyed in such a gruesome manner. “While we appreciate the efforts of the security forces to maintain peace, we call on the government and law enforcement agencies to bring the perpetrators of these heinous acts to justice and to ensure the protection of the lives and properties of all citizens.” The CAN urged all parties involved to embrace peace and dialogue as a means of resolving their differences. “Violence only begets more violence and we must break this cycle if we are to build a peaceful and prosperous society. “It is important to emphasise that the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) unequivocally opposes any form of violence or reprisal as we strive to advance the well-being of all individuals, regardless of their religious or ethnic background,” it added.