LAGOS – To mark the end of the month of Ramadan, Coca-Cola recently celebrated Eid-el-Fitr festivities with Muslims at the ‘Coca-Cola Eid Fest’ which was held at the Meena Event Centre in Kano Metropolis of Kano State, Nigeria. With the conclusion of the month-long spiritual activity, the total beverage company felicitated with Muslims through an Eid celebration that helped convey the essence of the spiritual observance, by sharing joy and bringing together members of the Islamic community in Kano State. Speaking on the significance of the celebration, the Marketing Director, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Yusuf Murtala explained; “It has been a fulfilling month for Muslims across the country following the completion of Ramadan and the spiritual activities that come with the holy month. “As they mark this year’s Eid-el-Fitr, we are committed to making this Eid a rewarding one by creating the right experiences for our consumers as they celebrate with family and friends. “We encourage people to continue in the spirit of giving, even beyond Ramadan. As a leading beverage brand, we will continue to excite our consumers, sharing happiness and creating real wonder across our communities in Nigeria”, Murtala said. The Eid Fest was a continuation of the company’s campaign promise of ‘sharing and giving’ throughout the month of Ramadan, which saw the company distribute meals and its coveted beverages to community members at prayer grounds following the daily prayers. With specially curated experiences for its consumers at the Eid Fest, Coca-Cola reinforced its ethos of sharing during Ramadan which the company had initially commenced at the beginning of the holy month through online engagements and giftings that helped intensify the message of Ramadan. The much anticipated Eid Fest hosted consumers to an immersive experience that saw performances from some notable music artists including Auta MG, Auta Waziri, Ahmad and D’ One, Imisi Singer and a thrilling dance presentation by the Koroso dancers. POLL Present at the energizing event were the gift recipients of the recently concluded Ramadan campaign entitled: “This Ramadan, sharing makes us one”, alongside members of their families and the community as they all shared in the Eid festivities. These gift recipients had each been recognized for their philanthropic activities in their communities and for prioritising the needs of others during Ramadan and beyond. Muslim faithful across the country had observed the holy month of Ramadan, devoutly taking part in fasting, prayers, and self-reflection. Through its continued commitment to creating shared value across its communities, Coca-Cola’s Eid Fest underscored the company’s focus on promoting experiences that elevate everyday moments for its consumers and its communities.