ABUJA – Professor Isa Pantami, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, has insisted that the exemption of the Telecommunications Sector from the proposed 5 per cent excise duty in line with the recommendations of the Presidential Review Committee on Excise Duty in the Digital Economy Sector still subsists. A statement issued on Wednesday by Mrs. Uwa Suleiman, Spokesperson to the Minister of Communications & Digital Economy, assured “the telecommunications sector and the general public that the President’s approval, supersedes all other declarations regarding the issue and we stand by it. “Any contrary proclamation should be disregarded by the general public.” The statement noted that the attention of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Professor Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) has been drawn to a document circulating online entitled; “Approval for the implementation of the 2023 fiscal policy measures and tariff amendments allegedly emanating from a government institution.” Suleiman explained that the Federal Government through the office of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, wishes to clarify the public misconception and press enquiry contained in the letter. According to the statement, “President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, had on 21st March 2023, approved the exemption of the Telecommunications Sector from the proposed excise duty in line with the recommendations of the Presidential Review Committee on Excise Duty in the Digital Economy Sector. “The six-member Committee which was constituted at the behest of the Honourable Minister and approved by the President, was formally inaugurated on the 5th of September, 2022 and membership included; the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy as Chairman, Honourable Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) as Secretary and two representatives of the Mobile Network Operators (MN0s).‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The Committee’s mandate was to critically and objectively assess the potential effects on the economy, of an additional 5% Excise Duty tax charge on the Digital Economy Sector. POLL “After five months of intensive and objective deliberations, the Committee submitted its report to the President precisely on the 13th of February 2023. “The report had recommended the exclusion of the proposed, and then suspended 5% excise duty tax on the Digital Economy Sector, citing incontrovertible facts including; the unprecedented contribution of the sector to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the sustained quantum leap in government revenue which currently stands at a staggering Five Hundred and Ninety four Billion Naira quarterly, its position as the baseline driver of innumerable businesses at the Micro, Medium and Small scale levels among others. “The Committee further analysed the existing forty one (41) taxes, levies and charges already imposed on the sector and concluded that instead of burdening the sector with more taxes, concessions should be considered, in order to sustain its unprecedented contributions to the growth of the Nigerian economy. “Based on the strength of its findings, the Committee prayed that the President exempts the Digital Economy Sector from the proposed additional Excise Duty. “The Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Professor Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) further emphasised that besides overburdening the sector, imposing additional taxes to the sector will bring hardship to the citizens of the country and appealed to the President’s compassion in his decision. “President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR on the 13th March 2023, approved the following prayer: “The Government exempts the Digital Economy Sector from excise duty charges in order to sustain and enhance use of Digital Economy services and to further benefit from their positive impacts on the economy. “The office of the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, hereby assures the sector and the general public that the President’s approval, supercedes all other declarations regarding the issue and we stand by it. “Any contrary proclamation should be disregarded by the general public. It would be recalled that Pantami has vehemently opposed the proposed 5% Excise Duty for Telecommunications Services, on the grounds that it is unjustifiable, as it will be burdensome for the citizens of the country.