Ahead of Zero malaria 2030 target, actors in the health sector have been tasked to strengthen the deployment of digital health innovations. The health experts reached the agreement while reviewing the 2023 Malaria Day theme; time to deliver Zero Malaria: invest, innovate, implement. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had urged countries affected by malaria globally to accelerate the reach of high-impact tools and strategies to prevent, detect and treat malaria, with a focus on reaching the most vulnerable, ensuring that no one is left behind. However speaking during Insights-a public health webinar hosted by eHealth Africa, medical expert, Dr Dennis Marke, a clinician and program manager at Systems strengthening in the ministry of Health and Science while doubling as acting program manager, National Malaria control program in Sierra Leone noted that there was a need to strengthen public private partnership to improve the fight against malaria. He said, this can be avhieved through improved access to medical information, communication and health application in issues around malaria control. The theme “Time to Deliver Zero Malaria: Investing in Sustainable Digital Health Innovations,” is meant to foster conversations with professionals within the public health space. Dr Dennis Marke noted that digital health tools have proven instrumental in the seemingly unending antimalaria fight in the region. He explained that mobile based innovations through SMS messages have between 70-80% penetration in Sierra Leone and have been effective in reaching out to the population about the symptoms of Malaria and need for testing. POLL Marke gave an instance saying, “in the 2017 mass campaign, we use rocket pro mobile applications to track the supply of medical equipment and drugs at our peripheral health units”. Marke also mentioned other forms of digital tools like Solar Power Mosquito Trap, district health information system amongst others, that have been instrumental in laboratory analysis, research, surveillance and tracking of health interventions even in remote communities. However noting that the existing challenge of Internet connectivity in some hard to reach communities Marke said, “you can have this technology sitting out there and if the cell phone penetration is the hardest to reach, the marginalized communities are not covered, that’s a huge challenge”. He however called for proper coordination in delivering digital health interventions, through effective mapping of digital health partners to identify their areas of strength. This he elaborated would ensure unity of purpose and to ensure all partners work towards achieving the overall goal of malaria fight.