ABUJA – The Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) sitting in Abuja, on Monday, adjourned to May 10, the pre-hearing session of petitions filed by Peter Obi and his party, the Labour Party, challenging the victory of Bola Tinubu at the February 25, 2023 presidential election. Other respondents in Obi’s petition marked CA/PEPC/003 are INEC, Vice President-elect Kashim Shettima and the APC. Also adjourned to the same date was the petition by the Action Peoples Party against Tinubu, APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission. The adjournment was at the instance of the panel, following the filing and adoption of pre-hearing processes by various counsel for the petitioners. In the AAP petition marked CA/PEPC/02/2023 Counsel to parties informed the panel that they had answered all the questions posed by the court. They equally adopted their answers. Subsequently, the panel adjourned to Wednesday, May 10 for counsel to agree on the issues as well as documents to concede to before taking the main hearing.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Similarly, the PEPC heard the petition filed by the Labour Party and its Presidential candidate Peter Obi against INEC, President-elect Bola Tinubu, his Vice Kashim Shetima and the APC. POLL Livy Uzoukwu SAN announced legal representation for the petitioners. The 1st respondent (INEC) was represented by Abubakar Mahmoud SAN. Chief Wole Olanipekun SAN announced the appearance for the 2nd and 3rd respondents (Tinubu and Shettima), while Lateef Fagbemi SAN represented APC, the 4th respondent. Uzoukwu informed the court that he had equally answered his questions and filed accordingly as contained in the prehearing Form on the 22nd of April 2023. “We adopt and rely on them in this pre-trial proceedings. Also, Mahmoud said the INEC has filed its answers and prayed the PEPC to adopt the answers. Olanipekun on behalf of the 2nd and 3rd respondents, told the court that, “we filed our answers on May 3 and seek to adopt the answers. The APC counsel, Fagbemi said he filed his answers on May 2 and also indicated that he will be filing a preliminary objection and also adopted his answers. In view of the foregoing, the Chairman of the PEPC, Justice Haruna Tsammani asked parties to file issues that they will agree and disagree on before adjourning further ore hearing session to Wednesday.