ABUJA – The Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Ad­miral Awwal Zubairu Gambo has said three foreign allied nations, namely Brazil, Spain and Ghana have indicated interest to attend the Nigerian Navy (NN) Presiden­tial Fleet Review (PFR) 2023. Vice Admiral Gambo stated this on Wednesday, at an inter­national press conference or­ganized by the NN, at the Naval Headquarters Abuja, on Navy Presidential Fleet Review 2023. The CNS who was repre­sented at the briefing by Rear Admiral Saidu Suleiman Gar­ba, Chief of Policy and Plans, Naval Headquarters, Abuja disclosed that the Presidential Fleet Review is scheduled to take place from Friday 19 to Monday 22 May, 2023, in Lagos. He further revealed that “Both countries will bring one Warship only.” The theme of the PFR-2023: “Fleet Readiness for National Prosperity”. This theme was said to have been carefully chosen to under­score the essence and value of the NN, as a responsive naval force poised towards the attain­ment of national prosperity. He also noted, “PFRs are tra­ditional events, which navies across the world conduct to hon­our their sovereigns or heads of government. It involves the assemblage of ships and other maritime assets at a designated area to demonstrate loyalty and allegiance to the State.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The review also provides an avenue for the President to assess the navy’s preparedness to meet statutory obligations in maritime security, safety and defence within a global/re­gional collaborative approach. POLL “During a PFR, the presi­dent/head of state is invited to review the fleet in commemo­ration of a historical event, the celebration of an important anniversary, or any other ac­tivity deemed necessary. Some of the occasions to organise a fleet review include special landmarks of either the navy or the country. “The NN has attended many Fleet reviews with the nation’s Flag Ship, Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) ARADU particularly, in the UK in 2005 to celebrate the Bi-centenary of the battle of Trafalgar and in 2007 in Brazil to celebrate the centenary of the Brazilian Navy. NNS THUN­DER also sailed to Australia in 2013 to celebrate the centenary of the Australian Navy. “More recently, the NN sent personnel to participate in the Bangladesh navy fleet review in December 2022, to celebrate the centenary of the birth of the fa­ther of the Bangladesh nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujbue Rahman and the golden jubilee of the country’s independence. In Nigeria, the last part was conducted in 2010 in honour of then-President Goodluck Jonathan and to mark the 50th anniversary of Nigeria’s inde­pendence.” The CNS, however, recalled that during the eight-year ad­ministration of President Mu­hammadu Buhari, “A total of 20 capital ships were procured for the NN. The ships comprise offshore patrol vessels, landing ship transport, hydrographic survey vessels, seaward defence boats, helicopters, as well as, over 300 inshore patrol vessels and assault crafts. “The president also com­missioned 2 locally built ships in 2016 and 2021 and laid the keel for 2 more, which will be ready by 2024. The NN deems it appropriate to honour the Com­mander-in-Chief for his support of the service. The PFR 2023 is, therefore, organised in honour of President Muhammadu Buhari, in recognition of his generous contribution to the service and the nation at large. It is also designed to mark the culmination of Mr. President’s.”