The President-Elect, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu has been enjoined to diffuse the current tension enveloping the country two weeks to his inauguration on May 29, by ensuring that there is a balance equation in the composition of the leadership of the 10th National Assembly. There are insinuations among Nigerians that the presidential election tribunal or the Supreme Court may eventually withdraw the mandate given to Tinubu following the pronouncement by the independent national electoral commission, INEC, on Match 1, as winner of the keenly contested election which millions alleged was won by the Labour Party candidate, Peter Obi. Expressing deep concern on this development, the General Overseer of the Abundant Life Evangel Mission, ALEM, Apostle Eugene Ogu said with the tension created by the Muslim/Muslim joint ticket between Tinubu and Shettima yet to die down, there are some subterfuge moves to have the leadership of the NASS controlled by the Muslim north. “There is a plot to have a Muslim President, a Muslim Vice President, Muslim Senate, Muslim Speaker and a Muslim Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN who was since appointed by this administration. The whole essence of this plan is to officially Islamize Nigeria under Tinubu government”, he alleges. Apostle Ogu noted that Tinubu could douse the looming tension by using his position and influence to ensure that the leadership of the National Assembly is evenly spread among the geo-political zones that make up the country. The vocal Cleric explained that it was wrong to allow some persons who already had criminal cases with the economic and financial crime commission, EFCC, to be the face of the new National Assembly under the presidency of Tinubu. “If you claim you want to fight corruption, start from the leadership of the National Assembly. There are people there that have unresolved criminal cases with the EFCC and we cannot allow such questionable persons to lead the Senate as President and the House of Representatives as Speaker.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The president elect and his team must do everything within their power to diffuse the tension that is already looming in the country following the Muslim/Muslim ticket which is yet to die down especially among the Christians. People indicted of criminal activities should not be allowed to head the new Assembly in any guise”, he said. POLL The former Rivers state chairman of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, PFN and a leader of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN alleged that there were some forces from the north who have no regard for other part of the country that are presently plotting for northern Muslim Senate President and a Muslim House of Representatives Speaker in a country with already a Muslim chief judge. “What exactly is really going on? I call on all church leaders and well-meaning Nigerians who are now looking the other way to stand up now against this impending danger which is now being piloted. The APC must be made to know that this is a joke taking too far, those who mean well for this country must not allow such plot to succeed. “We must save this country from the looming crisis emanating from bad leadership. Nigerians must rise up and condemn and stop these forces of darkness that is so determined to destroy this country so that Nigeria will be a better place for all of us to live in”, he said.