Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, has commended the Board of the State Education Trust Fund (YETFUND) for transparency and accountability in the management of the N1.6 billion realised from the launch of the education trust fund. He said the transparency in the affairs of the board gives every Yobean a sense of hope, pride and fulfillment. Governor Buni while receiving the chairman and members of the board who paid him a working visit today, urged the board to train the newly employed teachers in the state to enhance efficiency and productivity. According to the Governor, the capacity building for teachers to effectively impart knowledge to pupils and students is a necessary investment towards achieving excellence in the development of education. “Having teachers with the requisite capacity in our schools will accelerate our target of achieving excellence in our schools, against having beautiful structures without qualified teachers. “This explains why we are investing heavily in teachers’ training and l am happy the board is also pursuing this vigorously. “We are equally constructing structures in the schools to provide a conducive atmosphere for teaching and learning,” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The governor assured the fund of independence to execute its mandate without interference. POLL Earlier, Engr. MKA Abubakar said the launch of the Education Trust Fund targeted N25 billion but N10.2 billion was realised in pledges while N1.6 billion was the actual collection deposited in the Fund account. He explained that the N1.6 billion was intact in the account and N104 million was generated as interest. Engr. Abubakar said N101 million was expended on the repairs of blown off school roof in Gujba Local Government, teachers training, construction of 88 modern toilets in schools,1,000 students desks and teachers tables, and school enrolment campaign among others while the N1.6 billion was safe in the account. He said plans are underway to embark on massive intervention in the schools “We have plans to construct solar-powered boreholes, reticulation of pipelines to ensure adequate water supply in schools, provide massive instructional materials, and construction of drainages in some schools with severe flooding problems.