AUSTIN OBOH Amid the contentions over National Assembly offices in the All Progressives Congress (APC), the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, has warned Godswill Akpabio and others favoured by the party to ensure they avoided a repeat of the 2015 political drama which saw the contentious offices being hijacked by the unfavoured such as Bukola Saraki and Ike Ekweremadu at the upper chamber as well as Yakubu Dogara and Lasun Yusuf at the lower chamber. It would appear that the APC is finally unable to settle the disagreements that have arisen from the contest for the presiding officers’ positions. This will indeed put the party on tenterhooks ahead of the inauguration in June. During that event, Adamu also promised to talk to other Senators-elect, who are aggrieved as a result of the party’s zoning formula, saying they must be made to adhere to the supremacy of the party. The APC chairman spoke when Akpabio led 40 of his colleagues to the party’s national secretariat. Adamu’s words: “From what you just said, there is ample evidence that there have been consultations and we will not relent in ensuring that if it were possible, for all senators-elect to agree. Whatever we do, whatsoever signatures we collect, the final decision will be on the floor of the Senate and also the House. “All these efforts are very good and important but we are in a democracy and people are bound to have opinions and we have no right to stop them. “I am happy that we are heeding the advice and directives we gave to make consultations and it is good that it is going on and I am happy that it has been very fruitful. We wait till the 3rd of June on the floor of the House. I want us to have a rancour-free election on the floor. Because even if everybody says it is Akpabio or Y or X, the rules of the game say there must be an election. “Those who are in the Senate are aware of the rules. On the day of the proclamation by the President and the Clerk makes the proclamation, I do hope and pray that we will carry the day and be victorious. POLL “But let me warn, don’t be late. I hope I am communicating? Don’t be late. Once beaten, twice shy.” The APC had zoned the Senate Presidency to the South-South and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to the North-West. It announced Senator Godswill Akpabio, as its consensus candidate for Senate presidency and Senator Jibrin Barau as its choice for Deputy Senate President in the 10th Assembly. Similarly, the party zoned the speakership of the House of Representatives to a Kaduna lawmaker, Tajudeen Abbas, while Ben Kalu, a reps-elect from the South- East, is the preferred candidate for Deputy Speaker. The APC zoning, however, elicited angry reactions from lawmakers-elect who had declared their intention to contest. South-South’s Turn Earlier, Akpabio said he was at the party secretariat to show solidarity and appreciation for his endorsement “after wide consultations with stakeholders in Nigeria.” He said: “Yes indeed, the elections are over and governance is about to begin. The South-South part of the country last had a Senate President in 1979, about 44 years ago, with Joe Wayas from the NPN. And our brothers from the South- East, with very capable people, have held the position since 1999 for about eight years and also produced the Deputy Senate President for twelve years till the current dispensation. The North Central produced David Mark for 12 years, and Bukola Saraki and Mantu. “Since the president-elect is from the South and the vice from the North, it is right that the Senate President is coming from the South. Of course, the South West is out, left with the South- South, hoping that their brothers from the East will support them. “The wise men from the National Working Committee graciously zoned it to the South-South and a party man who served six years in the executive, eight years as governor, served as the minority leader of the Senate and minister to lead the 10th Senate.” Oh his part, Senator Ali Ndume, Akpabio’s campaign Director-General, asked Adamu to rein in aggrieved contestants and get them to respect the supremacy of the party. Ndume said: “I want to appeal through you that you talk to some members of APC who have still not supported the party’s decision. When I was young I was told about three ‘Gs’ to fear. One is God, then the gun, and the government. Both the Bible and the Quran ask us to respect leadership because that is the only way to progress. We urge you to talk to them because that is the only way to have progress.” But party leaders from the North-Central had, this week, yet to decide on accepting the party’s zoning decision or to go against it. Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State said governors from North-Central were yet make any public statement on the zoning formula. In a release by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, he denied a media report quoting the North-Central governors as rejecting the position of the party leadership. The governor said: “Media reports that we rejected the party’s position are therefore a stretch of our approach. They are not factual. We have our channels of communication, and that is what we are exploring. We are party people and will not make any public statement or do anything that will rubbish its leadership or cause avoidable tension in the polity. That is not our way.” Abbas Upbeat Over Speakership Victory Whatever the situation in the upper chamber, the APC’s choice for speakership, Tajudeen Abbas, said he had about 107 members from opposition parties to swell his camp and give him victory on the day of inauguration. Abbas said this while on a campaign visit to Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State in his Abuja residence. He and his running mate, Benjamin Kalu, as well as members of his campaign were at Lalong’s place to seek his assistance. He said: “We are here in spite of the fact that you have two candidates, to plead with you to support our cause, because our cause is a Nigerian cause. We are unity project members here. We have membership across all eight political parties. And I can tell with confidence that our last count as at Sunday, we have 107 minority party members on board this project.” Speaking earlier, Governor Lalong told the aspirants to carry the zone along if they win. Regardless, the only female aspirant in the Speakership race, Miriam Onuoha, has expressed disappointment with the party for not giving her the right of first refusal before zoning the offices of the presiding officers of the 10th National Assembly. Speaking at the launch of the Women Advocacy Group (50/50) organized by the Women Aid Collective, WACOL, in Abuja, Onuoha expressed displeasure at APC’s decision. She said: “As the only woman who had been in the race for the office of the Speaker, House of Representatives, morality and natural conscience say that I should be given the right of first refusal or the first to be considered, especially being a young Christian woman from the South-East. “As a woman, I will not resort to violence, or do anything that will be inimical to the image of the institutions which I hold high. I have absolute respect for my party which, in the first instance, gave me opportunity to run to become a House of Representatives member and reduced the price for my nomination which came at half price, and for me that was an incentive to run.” Abbas’ optimism is not without cause. On Thursday, reports filtered in that the Majority Leader of the House, Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa, withdrawn from the race to back him. Doguwa was a member of the G-7 which also comprised the outgoing Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase, Muktar Aliyu Betara, Aliyu Sani Jaji, Yusuf Adamu Gagdi, Miriam Onuoha, Sada Soli Jibia, and Makki Abubakar Yalleman, who had sworn to back one aspirant from among themselves to run against the party’s anointed candidate. Doguwa, who announced his withdrawal from the race in support of Abbas, was also accompanied by two other aggrieved aspirants, Hon. Abdulraheem Tunji Olawuyi, from Kwara State, and Hon. Makki Abubakar Yalleman from Jigawa State. Speaking at a meeting of the aspirants with some opposition members-elect at the instance of the Joint Task-10th Assembly, a group of members-elect from across the eight political parties, the majority leader advised Betara and other aggrieved aspirants to respect party supremacy and endorse Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu for Speaker, Deputy respectively. Part of the statement from him read: “Perhaps it won’t be out of place, Mr. Speaker, if I put your name on quote as the Mr. Fix it of this time. I wish you well and I hope you will continue to fix it for the Nigerian people. I call you ‘Mr fix it’ because the way you are fixing it, I can see that you are doing it for the overall interest of the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. My respected honourable colleagues and my brother the Prince of Zazzau, the Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, this year will be highly eventful for the Zazzau Emirate. “My Honourable colleagues, especially those who are looking at me eyeball to eyeball, don’t imagine that my appearance here is by accident. Don’t think you are day dreaming, you are not day dreaming – this is reality. Before you is Rt. Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa, the Chief Whip of the 8th Assembly and by the leave of my colleagues and the chief leave of the Right Honourable Speaker, the Majority Leader of the 9th House of Representatives. “I am here to put on record that not just from today, that right from day one that the NWC, the National Working Committee of my party, put it on the table that they have come up with their zoning arrangement, and after zoning, with all sense of morality, micro-zoned it to the North-West, and micro-micro-zoned it to my brother, Tajudeen Abbas, representing Zaria Federal Constituency of North-West Nigeria. “As from that day, I therefore called off my bid to contest for the speakership of the 10th House of Representatives. I had to do that because I’m a man of the establishment. I had to do that because I’m also a beneficiary of the same kind of arrangement. I have benefited from party arrangements, I have personally benefited from this zoning arrangement. That was what gave me the position of the Chief Whip of the 8th House of Representatives even when there were issues, still the zoning helped me.” An Open Contest? Feelers from the party indicate that it may end up throwing open the contest for principal legislative officers in light of its inability to win over insistent contestants. Reports have quoted inside sources as revealing that owing to the party’s suspicions that its proposed zoning may be thwarted, the NWC was recommending that the contest be thrown open. According to the report, an inside source said: “Secretly, they have recommended a free contest because they (NWC) have intelligence that the G-6 aspirants have already adopted a consensus candidate among themselves but they have not revealed the identity of that person. The G-6 aspirants are confusing the party, the Gbaja boys are also confused because they don’t know who they are throwing up.” It added: “There are issues and they need to be confronted because the more we delay in solving the issues, once and for all, the more we keep on having fresh ones. “For instance, we have credible intelligence that the aggrieved aspirants who have formed the G-6 are already in an alliance with the opposition parties. Initially, we thought it was not going to work but we gathered credible information that they swore to themselves not to betray one another and went ahead to concede the deputy speakership slot to the opposition parties. “We first considered it an act of indiscipline and anti-party but, on second thought, we needed to be smart to throw the contest open to all aspirants. Whoever wins at every point is, after all, a party man. “Some suggested that they should be sanctioned but we looked at the bigger picture because we must learn from experience as party administrators. What are the consequences for those aspirants? And what are those consequences on the party as a whole? “So, the message the party chairman gave to Senator Akpabio and his team when they visited was a coded message. It is left for them to decode it because it is difficult to do another rejoinder to repudiate what we had said earlier on zoning. “More importantly, our initial thought was that the aggrieved aspirants would quickly adopt someone amongst them but they are also smart enough not to do so for now. That keeps the suspense high and it will be risky to allow them to do the damage by allying with the opposition parties swiftly on the floor of the parliament that day. Of course, we know too well that most of the people milling around Akpabio or Abbas are playing politics. So, what is the guarantee that all are with us? “So, we have decided to slow down and lower our tone on streamlining to individuals – let all those interested come out to contest because if we don’t allow that to happen, the gang-up of the aggrieved APC aspirants and the opposition will be too risky for us.” Akpabio Woos LP, NNPP Meanwhile, the choice of the ruling party for the position of Senate President, Godswill Akpabio, is looking to boost his support with critical opposition parties such as the Labour Party (LP) and the New Nigeria Peoples Party. Senator Akpabio and his team met the two opposition parties, alongside his running mate, Barau Jibril, barely 24 hours after meeting with the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Addressing the National Working Committee of the NNPP led by its acting national chairman, Abba-Kawu Ali, Akpabio said his team, called the Stability Group, was determined to secure the support of the leadership of opposition parties ahead of the June 2023 Inauguration. “Membership of the Stability Group cuts across party lines, and we are doing extensive consultations. We have never had a situation where we had eight political parties like we are going to have in the 10th National Assembly,” he said. He continued: “In the House, we are blind to party affiliations, and that’s why we are moving to meet our leaders. I thank you for receiving us. I want to thank your national leader, Kwankwaso, for the meeting he is having with our president-elect, Bola Tinubu, and I hope the meeting will be fruitful for the progress of the nation.” The former Senate leader and current Senator representing Borno South and Director-General of the Akpabio Campaign Organisation, Ali Ndume, who spoke at the meeting, said his group had secured the signatures of 69 Senators elect to support the aspirations of Senators Akpabio and Jubrin. He said: “We want you to support this stability group; we have 69; who have signed. It isn’t about Akpabio or Jibrin. What the country needs now is stability, and that’s why we called the group the Stability Group.” The acting national chairman of the NNPP described the Akpabio- Jubrin front as a formidable one, and assured the duo of the support of the lawmakers on the platform of his party. He said: “I know you are a formidable team. As governor of Akwa Ibom State, we know how you performed. We know you are competent. So, we are supporting you based on your record. We will support your ambition to be the President of the Senate of the 10th National Assembly. But I urge your team not to fail Nigerians, especially the youth, in the area of employment.” Addressing members of the group at his party’s national secretariat, the suspended national chairman of the Labour Party, Julius Abure, commended the Stability Group for extending hands of fellowship to opposition parties leadership. “It is usually uncommon for political party in power to consider accommodating the opposition. It is an indication that our democracy is growing. I want to say very clearly that in most of our engagement with our senators, we haven’t given them any directives. We don’t want to be dictating to them on where they should go,” he said. He added: “Two of my senators are here, Ireti Kingibe isn’t here, but we shall whisper to her . We need a vibrant legislature to promote our democracy, and we hope yours will be a departure from what we have. Every government policy must be such that will affect our people positively. “The Constitution, in Chapter Two, states that the welfare of the people and their security shall be the primary responsibility of the government. My appeal is that we give attention to welfare of Nigerians, and the leadership of the Senate can help to make that a national priority.” Political activities have developed swift feet as the May 29 inauguration of president-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, draws closer, and the next few days will definitely usher in surprises as compromises are made, but – in the meantime – it is safe to say that the intransigence over the 10th National Assembly principal officers contest has proved a hard nut for the APC to crack, against expectations.