ABUJA – Acting Executive Chair­man of the Federal Capital Territory In­ternal Revenue Service (FCT-IRS), Haruna Abdullahi, has reaffirmed the commit­ment of the Service to prioritize technology to drive its processes for greater performance and to make the process of obtaining services by taxpayers easier. Abdullahi made this state­ment in a goodwill message at the International Technology and Communication Expo (ITEC Expo 2023) in Abuja. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by the Head of Corporate Communi­cations at FCT-IRS, Mustapha Sumaila. The head of FCT-IRS empha­sized the necessity of leverag­ing and maximizing the use of technology in order to increase revenue production at both the national and subnational levels, saying that taxation is a crucial component of the economy, and it is important to consider it as such. The statement reads: “In FCT-IRS, we have built our platforms to be technology driven.Tech­nology is now driving all our processes, from Taxpayers Iden­tification Number (TIN) to reg­istration, verification, payment and issuance of Tax Clearance Certificate, among others. “The Service under my watch is open to innovation and new technology to further enhance our collection and simplify the processes for our taxpayers in the FCT. “As we explore the vast land­scape of modern technology, let us also consider the essential role that taxation plays in supporting and sustaining these advance­ments,” he stated.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Abdullahi explained that taxes are the life-blood of any economy because they provide the funding necessary for public services, infrastructure, and so­cial programmes that form the backbone of the society. POLL He noted that a strong tax-pay­ing culture is vital in enabling the government to invest in the technologies and industries of the future. The chief executive, however, noted that FCT-IRS was deeply committed to fostering a vibrant ecosystem where technology and communications could thrive. He said the Service, having recognised the transformative impact of these advancements on all human endeavours, is ded­icated to providing a conducive environment for entrepreneurs, innovators and stakeholders to flourish and contribute to the progress of the society. The chairman noted that the Service is focused on adapting and evolving in order to meet the challenges of the digital age considering the importance of le­veraging technology to simplify and streamline tax compliance, as well as making it easier for businesses and individuals to meet their obligations.