The All Progressives Congress (APC) consensus candidate for the 10th Senate Presidency and immediate past Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, as well as former Akwa Ibom State Góvernór, Godswill Akpabio, has met with the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu in a bid to strengthen his support base for his election on the floor of the Senate in June. Akpabio, who was accompanied by Senator-elects across party divides who have signed to support his bid, said they have on their side 69 Senators who have elected to support his ticket as Senate President. Akpabio said the meeting with Sanwo-Olu at the state House in Marina on Sunday, was in consultation to build up support, adding that “All prayers and no works would not be good”. He said the group, which is in his support, is reaching out large, expecting no less than 85 to 86 signatures before June when the election at the Senate would take place. “This is multidimensional and nationalistic in all ramifications and that is the same way Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was elected by all Nigerians across party lines, sectional, religious lines and divide,” he said. He said there was hardly anything the group would have done without Sanwo-Olu’s knowledge, adding that the assurance is a confidence that those who have not agreed yet to the decision are coming to agree. “Today, we are about 69 in number and it’s still growing. We believe by June we expect this group two rise about 85/86 and all I know is that we are going to win,” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Sanwo-Olu, who received the group, said he hoped the 10th Assembly would be about “shaping new course, breaking records” to surpass and improve on the antecedents of the 9th Assembly. POLL He described the group comprising member-elects across party divides as “a well-thought-out group.” He extended warmth embrace to the Senators-elect, saying they have “displayed high sense of responsibility and that’s what had brought you thus far.” Sanwo-Olu, however, charged them to, upon inauguration, work for the good of the people who have elected them as their representatives, so they can reap the dividends of democracy. “We know that indeed you are best in class because the last elections indeed show that you have to be good to your people for you to have emerged successful.“So I can tell you that whatever part of the country you just have emerged from, you are best in class and I’m sure your people must have seen something outstanding in all of you. And that brings me to the fact that you cannot bring down that trust and the expectations of your people,” he said.