According to a report by Spanish outlet Defensa Central, Jobe Bellingham is the subject of interest from Real Madrid. The Merengues are keeping tabs on the progress of the 17-year-old Birmingham City FC wonderkid. And a future move should be on the cards for the teenage sensation. Jobe Bellingham is the younger brother of Jude Bellingham, the in-demand English prodigy. The 19-year-old has been sensational for Borussia Dortmund and is closing in on joining Real Madrid this summer. And his younger brother should follow in the English international’s footsteps. The English wonderkid made his first-team debut for Birmingham City FC as a 16-year-old last season. Since then, he has come leaps and bounds, establishing himself as one of the best young attackers in his homeland. And the 17-year-old has turned out 23 times for the Blues this term. Meanwhile, Bellingham’s progress has captured the attention of Real Madrid. Real Madrid will likely sign Jude Bellingham in the summer transfer window. And they will soon submit their opening bid to Borussia Dortmund to secure the teenager’s services. But Jude might not be the only member of his family to move to the Santiago Bernabeu. That is because the Merengues are also interested in his younger brother. A summer move is unlikely, with Jobe Bellingham’s immediate future likely being at Sunderland. But the 17-year-old English wonderkid has impressed Real Madrid with his performances thus far for Birmingham City. And Los Blancos will continue to track his progress, even if he moves to the Stadium of Light. The teenage sensation can play on either flank, but primarily reprises the no. 10 role. And with Luka Modric and Toni Kroos in the twilight of their respective careers, he can be a seamless fit at Real Madrid. Alternatively, Bellingham’s qualities as a wide attacker might also come of use after Eden Hazard leaves. Los Blancos will continue to monitor the progress of the 17-year-old English wonderkid in the coming months. And it will be interesting to see if Jobe Bellingham remains on Real Madrid’s radar over a move in the future.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒