MAKURDI – Governor Samuel Or­tom of Benue State has said that follow­ing the outcome of the result of the 2023 elections for the Benue North-West senatorial district in which he lost out, he and his family have decided to move on with their lives. He also advised other pol­iticians that may have lost during the elections to also put the loss behind them and find other ways of impacting their society, as they feel led by God. The governor disclosed this while commissioning the Eunice Spring of Life Foundation (ESLF), Inte­grated Health Facility (IHF), a state-of-the art pet project belonging to his wife, Dr Eu­nice Ortom at Apir, Makurdi Local Government Area, of the state at the weekend. Ortom also commissioned and named a 9.7 kilometer road that started from Agba­du and culminated at Apir, naming it after the late Major Gideon Gwaza Orkar, as well as another 3.5 kilometer road, which he named after a former Speaker of the Benue House of Assembly, Ayua Num. On moving on with his life, Ortom said: “The Bible in the book of Ecclesiastes chapter 3 from verse 1, tells us that there is a time for everything; time to win elections; time to lose elections; time to be in power and time to be out of power. “So we must move on. The same Ecclesiastes, chapter 9:11 says, ‘I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understand­ing, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all. “So it doesn’t matter, you may be qualified but if God does not permit it you, you cannot make it. “But that does not stop you from moving to other areas, where you can contribute meaningfully to the devel­opment of your community, state or country. POLL “God brought us for eight years (as governor and first lady). Many people have de­sired to serve a second term but we’re not able to do it. Some had desired to serve just one term but were unable. “So we have chosen to move on. By 12 noon on May 29th, 2023, a new governor would be sworn in and I will become a former governor. “So I need you to pray for me and pray for the new gov­ernment that will be coming in. And in areas we were not able to cover in fulfillment of the wishes of our people, I hope that the incoming gov­ernment will cash in on it and fill the gap.”