Mohamed Salah struggled to hold back his emotions when responding to a question about departing Liverpool team-mate Roberto Firmino – as the Egyptian waxed lyrical about the Brazilian’s worth on and off the pitch. Firmino is set to make his final appearance for Liverpool in today’s Premier League last-day clash at Southampton. The forward said goodbye to Anfield in perfect fashion last weekend as he stepped off the bench to score the Reds’ equaliser against Aston Villa. Firmino’s swansong will be shared by vice-captain James Milner and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain – Naby Keita is expected to be sidelined through injury – who will also leave the club once their contracts expire next month However, given their direct affiliation on and off the pitch, Salah has understandably picked out Firmino for special praise as the popular forward gets ready to lace up his boots on the south coast. During an interview with Stadium Astro, Salah was asked to name his favourite Firmino moment. He responded with a lengthy answer, but also had to pause amid what has been an emotional time for the players as well as Liverpool supporters. Salah said: “I can’t say just one moment. We have been together for six years. “We have shared so many good moments inside the field and outside. In the locker room, he also sits right next to me, so we speak and have played together almost every game. “It’s very emotional to speak about him. As long as he and his family are going to be happy, that’s what I wish.” POLL Salah added: “He’s been a really important player for us. He’s given everything for the club, he’s always tried to be humble and to work hard, this is what he does. “He’s been very important and he’s a really good guy, as well. He’s played a really big role in this time. “I don’t want to be too emotional. I just wish him the best in the future.” Salah joined Liverpool from Roma in 2017 two years after Firmino touched down at the club. In addition to getting their hands on the Premier League and Champions League together – not to mention more trophies – the forwards have totted-up 244 games alongside each other with 37 direct goal participations.