The Member-elect for Ethiope Federal Constituency in the 10th National Assembly and Chairman of the Appropriation and Finance Committee in the Delta State House of Assembly, Erhiatake Ibori- Suenu, has thrown her weight behind the aspiration of Tajudeen Abbas, for the House of Representatives, saying that his legislative experience stands him out as the next Speaker. Ibori- Suenu disclosed this to selected journalists at the weekend when Abass and members of his Joint Task team visited the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in the state House, Marina, during their maiden consultative engagement to seek bipartisan support of the governor. On why she backs Abbass’ candidature as next Speaker of the House of Representatives of the 10th Assembly, Ibori-Suenu said: “First, the main reason why I support his candidature is because we need the 10th Assembly that has a very good relationship with the Executive. We need the 10 Assembly that will work harmoniously with the Executive because if that relationship is strained, members will actually have a tough time. So, it’s very important that we find a way to negotiate our path through the next four years.” According to Ibori-Suenu: “For me, there’s no reason why I shouldn’t support him. If he wasn’t a good fit, if he wasn’t qualified, if he didn’t have the capacity mentally and legislatively, then, yes, I will definitely not support him. But am proud to say yes, because he has these qualifications. I will support him in the best way I can.” Stressing that Abbass is the most qualified for the job, she said: “I am of the opinion that he is a good fit, because he is very humble, his humility is quite humbling, his intellectual capacity is not questionable, he has legislative experience.” On whether the choice of Abbas as the next Speaker of the House of Representatives sits well with other parties, she said: “Legislative job is not about party but about Nigerians, it’s about bringing peace and unity to Nigeria. We all ran under a platform to get us to Abuja, to the 10th Assembly, but now that we are there, we should all think about Nigeria first and put the country first beyond our parties.” The reason why I am excited to support Tajudeen, account to Ibori-Suenu, “Is also because I know in the 9th Assembly, the Speaker had a very good relationship with the Executive. They had a lot of Bills and motions mentioned on the floor of the House. So many Bills were assented to by the President, people got to actually do things for the people, to show Nigerians the reason why they were elected, she said. POLL With her experience as Chairman of the Appropriation and Finance Committee in the Delta State House of Assembly, and member-elect for Ethiope Federal Constituency, Ibori-Suenu said that in terms of representation, as she goes to the Federal House of Representatives, Delta people should look forward to a good 10th Assembly.She promised to take the dividends of democracy back to her Constituency and Delta State by the special grace of God.