ABUJA – The minority caucus of the incoming 10th House of Repre­sentatives has reiterated that it has not endorsed any aspirant for the position of speaker of the House of Representatives. The caucus also known as ‘Greater Majority’ going by its collective number of 182 mem­bers-elect across minority par­ties, however, said it is awaiting the inputs of their state gover­nors and party leaders before it will make decision of who to support for the position. Convener of the group, Fredrick Agbedi (PDP), who disclosed this at a meeting in Abuja on Monday said it has appointed state and zonal coor­dinators who will consult and report back before the mem­bers will know the direction to follow. This is just as the caucus last weekend said it has not endorsed any aspirant for the position of speaker as reported by some media organisations. The minority parties com­prising the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party (LP), New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Africa Democratic Congress (ADC), Young Peo­ple’s Party (YPP), All Progres­sives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the Social Democratic Par­ty (SDP) said this in a statement signed by the Caucus Secretary, Ali Isa. Ali Isa had said the caucus merely met with Femi Gbajabi­amila, the outgoing Speaker of the House and Tajudeen Abbas, the All Progressives Congress (APC) anointed speakership candidate, who also engaged the group and made his own presentation to solicit the sup­port of its members to work with him just like the other aspirants did. In the same vein, Agbedi said: “Your conveners and oth­er leaders have not either on your behalf or for you adopted anybody for the office of presid­ing officers. That will only take place when that agreement is reached by all of us. That decision will be our collective decision. “But I am even saying before we get to that decision, we are going to ensure that take for example, I come from Bayelsa State, I should be able to speak with my governor, party lead­ers so that whatever I key into is with the understanding that my state leaders are on the same page with and that’s what we expect of all of us to do. So, that we don’t ambush Mr. A or Mr. B. POLL “So I want to assure you that we will lead ourselves to arrive at a collective decision and in do­ing that, we have also resolved to have state coordinators who are going to meet at their differ­ent state levels, eventually also have zonal coordinators who will also work at the zonal level in collating decision that they will finally come up with after due consultation.”