Welcome to the Sixth Sunday of Easter! Through this message you are going to experience Divine manifestation! In the gospel of John 14:15-21 our Lord Jesus Christ told His disciples, “If you love me, you will keep my com¬mandment. And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Counselor, to be with you forever” Child of God, as you keep God’s commandment the Holy Spirit will manifest Himself to you. He will remain with you both now and forevermore! Our Lord Jesus Christ also addressed the Holy Spirit as “The Spirit of truth.” In the gospel of John 8:32, our Lord Jesus Christ told His fellow Jews, “If you abide in My word, you are My disciples indeed. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.” Child of God, the Spirit of Truth will surely set you free from bondage, captivity, forces of darkness and from the hands of your enemies! Do you know that you are the Temple of the Holy Spirit? Do you even know that the Holy Spirit dwells in you? Our Lord Jesus Christ declares, “You know him, for He dwells with you, and will be in you.” Child of God, you are not an empty vessel. The Holy Spirit will dwell with you! And He will be with you now and forevermore! With the Holy Spirit as your Comforter, your period of loneliness and isolation is over! Jesus declares, “I will not leave you desolate; I will come to you.”Child of God, you will never feel rejected and dejected again! Our Lord Jesus Christ will never abandon you. In Matthew 28:20 He assured His followers, “Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” As He prepares to ascend into heaven, Jesus assured his disciples, “Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me; because I live, you will live also.” This coming Thursday is the Ascension Thursday. As Jesus ascends into Heaven He will open the gate of heaven for you. Every closed door is hereby declared open in Jesus name! Jesus told His followers, “He who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will manifest myself to him.” Child of God, the Lord has come to manifest His Love, Mercy and goodness upon you! Your life will never remain the same! In Acts 8:5-17 we saw the manifestation of the Holy Spirit through Philip and the Apostles, “Unclean spirits came out of many who were possessed, those who were para¬lysed were healed.” Can you imagine the joy in this city as they experience Divine manifestation! Today, you will experience your own manifestation! Your joy is restored in Jesus name! ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ When the apostles heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them, who prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit… they laid their hands on them and they received the Holy Spirit. Child of God, distance is not a barrier! As you open yourself right now, you are receiving the Holy Spirit! POLL Finally, St. Peter declares “Beloved: In your hearts reverence Christ as Lord…. For Christ also died for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God.” Child of God, as you reverence Christ, He will bless and connect you to the most High God and it shall be well