The Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, has urged the Nigerian Army to be professional and neutral during the forthcoming governorship election in the state scheduled for November 11. Speaking in Government House, Yenagoa, when he hosted the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, Diri lauded the security agencies for being neutral during the 2023 general elections. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as saying that the army and other security agencies were crucial to the sustenance of democracy if they effectively played their role. The governor also applauded the army for its support to his administration, saying it should not relent in sustaining the peace and security in the state. He noted that security was a priority of his administration and assured them that the government would continue to collaborate with the security agencies to sustain the prevailing peace. On the request for accommodation support, the state’s helmsman promised to assist to enable the soldiers perform their duties. Diri also expressed appreciation to the army for the support rendered during the burial of his father. POLL He said, “Your commander has ensured good cooperation with our government. The moment the military do not get involved in politics, they keep their integrity intact. “Bayelsa is moving close to a very important election. In the last election, we had the army and others playing their roles effectively and we hope the same will play out during the forthcoming election. Just be apolitical and professional.” Earlier, the GOC 6 Division, Major-General Jamal Abdulsalam, said he came on the courtesy visit to the governor after his posting to the division. He said he had been briefed on how supportive the state government had been to the army and expressed appreciation to Diri for the gesture. Abdulsalam assured the governor of the readiness of the division to support the government’s drive to maintain security in the state. He also appealed to the governor to support the division, especially in the area of accommodation to enable officers discharge their duties effectively.