Tesla Incorporation has entered a new era: one in which Elon Musk keeps a different set of car executives up at night, while others rest a little easier. In the decade since the Model S launched, Tesla has been picking off customers largely from luxury players led by BMW and Mercedes-Benz. While Musk had ambitions to take on mass manufacturers with a $35,000 Model 3, he ended up charging much more — first out of necessity to keep Tesla afloat, and then because he and the broader industry were production constrained. Around this time last year, Tesla’s Chief Executive Officer set wheels in motion to change all that, opening two new plants. With Musk dead set on expansion and less concerned about earnings, Ford and Renault bosses are now among the ones looking nervously in their rearview mirror. “Price wars are breaking out everywhere,” Ford Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Jim Farley said, recently at a charity event in Detroit, days after Renault said it was examining how its models are positioned. “Who’s going to blink for growth?” Luxury-car makers won’t be totally immune to pricing pressure — Mercedes slashed the stickers on its Electric Vehicles (EVs) in China late last year, weeks after Tesla started cutting. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ But German executives have been adamant about their unwillingness to follow Musk in compromising brand value for volume. POLL If anything, Mercedes-Benz Group AG CEO Ola Källenius wants to move further upmarket, as this strategy has been paying dividends. The manufacturer said recently that earnings were stronger than expected in the first quarter, driven by resilient pricing. “Tesla is not only sacrificing its EV margins to achieve its volume ambitions. “To some extent, it is also placing the goodwill and brand equity that it has built up on the altar too,” Daniel Roeska, Bernstein’s European auto analyst, wrote in a report. “This is most important in the premium end of the market, where brand perception and social status are the crux of sales.” Musk’s markdowns have been dramatic and swift. In the US, Tesla has hacked the starting price of its top-selling Model Y sport utility vehicle by 29 per cent in three months. That’s an issue for Ford, which recently discounted its Mustang Mach-E SUV by about $4,500 on average to stay competitive. While the automaker pulled ahead of General Motors Company last year as the number two seller of EVs in the US, it remains well behind Tesla. With Ford lacking the economies of scale, Musk has built and investing heavily to catch up, the company has forecast a $3 billion loss for its electric vehicle business this year. Renault is planning to go a step further than Ford — not only separating  its EV and combustion engine business, but planning an initial public offering for its plug-in car and software operations. The head of the Renault brand called Tesla’s price cuts a clear challenge, recently, and investors sold off the French company’s stock despite its strong first-quarter sales. While fielding several questions on the sustainability of the €42,000 ($46,000) stickers on the electric Megane E-Tech hatchback, Thierry Piéton, Chief Financial Officer, acknowledged that overall pricing may be “a little softer” in the second half. Still, he said Renault was not planning any drastic changes.