Hon. Seseme Eyibo, former member of the House of Representatives, in this interview says that the Senate Presidency should be zoned to the South-South, gives reasons why the South-East is not qualified to have it, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Why do you think that the South- South should produce the next Senate President? It is because of the justice and equity and also for its contribution to the party. As we speak Akwa Ibom produced a Senator-elect and two members of the House of Representatives, and had more than 27 percent in the presidential election. If you compare that with South-East where Senator Orji Uzor Kalu is competing, he has brought nothing to the table. The elections of the presidency and the National Assembly happened at the same time and same day. The total number of votes from Akwa Ibom which is over 27 percent surpassed the total number of votes from the whole of the South-East region. Aside from that, South- East has been on the top of the table for the Senate leadership. The Oyi of Oyi from Anambra State, Dr. Chuba Okadigbo was the Senate President. Senator Ken Nnamani from Enugu State was the Senate President. We had Adolphus Nwagbara from Abia State as the Senate President. Again Evans Enwerem from Imo State was the Senate President, so Senate Presidents have successfully toured the five states of the South-East region. It will be very wrong on the basis of reward, on the basis of justice and fairness to consider zoning the Senate Presidency to the South- East. Again the South-East for ten years had the position of the Deputy Senate President. In section 50 of the constitution which I earlier cited, if the Senate President is not there, it is the Deputy Senate President that will preside. So to have the Deputy Senate President consistently for ten years in the person of Senator Ike Ekweremadu. So, I think that for fairness and justice the Senate Presidency should come to the South-South. I think for the issue of the supremacy of the party which has to do with a reward system, it should go to Senator Godswill Akpabio, and in terms of experience and integrity and for where we are as a nation now, I think Akpabio is a connecting force to be able to clear the doubt of the average Nigerian for the supremacy of government. For the supremacy of government as enshrined in section 4 (1) of the Nigerian constitution, it says that the legislative power of the federal republic of Nigeria shall rest in the Senate and the House of Representatives, what this means is that in the book of our rule of law, in the book of our democracy, it is the legislature, so we expect a Senate President who will be able to wheel together for the advantage and benefit of the Nigerian people, a National Assembly, of course the Senate President is the chairman of the National Assembly. He should be able to wheel together the strength of the members and produce the human asset in the National Assembly. Lastly, I must also let you know that His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is an enterprise development manager. He requires a National Assembly that will be able to understand where he is coming from, the standard, the narrative, the trajectory of this country when it comes to democracy, will have to change. He understands the feelings of an average Nigerian and he is ready and understands that he cannot do it alone because of the different arms of government. I think that Akpabio fits there. Let us talk about an issue making the rounds of new comers haggling for leadership positions in the National Assembly, you also eluded to the processes that one has to go through rules and regulations, the impression that they are giving is that they are probably not aware of these rules, can you an insight regarding newly elected representatives? I can give you an example, Akpabio became a minority leader of the House as a newcomer, and people are using that as an example, which is not correct. What happens is that by that section 50 of the constitution, presiding officers of the House of Reps and the Senate is the President of the Senate and if he is not around the Deputy Senate President, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and if he is not around the Deputy Speaker. So, these are the presiding officers. While the Senate President swears in Senators-elect, the Speaker swears in Reps members-elect. A new member to look forward to becoming a presiding officer cannot happen because as at the time of the election, the Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Speaker or Deputy Speaker is not yet a senator, and because he has not yet been sworn in he cannot act or pretend to be looking for that position. When Akpabio was made the minority leader he was already a sitting senator. He was already in the chamber so the minority caucus of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) then elected him among themselves to be the minority leader. It was presented to the House, so the rule then was suspended for him to be admitted. It was just a suspension of the rule. He could not have as Senator-elect them opted to contest to become the Senate President. If somebody who is a Senator-elector, pretending to canvass to become a Senator is wrong because the matter will be tested in court. Most of the people who are looking for Senate Presidency of Speakership of the House are just trying to be democratic. When the game is up they will want to choose other positions in the House, chairmen, leader of the party and all of that will be considered but for the first two positions, that is presiding officers, it is not possible.