P/HARCOURT  – The Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, said it appreciates the concerns expressed by the Senate during its plenary last week. The Senate had at its session constituted an ad hoc committee to probe the financial activities of the NDDC for 2021 and 2022 budget estimates. The Senate also stood down consideration of the 2023 budget of the NDDC for further information and clarification on the figures contained in the budget. The Commission said it respects the oversight function of the Senate and is ready to cooperate with the investigation committee, adding that there is nothing to hide and is committed to transparency and accountability in its operations. Dr. Ibitoye Abosede , the Director of Corporate Affairs of the Commission, in a statement, said it is important that “we clarify that the Senate has not accused the Board and Management of the NDDC of corruption or misappropriation of N1.4trn. “The Senate only thinks that the funds were expended without approval or appropriation by the National Assembly. This misunderstanding can be quickly resolved by providing the necessary documents and explanations”. The statement explains that the delays in submitting the Commission’s budgets and audited accounts to the National Assembly were due to factors beyond its control, “such as bureaucratic bottlenecks and frequent leadership changes. The Commission has, however, taken steps to address these issues to ensure timely compliance with all statutory requirements. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We appeal to the general public to refrain from making hasty judgments based on the Senate’s decision. The NDDC assures all stakeholders of its dedication to the development of the Niger Delta region and the welfare of its people”. POLL Meanwhile, NDDC said that it will partner with the United Nations Satellite Centre, UNOSAT, to find solutions to the challenges of flooding in the Niger Delta region. Dr. Samuel Ogbuku, the NDDC Managing Director, stated this during a virtual presentation on ways of combating flood challenges in the Niger Delta region by a technical team of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research, UNITAR, at the Commission’s headquarters in Port Harcourt. Ogbuku called on UNOSAT, a UN Satellite Centre hosted at the UNITAR, to proffer long-term solutions to environmental challenges such as flooding facing the Niger Delta region because temporary solutions were not sustainable and had become a drain pipe on the resources of the Federal Government and its agencies. “We are open to partnership in finding a lasting solution to the perennial flood in our region. However, as an interventionist agency, we are looking at solving the problems of the Niger Delta region permanently rather than treating the symptoms.” Speaking further, Ogbuku noted that solving the flood challenges of the Niger Delta region could not be addressed by the NDDC alone as it called for collaboration between the Commission and the various levels of governments.