OLUSEGUN KOIKI; INNOCENT OWEH Former President Muham­madu Buhari constituted the boards of aviation agencies few hours to his departure from of­fice. The approval of boards for the agencies came over a de­cade of running the agencies without boards, starting from the days of Sen. Stella Oduah as a minister of aviation. The agencies where boards were approved included: the Ni­geria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the Nigerian Airspace Man­agement Agency (NAMA), the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), the Ni­gerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) and the recently creat­ed Nigerian Safety Investiga­tion Bureau (NSIB). Stakeholders consistently criticised Sen. Hadi Sirika, the former Aviation Minister for running the agencies without statutory boards as stipulated in the Acts establishing them. A statement signed by Mr. Oluseyi Odutayo, Head of Press and Public Affairs, Min­istry of Aviation, indicated that NCAA is chaired by Mr. Lai Are with two institutional members representing Minis­tries of Aviation and Defence. FAAN would be chaired by Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, former Managing Director of NAMA with five institutional members representing the Ministries of Aviation, Defence, Justice and Tourism and NCAT while Capt. Mukhtar Aminu and Mr. Chris Aligbe are members. NAMA has Capt. Bashir Sodangi as chairman with four institutional members repre­senting Ministries of Aviation, Communications and Digital Economy, Transportation and Nigerian Air Force as well as two other members to repre­sent public interest. They are Mr. Richard Aisuegbon and Suleiman Balarabe Ismail. POLL NSIB would be chaired by Engr. Ezekiel Danboyi Zang with six other members includ­ing Engr. Suraj Abdulwahab, Engr. Ita Awak, Mall. Nasiru Anas, Alhaji Sani Maida, Engr. Pantani Esugo and Lawrence Fubara Anga (SAN). Dr. Imoro Kubor is to chair the NiMet board with four institutional members rep­resenting Ministries of Avia­tion, Agriculture and Natural, Resources, Environment and Transportation with Dr. Ade­bayo Yinka and Prof. Aliyu Umar Tambuwal as members. Also, NCAT would be chaired by Capt. Jonathan Ibra­him with institutional mem­bers, which include Ministry of Aviation, NCAA, Nigeria’s International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) repre­sentative; representative of the aviation sector, Engr. Bashir Saad; Hajia Binta Aminu Iya representing community; representative of the College elected from the congregation who should be a non-teaching staff and the college registrar. The statement added, “It should be noted that, in line with the recently promulgated and gazetted Acts of the agen­cies, membership of their boards are mostly institution­al representations. The presi­dent therefore considered the requirements in approving the memberships and hopes that they will play the necessary roles in furthering the devel­opment of the sector as a new administration takes over.” Buhari Gets Heroic Welcome In Daura Meanwhile, former Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari has returned to his home state, Katsina, after handing over to President Bola Ahmed Tinubu at Eagle Square in Abuja. The presidential jet, Air force 001, which conveyed the former president for the last time touched down at the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua Inter­national Airport, Katsina State, at about 1:15p.m Monday after­noon. It was a carnival of sorts and heroic welcome in Daura, Katsina State, as people poured in their numbers onto the city streets to welcome their son, former President Muhamma­du Buhari. Buhari, overwhelmed by the crowd that thronged the city, gave a thankful wave sym­bolising his gratitude to the people of Katsina, and every Nigerian for all the support they gave him while he was in office. Some of the immediate past ministers in his cabinet praised Buhari, saying he brought de­velopment to Nigeria during his tenure. They called on the former president to dedicate his life to peace-building across the country, noting that Buhari strongly believes in the unity of the nation. Governor of Katsina State, Dikko Umar Radda, who was sworn in about 10:45a.m pm Monday was at the airport to welcome former President Bu­hari back home. The former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, as well as former Ministers of Aviation, Hadi Sirika; Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami; State for Works and Housing, Umar Ibrahim El-Yakub; Ag­riculture and Rural Develop­ment, Mohammad Abubakar; Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, and former Special Adviser on Media and Public­ity, Femi Adesina, joined other dignitaries, family members, and well-wishers to welcome former President Buhari and his family. Traditional rulers repre­senting the elders and people of the state thanked Nigerians for their support to Buhari.