BAUCHI – A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Sabo Mohammed, has called on the leadership of the party to rally around and support the emergence of the lawmaker representing Zaria federal constituency of Kaduna State, Honourable Abbas Tajudeen, as the speaker of the 10th House of Representatives. Comrade Mohammed, who made the call in an interview with journalists in Bauchi on Thursday, described Tajudeen as the most qualified and best-prepared lawmaker to become the new speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, saying that he is a team player that has carried out his responsibilities as lawmaker effectively. According to him, the lawmaker from the North-West region who has sponsored several bills, adding that Tajudeen is a man of integrity who is trusted by his fellow federal lawmakers. The APC Chieftain also called for support for Benjamin Kalu the ticket for national stability, equity and inclusive parliament, appealing to other lawmakers to support the likes of Ahmed Wase, Betara, Muktar, Soji and others in the race for Speakership to step down for Tajudeen. “They should prioritize national interest, they should prioritize party interest and above all sacrifice their personal ambition for national inclusiveness. If you look at Tajudeen, his credentials in parliamentary speaks volume. He is eminently qualified to occupy the position of Speakership more than any other politician in the history of Nigeria. “In the 8th Assembly, he sponsored 48 motions and bills, the highest by an individual parliamentarian. “In the 9th Assembly, Tajudeen presented over 70 bills and motions out of which 20 have seen the light of Presidential accent. This is unprecedented. That is why his colleagues call him first ranking legislator and he has been in the National Assembly since 2011. Combining his private life working experience and education to PhD level and being a team player I think Tajudeen will go a long way in raising bar in the National Assembly. While appealing to party faithful vying for leadership positions for the 10th National Assembly to put personal interests aside for national and party unity, the APC Chieftain called on contesters to throw support the choice of the President-Elect, Senator Godswill Apkabio/Jibril Barau for President of the Senate and Deputy President of the Senate respectively.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I want to commend the leadership of the party, the President-Elect and the Progressive Governors forum for deciding to zone certain principal offices to respective zones. POLL “It is a realization of the need to involve or to achieve inclusive government and I think my candid position is that we should as a matter of sacrifice respect the decision of the party, respect the decision of the president-elect and the decision of the progressive governors’ forum and work towards the ticket of Akpabio and Barau in the 10th National Assembly as well Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamim Kalu in the lower chamber. “This would help in promoting party discipline as well as upholding party supremacy and this is the best way to go in trying to regain the hitherto lost glory of the party. Akpabio has been governor for eight years, he was in the Senate for about 12 years and has been a minister for about five years. “He is one of the movers and shakers of the south-south and somebody who has been described by his colleagues as a garrison politician whose political relationship cuts across party lines -PDP and the APC – and has supported the bid of the President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu to the extent that he was the first person to withdraw from the race in the interest of peaceful resolution of the presidential primaries and then to pave the way for the success of the party in the just concluded presidential election,” he said.