Mr. Bishop Ablaku Mathew, the chieftain of the ruling All Progressive Congress APC has called on President- elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu to consider Dr. Joseph Haruna Kigbu former House of representatives representing Lafia/Obi federal constituency at the National Assembly in his ministerial nominees He said that Dr. Joseph Haruna Kigbu, deserves ministerial appointment considering his contribution to the party in the state and his track record of achievements while in national assembly. Mr Bishop Ablaku Mathew, who is a ex-YPP chairman also said that, intense of competency and experience the former lawmaker possess it to the latter. The APC Chieftain who mentioned some of the projects own by the former lawmaker who served from 2011 to 2015 in the platform of defunct Congress for Progressive Change CPC across Lafia/Obi federal constituency said Dr. Haruna Kigbu deserve to be rewarded. According to him,” Dr. Joseph Haruna Kigbu, should be considering ministerial nominees his is competent and he has experience to man any ministry that will be giving to him,” he said. He also explained that when Dr. Joseph Haruna Kigbu, was at the National Assembly he sponsored HIV/AID stigmatization bill and he ensured that the bill escaped through all the stages and it was passed into law. Mr. Bishop further said that he also embarked on free medical outrage across his constituency when he was serving member at the National Assembly to cushion the effect of hardship. On the expectations of the second term in office of governor Abdullahi Sule, APC Chieftain advised the governor to concentrate on education by building infrastructure and employment of new teachers and send to rural schools instead of gathering 100 teachers in one school at the urban areas. POLL He called on governor Abdullahi Sule, to also look at dilapidated nature of primary school and lack of teachers to properly impact knowledge to pupils at the locality. Mr. Bishop advised governor Sule, to acts now in primary school at rural areas as the sector is collapsing for lack of teachers.