LAGOS  – Chief Bode George, a for­mer Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has told loyalists of the presi­dent-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who visited him over the week­end, soliciting his support for the former Lagos State Governor, that he won’t congratulate him (Tinubu) now, when his party is still in court, contesting the just concluded presidential election. According to the key loyalists who visited the Atona Oodua of Yorubaland to broker peace be­tween him (George) and Tinubu, the move became necessary be­cause the relationship between the duo hasn’t been cordial. Among the delegation led by, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, who is also the chairman of the Gover­nance Advisory Council (GAC), the highest decision-making body of the Lagos State All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), were two former deputy governors, Mrs. Adejoke Orelope Adefulire, the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Sustain­able Development Goals (SDGs) and Chief Abiodun Ogunleye. Others were, Rtd. Justice Ishola Olorunimbe, Chief Layi Ogunbambi and Alhaji Satari Arileshere, a retired civil ser­vant. Olorunimbe in his address, noted that the meeting was non-partisan and that the group was composed of elders of La­gos community who had come together to seek the progress of Lagos State, even as he charged them to support the presi­dent-elect. While briefing journalists at the end of the closed door meet­ing, which lasted for over four hours, Prince Olusi, disclosed that it was the second in the move to initiate peace between both leaders, and described the mission as cordial and largely successful. He said, “This is indeed my second meeting with Chief Bode George and the purpose of this meeting is to give praises to the Almighty. Today, the pres­ident-elect of our country Sena­tor Bola Ahmed Tinubu is from Lagos State. He happens to be a former Senator from Lagos, and also a former governor of Lagos State and we are indeed happy but we know as a matter of fact, that the relationship between the president-elect and Chief Bode George is not very cordial.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is important that we as leaders of the community should take steps to improve the rela­tionship,” Olusi said. POLL Olusi disclosed that based on the successful outcome of the parley, demand was made on Chief George by the delegation to congratulate Asiwaju Tinubu on his election as the president-elect, saying that the PDP chief­tain could choose to do this before May 29, 2023 or thereafter. In his response, George ex­pressed happiness for the visit by the delegation, even as he insist­ed that he had nothing personal against Tinubu.