MINNA  – Traders at the popular IBB Cen­tral Market in Suleja have pro­tested against alleged plans by the Suleja Local Government to ex­pand some structures within the already congested market which to them would only amount to disasters in waiting. The traders carried placards with inscriptions against the Hon. Ishyaku Bawa Naibi led administration accused the lo­cal government authorities of formulating policies to further compound their socio-economic frustrations through multiple levies and taxes. Calling for the intervention of the state government and se­curity agencies as some of their members are being threatened by some people loyal to the Naibi led administration for speaking out, accused the local government of using different strategies to ex­ploit them. Spokesperson for the traders, Mr. Obilly Nwaeze, narrated how they (traders) severally asked for a roundtable and interface to iron out the issues with the local gov­ernment, but such requests were rebuffed with threats from the agents of the local government. If there are plans to remodel the market or any form of expan­sion, Nwaeze argued, the traders should be carried along, ‘but in this case they are not telling us anything other than asking us to pay different sums of money, marking our shops for demolition under flimsy excuses’. “They asked us to pay N1.2 million each for each shop so that it can be raised upstairs, but they later reduced it to N800, 000.00, but they refused to tell us what the money was for. They also de­manded that we pay another N10, 000 non-refundable for forms”. The government can open up more markets on fresh ground in­stead of trying to turn shops built about 30 years ago into upstairs just because they want increased revenue, Nwaeze said, arguing that, “Such adjustments is just an invitation to disaster because the shops will start collapsing.” Some of the traders, Hajiya Sadiya Bello and Mrs. Rachael Adeniji, in their respective con­tributions accused the Local Government authorities of hav­ing a hidden agenda for keeping their claimed development plans shrouded in secrecy. POLL They accused the chairman and his team of insincerity argu­ing that, “If whatever adjustment they claim to be doing is meant for the traders, why are the trad­ers not being carried along? Why are they not allowing us to make contributions to whatever they are doing? “It is unacceptable for the lo­cal government to be demanding money from people on a daily ba­sis without telling them what the monies are being used for or even allowing their input to whatever expansion you are doing.” Meanwhile, the chairman of Suleja Local Government, Bawa Naibi, in his reactions blamed the face-off between his office and the traders as the handiwork of some ‘mischief makers’, distorting facts to suit their purpose.