ISAAC ASABOR There is no denying the fact that in its efforts to address the challenges of substandard products across markets that the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has designed a Product Authentication Model (PAM) to facilitate the verification of the source quality of products in the Nigerian market. It would be recalled that while sensitising stakeholders on the PAM on Thursday, April 13, 2023, that the Director General of SON, Mallam Farouk Salim, noted that the organisation would continue to facilitate trade and ensure that importers and manufacturers’ products meet the requirements of the relevant standards, thereby promoting public safety, improving the lives and security of citizens and making Nigeria products marketable around the world. Farouk, who disclosed that part of the benefits of the model included protection of genuine manufacturers and importers from faking and counterfeiting their certified products, applauded the organisation for having substantially reduced the importation, manufacturing, and distribution of substandard products in the country through its mandatory conformity assessment programme, MANCAP and SON conformity assessment program, SONCAP. He, however, lamented that despite the effort of SON, substandard products were still being imported, manufactured, and distributed in the country by smuggling and some other forms Introducing the model, Salim explained that the PAM is a digital technology to complement the SONCAP and MANCAP in furtherance of the fight against substandard and counterfeit products in the country, which will in turn increase productivity and result in employment creation that will lead to security improvement. “This scheme places the power to detect or reject substandard goods in the hands of our markets in the hands of our consumers and users of a product. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It simply uses a QR code or the dial of smart number SMS to 281 to verify the product and to see when the product was made, if it has an expiration date, when it’s expiring, where it is made and such information are necessary for the consumer to either buy the product or not to buy. POLL “This is different from the other types of products that are used by other organizations in the country just like the NAFDAC, where you have to buy the product, scratch the box and then when you discover that it’s fake, you are helpless. You already bought the product. “You now have to go back and fight with the person who sold it to you. But with PAM, with your smartphone, before you buy the product, you scan it to verify if the product is okay for you to buy or not to buy. “It will now put SON in a better position to protect our fellow citizens and ensure that we all get value for our money.” On his part, Mr. Shaibu Onucheyo, who presented a paper on the use of the PAM said, the organisation came up with the model to give the purchaser or buyer the opportunity to confirm the authenticity and the quality of the product before payment is made. “Before now, the buyer must have bought the product, taken it home, and put it to use because before he or she will realise that the product is substandard, he or she has spent money on it and this does not give them value for their money. “To achieve this is as simple as anything because the mark you’ll see there have almost over 10 elements in it that speak different languages. When in language, I give you a different sign that this product is authentic or not. So the moment you scan with your QR code, encodes information will display, giving you from the manufacturer every other information needed to confirm to you that the product you’re about to buy, is of good quality and if it is an SMS you send you get an instant response, telling you about our product. The SMS is toll-free. Mr Ambrose Oruche, who represented the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), embraced the PAM, saying it will go a long way to check substandard products, in the country. Continuing, the Director General said: “Basically the benefits include protection of genuine manufacturers and importers from faking and counterfeiting of their certified products. “Promotion of a level playfield in the market for both locally manufactured and imported products certified by some provision of assurance to consumers on products and guaranteed value for money. “Assurance of effective removal of non-compliant products in the market. “Also, this is part of the programs we are doing at SON to make sure our industries and our genuine importers are protected. “We are currently with the National Assembly, the ninth National Assembly. We like to definitely thank them for cooperating with us to adjust our Act to put more penalties for people faking, especially endangering products. Most of the time they get fines and the level of fines is so small because this act was done almost eight years ago. “So, we went back to the National Assembly, and in their wisdom, they agreed with us and we are processing right now as we speak. The change of the law where some products are left endangering will require immediate jail time instead of fines. In the same vein, the organisation has in a different approach through its surveillance team been bursting criminal activities responsible for infiltrating markets across Nigeria with fake and substandard products. For instance, in its continuous effort to crack down on substandard lubricants flooding the Nigerian market and its core mandate enshrined by the SON Act 2015 which is safeguarding and improving lives through standards, the SON recently at the Federal High Court arraigned Mr. Solomon Oyumgbo, who was arrested at the Aspamda Trade Fair International Market for cloning Harden Engine Oil which has been in circulation for months and suspected to be substandard. The prosecutor, Mr. Yusuf Lawan, told the Court that the defendant committed the alleged offenses on November 11, 2022, at Aspamda International Trade Fair, Lagos. Mr. Lawan told the Court that the defendant deals in substandard engine oil named Hardex SN Gold SAE 5W-30, a fully Synthetic Engine Oil which did not conform with the mandatory Industrial Standard for synthetic lubricating oil for Motor vehicles NIS 1024:2018. He also told the court that the defendant did engage in dealing and selling Hardex SN Gold SAE 5W-30 Fully Synthetic Engine Oil without lawful authority or license and that the offenses committed by the defendant are contrary to and punishable under section 26(2) (b)(ii) of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria Act, 2015. He also said the offenses contravened Sections 1(18)(a)(ii); 1(48)(a)(ii), and 1(17) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, Cap M17, laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, and punishable under the same Act. However, the defendant pleaded not guilty to the offenses, and the Prosecutor asked for a short trial date and urged the court to remand the defendant in the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Services (NCoS) until the determination of the charges. However, Barrister Onah Chinedu, who represented the defendant ‘pro-Bono,’ asked the court for a short date to enable him to file the defendant’s bail application. The lawyer also pleaded with the court to remand the defendant in the custody of the Force Criminal Investigation Department (Force CID), Alagbon-Ikoyi Lagos, till the hearing and determination of the bail application. Justice Awogboro, in her bench ruling, ordered that the defendant be remanded in Force CID’s custody and adjourned the matter till May 5, 2023, for a hearing of the bail