LAGOS – The Hopes Alive Initiative for Africa (HAI), a renowned non-governmental organization, has renewed its commitment to improving the lives of underserved community children across Africa. Led by its Deputy Convener, Regal Majesty Queen Temitope Morenike Enitan-Ogunwusi, the HAI team recently visited Footprints of David’s Art in Ilaje, Bariga, and Dream Catchers Academy in Ikorodu to meet with the founders and support their efforts. During the visit, Queen Temitope highlighted her vision of assisting underserved communities and individuals, particularly vulnerable children, to live purposeful and quality lives. She also announced plans to host a mega show to provide talented children in vulnerable and underserved communities with a platform to showcase their skills and unlock opportunities for their future. The HAI Africa’s maiden edition of the mega show, slated to hold later in the year, will feature renowned African talents, such as the Ghetto Kids (currently in the Semifinal of Britain Got Talent Show), Footprints of David’s Art, Dream Catchers Academy alongside unknown but equally gifted children on the same stage. The initiative aims to generate resources that will be utilized to provide further care for underserved children and others like them, with future plans to expand the show into a series of continuous annual events. In her remarks, Queen Temitope expressed appreciation to His Imperial Majesty, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan-Ogunwusi, for his support in bridging the gap in society and creating a grand platform to empower young minds in underserved communities. She emphasized that the HAI is collaborating with well-known and skilled less privileged groups to uplift unknown and talented individuals in Africa. She disclosed that the HAI has already started working with many less privileged children’s homes in Africa, identifying talented children in Kenya and Nigeria. The NGO plans to bring together these underserved community children in Lagos, Uganda, and Kenya to participate in the mega event, with the ultimate goal of empowering them to achieve their full potential. POLL The HAI for Africa will visit other less privileged groups in Uganda and Kenya in the coming weeks, inviting them to the upcoming mega show. During the team’s visit to Kenya, Queen Temitope and her team will present a cash gift, promised by investors from His Imperial Majesty’s Pan African Movement to the Mully Children’s Family orphanage in Machakos County that displayed great skills during a business visit hosted by Governor H.E Wavinya Ndeti March 2023. Through its various initiatives and outreach programs, HAI for Africa is making a significant impact on the lives of underserved children and their communities. With continued support from individuals and organizations, the HAI for Africa is well-positioned to continue transforming lives and empowering communities across the continent.