LAGOS – Nigerians are divided over Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari’s claim that he has delivered the change he promised the people eight years ago on his assump­tion of office. Buhari, it would be recalled, stated this during the recent Seventh Convocation of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, adding that he had delivered in the areas of economy, inse­curity and also fought against corruption. Buhari’s declaration came as the state of the economy has been abysmal with the value of the Naira at its lowest in the history of the nation which has been declared the poverty head­quarters of the world. Also, Buhari was beating his chest, even as there exist vari­ous forms of insecurity which has claimed thousands of lives of compatriots. However, Julius Adegunna, an information expert and pub­lisher, in his response, stated: “Definitely, President Buham­madu Buhari came with his own brand of change, and he has certainly made a change or some changes. “It now behoves on Nigeri­ans to see if the man made any change in their personal lives and corporate existence of the country, Nigeria. “Like all other beings, every performance has its positive and negative sides.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Buhari’s Change has brought positive developments in the area of infrastructure, some democratic and electoral reforms, and his non-partisan approach to issues. POLL “But, also, Nigerians will not forget in a hurry the pains he inflicted on them in making nepotistic one-sided appoint­ments, confusion in policies and implementation, the Fula­nisation agenda as experienced in wanton killings and decima­tion of innocent natives in other parts of Nigeria. “The question we may ask ourselves is: Has the change made us change as a people in the last eight years?” Also reacting, Barrister Alaowei Ebikonbowei Cleric, Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (CHURAC), stated: “Nigeria under Buhari is a nightmare. I don’t know what type of Change Mr. President is talking about. “What we know is that Bu­hari’s innocuous Change is a national calamity. He has com­pletely changed everything in the country from bad to worse. “He can be ensconcing with whatever he thinks he has achieved in his eight bleak years in government, but to the pauperised Nigerians, Bu­hari is an eternal doom to the country.”