“Who will guard the guards themselves?” Juvenal 60-120 AD. Politicians are most humble twice. First, when they are begging for votes; and, second, when on their way out of office – which they abused. President Buhari, recently, asked Nigerians to forgive him – without specifically stating for what. That is the sort of dishonesty for which politicians are renowned universally. They reckon, quite rightly, that most of their Fellow Citizens are damn fools, who can be treated badly when theywieldpower; andtold”don’tvex” whentheybecome ordinary people again with a ton load of crimes against humanity. Well, some of us are not among the fools who can be pacified by plea for forgiveness by the leader of the most corrupt regime in our history. By pointing frequently to the corruption engulfing previous governments, Buhari diverted our attention from his own. UnfortunatelyforBuhari, Godhasawayof revealing truthswhichconspiratorsassumedhadbeen buriedfor ever. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ As he begins his last month in office, it is becoming increasingly clear that corruption by his government started right from the start in 2015. POLL And, apparently, the pattern which developed later was based on a two-prong strategic plan. The first part of the plan was to install a Minister for Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, AGF, who, instead of being the chief law enforcer, might be the chief law breaker. Malami would besupported by theAccountantGeneral and others. The lawman becomes the outlaw when it pleases him. The second part of the plan consisted in getting installed two rubber stamps in the National Assembly, NASS – Senate President and Speaker of the House. The two arethere to prevent the NASS from performing its oversight functions. They played their roles to perfection. But, none of them will occupy those exalted positions in the 10th Assembly. So, in the final hour of the 9th NASS the two chambers are now embarking on probes for alleged corrupt practices involving Mr Malami from 2015 and 2019, and the Accountant General of the Federation, AGF. Here are a few reports to help readers understand how a well-organised conspiracy and cover-up by Buhari’s officials have impoverished the nation. It is no longer news that Malami and Mrs Zainab Ahmed, the Minister of Finance, were just recently summoned to come and explain what happened to the $2.4 billion worth of crude oil sold to China in 2015 and the proceeds of the sale collected by Malami without evidencethattheamountwasremitted totheFederation Account. Mrs Zainab Ahmed can be exonerated in this case. ShewasnottheFinanceMinisterin2015. Insteadof presenting a receipt for paying into the Federation Account, Malami has been running from pillar to post. ThemostobviousquestionsNigeriansmustaskare: when did the Minister of Justice become the government official charged with selling Nigerian crude and collecting revenue for it? If we are now just discovering suspicious transactions in 2015 now, how many more suchsalesweremadesincethenthatwerenotalsoproperly accounted for? “Crude oil exports: Malami allegedly paid $200m as whistleblower fees – Reps Report, April 20, 2023. From this report, one comes away with the impression that Mr Malami was given a free and illegal hand to dip into the Federation Account without restraint. Inthiscase, thetransactionwasapprovedbyBuhari, who did not have enough sense to take three steps,one, to ask if the AGF was empowered by the constitution to get involved in such payments; two, to ask if the Auditor General’s office had vetted the request; and three, to ask if NASS approval was needed. Buhari signed; the Central Bank paid and until now few people knew the basis for the claim; and who were the owners of the companies paid. Disposal of Recovered Loot It is quite possiblethatthereaderhas forgottenabout a man called Magu. Well, he was the Chairman of the EconomicandFinancialCrimesCommission, EFCC, beforethecurrentwarmer of theseat– whohasunhealthy contempt for courts. He gets away with his lawlessness because the Inspector General of Police, IGP, who is supposed to arrest him, is a “brother”. But, mostly, he gets away with it because he is also a “brother” to Buhari, the nation’s chief law enforcement officer, who isunashamedlydiscriminatoryinenforcing the law. Kanu has not stolen a kobo; but, he is locked up. Buhari’s“brothers” allegedtohaverobbedthenationblind are walking around free. He begs for forgiveness. Magu was declared suspended at first; and Justice Salami (rtd) regrettably was asked to conduct a judicial inquiry into the affairs of the EFCC under Magu. All these were based on allegations of mismanagement of looted assets by Magu made by Malami. The accuser got more than he bargained for. Magu, in his defence openedseveral cans of worms implicating the Minister in various instances of re-looted loot. Tilltoday, thereportof theJusticeSalamiinquiryhas notbeenreleased. Thoseof uswhofollowedtheproceedings knew that Buhari would never allow the report to bereleased. FromsourcesworkingwithSalami, itwould appear that some of the assets, exotic cars, jewelleries found their way into the possession of those in Aso Rock corridors of power. Again, attempts by the NASS to look into the malodorousactivitieshavebeenfrustratedbyMalami– who is indisputably the central figure in the covert disposal of recovered loot. Inallthese, PresidentBuharibecametotallyun-Presidential. Instead he descended to the level of a local and ethnic champion. HerepeatedlycarpetedtheJonathanadministration for looting; while at the same time vigorously defending his “brothers” who committed worse crimes. Who Stole Nigeria’s Oil And What Did Buhari Do? “Jonathan’s Ministers behind oil theft – Buhari”. Report , July 23, 2015. Buhari said the documents at his disposal indicated some former Ministers and other top government officials of massive fraud including oil theft…Some former Ministersweresellingaboutonemillionbarrelsperday”. That report, which was retrieved from my archives (there is more where that came from) should tell any honest and patriotic Nigerian the sort of individual we made President for eight years. Self-respectingPresidentsdon’ttellbold-faced lies; neither do they share unfounded rumour with the people. So, unless Buhari was lying or promoting defamatory rumours, we have to accept that he was indeed in possession of damning evidence that some people in GOJ’s government were stealing one million barrels of crude oil a day. A patriotic and responsible President would have had all the culprits rounded up, prosecuted and made to cough up the loot. Buhari did not get anybody arrested or punished till today. Even at $50 per barrel, $50 million was being stolen per day and Buhari did nothing – or so it seemed at first glance. We now know that crude was sold later in the year and the funds were not remitted to the Federation Account. Nobody, but the members of the syndicate stealing Nigerian crude, knows how much Nigeria lost and how much the thieves gained. But, those are the questions we need Buhari to answer for us. “SenateprobesAccountantGeneraloverN74bnsocial benefits funds.” Report, April 13, 2023. All the readerneedsto knowisthatthesame AccountantGeneralisalreadyinCourtforembezzlingN89bn– a record for the public service.