BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI ; CHIDI UGWU Godwin Emefiele, the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), on Tuesday said that over 1.4 million transactions have passed through the eNaira plat­form from inception till date. Emefiele gave the hint during the opening ceremony of the 34th seminar for finance corre­spondents and business editors with the theme, ‘Implementing a Robust Payment Architecture: Prospects, Opportunities and Challenges’, in Calabar, the Cross River State capital. According to him, the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic trig­gered rapid advancements in financial technology, leading to speedy digitisation of money and finance with CBN taking the advantage of the opportunity to launch the eNaira in October 2021. Emefiele said the eNaira was developed to broaden the pay­ment possibilities of Nigerians, foster digital financial inclusion, with potential for fast-tracking intergovernmental and social transfers, stressing that since its launch, the CBN has continued to modify its features to make it more accessible to a wide range of users. “Today, one does not need a smartphone to use the eNaira as it has become compatible with all generations of mobile devices (old and new)”, he said. Another initiative of the bank, Emefiele said is open banking aimed at expanding the cache of customer data warehoused in the financial sector for use in develop­ing innovative products to service the needs of the public. “The opportunities presented by open banking are diverse and it serves to enhance financial in­clusion and encourage healthy competition in the financial ser­vices space as well as promote efficiency. POLL “The bank also initiated the regulatory sandbox to provide the opportunity for innovators to test their ideas and products to regula­tors in a controlled environment where the risks and potential of the products could be assessed. “The bank recently opened the first cohort of the sandbox”, he noted. The apex bank governor as­sured that the CBN will ensure that the data exchange will be done in a way to safeguard the privacy and concerns of the cus­tomers who own the data in the first place. The CBN boss further stated that startups with innovative ideas are invited to apply to the sandbox. On cardless and other contact­less payment options, Emefiele said that the industry is quickly evolving towards cardless and other contactless payment op­tions, including QR codes, NFC etc. He said, in this regard, the bank has issued robust regula­tions to standardise operations of contactless payments in Nigeria. “Through contactless pay­ments, financial transactions can be consummated without physi­cal contact between the payer and acquiring devices. It is an innova­tive payment option for safe and efficient conduct of low-value, large-volume payments.” The CBN boss also noted that the Bank Verification Number (BVN) has continued to feature in the apex bank’s KYC require­ments as part of plans to ease the constraint associated with poor identification of banking customers. He said, “We have continued to support the aggressive enroll­ment of prospective banking customers in the informal sector onto the BVN system. “With a total enrollment of 57,431,355 as at 31st March 2023, the BVN is supporting the de­velopment of credit profiles for banking customers, which will assist in improving access to cred­it for credit-worthy borrowers by banks. “The BVN has also helped the industry in investigating fraud and other related crimes,” he said. Emefiele listed some of the challenges faced by the bank in implementing these initiatives to include weak social infrastruc­ture, activities of unlicensed enti­ties, cyber threats and fraud. He said in response to the chal­lenges posed by cyber threats, the CBN has put the following initia­tives in place. “The Nigeria Electronic Fraud Forum (NeFF) consists of all relevant stakeholders, to pro­actively address challenges and safeguard the integrity of the e-payment channels. “Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard: mandatory for any entity that processes, stores/ saves or transmits payment card data. “The Financial Industry Cy­bersecurity Fusion Centre: serves as a sectoral Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) for the Nigerian Financial Ser­vices Industry.”