Glovo, one of the world’s leading multi-category delivery players, developed its quick Q-commerce arm and a digital supermarket called Micro Fulfilment Centre (MFC) and Glovo Bargains in Lagos to ensure the quickest possible service delivery system to ‘Lagosians’ Tokunbo Ibrahim, Government Relations Manager, Glovo Sub-Saharan Africa, at the launch of its new MFC in Yaba, Lagos, told Daily Independent that Glovo Bargains is accessible through Glovo’s app or website to boost its services. She said: “It offers customers the best affordable prices for fresh and consumer packaged goods (CPG) from the convenience of their homes. Using the latest in-store digital technology and dedicated resources, Glovo Bargains ensures the quickest possible delivery times with customers receiving their orders in 20-40 minutes.” She explained that Glovo Bargains is a type of e-commerce where emphasis is on quick deliveries, typically in less than an hour, adding that Glovo was expanding its Q-commerce arm to meet the increasing consumer demand for rapid delivery in Lagos Mainland. Ibrahim said insurance cover different circumstances in case any casualty happens while on the road. She added that Glovo would create a ‘Korea pledge’ to increase commitment to ‘Koreas’ (dispatch ridders) which has four different pillars, including comprehensive insurance. “We are trying to give them more dignity of labour; we are trying to create a situation whereby ‘Koreas’ can have paternity leave; that is if something happens to them while they are working, they can continue to earn money,” Ibrahim said. She also added that Glovo would be partnering Fairwork, an organisation that ensures fairness of work for platform workers, and that the organisation would be auditing their actions. POLL Kolawole Adeniyi, Head of Q-Commerce for Glovo Nigeria, said: “Consumer behaviour and lifestyle trends keep evolving with speed and convenience becoming more important than ever. With Glovo Bargains, consumers conveniently buy groceries and other essential items at better prices than the market, from the comfort and safety of their homes. We are excited to continue to expand our offering to meet consumer’s demands.”