The Lionel Messi to Barcelona transfer rumors have been swirling for months, seemingly picking up steam as the season has chugged along. Although PSG are on the cusp of winning yet another Ligue 1 title and Messi has 15 goals and 15 assists in a strong bounce-back season individually, things have not gone to plan again for the Qatar-backed project. PSG were knocked out of the Champions League Round of 16 again, and they are faced with the knowledge that their summer 2022 transfer window was not nearly good enough to reinforce the squad. PSG are already reportedly poised to part ways with Messi, going as far as to suspend him for a seemingly unavoidable ambassador’s trip to Saudi Arabia after the team’s loss to Lorient. Barcelona see their opening now, and as long as Saudi Arabia does not woo him with an outrageous financial offer to join Cristiano Ronaldo as a rival in the Saudi Pro League, the coast should be clear for La Blaugrana to reunite with their greatest-ever player – a man who should have never left in 2021. According to a report from Sport’s David Bernabeu, Barcelona already have a contract offer in mind for Lionel Messi, which would be a two-year deal through the 2024/25 season that includes a player option for the Argentinian attacker in 2024. Further, Barcelona are reportedly prepared to pay Messi 25 million euros gross (13 million euros net). What the offer meansThat is not an insignificant sum of money, especially for a club like Barcelona which will have to make some moves this summer in order to free the wage space necessary to accommodate the current Ballon d’Or favorite. However, 25 million euros gross, as noted in the article, would be a steep discount of 75 percent off the original wages that Barcelona could not register for the 2021/22 LaLiga season. POLL Messi is more appreciated in Barcelona than in Paris, where he never fit into the sporting project’s need for a young team and a fresh rebuild around Kylian Mbappé. Barcelona are hoping that a Messi reunion can be the missing piece in European football. They have the LaLiga title all but sewn up, yet their performances in both the Champions League and Europa League left a lot to be desired. This team is ever-improving but still young. Ansu Fati and even Raphinha have been mentioned in transfer rumors, as has the talented but wildly inconsistent Ferran Torres. It stands to reason that one of these players will be sold so that Messi can arrive. The club may prefer to sell Torres, but the choice likely comes down to which player wants to leave and which player receives the right transfer offer this summer.