LAGOS  – Players in the agricultural space present at a one-day export stakeholders’ implementation forum held in Lagos have recommended that the government should encourage increase in youth participation in Agric business to boost export production The stakeholders made the recommendation in a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting which aims to address challenges confronting the export of agricultural produce with the view of identifying practical solutions. Recognising the need to address these challenges and foster sustainable growth in the agro-export sector, the Minister Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development invited key stakeholders from various sectors, including farmers, exporters, financial institutions, and industry experts to the Nigeria Export Stakeholders’ Implementation Forum. The forum serves as a platform for collaboration and knowledge exchange, with the primary objective of identifying and implementing practical solutions to the issues impeding the development of the Nigerian agro-export market. The forum also aims to bring together diverse perspectives, expertise, and experiences to foster a conducive environment for sustainable agro-export growth. They called for inclusive consultation of all value chain actors including cold-room operators, packaging and other logistic operators in policy formulation and decision-making process as part of broader efforts towards policy implementation for increased agricultural production and export. The stakeholders called on the government to activate the Technical Working Group which can provide the needed leverage for the private sector to stimulate strategies that can increase agriculture export and its contribution to foreign earnings. At the meeting stakeholders observed that Nigerian foreign exchange earnings is currently under threat as global attention shifts away from fossil fuel to a more sustainable and environmentally friendly source of energy which is part of global effort to mitigate the impact of climate change. POLL They also observed that Agro-export opportunities created under various trade deals are underutilised and challenged by the high cost of freight, poor policy implementation, multiple charges and levies, poor marketing and traceability of agro-exports, unharmonised standards, multiple agencies interference in agricultural commodities export, inadequate youth participation across the value chain and trade facilitation infrastructure deficits. The further observed that the ease of doing business has improved in Nigeria, but much more still needs to be done to facilitate agricultural export trade in order to increase export and enhance sector contribution to national development. Also, Nigeria’s export value to landmass (sqKM) ratio of 1,299 shows that the country is not doing enough to leverage on its arable landmass to improve agricultural production and export.