 The Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Akure, the Ondo State capital, on Wednesday, struck out the petition filed by the Labour Party(LP) against the House of Representatives member-elect, Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, on the February 25 general election in the Akoko North East and North West Federal Constituency. LP and its candidate had withdrawn their petition and consequently, the three-man tribunal agreed with the petitioners and struck out the petition in line with article 29 of 2022 Electoral Act as amended, dismissing it in its entirety. It would be recalled that LP and its candidate, Ademuyiwa, had petitioned INEC, All Progressives Congress(APC) and its candidate, Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, as respondents, for omitting the party’s logo on the ballot paper during the election, praying the court to declare that another election be conducted in the constituency. Withdrawing the petition at the tribunal through its attorney, Femi Emmanuel Emodamori said the petitioners/applicants have severally and jointly resolved to discontinue the petition. According to Emodamori, “The 1st applicant’s decision in this regard is based on the fact that the 2nd applicant’s withdrawal would leave her with no utilitarian value in pursuing the petition since she can no longer replace/substitute the 2nd applicant as her candidate, even if the petition eventually succeeds.” Reacting to the development on behalf of Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, a chieftain of APC in the state, Evangelist Olumuyiwa Asagunla, the Odofin Ogbooye of Afa Okeagbe said the ruling of the tribunal was another dark day for enemies of progress bent at bringing God’s anointed down at all cost. He said: “I am happy about the historic decision of the petitioners to withdraw the case, it is an achievement not only for Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, but also to the APC family in Ondo state and an achievement of peace and steady development in the entire Akoko North Federal Constituency. Now Hon.Bunmi Tunji-Ojo can face his Legislative work.” POLL “I enjoin the party leadership in the state not to spare political distractors who connived with and instigate opposition to embark on this baseless case against the winner of the February 25 House of Representatives Elections in Akoko North West and North East federal constituency.” Tolu Babaleye, the attorney to APC, said the petition was dismissed in its entirety and it could never be reawakening again. He said: “It is a victory for APC and Hon. Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo. On our side here, we are very happy indeed.” The LP candidate, Badmus Ademuyiwa disclosed that he decided to withdraw his petition in the interest of peace and his community. He said: “Let me say here that we operate as one entity in Akoko North Federal Constituency and as such, I need to bow to my community interest.”