ISEGHE AJAYI Attaining financial freedom in these dire hard times can be very challenging due to the harsh economy. And surviving in this economy is not a child’s play especially if your source of livelihood is not guaranteed. The unending high inflationary trend has continued to have an adverse effect on the standard of living of the populace and also the business environment. Likewise, the depreciating value of Naira has worsened the situation more. The situation has seen so many businesses going under and the ones trying to stay afloat have no option but to downsize their workforce, thereby increasing the level of unemployment. Relying on a single source of income in this unfavourable economy is not sustainable particularly if you desire to meet your basic needs and live a worthwhile life. That is why it is pertinent to ponder outside the box on how to enhance your financial life to avoid regrets later in life. The earlier you start the better it would be for you as procrastination does more harm than good. Do you know that you can start something with what you have as everybody has something inside him/her to give out? It could be your talent or that skill you are passionate about. For example, if you desire a particular business to venture into and finance is standing as a hindrance, why not start with what you have even if you do not have that enormous capital? ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ There are many ways you can multiply your earnings or allow your money to work for you. Just ensure that before you dabble into any business, be conversant with the business terrain to avoid going into debt. POLL If you are unemployed and you are finding it hard to secure a white-collar job or your dream job why not use what you have to advance your financial life so that you will not be labeled a liability? Do you know that there is something inside of you that you can develop to improve your financial life? Those skills that are innate or talents you are zealous about, why not use them to profit your life instead of depending on people for survival? In the area of saving and investments, do not believe that since your earnings are nothing to write home about that you cannot save. Start with what you have as an emergency will surely arise and when it occurs, who will you run to for financial assistance especially if you have nothing to offer the moment it occurs? You must be ready to start where you are and with what you have if you really desire to achieve your financial dreams. Besides, it is key to exploit whatever income you currently haven to pursue your ambition and remain focused, believing that your desires would materialize as long as you do not relent but stay devoted to your endeavours. The under-listed tips will help you to get started with what you have: Be Ready To Take Risk Life itself is a risk and as such you must be able to take risks to forge ahead in life. Confront your fears if you really desire to make headway in your finances. Do not wait to have all the money required to begin; that day may never come for you to fully actualize your dream. Soon, you will realise that the heavens will open up doors for you if you are persistent with what you are doing and present you with prospects you may have never received if you had permitted your supposed restrictions to stop you. Do Not Focus On Things You Cannot Control Try as much as possible to focus on things you can control so as not to be consumed by those things and situations you have absolutely no control over. Instead, use to your benefit those that you can move on the path of your dreams. Ensure you are not reluctant to start from where you are, using whatever you have, and doing whatever you can, as the secret to moving forward is getting started. You do not need to have an immense beginning to commence; you have to start with what you have to finally become great. Vision What will be the end result of your business? Define your mission. This is different from a vision; your mission should explain the reason your company exists. Define your objectives. What are you going to do – what are your goals that will lead to the achievement of your mission and your vision? Outline your basic strategies. How are you going to achieve the objectives you just bulleted? Write a simple action plan. Bullet out the smaller task-oriented actions required to achieve the stated objectives. Be Determined To Take Action You must be prepared to take action that will move you one step closer to your goal with whatever you have. If your vision is to start your own trade, simple acts such as picking a business name, registering your business name, having someone design a business emblem for you, and so on, will be adequate to motivate you to take further action that would aid you to attain your desired results. Time Having sufficient time is one of the biggest stumbling blocks for many people who want to start their own business. One of the most important skills you require, especially when balancing a day job with running a small side business is good time management skills. Prioritsing tasks are not easy, but failure to do so may make you end up pushing away customers and vendors that you need to work with. So, you must try as much as possible to take care of jobs that must be done immediately and delay working on the projects that you know can wait. Prioritising businesses, as well as personal tasks, is crucial, as it would enable you to carve out sufficient time in your busy day to devote to your startup. Proper time management is essential. Money Starting a business requires cash (or credit) upfront, and buying a surviving business often needs a large lump sum payment. Unfortunately, many people want to start a business specifically because they do not have any money. This can lead such unprepared entrepreneurs to bury themselves in debt. To avoid this situation, thoroughly consider how much you need to start your business and maintain operations. Then, treat that as your baseline, knowing that you will likely encounter several unexpected expenses such as business cards, a website, and mailing supplies. Work On Your Flaws Work on your weaknesses and do not allow the need for perfection to prevent you from reaching your goal or vision. Start with what you have and let whatever small progress you make drive and motivate you to keep going until you have obtained satisfaction in your cravings.