The governorship candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in Ogun state in the last general elections, Ambassador Olufemi Ajadi has rejoiced with the newly inaugurated Party’s Caretaker Committee Chairman, Prince Ibrahim Adekunle and all the party members in the state. Ajadi described the emergence of Prince Ibrahim Adekunle as the Caretaker Committee Chairman of the party as best thing ever to happened in the party presently. He attested to Adekunle’s competency and intellectual prowess which he said, will bring to bear in administering the party. Thesw were contained in a congratulatory message issued and personally signed by him, copy of which was made available to journalists in Abeokuta on Saturday. Ajadi, however, stated that following the expulsion of the former State Chairman Oginni Olaposi Sunday and dissolution of NNPP Ogun state chapter by the National Working Committee (NWC) of party in which, he believe that the newly appointed Caretaker Committees will learn from their mistakes. He urges and advised party faithful members home and abroad and those who might have left the party due to numerous political dishonesty of the former State Chairman Oginni Olaposi Sunday should come back in good faith to pick-up letter of rejoining at their ward levels to support the “New Dawn” of the great party in Ogun state. According to him, “Let me congratulate Prince Ibrahim Adekunle and all the party members in Ogun state on the success of the inauguration of the Caretaker Committee and their perseverance and hard work over the years, I equally thank our party’s national leadership for their consistency and fair play in the running the affairs of the party. “The emergence of Prince Ibrahim Adekunle as our party Caretaker Committee Chairman is a round peg in a round hole, I, therefore urge all members of our party dor their support and to remain committed to be prepared to work for the success of the party and the state at large. POLL “I urge you all to place the party’s interest over personal interest. As we welcome the new leadership, I offer sincere appreciation to the national leadership for providing an energetic and purposeful leadership in Ogun state at a very critical period of the party’s history. “I enjoin those who are now saddled with the responsibility of our party’s affair to work harder to position our party for the pressing tasks ahead. “While it’s true that the people have accepted and adopted our party as the only political party that can move the state forward, we must continuously work to strengthen and reform the party to gain the leadership position in the state.”