LAGOS – The former Director of Media for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kogi State, Honourables Onibiyo Dayo (Yagba East), Folunsho Mamood (Lokoja), Stephen Bankole (Yagba) and other party members recently resigned from the main opposition party. The former PDP members were welcomed by Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, on Friday at his office in Lugard House, Lokoja. During the meeting, Governor Bello noted that he was not surprised about their exit from the PDP which he described as a struggling party. He emphasized the need to accommodate them into the progressive movement of the All Progressives Congress (APC), stressing that the APC in Kogi State would continue to grow in numbers, highlighting the achievements of his administration and their commitment to providing good governance for the people of Kogi State. Onogwu Muhammed, Chief Press Secretary to the Governor in a press statement on Friday noted that Governor Bello extended a warm welcome to the former PDP members, pointing out that the doors of the APC are open for anyone willing to contribute to the state’s development. Earlier, Hon Dayo, the former Director of Media praised the governor for his remarkable achievements across the state, particularly mentioning the construction of the Ganaja flyover and other infrastructure developments as evidence of good governance. He shared his personal admiration for Governor Yahaya Bello’s unwavering dedication, patriotism, and selflessness in defending the state’s resources during a confrontation with a multi-billion naira company in Kogi State in 2022. The group also commended the governor for his foresight, egalitarianism, fairness and justice in approving the establishment of a state-owned university in Okunland, Kogi West Senatorial District. POLL Dayo emphasised the importance of leaders standing alone when necessary to do what is right, and he commended Governor Yahaya Bello for consistently demonstrating this trait. The group of defectors pledged their support to Governor Bello’s administration and assured him of their collective commitment to campaign for the APC candidate in the 2023 Kogi gubernatorial election.