P/HARCOURT  – Governor Nyesom Wike has conferred the high­est Rivers State hon­ours, the Grand Service Star of Rivers State (GSSRS), on eight individuals including, gov­ernors of Imo State, Hope Uzo­dimma, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna) and Rivers’ gover­nor-elect Sir Siminialayi Fubara. Others were the governors of Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa); the for­mer governors of Akwa Ibom, Godswill Obot Akpabio, John Olukayode Fayemi (Ekiti), and Senator Abdulaziz Abubakar Yari (Zamfara). Governor Wike, while deliv­ering his valedictory speech at an honours award night in Port Harcourt on Saturday night, said the second, third, and fourth- cat­egories of honourees cut across a broader spectrum of society. The governor said the seven governors and former governors honoured by the State belong to the country’s highly intelligent, committed, and hardworking servant-leaders who have dis­tinguished themselves in public service with phenomenal perfor­mance records. “Most of all, they are prom­inent power brokers among the Governors of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), who signed, undertook, and worked day and night to deliver our col­lective aspirations for a southern president in the 2023 general elec­tions at significant risks to their political life. “Their lives, reputation, ex­ploits, and achievements are like open books, so we all know who and what they are, what they stand for, and which inter­ests they represent and project. They have proven to be leaders made for the times rather than the ones the times and circum­stances accidentally produced. “We honour and celebrate these fellow compatriots’ inspira­tional achievements, exemplary leadership, profound service, love for the motherland, and contri­butions to national cohesion, democracy, equity, and justice.” Governor Wike said the incep­tion of his administration was rough and turbulent, because the then governor, Rotimi Amaechi, was very hostile and rancorous. POLL According to him, he also met an empty treasury, huge public debts, a hostile political environ­ment, and a federal government turned against us by the former governor. “He initially struggled to pre­vent us from being sworn in by going to three different courts for restraining orders. When this failed, he challenged our electoral victory and had it nullified at the tribunal and the Court of Appeal. “Our mandate was restored by the Supreme Court after near­ly one year of legal battles. But, all three senatorial seats, a sizable number of the House of Repre­sentatives, and over half of the State House of Assembly seats were nullified, leaving the State without representation at the National Assembly and a func­tional State House of Assembly. Our candidates for these offices were later subjected to a series of tempestuous re-runs before some managed to reclaim their mandates.”