ABUJA – A Coalition of Civil Society Groups on Monday, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately reverse the appointment of Board members of North East Development Commission(NEDC), as well as its Managing Director or face legal action. The group gave Mr. President 72- hour ultimatum to reverse the appointment or meet them in court. They pointed out that President Buhari contravened the Constitution by passing the Senate which should have considered and confirmed these appointments. This is contained in a release signed by the leaders of the CSOs, which include the Secretary, Coalition of Civil Society Groups, Abubakar Ibrahim; President, First Alliance Group, Olumide Kingsley Egbeola; Convener, Centre for Public Accountability, Akindele Oluwafemi; President, African Leadership Strategy & Transparency Development Initiative, Nelson Osaize; and President, Northern Nigeria Good Governance Forum, Ibrahim Sule. The Coalition said Buhari’s decision to bypass the Senate’s confirmation of the board members and Managing Director of NEDC was a deliberate affront on the Constitution as well as an attempt to subvert the process of appointing public office holders. According to the Coalition:”Our attention has been drawn to the recent unconstitutional role played by Mr. President in the recent appointment he did barely few days to hand-over to the incoming administration. “We are worried that, why the hurry in confirming an appointment made by him without the senate ratifying same as laid down by appointment procedure stated in Section 147 of the Constitution, that such appointments made by President and not confirmed by the Senate shall be null and void. “This breach of Constitutional provisions will not stand. We condemn the action of the out-going President in the strongest term. POLL “The action is condemnable and totally unacceptable. “We declare that the new board must be cleared by the Nigerian Senate before they will resume and therefore call on President Buhari to reverse his earlier decision. “We thus, see the recent declaration and directive of Mr. President for NEDC board members to resume office without Senate confirmation as autocratic, undemocratic and above all reminds us of the military regime which should not be brought into any democratic process. “This directive for the new Board and Managing Director of NEDC appointed by President Buhari to resume office without confirmation from the senate is wrong and should not stand.” “Why did Mr President give them directive to resume office in acting capacity pending when the Senate will confirm or ratify the newly appointed Managing Director of the Commission and others? “This declaration of resumption setting aside Senate confirmation is unconstitutional and should not be supported when this administration has few days to go. “The NEDC is by extension, the creation of National Assembly, thus the management and Board must be ratified by the Senate in conformity with laid down rules. “This is important so as to ensure we have right people that can deliver on the mandate to lead the organisation and activate the oversight functions of same institution. “The argument of vacuum being created before Senate confirmation is laughable, does it mean that nobody can act within the Commission pending when Senate screens and approves their appointments? “The process of undergoing Senate screening is constitutional and should not be jettisoned for illegality. Meanwhile, the Coalition claimed that, “There is nothing to hurry about as our findings show that we have capable hands that can direct the activities of the Commission while we await senate screening and confirmation. “We hereby call on President Buhari, to as a matter of urgency, to revert to the old order. “The decision of the newly appointed Managing Director to resume duty is wrong and should not be one of the negative legacies the outgoing government will leave behind. “We must adhere to our laid down rules and laws, this should not be circumvented at any point in time. “The power of the Senate should not be undermined nor swept under the carpet. The group called on Nigerians to join them to stop the alleged illegality and impunity demonstrated by Buhari. “We also expect all well-meaning Nigerians to rise up now and let’s make President Buhari to do the right thing and put in place sound legacy few days to his exit from office.