…Explains He Was In France At Alleged Moment Of Chat Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party in the March 18 elections has exposed a supposed telephone call  allegedly mimicking his soft voice in an alleged chat with Mustapha Audu in Abuja on Tuesday. Here below is the detail of his his-step-by step movement at the said period on the said day: “A report came to me while I was seated in court that one Prince Mustapha Audu, son of the late governor of Kogi State, held the OBIdient’s Chief Spokesman, Dr Yunusa Tanko and some others spellbound – castigating and talking down on me, describing me as an ethnic and religious bigot. “He claimed that I called him while I was in front of his office on Tuesday morning at about 11 am, but suddenly cut off the phone after I spoke Igbo and he, Audu was unable to respond. “According to him, Obi may have only helped to empower some businessmen strictly because they were Igbos, and he wondered why Obi should aspire to lead the country if he cannot accommodate other ethnic groups. “It was one of my aides who quickly alerted me on what was going on and I pleaded with him to go outside and tell the OBIdients who were with the man to kindly delay him until I come out of the courtroom. After the court proceedings, “I met with Audu and he repeated the same story, adding that he was angry at me for cutting off the phone on him because he could not speak Igbo. He insisted that I was in front of his office in Abuja when I called. POLL “I then introduced myself again to him and told him, “My brother, I did not call you, and I couldn’t have been in front of your office on Tuesday because I was not in Abuja, and not even in the country. At about the time you alleged that I called you, “I was arriving at Nice in France for a meeting. By the evening of the same day, I flew to London for another meeting and in fact, had to breeze in to felicitate with my dear elder brother, Dele Momodu on his 63rd birthday. “I only flew into the country this morning for this court session” The young man, looking embarrassed and surprised at the same time added that the voice of the caller and everything sounded like mine. We exchanged pleasantries and took pictures. “This is just one of the many desperate efforts to run me down and tag me as what I am not, with the intention to gain some perceived political mileage against me. “Ordinarily, I am not scared or worried about competitions provided they are within the legitimate rules of engagement, but going this far is worrisome. “It is quite very worrisome because this is certainly not the right way to develop a nation that is in dire need of positive changes that will enable her to join the League of Nations that are moving forward. “I appeal to the public to beware and not easily deceived with the cheap tricks of impersonating me for whatever ulterior intentions. – PO”.