ILORIN – The Congress of the Kwara State Football Association today, May 13th, 2023, at an Extra Ordinary Assembly held at Mandate Hotel, Iloffa, in Oke-Ero Local Government Area picked Tuesday, June 13th, 2023 as the date for the State election, even as they also ratified the already established venue, Kaiama Local Government Area of the state. The Extra Ordinary Assembly, which was staged to primarily discuss elections issues equally approved Wednesday, May 17th, 2023 as the date for elections for the six remaining Football Councils, which are Asa, Ifelodun, Barutein, Ilorin West, Kaiama and Moro. While addressing the Assembly, the FA Chairman, Mallam Idris Abdullahi Musa said that the gathering in Iloffa, Oke-Ero Local Government Area was historic, pledging that the impacts of the FA will be felt in the three Senatorial Districts. While commending the Congress members, he said that the gathering was purposely to decide on the remaining Local Football Councils elections, and to fix a date and time for the State FA election, pointing out that the Councils elections were delayed because of a court case, which has been done with, following some interventions. Mallam Idris, popularly known as Thuraya commended the Vice Chairman of the FA, Bashorun Kayode Bankole for hosting the Congress. The Congress equally observed that the tenure of the current Electoral and Appeals Committees will expire after the May 17th Football Councils Elections, as they approved and constituted new Committees that will take over immediately. The Congress approved the appointment of Mr. Emmanuel Dada Obafemi as the new Chairman of the Kwara FA Electoral Committee. Other members are Professor AbdulGafar Ijaiya, Mrs. Serah Bola Esan, Engr. Abdulkareem Ayinde and Mohammed Jimoh Oke.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Appeals Committee has Mallam Jimoh Yinusa Kehinde as the Chairman, with Barrister A. Ojibara, Alhaji Sule Abbas Ahmed, Alhaji Aliyu Baba, and Bunmi Adedoyin as members. POLL While declaring the Congress open, the Transition Implementation Committee (TIC) Chairman of Oke-Ero Local Government Area, Ambassador Oluwamigbe Yusuf commended the State FA and the Chairman of Oke-Ero Football Council, Bashorun Kayode Bankole for considering the Council as host of the Extra Ordinary Congress. He commended the FA for their efforts at lifting not only Kwara United Football Club but all other clubs in the state, and also considering the development of the game at the grassroots. The Chairman of the Oke-Ero Football Council, Bashorun Kayode Bankole, thanked the FA and the Congress for supporting the development of football. He added that the Local Government will continue to invest in the empowerment of youth through sports, describing it as a veritable tool for the meaningful development of the young ones. The Congress, at the end of proceedings, thanked the FA Chairman, Thuraya, for ensuring that the FA is functioning very effectively in the state.