LAGOS – Alliance of Yoruba Democratic Movements, (AYDM), a coalition of 121 community based and human rights groups in the old Western Nigeria, the largest Pan Yoruba coalition will on June 12 confer on Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the President-elect, Distinguished award for Courage as part of the activities to mark the 30th Anniversary of the June 12 election annulment. Others listed for awards are the Kaduna state Governor-elect, Comrade Uba Sanni, Ekiti State Governor, Mr Abiodun Oyebanji, Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo Olu. In a statement signed by Popoola Ajayi, Omohinmi Ehonwa and Chief Kunle Oshodi on behalf of AYDM said for posthumous awards are Pa Alfred Rewane, Chief Anthony Enahoro, Pa Abraham Adesanya, Dr Beko Ransome Kuti, Pa Adekunle Ajasin and Comrade Chima Ubani among others. The statement states that the award is in recognition of the role played by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Kaduna State Governor-elect, Sanni and others in the struggle for the actualisation of the June 12 election and that the award also takes into consideration the key political figures who stand out in the consolidation of democracy. AYDM said since 1960, Nigeria has never produced a President from the rank and file of the radical pro-democracy movement until the February 2023 elections. The group said the award will teach lessons to the younger generation about the tough history of the country and those who stood firmly with the people at the most difficult times. “Some people elected today were never part of the campaign for democracy. In fact some of them opposed and worked against democracy.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Tinubu, Shehu Sani, Dr Kayode Fayemi, Femi Falana, Wole Soyinka, Chima Ubani all risked their lives for a democratic country. They put in everything at the risk of their lives to resist tyranny and injustice. They deserve to be celebrated,” POLL The group also noted that the 30th anniversary of the June 12 election coincided with the emergence of one of the arrowheads of the struggle, Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the next President of Nigeria. “This is the first time in Nigeria’s history that a member of the pro-democracy family emerged as the President of Nigeria. The group stated further that about 2000 delegates are expected from across the county to attend the event. “Thousands of participants in the United States, North America and in Europe and Asia will also join online to participate. Given the recent experience during the 2023 elections when efforts were made by some political interests to redefine the history of Nigeria, June 12 is once another iconic opportunity for Nigerians coming together to reassert their unity and oneness in response to the prevailing situation in Nigeria and to further celebrate the emergence of a President from the history of pro-democracy struggle.”