Lagos State Góvernór Babajide Sanwo-Olu has stressed the need for the members-elect for the House of Representatives in the in-coming 10th Assembly to work for the continued unity of Nigeria amid its diversity. Góvernór Sanwo-Olu gave the charge on Saturday while receiving the Federal House of Representatives-Elect and Speakership Aspirant, Tajudeen Abbass, as well as 35 members-elect from the All Progressives Congress (APC), People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Labour Party (LP,) All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) who were on a courtesy call to him at Lagos House Marina. As they commence their engagements, the governor charged them, “To continue to ensure that you do not take anybody for granted, to continue to ensure that you are about a well-diversified population in the House of Representatives. “Ensure that the leadership and the followership reflect the units of our country, reflect the true federal composition and political composition that we have in the country.” While urging the lawmakers to ensure that their “engagement is total, is transparent and inclusive,” Sanwo-Olu added: “Ensure that everybody that needs to be carried along is carried along. All of the other aspirants are eminently also qualified to do so.” Sanwo-Olu also urged the lawmakers to “ensure that your engagements further deepentheir engagements and ensure the leadership reflects the yearnings of the people.” Sanwo-Olu also called on 360 members-elect to ensure the engagement is total, transparent and inclusive, saying they need to do more to carry others along, as the people would not settle for anything less than the best from the leadership of the 10th Assembly. Speaking during the visit, Abbass, the Speakership Aspirant, representing Zaria Federal Constituency of Kaduna State on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), said the 10th Assembly is a unity project of everyone, which is aimed at unifying Nigerians. POLL Abbass said: “That is why we have people from all the parties elected here and people from different denominations. This is the unity project I want to sell to the Nigerian people.“We know this time is a divisive time in Nigeria. Nigeria has never been more divided.” He assured Sanwo-Olu that the leadership of the 10th National Assembly “will ensure that people are detribalised, that they see Nigerians not as a regionalist, or religious fanatics.”According to Abbass: “This is the project, Mr Governor that I want to assure you that will further unite Nigeria.“We will try to cure the ills that have been ravaging us these years. We owe ourselves the duty and we want to assure you that we will not fail APC, we will not fail our President-elect.” He promised that as the leadership “Will undertake the constructive partnership between the Legislature and the Executive, we will ensure that there would be no rancour. Where we have differences, we will resolve in a mature manner. We will not have any course to engage the Executive in an unethical manner.” While seeking the governor’s prayers and blessings to succeed in their endeavors, Abbass said: “We are here for your prayers. We believe your prayers and support will go a long way in actualising our dream.“We need your prayers that we will not only win June 13, but we will stabilise the House, heal the wounds, particularly from various contestants that are in this particular race.” Stressing the need for unity among Nigerians, he noted: “We know you are a true Nigerian. You can reach out to all the governors, to all the contestants to ensure that we have one unity of purpose in this particular project.“We want to thank you for this great hospitality. We know it was just 72 hours, we extended our request to you and we know you value the new Nigeria.” Abbas thanked the Governor for his support, promising they had made a resolution to put in place a vibrant structure, cross fertilize ideas, be neutral as the sanity of the parliament is not negotiable. The governor also enjoined the Speaker-designate and members-elect to continue to have purposeful and meaningful engagements and constructive representation to ensure Nigerians enjoy the dividends of democracy while restating the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, and his support to the House for Nigeria to be better for it.