BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI / ISAAC ASABOR LAGOS  – The Institute of Directors Nige­ria (IOD Nigeria) at the weekend kicked off its 40th Anniversary just as the institute admitted new members into its fold. The activities were the first in the chain of events that have been lined up for the year-long anniversary celebrations. The event, which took place at Oriental Hotel, Lekki in La­gos, was highlighted with the induction of four Directors of First Nominees, a subsidiary of FirstBank Nigeria Ltd., alongside 96 others while mem­bership grade of seven of the inductees was upgraded into dif­ferent cadres. The four directors affiliated with First Nominees are Ramon Olayiwola, Omolade Olawore, Raymond Mgbeokw­ere, and Kunle Olorunfemi. Speaking on behalf of the new members, Mgbeokwere thanked the institute for con­sidering them fit and proper in character and qualification to be members. He also thanked the founding fathers for the role played in in­vesting and bringing the insti­tute alive and standing, and said that some institutes in Nigeria that were established years back could not stand the test of time. He, therefore, urged the new members to use their role as di­rectors to create a new sense of nationhood in Nigeria. “We have joined from today and I would like to, on behalf of myself and all other new mem­bers, thank you very much for admitting us. We are glad to be here. POLL “But my remark would speak more to what I think is the role of directors. Most of us know what it is in our various sectors and boards, but I would speak to it about nation-building. “Our country is at a stage where we need all hands on deck to create a new life; a new sense of nationhood in this land. “This is because we are op­portuned to work and play in sectors where we have influ­ence. I think we can start the correction and the entrench­ment of good governance where we operate. “That way, if all of us take this back home, we’re able to assemble a good aggregation of people who are bent on en­trenching the right things in this nation,” he said. He expressed a strong belief that the new members could create a new beginning in the country.