The Executive Chairman of Abakaliki Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Chief Stephen Ebere Nwogba has commended Governor David Umahi for the legacy projects executed by his administration which he said scattered across the State. Mr Nwogba made the commendation in a chat with Journalists at his office, Nkaliki, the Abakaliki Local Government Headquarters. The Council boss emphasized that Governor Umahi has made Ebonyi people proud through his infrastructure strides and other sundry developments he brought to the people. He further lauded Governor Umahi for strengthening the principle of power rotation and zoning with the emergence of Rt. Honourable Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru from Ebonyi North as his successor. Speaking on his expectations from the next governor of Ebonyi State, Nwogba expressed optimism that the incoming Governor would surpass Governor Umahi’s achievements, saying that every father prays for his son to be greater than him. He also expressed confidence that the incoming Governor would sustain and maintain the legacy projects of his successor. He, however, urged the Governor-elect, Mr Nwifuru to prioritize health, education, agriculture, rural roads and human capital development for the overall well-being of the people. He maintained that Mr Nwifuru has the knowledge, competence and capacity to deliver on his mandate, even as he called on Ebonyians to throw their weight behind him. POLL On youth unemployment, he called on the government at all levels to train youths on entrepreneurship and provide the necessary grants for them to start on their own; and create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. He equally advised the youths to engage meaningfully in entrepreneurship and diversify in agriculture than waiting for white kola jobs to reduce the socio-economic harshness confronting the nation. The Chairman who highlighted some projects already executed by his administration in his council area in less than one year in office, reaffirmed his willingness to continue to put smiles on the faces of the Abakaliki people. “We have embarked on the construction of rural roads including Nwalagba- Nwori-Shedekori road, Hiltop- Ngboagbaja rice mill road, Ephugbo- Ameji road, Nwori Shed Elom, Atam- Epheyim road, Obegu-INEC Abakaliki Local Government Headquarters road, Nwafiauzor -Chairman’s lodge road,” he said. He disclosed that his administration had also attracted the construction of over thirteen culverts, and two bridges among others. “We have paid the school fees of over fifty students both in the secondary and tertiary school. We have equally empowered our youths, especially in the area of education, we have paid WEAC registration fees of over one hundred students and provision of writing materials to some schools in the Local Government council. “We have paid the hospital bills of some patients both in AMURT and Government health facilities. Also, we have given operational vehicles and motorcycles to security agents to enable them to reach hitherland and protect the lives and property of our people. We have also improved workers’ salaries and other humanitarian services we have rendered to our people and beyond, he concluded.