Governor of Delta, Sen. (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa, has urged residents of Warri and Uvwie Local Government Areas of the state to desist from littering drainage channels to eliminate flooding. He said that blocking drainage channels with all manner of plastic cans and debris would defeat the aim of the government’s efforts in constructing storm drainage channels for a healthy environment and sustainability. Okowa who made the call while inaugurating Warri South Local Government Council Chairman’s Lodge in Warri, on Thursday, charged the people to cooperate with the state government to end flooding in the twin cities of Warri and Effurun. He commended the Council Chairman, Dr. Michael Tidi, for his administration’s strides and urged the people to protect the drains to forestall environmental hazards. “I want to appeal to our people across the state that they must cooperate with the Councils to keep their environment neat. “I have gone around Warri South and Uwvie to inspect the stormwater drainage projects and I can see the devastating effects of the very bad practices of some of our people who dump wastes in the drains rather than find ways to discard them. “By the special grace of God, we have taken bold steps to construct the stormwater drainage projects which are at advanced stages of completion. “I appeal to our people, it is not right that we dump wastes into the drains because it is not in the best interest of the people. POLL “In one of the sites we visited, we saw heaps of empty bottled water cans dumped inside the drains and this can easily block the drains and cause flooding. “We are doing our best to ensure that we are able to take out flood waters from the twin towns; so, please cooperate with us, because our cooperation is needed to ensure that these projects and programmes succeed for all of us,” he stated. Earlier, the Governor had inspected ongoing storm drainage projects in the Warri and Effurun metropolis where he ordered immediate repudiation of the Uti Road contract due to abandonment by the contractor. He also inspected the commencement of the reconstruction of Warri Township Stadium and assured that the contractor would work towards linking the stadium drainage channels to the stormwater channels in the city. Earlier, Dr. Tidi had told the Governor of his administration’s achievements in giving the Council Secretariat a face-lift, hosting of the Warri Economic Summit, environmental sanitation, and rehabilitation of primary health care centers, potable water supply, security, and job creation. The ceremony was attended by the Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse III among other dignitaries.