LAGOS – Oando Clean Energy Limited (OCEL), the renewable energy subsidiary of Oando, in partnership with the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) marked the formal commencement of operations of its electric mass transit buses in Lagos Engr. Abinbola Akinajo, the Managing Director of LAMATA, in her welcome remarks, highlighted the importance of Public-Private-Partnerships, by saying; “This initiative is a major aspect of our vision for transportation in Lagos State, we are desirous of having a clean and efficient transportation system. “Today’s event is proof of our desire to involve the private sector in our activities to give the average Lagosian the ability to meet their mobility needs. LAMATA is a multi-fuel transport regulatory agency for Lagos hence the partnership with OCEL for the use of EV buses in passenger operations. “ From LAMATA’s perspective we are open to do business with the private sector whilst ensuring that these partners are aligned with the vision of Lagos state. I am elated that in just over a year that Oando Clean Energy came to us to discuss the possibility of working with us in the deployment of electric buses we have signed an MoU with a key deliverable being the implementation of a PoC that would allow us finally include electric buses in our ecosystem.” Engineer Olalere Odusote, the Commissioner for Energy & Mineral Resources, Lagos State, who was also at the event in his remarks said: “We had identified transportation as a major cause of pollutants and health problems in the State. For us, this initiative is another step we’re taking as a Government to ensure we clean up the environment in addition to ongoing initiatives in the energy sector.” Pursuant to the urgent need for electric vehicles to address transportation’s 62% contribution to Nigeria’s GHG emissions, the President/CEO of OCEL, Dr. Ainojie ‘Alex’ Irune commented; “This is an opportunity for us to revolutionize mobility in our country as well as build local capacity for the renewable and clean energy ecosystem. Whilst today these buses have come from across the world, in the very near future they will be produced here in Nigeria.