P/HARCOURT  – The immediate past customs zonal coordinator, Zone C customs command, Asst. Comptroller General of Customs, Festus Okun has restated his determination and commitment to sustain the anti-smuggling war in Zone A, Customs command his new place of assignment. Disclosing this in Port Harcourt the Rivers state capital last week to newsmen on the sideline, of what could be described as his send forth event, Okun insisted that with his wealth of experience of Zone A, he was well prepared to tackle smugglers and other illegitimate traders headlong even as he assured legitimate traders of assistance in trade facilitation and ease of doing business at his new Zone. Reminded that Zone A, has witnessed a high level of smuggling activities in recent times, Okun stated that Zone A, is the most active zone though according to him, every zone is equal but noted that zone A contributes 70 to 75 % of the Customs national revenue. He insisted that Zone A, is a well-known Area to him. “I know the Zone and most of the officers and men, on ground I know their pedigree, I know virtually all of them and their level of competency” Continuing, he said “you know when legitimate traders are in business; the illegitimate ones are also at work. We shall continue to tackle smugglers, we cannot eradicate them but to bring smuggling to the barest minimum and with stakeholders sensitization I will deliver” he noted. Recall, that Asst. Comptroller General of Customs Fetus Okun took over in August last year 2022 from (ACG) Olusemire Kayode who retired meritoriously as the Coordinator of Zone C, Customs Zonal Command. Earlier in his speech, Okun had admonished the offers and men of Zone C, to always take their work seriously especially with high level of sincerity of purpose and integrity devoid of any form of compromise. He noted that they should jetteson emphasis on their ranks, but concentrate on the responsibilities, saying “ don’t look at your rank but at your responsibilities” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Okun, who gave some of his score cards in Zone C, as increased revenue generation, trade facilitation, anti-smuggling activities, robust stakeholders engagement, reconstruction of a fire damaged facility and also payment of debt even as he advised the officers and men of Zone C, to extend the cooperation accorded to him to the incoming coordinator “ keep the flag flying and continue to work and corporate with my successor, the zone will make progress” POLL He however used the opportunity to thank the management of Nigeria Customs Service led by Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (retd) for finding him worthy to head the Customs Zone A of the Nigeria Customs Service. Commenting on the development, Customs Area 1,Port Harcourt controller, Comproller CD Wada expressed happiness for what he termed as an elevation of (ACG) Okun to Zone A. He said: “ I feel happy for him, and to me, this is an elevation with higher responsibility. I have worked with him before, he has capacity to face every challenge and because he is resilient and very patient he can move on and push the flag moving. “In life, the only constant thing is change and the work is like a barrack, solder comes and slider goes and the barrack remains. To the incoming one, we know ourselves and have established relationship as progressive customs officers, any place we find ourselves we add value. I know he will deliver”, he insisted.