The Anambra State Government has promised to partner with Anambra State Waste Recyclers Association (ASWRA) in order to rid the state of plastics and other wastes. This was disclosed by Engr. Dr. Felix Odimegwu, the state Commissioner for Environment, during a meeting convened by the convener of ASWRA, Ambassador Obuesi Philips, on Monday.The commissioner said the initiative to partner with ASWRA and the Recyclers Association of Nigeria was aimed at reducing waste tons in the state and in turn achieving the clean, green, and sustainable vision of the Professor Charles Soludo-led administration. Engr. Odimegwu who opined that recycling is the way pointed out that it would prevent the increasing emission of gaseous substances like methane through the constant burning of wastes; said that there were other benefits in recycling which include; direct employment, reduction in the amount of money government spends on evacuation of wastes and management of dump sites, increase IGR among others. “Plastic wastes take up to 400 years to decay which makes it difficult to manage as a waste. Six thousand tons of solid waste are generated in the state daily and it’s huge but with this partnership, waste management will now be easier. “Anambra State is ready to partner with you (recyclers) to help sanitize the state and make it more liveable and prosperous. I believe that with the association in place, we will now have an organized way of picking up wastes and sorting same,” he said. Continuing, the commissioner stated that upon assumption of office, the Soludo-led administration embarked on clearing heaps of waste that littered the state’s streets, roads, and other areas. “We will soon flag off a project called ‘An all Anambra State Plastic Bottle Challenge’ where we will provide incentives for the best community in waste management, first runner, up, and second runner up. During the commemoration of 2023 World Earth Day, we invited traditional rulers, presidents general (PGs), religious leaders, women, and youth leaders among others, and charged them to take ownership of waste management in their localities.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The commissioner urges waste recyclers to come to Anambra. POLL In his speech, the host of the meeting and convener, ASWRA, Amb Obuesi Philips, expressed his happiness that the state government was eager to partner with the association which he said would help in the general cleanup of the state. Ambassador Obuesi said: “We have three main objectives which are: to mobilize and organize our members and the general public to promote a clean, green, and sustainable environment in Anambra State; to harness a sustainable investment and revenue stream for our members while creating a new revenue corridor for Anambra State; to promote the interests of members among government, producers, manufacturers, importers, and exporters of all recyclable waste products, donor organizations, non-governmental organizations, the general public, and other stakeholders that may impact on the development and general wellbeing of the recycling industry in Anambra State.” The ASWRA assured of his association’s willingness to invest in the state to help the government of the day achieves its clean and green initiative. On his own, Akinyemi Oluwafemi of Chikason Group urged the government to stop people from burning solid wastes, pointing out that it reduces raw materials for recycling plants and causes pollution. He pointed out that the chicason recycling plant cannot run optimally because of a shortage of material. Despite the fact that we have spent more than N300m on buying plastic waste. Plant running less than 30% due to no raw materials. Another discussant, Mss Oluchi, appreciated the organizers of the forum while pointing out issues of waste scavenging in Anambra State. She noted worrisome the rate of scavenging ongoing in the state and called on the government to monitor their activities.