ABUJA – Prominent energy solu­tions organisation, The Electricity Hub (TEH), has proffered increased financing, political stability as remedy for huge energy deficit in the country. Following its research, it esti­mates that as many as 92 million Nigerians are not connected to the national grid. At its 82nd Power Dialogue in Abuja at the weekend, TEH panelists stressed that quality strategic plans must be in place to attain the goal of offsetting the deficit as a new set of leaders take over government in Nigeria from May 29th, 2023, with possi­bility of the new administration serving two tenures, making a total of eight years. They argued that political stability was essential to en­suring sustainable economic development and increased in­vestment in any country, while access to power remains a crit­ical economic driver. “Therefore, to get it right, Nigeria needs clear plans and ensure that things are in place for incoming leaders to hit the ground running to actualise this goal, whereas access to finance is crucial to achieving Vision 30:30:30 in Nigeria, among other critical factors”, they proffered. The Dialogue discussed the roadmap to accessing finance for the next phase towards Vision 30:30:30. The panel discussants in­cluded Edu Okeke, Managing Director, Azura Power; Abigail Botsha, Head of Marketing and Business Development, GVE Projects Limited; Abubakar Ali-Dapshima, Director, Renew­able and Rural Power Access, Federal Ministry of Power; and Ayo Ademilua, President, Re­newable Energy Association of Nigeria. They noted that the World Bank 2022 “Tracking SDG 7: The Energy Progress Report” showed that Nigeria has the highest energy access deficit in the world, with about 92 million Nigerians lacking access to the national grid, accounting for about 45% of the population in 2022. POLL To close the energy access gap and as part of the National Re­newable Energy and Efficiency Policy, the government launched Vision 30:30:30 to attain 30 giga­watts of power from an energy mix with 30 percent renewables by 2030, they recalled. The panelists unanimously agreed that finance is essential in closing the energy access gap and attaining this ambitious goal. Ali-Dapshima noted that the Vision 30:30:30 developed in 2014 was a framework to aid the country in increasing renew­able energy in the energy mix. He highlighted the different programs and projects of the Ministry of Power to improve energy access in the public and private sectors. He listed the efforts of the government and incentives in place to attract private sector participation in collaboration with the government in the power sector. Ademilua spoke about some of the requirements to drive en­ergy access. He highlighted validated har­monised data as a crucial tool for understanding the scope of the country’s served, unserved and underserved regions.