.Urge Senators To Reject Akpabio ABUJA South South youths on Friday rejected Godswill Akpabio and drummed support for Abdulaziz Yari for the position of Senate President. Recall that the committee setup by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in its report, had endorsed Akpabio, but the South South Youths said that the former governor of Akwa-Ibom state, will not represent the zone very well. The South South under the aegis of South South Youth Assembly urged the senators to reject Akpabio, adding that Yari is the best person to occupy the position. They noted that the region has not benefitted from South South leaders, who have occupied national positions. The South South Youth Assembly, in a statement by its President, Comrade Emmanuel Nkpubre, said this is the time to do away with sectionalism, religionalism, ethnicity and other nomenclature and focus on developing the nation. The group noted that since the inception of democracy, North West has not occupied the position of Senate President, adding that the South South, South East and North Central had occupied the position. The group said that it is on record that the North West contributed the majority votes that help Ahmed Bola Tinubu to win the presidential election. POLL The group said Yari will help the region to achieve resource control, adding, “His Excellency, Abdulaziz Yari will partner with the President-elect to fight for us to have the resource control we have been clamoring for. Over time our people have not help us, it is outsider that have helped us.” “For example, it was through President Musa Yar’Adua and the help of Olusegun Obasanjo that the zone was able to get Ministry of Niger Delta. We have the hope that Abdulaziz Yari will fight for us to get what we want.” “It was also through these two presidents, the region was able to get Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). When Joseph Wayas was the President of the Senate, the region didn’t benefit anything, same thing with President Godluck Jonathan. His government was not beneficial to South South.” The South South Youth Assembly charged the Senators representing the zone to vote massively for Abdulaziz Yari for Senate presidency. They warned that any of the Senators, who vote for Godswill Akpabio will not benefit anything from the South South youths. “We don’t want to send somebody there that will disgrace us. We don’t want to send somebody, who will not listen to us. This is not the time to play on our intelligence. This is the time to build this country and look for people that are capable. The capable person here is Abdulaziz Yari,” the South South Youth Assembly said.