Green Africa Airways has said that plans are on to construct its own Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities for the checks of its aircraft. The airline also on Tuesday in Lagos issued certificates of completion to 13 new trained talents under its gFuture Initiative programme, which commenced about a year ago. Mr. Babawande Afolabi, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Green Africa Airways told journalists on the sideline of the first anniversary of its gFuture Initiative that the company had received an approval from the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to carry out line maintenance of its equipment, adding that its long-term plan was to delve into full-blown maintenance of aircraft. Already, he said the company had recruited engineers and other critical personnel for the maintenance of its fleet. Afolabi, however, said that before this could happen, it required infrastructure, personnel and the right approval from the NCAA. He said: “As you are aware, we started flying way back in 2021 and we have been given the approval by the NCAA for our own line maintenance. So, we got that last August. So, within a year of being in operations, we got the approval for our maintenance. “It was part of the plans before we started flying. So, we have recruited seasonal engineers right from day one and they went into extensive training with the top service providers. So, it was a sort of seamless process to take over the maintenance.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Over the next two years, our plan is for Green Africa to be able to do its own maintenance end to end. Right now, we can do everything to TA Check, 5,000 flying hours. After flying your aircraft for about two years, there is usually a check you have to conduct, but here now, we can do that. POLL “The next thing for us now is to have the capability in terms of infrastructure and the approval from the authority to be able to do a full -blown base maintenance. That is in the works, but it takes time. You need to gain experience, approval; and infrastructure. Those are in the pipelines.” On the gFuture Initiative, 13 of the new talents were issued certificates for being successful in their various fields of training. Some of the fields include social media; two, cabin crew; four, second officer; six and one turnaround coordinator. The new talents are Julius Odoma, Abiodun Adeniji, Ruth Agochukwu, Joy Oranezi, Ogechi Nmesirionye, Hilda Igbinigie, Queen Nwokocha and Joyce Haruna. Others are Abdulmalik Dosara, Joseph Ene-Okon, Ademola Adeniranye, Idris Kareem and Ofonmbuk Idiong. Afolabi tasked the new talents to show commitment, tenacity and full dedication to their jobs, and advised them to invest in people just as the airline had invested in them. In his speech, Engr. Kayode Ajiboye, the immediate past Director, Airworthiness Standards, NCAA, said that it was necessary for airlines to have maintenance facilities to block leakage in the system. He explained that some of the operating airlines that train personnel, do so without formal documents, while sustainability of such programmes largely depended on the whims and caprices of the promoters of such careers. “Nigeria Airways was the last airline that invested in training people for the industry,” he said. Green Africa Airways had in March 2022, unveiled plans to train hundreds of technical personnel for industry in Nigeria over the next decade. The airline had promised to train 200 pilots, 140 engineers, 100 dispatchers and 500 cabin crew members in its gFuture Initiative, which it said would change the face of the aviation industry in Nigeria.