A group of members of the House of Representatives have said that national unity of which the President-elect, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, made one of his top priorities is now under threat following the way and manner some set of people are going about the jostle for the post of the Speaker of the House. Reports from multiple sources regarding a meeting orchestrated by the Lagos cabal endorsing a particular candidate in person of Hon. Tajudeen Abass is not palatable to discerning minds as it would be inimical to national unity and harmonious relationship and coexistence between the executive and legislature in the 10th Assembly. According to an inside source on Sunday, who was privy to the meeting on Friday night, while expressing dismay at what he described as the coup that was allegedly plotted by the current Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. According to the source who was privy to the meeting on Friday night, while expressing dismay over what he described as coup, alleging that it was plotted by the current Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, “One would wonder why a set of people would assume or hijack the mandate of Three hundred and sixty house of representatives members-elect to foist a candidate on the green chamber by cajoling the president-elect into believe that a consensus candidate has been agreed upon by the members-elect. “One would ordinarily expect that experienced legislators in the ilk of Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and Hon. James Faleke would understand what a thorough consensus arrangement is supposed to look like and not try to occasion a sharp division by imposing an unpopular candidate on the House or recommend same to the president-elect. “It should be noted that at no point in time has members-elect agreed on a consensus candidate, and there has never been a consultation between leading aspirants for the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives. Any report of such is inimical to the principle of national unity, of which the president-elect is a known advocate.”