FomaProject70, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) founded by Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of Aviation Round Table (ART) has encouraged students to eschew immoral acts, which could derail them from attaining their set goals. This is as the foundation is set to sponsor at least 70 students from the less privileged homes from primary school to tertiary institutions in the first phase of the exercise. Speaking at a workshop organised for the students in Lagos, Mrs. Stella Olowo, one of the founders of the project, said that education remained the best legacy parents and government could bestow on the children. Mrs. Olowo said that the foundation, which was set up in 2022 to mark the 70th birthday of Dr. Olowo was to further encourage indigent children from getting quality education to tertiary institution level. According to Mrs. Olowo, since the project was formed in 2022, no fewer than 30 students have so far been enrolled by the foundation, adding that the students were selected after series of examinations conducted for them by the team. She emphasised that the target of the project coordinators was to sponsor at least 70 children from the less privileged homes in the first phase of the exercise, stressing that it hoped to sustain the project in the future. Mrs. Olowo who lectured the students on morals, also admonished them to always take their education seriously, be modest, disciplined, reduce time spent on social media, avoid peer group and societal pressures, maintaining that all these could derail and prevent them from achieving their lifetime ambitions of being useful to themselves and the society at large.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She said: “We set up the foundation in order to help the children of the less privileged around us. When Dr. Olowo clocked 70 years old last year, he decided to commence a project, which will cater for the less privileged in our society”. POLL He commenced the project with all the money we got from friends, colleagues and family members during the launch of the book, which unveiled at his 70th birthday celebration. “We know a lot of the children around us and we sourced them from different schools. We put them together and set exams for them to pick the brilliant ones among them. “We have a particular number of children that we select in a year. We had 20 of them last year and so far this year, we have additional 10. We are actually targeting 70 children who we will sponsor to the university level.” She, however, advised the government at all levels to priotise education in order to build a virile society. Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries Miss Abigail Kolawole, 11 years old and a Junior Secondary School One (JSS 1) student of Peace Private College, lauded the foundation for selecting her for the project. Abigail said who ambition was to be a lawyer, said she was informed of the foundation by her mother. According to her, since she was selected by the foundation, her education has been more consistent and improved. “I want to thank the founders of this project. I really appreciate them a lot and I promise that I will not let them down,” she said. Master Badmus Olamide, 16, another beneficiary said he was got to hear of the scholarship through the mass media and his daddy. Master Olamide, a school certificate holder, who intends to study law in the University of Lagos (UNILAG), said that the foundation had helped to mode his behavior through morals and spirituality. “I want to thank them for their encouragement thus far and I wish them more successes as they do this for us,” he said.