ABUA  – Tony Elumelu’s Transcorp has advised incoming administration to ramp up gas supply to power generating companies if gains of its new acquisition of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company, AEDC, must work. Federal government through the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) recently approved the acquisition of Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), by the Transcorp Group Consortium. Speaking on this challenges, Elumelu, highlighted the importance of power to the development of the country, called on the incoming administration to ramp up gas supply to power plants to enable improve power generation for the country. He said: “We all know the importance of power in Nigeria. We all experience the consequences of our power deficit – the implications for our people, our businesses, our schools, hospitals and institutions – our national destiny. “Transcorp Group is a key player in the power sector. We recognise power is the single most critical factor to lifting our people out of poverty and enabling job creation. “Therefore, I am so proud today, that we have been able to bring together so many key stakeholders. He concluded his speech with the commitment to continue to do well and do good. “We are fulfilling our promises to the Government and demonstrating Transcorp’s purpose of “Improving Lives and Transforming Africa.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The successful inauguration of the Afam Three Fast Power turbines was a testament to the Transcorp Group’s commitment to providing reliable and sustainable power to Nigerians. The inauguration took place shortly after the second anniversary of Transafam Power’s operational takeover of the Afam Power Asset. POLL Transcorp Group remains at the forefront of driving Nigeria’s economic revitalisation through its power investments in Ughelli, hospitality through Transcorp Hotels and now Transafam. Transafam Power Limited is one of the power subsidiaries of Transcorp Group and the core investor in Afam Genco, comprising Afam Power Plc and Afam Three Fast Power Limited. The Afam Genco Power Plant is located at Okoloma Village, in Oyigbo LGA of Rivers State with a total installed capacity of 966 MW. The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo also at occasion of hand over of the Disco earlier in the week said that the N40 billion payment security provided by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) for gas suppliers had not made any improvement in gas supply to power sector. This was just as the Chairman of Transcorp Group and Heirs Holdings, Mr. Tony Elumelu, called on the incoming administration to ramp up gas supply to power plants. The 240MW Afam 3-Fast Power plant in Afam operated by Transafam Power Limited, a subsidiary of Transcorp Plc, with an already existing power plant residing in Afam, brings the cumulative generating capacity of the plant to 1,000MW. Speaking at the event, Osinbajo, said the NCP gave the approval for the acquisition of Abuja Disco by the Transcorp consortium during the council’s meeting on Monday in Abuja.