LAGOS – As the nation awaits the swearing-in of President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the President of Nigeria on May 29, 2023, Noaks Ark, an international non-governmental organisation (NGO), has called for peace among all Nigerians. Speaking on behalf of the group in Lagos, Amb. Prince Korieocha, Coordinator, Noaks Ark, said that rather than put unnecessary pressure on the polity, Tinubu needed the support and prayers of everyone. Korieocha berated those who claimed they love Nigeria and care about the development of the country, yet had disdain for the president-elect, Tinubu. He described Tinubu as the epitome of the kind of leader Nigerians yearned for at this stage of its development. Korieocha maintained that Nigerians were lucky to have the former Lagos State governor as their incoming president. Korieocha also pointed out that the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari administration had embarked on massive developmental projects in the South East zone and other areas of the country in the past eight years. He listed some of these projects to include: the second Niger Bridge, Enugu-Onitsha and Enugu Port Harcourt expressways, Aba FTZ, Enugu FTZ and Akanu Ibiam International Airport within the South East alone.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He said: “I will want Nigerians to let sleeping dog lies. Elections have come and gone. What the president-elect needs now is prayers of good health and long life from all Nigerians. Those fanning the amber of violence should think twice and support Tinubu come May 29. POLL “I am well convinced that Tinubu will better the fortunes of all Nigerians. He has done it before in Lagos State and there is no doubt that he will still do it in Abuja. Let us come out in our numbers to support who the masses have chosen to govern Nigeria. “The president-elect is ready to move Nigeria to the next level of industrial development. The builder of men, will surely build the nation. I’m sure he will deliver good governance to Nigerians and he will be the president of Federal Republic of Nigeria. May God Almighty continue to bless Nigeria.” Noah’s Ark, an international Peace Project strives to enhance the improvement of friendship, harmonise relationships and foster cooperation amongst all tribes, religions and nations. Since inception in 2006, the NGO has been promoting and encouraging peace and harmony between social, ethnic, religious groups within the Nigerian societies and beyond.