LAGOS – As Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Obafemi Kadri Hamzat took oath to serve for a second term in office as góvernór and deputy governor of Lagos State, the governor has assured residents of the state that they “Will not let Lagos down.” Sanwo-Olu, who gave the assurance on Monday during his inauguration at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos, also pledged that his “administration will continue to foster a culture of transparency, accountability and participatory governance.” The governor pledged to lose himself “in the service of Lagos State, to work tirelessly for the well-being of every Lagosian, and to strive for a Lagos that we can all be proud of.” Sanwo-Olu, who was administered the oath of office alongside his deputy, by the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Kazeem Alogba, acknowledged that the state is committed to social contract with the responsibility “to govern honestly, transparently, humbly and with dedication.” The duo was accompanied to the event by their spouses, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu and Oluremi Hamzat, alongside their children. Restating his administration’s commitment to moving the state to the next level in the second term, the governor noted: “It is with this resolve that I am pleased to announce that we are taking our THEMES governing agenda to the next level, in this our second term.” Sanwo-Olu, who solemnly promised that his administration “will design all our policies and programmes to ensure that everyone is carried along and catered to,” added that “No one will be left behind on account of their social status, gender or young age,” in the policies. Assuring that Lagos is a safe environment for business, Sanwo-Olu said: “We will work relentlessly to make Lagos a state where economic opportunities abound, where our infrastructure is robust and resilient, and where the rule of law prevails. POLL “But our vision for Lagos goes beyond our physical infrastructure and economic indicators. Our vision is for Lagos that is a beacon of cultural vibrancy, intellectual prowess, and humanistic values. A Lagos that not only drives the economic engine of Nigeria but also enriches the soul of our nation.” Urging residents of the state to live in harmony, he said: “As we continue to write the story of Lagos, let us embrace this spirit of inclusiveness and harmonious coexistence, for it is this spirit that makes us truly ‘Eko’. He assured that the government “will continue to build a Lagos that is not only a commercial nerve centre but also a hub for innovation, culture, and sustainable development. “As we venture into this second term, I want to assure you that the spirit of our endeavours remains unfaltering. We will continue to tackle our challenges head-on and celebrate our successes. We will harness the potential of our greatest resource – our people,” he noted. The governor, who assured that the progress made by his administration during his first term “will not be reversed,” added: “We will remain steadfast in our mission to make Lagos State a model of good governance, a beacon of hope and opportunity for all. Our path is clear, and our resolve is unshakeable.” According to him, “I must add that the last four years have not exclusively been about surmounting unforeseen challenges. “There is so much more to our story, than simply reacting to the circumstances that have lined our path. ”