The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday, praised the former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon (retd.), for the “wisdom” of setting up the National Youth Service Corps in 1973. As the initiative turns 50 years, Buhari said the NYSC has “truly achieved the goal of national integration, by providing opportunities for cross-cultural interactions and establishing a bridge for improved understanding.” This is according to a statement signed Friday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled ‘President Buhari celebrates NYSC at 50, commends Gen. Yakubu Gowon (retd.) for the vision.’ Founded on May 22, 1973, the NYSC was created to provide “an avenue for the reconciliation, reconstruction, and rebuilding of the nation after the civil war. “ It was established based on decree No. 24 “With a view to the proper encouragement and development of common ties among the youths of Nigeria and the promotion of national unity.” In his message on Friday, the President recalled that one of the joys and highlights of his regime has been the annual ritual of receiving corps members in his country home in Daura, Katsina State, during Eid-el-Fitr Sallah, and the conversations that follow in getting to know their various states, languages, family trees and educational institutions, and asking about their welfare. He congratulated the former Head of State, Gowon, and all 21 past and present Directors-General of the Corps for inspiring and sustaining a 50-year legacy that has strengthened a web of solidarity, ignited loyalty to the nation, broadened the horizon of citizens, promoted civic responsiveness, created a better understanding of various individual and ethnic identities, their diversities and underscored the bottom-line of the common values of fairness, justice, peace and unity. Buhari expressed the belief that the NYSC remains one the strongest ideals of nation-building, institutionally encouraging inter-cultural and inter-religious marriages, resettling of people of various tribes in different parts of the country, exploration of entrepreneurship and business opportunities in places, removing insularity among citizens, and enabling a new culture of oneness, brotherliness and neighbourliness. POLL “As the nation celebrates the 50th anniversary of the NYSC, President Buhari affirms that the scheme must be sustained, with a constant reminder of the history, structure and purpose, that should not be abused, trivialised or undermined for any reason, by keeping a focus on the larger picture that Nigeria’s unity is a process and a collective responsibility that must not be negotiated. “The President shares the joyous season of the milestone with all those that have enjoyed the adventures of the scheme, and have been sharing memories and pictures with nostalgia, while wishing potential corps members all the best as they move to different parts of the country, to share and explore new experiences of the diversity of Nigeria,” the statement read in part. Therefore, he appreciated the Nigerian Army, the Directors-General of the NYSC, and various private and public institutions for providing the enabling environment for the success of the scheme.