Honda de México was presented at Expo Moto Guadalajara 2023 with two novelties for lovers of speed on two wheels. Two models that joined the Honda motorcycle family were unveiled, these are the totally new ones: CB300F Twister and PIONEER 520. “Our new CB300F Twister is a sports bike with a fairing, characteristic of the naked segment, with a sporty design and great agility, which will be one of the favorites for its performance and equipment. While our second unveiling is a new Side by Side, the Honda PIONEER 520, a 4-wheel vehicle with all-terrain capabilities. “We are very happy with these launches, which strengthen our portfolio and cover the mobility needs of customers,” said Miguel Moreno, Motorcycle Sales Manager. The new CB300F Twister arrives with a sporty and aggressive design, which carries a powerful air-cooled 300 cc 4-valve engine, which is integrated into an aerodynamic and light chassis that couples a rear suspension with a 120 mm monoshock. With 5-position preload adjustment and front suspension with 41 mm inverted telescopic forks and 130 mm of travel, as well as ABS brakes that guarantee greater safety and stability in sudden braking. It includes a divided seat so that up to two occupants can travel aboard it and its digital screen provides us with essential information such as speed, mileage and fuel level, among others. POLL It includes a cell phone charger through a USB-C port and the lighting is provided by full LED lights with a sporty design. Honda CB300F is a perfect motorcycle for the city and arrives in the country in two-tone red and black, with a sale price of $105,990 pesos. Honda PIONEER 520 is the other model that comes to satisfy lovers of off-road adventures. It has a liquid-cooled 518cc four-stroke single-cylinder engine, which allows it to tackle any terrain with toughness and confidence. It equips a 5-speed automatic transmission, with AT/MT modes, paddle shifters at the wheel, and reverse gear. Its traction is through direct front and rear drive shafts, independent double wishbone suspension, as well as 200mm double disc front and 170mm disc rear hydraulic brakes, providing confident and forceful braking in any situation. Currently, Honda Motos has seven distributors in the country for its Honda TALON model (Cabo San Lucas, CDMX, Culiacán, Mérida, Monterrey, Puerto Vallarta and Oaxaca). With the arrival of the totally new Honda PIONEER 520, the distribution network increases to nine dealers, this is another good news to give, since now it will also be available in the cities of Tijuana and Veracruz. Honda de México took advantage of the framework of this event to thank the attendees that this 2023 has been a very special year, since as a brand it has managed to reach the figure of one million assembled units, the export of a second motorcycle model and the production of the tenth motorcycle to meet the needs of the national market.