Ambassador Adeshola Helen Onadipe is the publisher and founder of Ladies in Business, a magazine that is devoted to promoting women in business in Nigeria and other parts of the world. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, she said that she established the magazine in order to provide a women-led business to showcase what they are doing and their contributions to the development of the national economy. Excerpts: What prompted you to establish the magazine? I was a banker and I thought I should do something that I am passionate about; not only that, I wanted to do something that will impact society and the economy. I wanted to do something that will impact women, especially women entrepreneurs. I wanted to create a platform that will showcase what women in business are doing. I discovered that there was no platform that showcased what women were doing, so I created a platform that shines light on what women are doing in the business space and let the people know what they are doing. I am giving women the opportunity to showcase their businesses, share their success stories and inspire other women. What areas of business do you focus on? The magazine focuses generally on women who are doing business in Nigeria and at the global level. POLL I found out that only the celebrities and big businesses that were being covered and upcoming women were ignored. The upcoming women are doing great things and contributing to the economy but they have not been given the opportunity to tell the world what they have achieved. That was the reason I created the platform to give them the opportunity to show the world what they are doing; to tell their own stories and let the world know what they are doing and contributing to the development of the economy. When did you establish the magazine? I established the magazine in 2018. And how has it fared over the years? It has done well; after I launched the magazine, I found that the challenges that exist in Nigeria also subsist in other countries, so I took it to the United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States and others. What has been your experience over the years? It was challenging at the beginning; people were used to seeing celebrities and known names in magazines and were surprised to see ordinary women in the magazine. We give opportunities to ordinary women who sell beans or do makeup to showcase what they can do. This has boosted their morale and they believe that they can also get to the top. What is your assessment of the magazine publication industry in the country? Publishing online is in vogue but the hard copy has its own place. People still want to own the hard copy for reference purposes. When I published the first edition and held the copy in my hands, the feeling was indescribable. Having a hard copy is not a bad idea and it has its place in the world despite the onslaught of online publishing. What is your assessment of the Nigerian business environment? Nigeria is a wonderful country and is blessed with enormous resources; her people are talented and enterprising. However, they do not have the capital to do business and there is a need for the government to support Nigerians with funds and create the environment for them to thrive in their entrepreneurial undertakings. Banks are supporting businesses but it is not enough. Have you been able to access a loan to expand your business? For now, I have not secured any for now; but the point is that you do not want to incur debt before you can stand. I always encourage people to start a business with what they have and when they have grown to a certain level; they can secure a loan to grow the business. You should not borrow money from a bank to start a business. What should the government do to make the environment conducive for businesses to thrive? The government should relax the conditions for small business owners; it should not ask for things that small business owners cannot provide such as audited accounts, experience and others. It should set aside funds for small businesses. What is your advice to young women who want to become entrepreneurs? They should be passionate about what they want to do because challenges will come and if you do not have the passion, you will want to quit. They should be patient and not be in a hurry to become rich overnight.