The media world is awash with transfer news as the football season is gradual­ly winding down. Curtain will be drawn on the five big leagues in Europe- the English Premier League, the Spanish LaLiga, the Ger­man Bundesliga, French Ligue1 this weekend. Safe the Bundesliga and Ligue 1,the other leagues have been decid­ed. Manchester City retained the Premier League last Sunday, while Napoli and Barcelona have won the Serie A and LaLiga Santander re­spectively weeks back. With two games left for play in Li­gue 1, Paris Saint-Germain need just a point to fend off Lens from upstag­ing them to the title, while Borussia Dortmund need a win in their last group game to upstage Bayern Mu­nich in Germany. But the relegation battle will still rage on in the remaining games in all the leagues. In the Premier League, two of Leicester, Everton and Leeds will drop to the lower di­vision alongside Southampton. The same scenario will also played itself out in the LaLiga as the two of Real Valladolid, Cadiz and Espanyol will go down with Elche next season. In the Italian Serie A one of Spezia and Verona will join the duo of Cremo­nese and Sampdoria to play in Serie B next season. In the Bundesliga, only Hertha Berlin have been relegated. But one of the trio of Schakle 04, Bochum and VfB Stuttgart will escape rel­egation on the last day. In France, the relegated teams have been con­firmed. They are Troyes, AC Ajaccio and Angers. In the midst of all these, clubs and their coaches are presently taking stuck of what went wrong in the season and how best to remedy the situation next season. This is why the news that domi­nates the sporting media in the past month is which player will leave at the end of the season and to which club. Now clubs are considering which player(s) to offload so as to make way for new arrivals in bid to strengthen against next season. Even coaches who are not ready to sell certain players are in dilemma as club owners wanting to make good money will sell such player(s) with coaches now having to search for replacements. It is not only players that are on the move. Coaches are relieved of their jobs at will with owners search­ing for replacement. Tottenham Hotspur is a good example. POLL As clubs and coaches even in LaLiga Santander are neck deep in how to destroy Barcelona and Real Madrid hegemony in the league come next season, there is an odium, or better still, an infamy that is pres­ently hovering over Spanish football. What is this, racism. Google defines it as “prejudice, discrimination, or antagonism by an individual, community, or insti­tution against a person or people on the basis of their membership of a particular racial or ethnic group, typically one that is a minority or marginalized.” Google also informed that racism is based on the belief that “different races possess distinct characteris­tics, abilities, or qualities, especially so as to distinguish them as inferior or superior to one another.” Racism, also called racialism, is the belief that humans may be di­vided into separate and exclusive biological entities tcalled “races”; that there is a causal link between inherited physical traits and traits of personality, intellect, morality, and other cultural and behavioral features; and that some races are innately superior to others. Last Sunday, the game between Real Madrid and Valencia was stopped for 10 minutes in the second half after Vinicius Junior pointed out fans in the crowd to the referee, accusing them of racist chants. Vinicius said on Monday that “racism is normal in LaLiga”, add­ing the league “belongs to racists” after the incident. “It wasn’t the first time, nor the second, nor the third. Racism is nor­mal in LaLiga,” Vinicius wrote on social media. “The competition thinks it’s nor­mal, the [Spanish Football] Feder­ation does too and the opponents encourage it. I’m so sorry. “The championship that once be­longed to Ronaldinho, Ronaldo, Cris­tiano [Ronaldo] and [Lionel] Messi today belongs to racists. “A beautiful nation, which wel­comed me and which I love, but which agreed to export the image of a racist country to the world. I’m sorry for the Spaniards who don’t agree, but today, in Brazil, Spain is known as a country of racists. “Unfortunately, for everything that happens each week, I have no defence. I agree. But I am strong and I will go to the end against racists. Even if far from here.” The incident has triggered a fierce debate about racism in sport and whether Spanish society has a problem with the issue. It has taken an international dimension with Vi­nicius claiming that in Brazil, Spain is known for being a racist country. Several Brazilian players have sup­ported their countryman given the impression that Spain is not ready to solve it. President of Brazil, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, is also not left out as he warned against allowing “fascism and racism” to dominate football sta­diums and his government issued a statement saying it “deeply regrets” the lack of action by Spanish author­ities to fight the problem. BBC reports “As the lights illu­minating the statue of Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro were dimmed as a show of solidarity with the player on Monday, the issue has transcended the borders of Spain and of sport.” Spain’s left-wing government and its sports institutions have been unanimous in condemning racism in football. However, claims that Sunday’s incident reflected a broad­er malaise have proved to be more contentious. “La Liga has a problem,” Real Ma­drid’s Italian coach, Carlo Ancelotti, told an interviewer after the game. Though, president of La Liga, Javier Tebas, rejected such claims, claiming that the body has no pow­ers to stop it. On Tuesday La Liga released a statement, saying it has asked for more powers to punish in­cidents of racism. “La Liga will request more sanc­tioning powers, with the aim of be­ing more agile and effective in the fight against violence, racism, xe­nophobia and intolerance in sport, where La Liga has been leading the identification and reporting of such behaviour in football stadiums for years, but feels powerless when ob­serving how its reporting ends,” read the statement. “La Liga feels tremendous frustra­tion at the lack of sanctions and con­victions by the sports disciplinary bodies, public administrations and jurisdictional bodies to which it re­ports.” Is there an end to racism in the world, I doubt it. As long as there dif­ferences in colour, differences in lan­guage that breeds tribalism between people of the same colour, ending it will take a divine intervention to ac­complish.