LAGOS – Prominent traditional ruler, the Olowu of Owu Kingdom, Oba Saka Adelola Matemilola, has congratulated foremost Media Professional and Public Relations Icon, Mr Ayo Arowojolu, on the occasion of his 56th birthday, describing him as a rare gem, role model and a patriotic Nigerian who genuinely love the country. Arowojolu, who is of the Directorate of Public Relations, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, is the Initiator and Convener of Boiling Point Arena, a monthly discourse on governance and national development, which he initiated as part of his community service to the nation. Oba Matemilola, in a personally signed congratulatory letter, lauded Arowojolu’s “unwavering passion, wisdom and generous spirit that have touched the lives of many individuals. As a media professional, educator, and social commentator, you have inspired many people who have followed your journey with admiration and respect”. The monarch also hailed the media Icon for initiating Boiling Point Arena, describing it as “a testament to your courage, vision, and leadership. This platform has fostered informed discussions, viewpoints and commentaries on important national development issues. It has also created a valuable space for dialogue, debate, and learning in our society. “You are indeed, a rare gem and a blessing to our nation. Your immense contributions to the media industry, your professionalism, integrity, as well as excellence have set you apart as a role model. “I extend my warmest greetings and heartfelt congratulations to you on the occasion of your birthday. It is an honour to celebrate with a person who has made a remarkable impact in various fields of endeavour. “As you celebrate your birthday, I wish you more grace, joy, and peace. I pray that you continue to shine brightly in your future endeavours. May God continue to bless you, keep you in good health and grant you all your heart desires,” Oba Matemilola said. Arowojolu, who has had a multi-varied career experience spanning the Media, Banking and Education Sectors was appointed Acting Head, Corporate Affairs, at Omegabank Plc between May 2000 and July 2002. POLL Throughout his 33 years career span, the Okitipup-born journalist has worked in various newspapers, radio and television stations in different parts of the company. At the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Mr Arowojolu has previously had the rare privilege of establishing a broadcast station for the institution in his capacity as the pioneer Coordinator, FUNAAB Radio 89.5FM between October 2011 and 2019. Born on May 9, 1967, Mr Arowojolu holds a Master of Communication Arts (MCA) degree from the University of Ibadan, which he obtained in 2001. Before then, he had bagged a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Mass Communication from the then Ogun State Polytechnic, Abeokuta in 1990. He similarly graduated in Mass Communication from Chrisland University, Abeokuta.