ABUJA – Dr Aisha Buhari, Nigeria’s First Lady and the Wife of President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday called on the spouses of the incoming governors come May 29, 2023, to take a lead in promoting democracy and gender participation of women in politics and governance. The First Lady, who made the call in Abuja, at the opening ceremony of the Governors’ Spouses’ Summit organized by the Nigerian Governor’s Forum Secretariat, also urged the serving and incoming spouses of the Executive Governors to give more support to their husbands in order to ensure delivery of good governance. She noted that the Summit is timely as it aims at building capacities of the Wives of the Executive Governors of all States. Building capacities of the State Governors’ Wives is an initiative that signals a positive beginning in the history of democracy in Nigeria. “Today’s Summit is timely as it aims at building capacities of the Wives of the Executive Governors of all States. Building capacities of the State Governors’ Wives is an initiative that signals a positive beginning in the history of democracy in Nigeria. “Irrespective of our differences and experiences, our challenges should not deter our commitments to serve Nigeria better. Our “renewed hope” is a vision that requires capacity building and strategies for more impactful democratic change and inclusion. This summit is hence important in providing participants, opportunities to fine-tune their collective vision for more effective democratization. “Our commitments to democracy as wives and leaders require collective efforts to build a strong foundation for democratic governance. “This summit therefore provides an avenue in acquiring ideals for promoting excellence and innovation in all our processes of governance. “Distinguish First Ladies and Gentlemen, let me at this juncture appreciate the support and contributions of the Executive Governors’wives to the development of democracy. I appreciate their support, especially to my Foundation: the Future Assured and the African First Ladies Peace Mission (AFLPM) which I served as the President. POLL “While I thank the Almighty for his blessing in the last 8 years, I would like to remind the serving and incoming spouses of the Executive Governors to give more support to their husbands in order to ensure the delivery of good governance. “We should remember that our duty first, is to serve our communities and to do so, we must remain committed to the development of a new Nigeria. The call to action is to take a lead in promoting democracy and gender participation of women in politics and governance. “I, therefore, urge you to translate the brilliant ideals of today’s summit and utilize it to promote women’s rights and empowerment. I must emphasis that it is important to translate our gender policy into action. Our “vision” of building a better Nigeria should start from our States and through You as we lay a foundation for greater Nigeria. “Let us try and turn our current challenges to opportunities for creating a new Nigerian that is safe, secure and sustainable. On this note,, I plight challenge all to remain focused, dedicated and committed to the flight of our children and the nation” she said. In her remarks, Hajiya Mariya Tambuwal,the Chairperson of Nigerian Governor’s Spouses Forum, and Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal’s wife, said the forum is necessary as it is designed to strengthen and streamline the thoughts of the returning and incoming first ladies with regards to likely pet projects they may choose to pursue. The Sokoto State First Lady, Hajiya Tambuwal said individual governor’s wife is as liberty to pursue any initiative and project, but at the level of NGWF there is always a common project at every point in time. Speaking during the event, the Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, the Chairman of Nigerian Governor’s Forum, noted that the forum provided a wonderful blend of experience and fresh perspectives. He thanked the outgoing governors’ wives for their contributions and urged the incoming ones to embrace the opportunity with open hearts and open minds. “To the outgoing and returning first ladies, thank you for your continued service and steadfast commitment to your respective states and to the immense support you provide to us your husbands, the governors. You have undoubtedly left an indelible mark on the lives of countless individuals through your initiatives, programs, and advocacy. Your leadership has set the stage for progress, and we eagerly anticipate the heights the next sets of first ladies would reach in the future. “To the incoming first ladies, today marks the beginning of an incredible journey. | urge you to embrace this opportunity with open hearts and open minds. You have been given a platform to effect change, to uplift communities, and to foster unity. Your unique voices, experiences, and passions will undoubtedly shape the narrative of your time as First Ladies. Use this privilege wisely, for the power of your influence can be transformative” he said.