ABUJA – The Presidential Committee on the Development of Plan of Action for the Prevention of Flood in Nigeria has said over N3.4 trillion is needed in the implementation of its 10 strategic plans to address the incessant flooding across the country. Engr. Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources, who stated this in Abuja at a media briefing on Monday in Abuja, said the estimated cost of implementing the 10 strategic plans is N3.460 trillion($ 7.69 billion). Adamu, who is the Chairman of the Presidential Committee on the Development of Plan of Action for the prevention of Flood in Nigeria, explained that the Committee recommended the establishment of the National Flood Management Council(NFMC) which would advise the President on the issues pertaining to flood management including the declaration of a state of emergency based on flood categorisation. Other functions of the Council, according to him, include to “Coordinate flood management activities in the country; Source and provide adequate funding for all flood-related matters as well as deal with any other matters related to flood management as may be directed by the President. It would be recalled that a Presidential Committee was set up as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari and was inaugurated on November 3, 2022 to develop a Comprehensive Plan of Action for Preventing Flood Disasters in Nigeria. The members of the Presidential Committee are seasoned professionals, bureaucrats who were selected from across the Ministries,Departments and Agencies of government, states and professional organisations. They were mandated to fashion out ways of preventing flood disasters in Nigeria within 90 days. Giving the overview of the report of the Committee entitled, “National Strategic Plan for Flood Management (NSFM)” Adamu said the NSFM has incorporated the National Flood Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan(2022), adding that the Federal Executive Council had on September 7th, 2022, had approved National Flood Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan prepared by the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development for Nigeria. POLL He noted that flood management is cross-,cutting and multi-sectoral with complimentary roles and responsibilities, adding that there was need for highly articulated coordination among various stakeholders to achieve effective flood management and implementation of the Plan. The Minister of Water Resources revealed that the Presidential Committee identified 10 key strategies to address the incessant flooding in Nigeria which include data acquisition for integrated flood management; coordinated multi-sectoral flood early warning system; development of capacity on flood management; development and management of flood plains; protection of environment and protection of infrastructure. Other key strategies, according to him, include reservoir operation for flood mitigation; collaboration among critical stakeholders, enhancement of public awareness and community support as well as optimising the benefits of flood to the national economy. Adamu therefore, advised the incoming administration to implement the recommendations of the Action Plan, adding that in 2022 flood, over 1.4 million people were displaced across the country. Quoting the World Bank Report, the minister said the economic damage to residential and non-residential buildings, infrastructure,productive sector and farmland in 2012 was $7.3billion while the damage in 2022 is estimated to be $6.68billion.