Barring change of circumstances, the payment of petrol subsidy will end by June this year, as hinted by the outgo­ing Minister of Finance and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed Shamsuna. According to the Finance Minister, the World Bank has released the sum of $800 million to pay palliatives to Nige­rians in order to cushion the effects of subsidy removal. Although advanced countries of the world offer subsidy to their people in different aspects of human devel­opment, in Nigeria, petroleum subsi­dy has become a thorn in the flesh of any government in power. There is no doubt, successive administrations in­cluding the outgoing one had tried to stop the payment of subsidy but could not succeed. It is estimated, in the last 16 years, Nigerian government spent a whopping sum of $30 billion as petro­leum subsidy to Nigerians. The huge funds spent on subsidy could have been used to revamp our ailing power, fix our decay education and above all infrastructure deficit. There is no gainsaying the fact that subsidy payment has raised more questions than answers. The mon­ey-guzzling intervention has been dogged by corruption. It is alleged that marketers in collaboration with some corrupt government officials feed fat from the programme through bogus submission of false claims. Fuel subsidy is a form of gov­ernment intervention set to reduce the cost of fuel by providing direct financial support to oil companies, and as such, subsidize the product to consumers. Nigeria is one of Africa’s largest producers of crude oil, and it relies heavily on this resource for its economic growth. In addition, oil pro­vides employment opportunities for many Nigerians. The history of fuel subsidy dates back to October, 2000 and was due to supply inadequacies from the coun­try’s four refineries. The Nigerian gov­ernment set up a committee to review all aspects of petroleum product pric­ing and distribution. The committee recommended the establishment of Pe­troleum Products Pricing Regulatory Committee (PPPRC), which later meta­morphosed into Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA). PPPRA uses a price modulation mechanism, which allows for adjust­ing petroleum product prices to reflect changes in global oil prices. When in­ternational oil prices are high, the gov­ernment may increase the regulated price of petroleum products in Nigeria to prevent shortages and ensure that independent petroleum marketers can operate profitably. When global oil prices are low, the government may decrease the regulat­ed cost of petroleum products to reflect the market conditions and pass on the benefits to consumers. Under PPPRA, the Nigerian Na­tional Petroleum Corporation (now NNPC Ltd) gives approval for import­ers to bring in petroleum products. These products are sold to indepen­dent petroleum marketers at govern­ment- regulated prices, usually lower than the landing cost. The independent marketers then sell the products to con­sumers at a price that includes their operating costs and a government-reg­ulated margin. POLL Although fuel subsidies have been beneficial in terms of making petro­leum more accessible to citizens, they have also had some negative impacts on the economy. For one, they have led to increase in corruption and mis­management due to weak oversight mechanisms, with some individuals and companies taking advantage of the system to make illegal profits. In addition, the government spends a significant amount of money on pe­troleum subsidies, leading to increase in public debt. In some cases, the cost of subsidies can exceed the revenue earned from the sale of crude oil, Nige­ria’s main export. Furthermore, due to the price differences between Nigeria and neighbouring countries and the inefficiencies in the distribution and supply chain, petroleum products are often smuggled out of the country, leading to frequent shortages and long queues at petrol stations. Subsidy pric­es encourage overconsumption of pe­troleum products, leading to increase in air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, discouraging investment in the domestic refining industry and alternative energy sources. In terms of monetary cost, government spends #400 billion monthly to subsidise the product. The cost of maintaining it is unbearable amidst dwindling rev­enue generation due to massive oil theft. Given the issues associated with fuel subsidy programme, it is clear that there is the need for it to go. The new government should come up with comprehensive reforms aimed at ad­dressing these challenges if Nigeria is to achieve sustainable development through petroleum-generated revenue. The Tinubu incoming administ ation, whichwillinheritpetroleumsub­sidy, should consider complete deregu­lation of the petroleum sector to allow market forces to determine the prices. This would reduce the burden on the government to provide subsidies, encourage competition and attract more private investment into the sector. Lastly, the incoming govern­ment should incentivize investment in renewable energy sources such as solar and hydropower for speeding up national development. Pambegua writes from Kaduna State via imustapha650@gmail.com