LAFIA – As politicians are challenging the outcome of the just concluded election in court; Dr. Wakili Kabir-Muhammad, a petitioner at the Election Tribunal for the Nasarawa West Senatorial Zone in the 2023 Elections on Saturday called for more protection for politicians who are challenging the outcome of the election in the court. Dr. Kabir-Muhammad, is a Senatorial Candidate for the New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP) in the just concluded 2023 general elections made the call while speaking with newsmen in the Keffi Local Government Area of the state. He said that the calls followed an alleged recent assassination attempt by unknown gunmen who stormed his residence at Government Reserved Area (GRA) Keffi on Saturday but did not meet him. “Obviously, I escape death narrowly yesterday because the unknown gunmen came in with their full force as been told by my family whom they met during their operations and threatened to kill them if they fail to disclose my whereabouts. “I was also told that four of the hoodlums that broke into my accommodation were in possession of three AK 47 riffles and a pistol. Their intentions was towards me because they kept on asking of my whereabouts, but they were told I left for a meeting by my wife and they couldn’t do anything than to put all of my family at gunpoint,” he said. Kabir-Muhammad who is also an estate developer disclosed that though he had reported the matter to the Police Area Command in Keffi local government area however described the incident as having a political undertone. “I want to describe what transpired in this regard as having two fundamental issues, one is political while the other one might not be told now which is best known to me. Of course, we are suspecting some people from our business circle and political circle. “Just two days ago a candidate who contested election into the Nasarawa State House of Assembly to represent Uke – Karshi constituency by the name, Abdulrashed Haruna was attacked in his house and in the process one person was shut death while another one was shot on the leg. POLL “In fact, of course, most of these troubles emanated by political jingoism and we are going to investigate this issue thoroughly, through constituted authority,” he added. However reacting to the development via phone, DSP Ramhan Nansel, Nasarawa State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) said he was still unaware of the attack at the time of filing this report. DAILY INDEPENDENT reliably gathered that the senatorial candidate had filed a petition before the election tribunal challenging the declaration of Hom. Ahmed Wadada is the winner of the Nasarawa West Senatorial Zone election. Kabir-Muhammad is challenging the outcome of the election based on the omission of his party logo and other acronyms on the election’s ballot papers.