Four suspected murderers have been arrested and paraded by Oyo State Police Command for allegedly being involved in the killing of one police officer at Odo-Ona Kekere Oluyole local government area of the Ibadan metropolis. Parading the suspects before journalists at the Command’s Headquarters at Eleyele Ibadan, the Capital City of Oyo state on Friday, the state police public relations officer, SP. Adewale Osifeso briefed pressmen on behalf of the state commissioner of Police, CP. Adebowale Williams said, “The efforts at putting an end to the emerging reports of robbery attacks and harassment by criminal elements around Ori-Agogo, Odo-Ona Kekere axis and environs of Oluyole local government area received a Major Boost as Operatives of the Anti-Robbery Section of the State Criminal Investigation Department attached to the Oyo State Police Command through painstaking intelligence-led investigations have apprehended suspects in connection with these heinous crimes.” Recall that, On 29/04/ 2023 at about 0100hrs, a group of Suspected Armed Robbers, numbering five (5) invaded the Ori-Agogo area of odo-Ona Kekere in Ibadan and robbed several residents of their belongings. SP. Osifeso further said that “During the robbery operation, ASP Ogunleye Olufemi Daniel, serving at the State CID Iyaganku and who was a resident in the community was killed by the assailants having robbed him and other members of his family.” “Thus, the case was transferred from Idi-Ayunre Police Divisional Headquarters to the SCID Iyaganku for further investigation.” “Consequently, detectives from the State Criminal Investigation Department’s Anti-Robbery section immediately swung into action and tracked the suspects using a mobile phone found at the scene of the crime.” “Three (3) suspects including their spiritual healer one Gabriel Adeniyi ‘m’ 80yrs, Oyetumbi Ademola ‘m’ 25 yrs, and Michael Adeniyi ‘m’ 26 yrs were arrested, while their gang leader named Fatai Fasasi ‘m’ 30 yrs, popularly known as Ogun who allegedly shot and killed, the deceased Officer, was neutralized at an encounter with Police operatives during their trail.” “This far, two (2) Samsung phones belonging to their victims alongside; a 1999 Hyundai Elantra vehicle (Their getaway car) and a cut to size locally made barrel used by the assailants have been recovered.” POLL “In the same vein, during the process of voluntarily confessing to the crimes committed, they further revealed one Kafilat Tiamiyu ‘f’ a.k.a Iya Alaye as a criminal receiver who receives Jewelry (golds) proceeds from them, based on this, the said Kafilat Tiamiyu was tracked and arrested at Oranyan area of Ibadan.Investigation continues please.” He said. Exhibits recovered from the suspects are, one locally cut to size single barrel gun, two Samsung phones, one Itel Phone, one Hyundai Elantra grey colour 1999 model car, two wrist watches belonging to the deceased police officer, two wedding band, one amulet and two herbal concoction.