Professor John Ebhomien, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain and public affairs analyst, is a former Consultant to the United Nations Office of Project Services. The former World Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF) economist and financial management expert spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on expectations from the incoming administration among other issues. Excerpt: The Senate National Assembly has just passed a bill that will allow independent candidates to contest elections in Nigeria. How do you see the development? The passage of the independent candidate is a good development which could be welcome by every Nigerian irrespective of political affiliations. One needs to commend the Senate President and the Distinguished Members for a job well done. But, the National Assembly should move a step further to ensure that other bills that have been pending are passed and sent to Mr. President for assent before May 29. Until Mr. President assents to the bill, it is not yet uhuru. Mr. President must ensure that before he leaves, all bills passed by the National Assembly are assented to with utmost priority. This will go a long way in ensuring probity and accountability in governance. Mr. President must not shy away in doing the needful and tidying up his table, leaving a good legacy that will stand the test of time now and years ahead. According to the bill, an independent candidate must get the signatures of specific numbers of supporters in states across the country to qualify to contest for presidency. What is your view on this? The clause that requires an independent candidate to get a certain number of supporters was not done in good faith. The National Assembly should have allowed anybody who wishes to contest elections as independent candidates to do so without any encumbrances. The independent candidate who feels he has the charisma, character, and popularity to go into the political ring and test his acceptance in elections. The insertion of that clause is against the fundamental human rights of those people who wish to contest elections as enshrined in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the United Nations Charter on Human Rights. I think the two Chambers should meet to harmonise this bill and remove such clauses that may prevent Mr. President from appending his signature. Do you think the constitution should be amended to provide for the conclusion of future electoral cases before inauguration of Presidents and Governors? I strongly believe that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Electoral Act should be amended to allow the conclusion of elections and adjudications before the swearing in of the President, Governors and other office holders. By doing so, it will remove any encumbrances that may stand in the way of smooth transition from one government to another. I hope the incoming 10th National Assembly will put their house in order to work in synergy with other arms of government to avoid those things that are likely to cause smooth administration by the incoming governments. They should know that Nigerians are looking up to them to bail the country out from its hydra-headed problems that have been begging for answers like inflation, insecurity, banditry, kidnapping and other vices that have refused to go away. What is your advice to those agitating that the May 29 presidential inauguration should wait till the conclusion of the cases at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal and the Supreme Court? POLL Those who are agitating that the inauguration of the president-elect and other office holders should not be held on May 29 are not saying so in good faith. We cannot afford to leave a vacuum. Whatever election matters in the appropriate tribunals, should be allowed to go on, while the inauguration should take place without hindrances. By law, the outcome of the tribunal will be binding on all concerned. Nobody is above the law. Whatever the tribunals so decide, should be accepted by all parties with high sense of responsibility. We all owe it as a responsibility to Nigerians to ensure that there is peace in our country. The petitioners and the respondents should advise their supporters against making inflammatory statements that are likely to cause breach of the peace. Results of Presidential elections are not known to be nullified in the history of Nigeria. Do you think the Tribunal and the Supreme Court as currently constituted can overturn the INEC decision? The tribunal adjudicating on the presidential election and other elections should be allowed to look into election matters based on evidence produced by the petitioners and respondents, the judges adjudicating on election matters should avoid frivolities. They should remember that Nigeria and the whole world are watching to see the outcome of the tribunal. The judges should write their names in gold by ensuring that all matters concerning the elections are handled with the fear of God. We have no other country to call our own. They should not look at the faces of the petitioners and the respondents; they should come out with verdicts and decisions that are pleasing to Nigerians. The President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, reportedly met with the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) presidential candidate, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, in France over the possibility of forming the Government of National Unity. How do you see the development? Do you think such a government can work successfully in Nigeria? The meeting of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu with Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso in France is a good development. We have seen the formation of such a government in other climes. It depends on the two of them and their inner caucuses to harmonise things. They should enter into agreements that are feasible. They should try as much as possible to put Nigerian people first in their decisions. They should avoid those things that are likely to cause disharmony between them, especially the sharing of political appointments and those politicians that are anti-people. We have seen this happen in Israel under the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. After the alliance, we saw what happened, especially some of the laws and judicial reforms that were anti-people. Such are adversely affecting the government. There are jostling currently over the leadership of the National Assembly with the President, President-elect and party stakeholders said to be making imputes and even choosing who should occupy what positions. How proper do you think such actions are? The 10th National Assembly by all standards as done in other civilised climes, should be allowed to choose their leaders, both in the Senate and the House of Representatives. There must be Separation of Powers between the Executive and Legislature. The lobbying for positions is free to do so because the constitution allows that. But, it must be done in a way that they will not be seen as being an appendage of the Executive. They should toe the path of caution and remember that they were elected to do their biddings and not the bidding of the Executive. That is not to say that there must be friction between the two arms of government. They must work in harmony and pass those bills that will be in the best interest of the people and place the economy on a sound footing. We want the 10th National Assembly that will be answerable to the people and not in their selfish interest. They should realise that Nigeria is aware of their rights. Any member of the 10th National Assembly and their leaders who run short of what they are expected to be can be recalled according to the law. There is a serious awareness in the land. Above all, Mr. Buhari and the in-coming President-elect should not be the ones to dictate to the 10th National Assembly on who should be their leaders and where such leaders should come from. What is your agenda for the incoming administration? My sincere agenda for the incoming administration is based on good governance, laced with transparency, laced with transparency, accountability. The government must be accountable to the people and do what is right at all times. There must be security of lives and properties. These are the primary responsibilities of any government with a human face. We cannot talk of human lives without security of lives and properties. The incoming government should as much as possible make sure that electricity is available 24/7 as it is in other climes. The incoming government must also appoint seasoned economists and financial experts as the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor and the Minister of Finance so that both the monetary and fiscal policies are done in effective fashion. We have seen in the past where Monetary and Fiscal policies are anti-people. We are all witnesses to the recent currency redesign which was poorly implemented. The incoming government should re-jig the CBN, Federal Inland Revenue Service, the Nigerian Customs and Excise, Immigration, NNPC Ltd, for proper management competence. There must be total quality management, probity and accountability at all levels. The incoming government should also direct its searchlight on the Ministry of Justice and ensure that a seasoned legal practitioner with high sense of responsibility and discipline is appointed as Minister of Justice. The Office of the Minister of Justice and that of the Attorney General must be separated to allow for probity and better dispensation of justice. The Attorney General is a political appointment, while the Minister of Justice should be a seasoned legal luminary. The incoming administration should re-jig the EFCC and the ICPC. The two should be merged for proper handling of corruption cases. The incoming government should look into the Oronsaye Report to ensure that all recommendations in that report are implemented. Some MDAs are drain-pipes. This is not the time for his misappropriation of funds. It is time for action, probity and accountability in all ramifications. Every kobo spent must be accounted for. The incoming government should look into the education sector. The constant strike by ASUU must be resolved while funds should be made available for our educational institutions.Our health system must be given a priority by the new administration. Our doctors must be well paid. Government must not fail to look into the pay packets of our Armed Forces and other security agencies. They should be given good remuneration to motivate them for action. There must be training and retraining of our Armed Forces and other paramilitary agencies. The government should take a bold step. The importation of textiles, hot drinks and wines, cosmetics and encourage local production of these items. The incoming government should ensure that they engage the MAN and NECA to encourage them on how to revamp the moribund and ailing industries. This will create employment for our people. The government should make funds available for our pharmacist to produce necessary drugs and vaccines for our people. Medical tourism by all offices must be banned. The incoming president must live by example. Our ailing hospitals and health centres must be revamped and attention paid to them to make them live up to expectation. The salary and allowances of members of the National Assembly and State Houses of Assembly and the ministers and other special appointees must be reduced by 70 percent. Mr. President must live by example and reduce all allowances due to him and the vice president. They are already wealthy people. The incoming government must create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive in all sectors of the economy. The government must also create an enabling environment for foreign investment and reduce interest rates for borrowed money to seven percent. The government must stop borrowing from the IMF, World Bank, ADB and other developed countries. We have enough resources to run this country on a sound footing if appropriate persons are appointed to harness financial and human resources for a renewed Nigeria of our hope. This is my testament for the incoming president and governors.