President Muhammadu Buhari will leave office gladly (as he has repeatedly told everyone) on May 29 – barely three weeks from now. No government had been trumpeted with as much fanfare and fantasies only to deliver as little as the Buhari government has done. The disappointment arising from the all-round failure recorded has been quite telling and dismaying. Every Nigerian patriot today is left gasping for breath over the sense of betrayal arising from the bungling of the machinery of state and the promise once felt, especially in 2015, when Buhari and his men were helped into power by a largely deceived electorate. Today, eight grueling years after watching the rapid dismantling of organized structures and the asphyxiation of common hopes and expectations, Nigerians have found themselves wondering what hit them. More than anything else, they are worried about the incoming government’s capacity to tackle the hell of a mess it will be gifted by its predecessor, especially in the economic front where the mess is most telling. Indeed, the economy is in a very bad shape. But the Federal Government won’t tell you this – not with as much candour. This is because President Muhammadu Buhari and his political votaries don’t want to admit that they have run the country aground in the last eight years. And that any capital projects, including the continuation of the Second Niger Bridge, which they have executed, were made possible through loans and not money realized from any creative strategy developed by the government. After praising itself on being able to weather the Covid-19 storm, it is now known that besides the billions of naira donated by corporate institutions to provide emergency support to Nigerians during that scary season, the Federal Government also benefitted a lot from advances made to it by the Central Bank of Nigeria, through its Ways and Means window – reaching up to N22.7trn. They cannot explain what and how they spent the funds. Yet the FG is still taking another N1trn to augment whatever is available to service its financial obligations at this moment in order to avoid the frightful scenario painted on Workers Day by Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State. Recall that on Monday, at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, venue of the May Day celebrations, the governor, in his usual bluntness, told workers in the state that both the federal and state governments were so broke that except a national miracle happened, they would be no salaries for workers on government pay beyond June. Perhaps, he wanted to press home the urgency of the situation in order to make obvious the imperative of a zero-subsidy regime. His message, as he intended, did set off an alarm bell but its screech, as grating as it is to the ear, may not be able to sway workers from their opposition to government’s proposition. This is because they have made countless number of concessions that have yielded more pain and no gain. “It would be a miracle for the federal government and state governments to pay salaries beyond June this year without resorting to massively printing of money or removing fuel subsidy. Either of these decisions will bring more hardship and pain to Nigerians, particularly workers,” Obaseki said. More pain than we have already seen! Embarrassed by the raw truth, the Federal Government which abjures such frankness in public communication and governance, through its Minister of Labour and (poor) Productivity, Chris Ngige, reacted harshly to what may have passed across to them as a piece of execrable indiscretion. In his response, Minister Ngige, speaking on a programme monitored on Channels Television, said: “He should focus on his state, his political appointees; he should shed weight and then get enough money. I don’t know what he is talking about.” You certainly do, sir, but won’t say so. POLL A few actions of the Federal Government lately show that they know what Obaseki is spewing. It was based on such knowledge that the date of commencement of zero-subsidy policy and the potentially perfidious national census were wiped off the table at the very last minute, after the latter had drained so much at such a critical time as this. You know, government officials in Nigeria have a prodigious ability to dump any project at any point of execution and move on as though nothing had happened – after trillions have been sunk into its poorly conceived implementation. Now, there are so many carry-overs waiting for the Jagaban of Borgu, carry-overs from Buhari’s failed attempts, but it doesn’t seem as if the Aso Rock occupant-in-waiting has any idea just what he’s dancing into. I sincerely hope he would not tell us later – like Buhari did – that he didn’t know that the rot in Abuja was as sky-high as it turned out. And this was after the then opposition party had tantalized Nigerians with its quick-fix alternatives to the ‘rudderless and clueless’ leadership they sought to replace. Today, despite all evidence to the contrary, Buhari and his team insist on beating their own drums of triumph after the assigned drummers had flung away the instruments of celebration in total perplexity at the strange tunes coming from the dancers themselves. In January, the Debt Management Office (DMO) said Nigeria’s total debt stock will hit N77trn in May 2023 if the House of Reps okays the Buhari administration’s 23.8 trillion Ways and Means Advances. Consider the fact that the Federal Government says it spent over 80 percent of its revenue on debt servicing in the first eleven months of 2022, leaving only a pathetic 20 per cent for other uses. The Debt Management Office says Nigeria’s total debt stock has hit 46 trillion, but despite this heavy debt burden, the government recently revealed that it had received approval from the World Bank on another N369 billion loan ahead of the fuel subsidy removal in June 2023. In the eight years of the Buhari administration, Nigeria’s debt profile had grown from N12.6 trillion in 2015 to over N46 trillion in 2023. The anxieties over the immediate future are evident and justified. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said Nigeria almost emptied its treasury on debt servicing in 2022. According to the Federal Inland Revenue, the government received N10 trillion in revenue in 2022, with a 2023 budget expenditure of N21.83 trillion pegged on deficits of N11.34 trillion. So, President Buhari spent the last eight years accumulating debts and frittering the money away on laughable projects such as tradermoni, school feeding programme, and the 774,000 special public works scheme. Even such dire programmes as the CBN sponsored Anchor Borrowers Scheme and allied fiscal supports have ended up in the middle of nowhere with nothing significant to show in terms of increased agricultural productivity. These are precarious times for everybody except Nigerians who have perfected ways and means of leaving above the law. The general prediction is that the next government will be swimming against the tide of debts and a pulverized people who have been through the worst socio-economic experiences of deprivation and dehumanisation. And these would take more than just economic theorems to address. Creativity and innovation are required to birth programmes that would match the heady and competitive global advance in hi-tech solutions for almost every sector of public life. Incidentally, despite the complaints against the educational system in Nigeria, graduates from local universities have made brave impressions in academic communities abroad, thus reviving hopes in the capacity of the youthful population to activate fallow energies for solid growth. But leadership stands in the way. This is the second time I would be appealing to whoever it is their fortune or misfortune to pick up governance from Buhari and his men. The first phase of the task is to reassure Nigerians that the new leadership is boldly aware of the damage which years of bureaucratic leadership which lacks envisioning and creativity has done, the pains arising from the inability of the government to rise to its responsibilities to the people, the despair and loss of faith these have caused. Then, the new government must promptly demonstrate that it accurately understands the bourgeoning challenges nationwide and has workable solutions. These are no mean tasks.