As part of efforts to stem cultism and related crimes in Ogun State, Governor Dapo Abiodun has directed securi­ty agencies to carry out peri­odic raids in identified places where vendors of hard and other illicit drugs operate in Sagamu and its environs. The governor gave the directive in his office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, when he received the new State Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC), Mr. David Id­owu Ojelabi, and that of the National Drug Law Enforce­ment Agency (NDLEA), Mrs. Ibiba Jane Odili, when they paid him a courtesy visit. Abiodun, who expressed his displeasure over the ac­tivities of cultists in the local government area, attributed their devilish behaviour to the influence of hard drugs. “I personally visited the lo­cation where drugs are being freely sold in the evenings and I remarked that this should be brought to the attention of the Commandants of the ND­LEA, Civil Defence, Commis­sioner of Police, State Direc­tor of the DSS and other Law enforcement architecture to go on a mission and raid that place. “I want you to rid the entire Sagamu of drugs peddlers, sellers and drug abusers. This will go a long way to restoring peace and confidence to our citizens in Sagamu. “Cultism is one of our chal­lenges and we are ready to deal with those involved. As the industrial, education and religious capital of this nation, we will not allow hoodlums to threaten the peace of this state and so we are going to do ev­erything possible to bring an end to this menace,” he noted. He described as topnotch, security chiefs, posted to the state since his assumption of office, maintaining that their collaboration with the state government and other secu­rity agencies, had helped in addressing security challenges in Ogun. “Ogun State enjoys a lot of inter-agency collaboration and this has made it possible for us to address security challenges. I want to urge the NSCDC to work with the police to rid our highways of miscreants. POLL “We will soon launch our drones and this will enable us tackle insecurity by locating hoodlums wherever they are hiding along our highways,” the governor added He charged the new securi­ty chiefs to bring their wealth of experience into play by emulating their predecessors, emphasising the need to ad­equately police the state to ensure people go about their legitimate businesses without being attacked. In his remarks, the new NSCDC boss, Commandant Ojelabi, said he was in the state to work with the gover­nor and other security chiefs for a crime-free society, call­ing on the state government to support him to achieve his objective. Also speaking, Comman­dant Odili of the NDLEA, com­mended the state government for its developmental strides in the last four years.