DAMATURU – The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has vowed to improve its partnership with the Yobe State government led by Governor Mai Mala Buni for the improvement of the welfare of workers and state citizens. The Chairman of the Yobe State Chapter of the NLC, Comrade Muktar Musa Tarbutu, announced today while briefing newsmen as part of activities marking the 2023 joint NLC-TUC May Day Celebrations in Damaturu. He stated: “Your Excellency Sir, the NLC in the state is ready to partner with your administration for the betterment of Yobe citizens particularly now that you have a brand new mandate from the people of the state, also soliciting for consideration in the issue of inclusiveness into government committees as well as utility vehicle, allocation of pilgrimage seat for the council among others”. He added: “The May Day celebration gives us an opportunity to share our concerns about the global trends and examine ways we can improve our roles and conditions as members of the nation’s working class. As united members of civilized humanity, we also collectively reflect over the state of our services. The theme of this year’s Joint NLC/TUC May Day celebration is ‘Workers’ Rights and Socio-economic Justice’. “As we are recovering from a number of crises both nationally and internationally which is affecting our living condition, socially and economically, the impact, though varies from state to state, has increased poverty and inequalities at a greater scale. Economic and vulnerable groups are fundamental to inform and tailor the responses of governments and partners to recover from the crises and ensure that no one is left behind in this effort. “Without urgent socio-economic responses, human suffering will escalate, jeopardizing lives and livelihoods. Immediate development responses in this crisis must be undertaken with an eye to the future. Development trajectories in the long term will be affected by the choices and the support they receive. Therefore, the NLC will continue to be at the forefront to ensure justice is done to such issues.”