ISAAC ASABOR It is no more news that the rumor mill and purveyors of fake news and clickbait recently went agog informing consumers that the leading noodle brand, “Special Chicken Flavour” Indomie had been banned in Nigeria as it was found to be unfit for consumption. With headlines in the similitude of the following, “NAFDAC bans Indomie Noodles“, not a few bloggers and social media enthusiasts activated their handles in the bid to outdo one another in spreading the news considered to be fake by NAFDAC, the apex regulatory in the food and pharmaceutical sub-sectors of the economy, and Dufil, the manufacturer of the product. Against the backdrop of the retrogressive development, the Director-General of NAFDAC), Professor Mojisola Christianah Adeyeye issued a Press Statement on May 2, 2023, on the recall of Indomie Instant Noodles ‘Special Chicken Flavour’ by health officials in Malaysia and Taiwan over the alleged detection of ethylene oxide, a carcinogenic compound. The statement reads in part, “The Management of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is aware of the recalls of Indomie Instant Noodles ‘Special Chicken Flavour’ by the Ministries of Health in Malaysia and Taiwan on account of the alleged presence of ethylene oxide, a compound associated with an increased risk of cancer”. Thus, Adeyeye assured consumers of the Indomie noodles manufactured in Nigeria that what they consumed is different from the one produced in Malaysia and Taiwan, and that it is safe for consumption. Ostensibly to further deepen the assurance, she said NAFDAC, as a responsible and responsive regulator, is taking swift actions to carry out random sampling and analysis of Indomie noodles (including the seasoning) for the presence of ethylene oxide, as well as extending the investigation to other brands of instant noodles offered for sale to Nigerians. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She stated, “We use this medium to assure the public that thorough investigation of the products will be conducted both at the factory and market levels and our findings will be communicated. POLL “The public is also hereby informed that the implicated Indomie Instant Noodles ‘Special Chicken Flavour’ is not registered by NAFDAC for sale in Nigeria. It is important to mention that noodles are on the Import Prohibition List of the Federal Government of Nigeria and are therefore not permitted for importation to Nigeria. “Further, the Indomie instant noodles products (and other brands of noodles) registered by NAFDAC for sale in the Nigerian market are manufactured in Nigeria and are only granted NAFDAC registration status following a strict regulatory regime covering all aspects of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). The Ports Inspection Directorate (PID) is also on heightened alert to guard against the importation of the implicated product into Nigeria. In a similar vein, Adeyeye, on a TV programme last Thursday, monitored by DAILY INDEPENDENT clarified that foreign noodles remain prohibited from being brought into the country by the Federal Government. She enthused, “NAFDAC wishes to reassure the public that the Agency is proactive and remains alive to her responsibilities of safeguarding the health of the public”, and said that the Indomie brand of noodles made in Nigeria has nothing to do with the noodles variant produced in Taiwan and Malaysia. The regulator also said that other brands of noodles made locally in Nigeria are safe for consumption. She said the ban has been in place for many years and remains on the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) import prohibition list to encourage local production of noodles and backward integration of the economy, and that NAFDAC was working to ensure that foreign-made noodles are not smuggled into the country. She disclosed that its Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (FSAN) unit has commenced post-marketing surveillance (PMS) all over the country and that the Food Laboratory Services Directorate has also been activated on the issue. On the side of the manufacturers of the Indomie Noodles, Dufil Prima Foods Plc, the Group Corporate Communications and event manager, Tope Ashiwaju, also clarified that Indomie Nigeria is a different and separate entity from Indomie Taiwan and Indomie Malaysia. He added that Indomie Noodles is locally produced in the country and operations have been ongoing for at least three decades. He added that the company has improved local capacity utilisation to aid and enhance production to meet market demand, adding that it does not rely on importation to produce the noodles sold and eaten in Nigeria. “Nigeria is a major consumer of instant noodles with the World Instant Noodles Association (WINA) placing the country as one of the largest consumers of instant noodles worldwide. “The ban on the importation of instant noodles is not a recent development as instant noodles have been on the import prohibition list for years and we have not gone against this,” he said. Also, a member of the board of directors at Indofoods, Taufik Wiraatmadja in a statement issued penultimate Friday said the product was completely safe for consumption, and buttressed the fact that the noodles had received standard certifications and had been produced in compliance with international food safety regulations. The statement read in part, “Following the media reports in Taiwan on 24th April 2023 regarding the detection of ethylene oxide (“EtO”) in the Ah Lai White Curry Noodles from Malaysia and seasoning of Indomie Special Chicken Flavour, PT Indofood CBP Sukses Makmur Tbk (“ICBP” or the “Company”) as a subsidiary of PT Indofood Sukses Makmur Tbk wishes to provide an explanation regarding Indomie, as follows. “All instant noodles produced by ICBP in Indonesia are processed in compliance with the food safety standards from the Codex Standard for Instant Noodles and standards set by the Indonesian National Agency for Drug and Food Control (“BPOM RI”). Our instant noodles have received Indonesian National Standard Certification (SNI), and are produced in certified production facilities based on international standards. “ICBP has exported instant noodles to various countries around the world for more than 30 years. The Company continuously ensures that all of its products are in compliance with the applicable food safety regulations and guidelines in Indonesia as well as other countries where ICBP’s instant noodles are marketed.” According to the firm, in accordance with the statement released by BPOM RI, its Indomie instant noodles are safe for consumption. However, to not a few consumers of the product, like Hillary Nmoye, the controversial development highlights poor monitoring of products that come into the country, particularly as more than one agency operates within Nigerian Ports and borders. They argued that the essence of having regulatory bodies in place was to forestall threats and nip possible fatalities in the bud by detecting unscrupulous manufacturers of consumer products who push unsafe consumer products to the markets that cut across the country. They wondered why the country’s regulatory agencies only seem to wake up after the damage had been done. According to Mr. Josiah Ovbiebo, “The clarifications made by both the leaderships of NAFDAC and Dufil are timely and expedient as there has been profound fear among Nigerians, most especially consumers of Indomie noodles, following the allegations of a cancer-causing chemical found in the products”. As gathered from a staggered parley conducted by Daily Independent within the Ogba/Agege/Berger axis in Lagos, not a few of the consumers of Indomie brands who majorly pleaded anonymity said they have been afraid of consuming the products after the detection of cancer-causing chemicals in indomie. One of the respondents that identified herself as Ms. Edith Nnorom, said, “Since I received the information that cancer can be contracted by consuming Ndomie, I have resolved to refrain from eating it for now. “Though I have nothing much against the brand, the fact remains that from what I heard about the food, I need to be cautious even as I have urged members of my family to stop consuming the products, also”.