Imo State Governor Hope Uzo­dimma has told the first batch of just back on pilgrimage that God had already answered their prayers concerning Imo State. Governor Uzodimma spoke on Sunday at the Government House Chapel as the pilgrims recounted their experiences at the Holy land after Mass, which they said were memorable and something worthy of their appre­ciation, praises and thanksgiving to God and the Governor. The views of the first batch of the pilgrims were conveyed by the Commissioner for Public Orientation and Religious Af­fairs, Mr. Anthony Ikechukwu Okonkwo, now a proud holder of the title, Jerusalem Pilgrim (JP). Okonkwo had not only re­ported the good conduct of the pilgrims from Imo, but said the organisers treated them specially in every area during the outing based on Governor Uzodimma’s directives and thanked the gover­nor for his uncommon show of love to Imo people. The Governor commended the comportment, conduct and integrity of the first batch of the Pilgrims, noting that it was a thing of joy the number that travelled was exactly the number that came back. He told them that their prayers have already started working considering the several achievements the State has re­corded so far, including the proj­ects that were commissioned in their absence and the ones that are about to be unveiled after ap­proval had been received from the federal government. Governor Uzodimma reiter­ated that the sponsorship of the pilgrimage has no political co­louration, rather, “it was targeted at those who probably could not afford it, as a life experience.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He used the opportunity to reassure Imo people that his Government is an all inclusive one “open to constructive ideas and criticism.” POLL Governor Uzodimma remind­ed all that he has forgotten events of the past and now “only inter­ested in issues of today and the present.” He again thanked the Imo El­ders Council for their thoughtful­ness in crafting the Imo Charter of Equity which he said “is true answers to political wastes, strug­gles and tensions.” “The Charter will help to curb criminality and narrow down political struggles to a particu­lar zone, making the road to gov­ernorship of the State easy and seamless,” he said.