ABUJA – Mr. Haruna Abdullahi, the Acting Executive Chairman of the Federal Capital Territory Internal Revenue Service (FCT-IRS), has hinted that the agency is dedicated to working with pertinent organizations around the world to develop the capacity of his staff for improved service delivery as a strategy to increase revenue generation. He gave this hint when Mr. Joseph Owolabi the global president of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and his colleagues paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja. In a statement provided the media in Abuja by Mustapha Sumaila, Head of Corporate Communications, FCT-IRS, the Acting Chairman stated that the Service, under his direction, is committed to prioritizing capacity building as a manner of improvement. The FCT-IRS boss who highlighted the enormous advantages and global opportunities ACCA has provided the Service, emphasised the need for staff to key into the ACCA programme in order to develop themselves. He however added that the Service is always ready to support staff in attaining the skills and expertise needed for the job. According to him, FCT-IRS is geared towards setting an example in terms of the public sector in the country. The Acting Chairman noted that the FCT-IRS being an Approved Employer of the ACCA, is by this virtue saddled with a global responsibility to ensure that the Service is equipped with well-trained and knowledgeable professionals. POLL Abdullahi also reassured the ACCA of the Service’s continued support and partnership adding that the ACCA has grown tremendously over the years and the Service, being an active partner of the Institute, will strive to maintain the image of ACCA across all spheres. In his remarks, Mr. Joseph Owolabi commended the FCT-IRS for the critical role the agency plays in the FCT and the ripple effect it has on the Federation. He also appreciated the Service for the support it gives to not just ACCA but also fellow members. According to him, the Institute is aimed at being a force for public good and will continue to empower its members in terms of learning and attracting the right talents in order to develop the next generation of professional accountants who he repeatedly called ‘talents of the future’. The Acting Executive Chairman is a fellow of the ACCA and was recently appointed to serve on the Nigerian Advisory Committee of the ACCA because of his vast knowledge, wealth of experience and cross-sector expertise in the profession.