CareerLife Nigeria, a renowned NGO dedicated to fostering career success, has stated that it conducted the second cohort of its career moms mentorship programme. In a statement, it said the initiative was specifically designed to support mothers who had taken a career break to raise children, and were facing challenges reintegrating into the workforce. Yewande Jinadu, the Founder of CareerLife Nigeria, said: “Many women encounter significant difficulties when attempting to return to work after having children, and often end up leaving their jobs altogether. “Having personally experienced these struggles after the birth of my first child, I decided to establish this programme to provide women with the essential support system they needed to regain control of their careers.” She stated that in its recently held 10-week mentorship programme, participants actively engaged in meaningful discussions focused on overcoming workplace barriers and stereotypes, confronting limiting beliefs, effectively navigating office politics, avoiding common job search pitfalls, and prioritising overall well-being as women. The programme focused on empowering topics and facilitated transformative conversations throughout its duration. She emphasised that the career moms programme focused on the growth and development of participants, resulting in increased visibility on the professional networking platforms. One of the programme participants, while expressing her gratitude, said: “Through the programme, I rediscovered my passion for reading and writing. POLL “I revamped my CV using the comprehensive template provided, which led to two interview invitations within two weeks. Although I declined one job offer due to unfavourable terms, my self-confidence has skyrocketed. I now know that I am more than capable.” Another participant who shared her newfound determination, said, “No matter the current circumstances, I constantly remind myself to stay focused on my goals. A career break does not define me.”