Nigeria’s daily oil production can hit 4m barrels – Shell.” Report May 14, 2023. Nigeria’s oil production drops to 1.25mbpd –NUPRC Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission, NUPRC Report, May 15, 2023. Shell Nigeria Exploration & Production Company, SNEPCO has done Nigeria better than any other entity in the world since the company started operating in Nigeria in 1957. In fact, the foreign company has been more patriotic than all of our leaders put together. Shell, has indisputably done us more good than out-going President Buhari – who is leaving us heavily indebted. Shell will certainly be instrumental in helping us pay the debt. POLL So, if Shell talks, we must listen carefully. Despite our disagreements and criticisms of Shell, it is still the hand that feeds us. We complain, rightly about oil pollution; but we forget that oil was actually oozing out of the ground and polluting our waters before Shell came to show us that we were sitting on immeasurable wealth. Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission, NUPRC, is like most other commissions established by various federal governments of Nigeria. They are established with the desire for achieving a grand objective; and end up serving the interests of the members of the commission and the entities they were set up to regulate. National Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC, is a good example. NERC has become a willing accomplice of the Distribution Companies, Discos, in fleecing Nigerian consumers. One meeting with the NERC group in Lagos was enough for me to swear never to be caught dead in the same room with them. They don’t even bother to pretend that they are not there to serve EKEDC. With regard to crude oil production, Shell and NUPRC in the statements reported above have revealed two attitudes about Nigeria’s crude oil production. Shell, for ever a leader in the spirit of enterprise was addressing itself to how much we can achieve with crude oil production for our own benefit. NUPRC, the typical African organisation, was only interested in pointing to failure. Shell points to the way forward; NUPRC wants to fix our attention on our past and present poor position as a national crude oil producer. Yet, there is a meeting point for the two views. Oil Rigs Constitute The Limiting Factor. Just as you cannot make fried eggs without eggs, oil rigs remain the major limiting factor for crude oil production. Shell and NUPRC are both pointing to the fact that the number of oil rigs operating in Nigeria is too few for our own good. Like most predicaments, in which we find our country today, the rapid decline in number of operating oil rigs started with President Jonathan and accelerated quickly under Buhari. Today, given the nation’s crude oil capacity, Nigeria cannot produce and export sufficient crude to meet our OPEC quota (1.7mbpd), our budget estimate (2.3mbpd) or the high aspiration Shell says we can achieve (4mbpd). Failure to achieve budget estimate started under Jonathan. In none of Jonathan’s five years in office was Nigeria able to produce and export 2.3mbpd. Yet, each year, the budget was stubbornly based on crude production of 2.3mbpd. Obviously not learning anything from their own recent history, the Buhari administration had followed its predecessor, like sheep, and based all its eight annual budgets on 2.3mbpd. The folly in this approach to budgeting can easily be explained. First, Nigerian governments behave as if the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, does not exist; and if it does, Nigeria is not bound by its decisions. OPEC was formed in Baghdad, Iraq in September 1960 by Juan Pablo Perez Alfonso and Abdullah Tariki; Nigeria became a member under General Gowon in 1971. It was not until the Yum Kippur War between the Arabs and Israel in 1973 that OPEC started setting production quotas for its members – and that remains the situation till today. Nigeria’s production quota has not exceeded 1.8mbpd since 2014. Yet, every year, governments have budded 2.3mbpd. Jonathan and Buhari have created crude oil revenue expectations which every year could not be met. Second, Nigeria produced and exported crude oil up to quota level in less than six months during all those years for two reasons – lower then expected production on account of rigs, pipeline vandalism and crude oil theft. Under Jonathan, government reported 400,000 barrels of crude were stolen per day. The situation got worse under Buhari. Again, despite the facts at their disposal, the two governments presented budgets suggesting that 2.3mbpd would be produced and exported. The huge negative variance, each year, between budgeted crude revenue and actual has largely accounted for several unpleasant economic repercussions. These include: huge national debt (now estimated at N77trn), high exchange rate (N180/$1 IN 2015 to N465/$1 today at official rate), inflation (under 10% in 2015 to 22.7% in 2023 and still climbing). It is not only the crude oil revenue estimate in the annual budget that is over-estimated, the revenue estimates in the Medium Term Fiscal Expenditure Plan is also unrealistic. Nigerian governments base expenditures and make financial commitments based on revenue they will never receive. Invariably, the actual deficit and loans each year are higher than budget; and the debt continues to mount – with no respite in sight. Way Forward Shell has told us what the possibilities are. Unfortunately, Shell might as well have been talking to a wall. The conditions that must be met before Nigeria can profitably produce 4mbpd day don’t exist now and would have to be created. The out-going government has failed to take steps to drastically reduce rig count decline; without which 4mbpd will remain a pipe dream (pardon the pun). We have the incoming government’s Manifesto which has also failed to address the matter. Tinubu has not grasped the truth that rig count will determine the fate of his government – more than anything else. Furthermore, given OPEC quota, Nigeria will have to use most of the 4mbpd crude at home because she will not be able to export more than quota without upsetting the global supply balance. The domestic users of crude don’t exist at the moment; and foreign investors are departing from instead of arriving in Nigeria. Right now, nobody is seriously thinking of how to attract Foreign Direct Investment, FDI in the quantum that will make it possible to utilise 4mbpd of crude – even if produced. Finally, crude oil theft, which is obviously a clear case of “Authority stealing”, because there is ample evidence that security forces are intimately involved in the syndicates, will continue to discourage honest investors from coming into the sector. Increasingly, we are faced with evidence that, though the International Oil Companies, IOCs, were/ are guilty of malpractices with regard to the volume of crude lifted; the Nigerians replacing them are far worse. Some Nigerian operators reportedly “steal” their own oil!!!. Thus, increasing production to 4mbpd might just escalate crude theft without significant benefit to Nigerians.