‘Domestic refining from the Dangote refinery is not a guarantee for cheap petroleum products nor another round of subsidy regime as the refinery is expected to get feedstocks at the prevailing international price but sell at a cost-reflected price in Naira equivalent.’ According to Africa’s richest man and owner of Dangote Refinery, Aliko Dangote, Nigeria currently imports over 90% of its refined petroleum products, amounting to about US$10bn in import values in 2022. This is further compounded by the value of the country’s petrol subsidies regime, which amount to about US$10bn (N4.4trn) in 2022 and is projected at N3.3trn in the first six months of 2023. While the latest update from the Minister of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed suggested that the June 2023 deadline for the removal of the subsidy is sacrosanct, the market got a sign of relief arising from an expected commissioning of the Dangote Refinery on May 22, 2023. The operation of the Dangote refinery has a number of gains for Nigeria and the rest of Africa. Aliko Dangote estimated that Nigeria would save up to US$10bn in foreign exchange (FX) and generate another US$10bn in exports when the facility begins operation. Analysts expect the onboarding of the refinery to provide leverage for removing the long-over-due subsidy; guarantee the supply of petroleum products and other derivatives (such as Jet A1, Petcoke, Asphalt, etc) for Nigeria and neighbouring countries; boost the growth of associated services and products supply chain partners; and break the monopoly of the NNPCL on product supply. However, domestic refining from the Dangote refinery is not a guarantee for cheap petroleum products nor another round of subsidy regime as the refinery is expected to get feedstocks at the prevailing international price but sell at a cost-reflected price in Naira equivalent. Meanwhile, analysts say the commissioning would not translate immediately to commercial refining and distribution. Howbeit, it signals the readiness of the refinery to begin operations in the third or fourth quarter of the year.