LAGOS – Mallam Adamu Adamu, the Minister of Education in Nigeria, has been urged to constitute an investigative panel to probe the process that will produce a new Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Bida.The call was contained in a petition made available to newsmen by the Great Light Education Foundation and signed by Ibrahim Issah. The foundation faulted the interview process, which it claimed that “One of the interviewed candidates was one Engr. Dr. Baba Aliyu Haruna, who is from the same place as the outgoing Rector. According to the petition, “The outgoing Rector is ethically not qualified to chair the committee for the selection of his successor in the first place, the presence of Mallam Jibril Aliyu Haruna of the social science department of the institution, who happens to be the senior brother to Engr. Baba Aliyu Haruna on the interview panel makes mockery of the neutrality expected of the committee.” The Petition with the title: “Petition for the disqualification of Engr. Dr. Baba Aliyu Haruna for consideration in the appointment of a new rector for the federal polytechnic, Bida Nigeria State” by the Great Light Education Foundation (GLEF) was addressed to the Education Minister, Mallam Adamu Adamu. “We are a globally recognized education sector stakeholder, working to ensure best practices in the management, delivery and financing of education in public tertiary institutions in Nigeria. “In line with our mission, we monitor the governance and leadership recruitment processes in public institutions, because we believe that when the processes that produce the headship of an institution is faulty, such cannot deliver an effective administration that will ensure optimum service delivery to students and generally enhance the quality and performance of our public sector education,” the petition reads. On the issues, the petition states that, “the undersigned, would like to bring your attention to the ongoing issues and emerging problems, including the underground manipulations, involved in the process of the appointment of a new substantive Rector for the Federal Polytechnic, Bida, Niger State.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The issues and concerns are as follows: The Federal Polytechnic, Bida, is in the process of recruiting a new Rector as the tenure of the incumbent Rector, Dr. Abubakar Abdul Dzukogi draws to a close. And in line with Section 8 sub-section 3 of the Federal Polytechnic (Amendment) Act 2019, a committee was constituted to consider, vet and recommend, through the Council of the Polytechnic, three suitably qualified candidates to the President for his consideration. POLL “Following the above, the committee conducted two interview sessions for all shortlisted candidates who applied for the position between Thursday, 23rd March 2023 and Friday, 24th March 2023. One of the interviewed candidates was one Engr. Dr. Baba Aliyu Haruna, who is from the same place as the outgoing Rector. “The fact that Engr. Baba Aliyu Haruna, who happens to be a younger brother of a member of the interview panel, was later declared as having the highest score and placed first among the other candidates speaks volume of the shadiness and the lack of credibility that characterized the entire process. “We note that Mr. Kawu Hassan Abubakar of the Department of Accountancy and a member of the interview panel drew the attention of the outgoing Rector and chairman of the panel, Dr. Abubakar Abdul Dzukogi to the impropriety of having Mallam Jibril Aliyu Haruna of the social science department of the same institution sit as a member of the interview panel that would screen his biological brother; but the Rector waved aside this genuine concern without offering any acceptable rationale or justification; although our findings suggest that the chairman of the interview panel and the outgoing Rector, Dr. Abubakar Abdul Dzukogi is being blackmailed by Engr. Dr. Baba Aliyu Haruna to do his bidding by using some financial documents at his disposal. The petition further states that “As an important stakeholder in the education sector, we believe that transparency and integrity are integral characteristics required of a leader of any self-respecting institution of learning. But considering his antecedents and history, Engr. Dr. Baba Aliyu Haruna does not possess the required decency and discipline to occupy a sensitive position as the Rector of a polytechnic.“It is our conclusion that an unfair process, which characterized the obviously predetermined outcome of the interview panel, cannot deliver an acceptable outcome. “Consequent on the above issues and concerns raised, which have already began to generate anxiety within the institution, we plead with the Honourable Minister to immediately constitute a panel of enquiry to determine the faulty nature or otherwise of the interview upon which the recommendation of the candidates for the Rectorship of Bida Polytechnic was based. “We plead that you use your good office to ensure that the process of appointing the next Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for Bida Polytechnic is devoid of bias and irregularities. As an institution founded on the principles of equity and excellence; the appointment of the Rector must be based solely on merit, character and competence. “To proceed with the appointment of Engr. Dr. Aliyu Baba Haruna, despite the glaring undue advantage conferred on him by the interview panel and his personal baggage as someone lacking in financial integrity and morals; would be to create an avoidable crisis in the Federal Polytechnic, Bida. ” This would not only be a hindrance to your ongoing efforts to reposition education at the tertiary level, it would also dampen the morale of staff members who already are very familiar with the issues surrounding the ongoing process to appoint a new Rector for the Polytechnic.