The Student Community in Delta State has been told to braze up to the task of leadership through constructive engagements and support for successive governments in the State. The State Secretary, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Enekhawore Acrobak, and the Senior Special Assistant to the State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa on Students Affairs, Engr. Jerry Ehiwarior stated this yesterday during the inauguration of the National Executive, National Association of Delta State Students (NADESTU) The duo, in their separate remarks at the event, lauded the roles the student body played during the Eight-year tenure of the outgoing Governor of the State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, urging them to sustain the tempo in the coming administration of Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori. Describing education as a veritable platform for harnessing the leadership traits of any individual, the duo, while saying that Delta Students, have long keyed into that role, particularly during the eight-year tenure of Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, enjoined them to remain focused in their chosen careers. In his remarks, Engr. Jerry Ehiwarior said, “I want to thank you for the wonderful support and loyalty you exhibited during the Eight-year tenure of Senator Ifeanyi Okowa. “By the Special Grace of God, this would be the last engagement we would be having officially with you in this administration. So, we want to appreciate you for your efforts. “It is indeed on record that within these outgoing years, you have been very wonderful and the outgoing Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa is indeed proud of you. “During this period under review, no doubt that there were occasions when some of the government policies were not suitable to you, but based on your continuous support and understanding, you ensured that this administration sailed through POLL “As students, you have always exhibited leadership traits. We must surely appreciate you for everything because, as far as this country is concerned, Delta Students have been rated one of the best student bodies in the country in terms of character. “It is, therefore, my sincere appeal that you extend the same love, solidarity, and support to the incoming administration and, I can assure you that the same support, love, and care that you got during the tenure of Senator Ifeanyi Okowa would be replicated in the coming administration of Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori” Ehiwarior posited.