LAGOS – Professor Itse Sagay, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Chairman Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) has said that the South-East region should restructure ways it uses votes during elections so that it will have better bargaining power for the share of political offices. Reacting to questions during a chat with Daily Independent, concerning agitation for the Senate Presidency, Sagay said that for the sake of equity it should go to the South but raised the concern that the South-East region has always had the habit of putting all its eggs in one basket in politics. Commenting further on why the South should have it, he said, “I agree with that, and in this kind of situation one should not punish any group. Again it is a very complex situation and I will say that the South-East particularly has a bad habit of putting all its eggs in one basket, in politics. Before, it was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), everything was in PDP. This time it was the Labour Party. “They have that bad habit and so when they lose, the loss is total. They should reconsider that situation and restructure the way they use their votes, but apart, you cannot ignore one part of the country because they didn’t vote for you. He added, “It must receive part of the power structure, which comes out of an election. What I say about the South-East particularly is that even though this happens in this question of 100 percent group voting for one candidate in the presidential election. “In the governorship, Senate and House of Representatives elections, there was more of an equitable distribution of seats, so that should qualify the South-East to be entitled to some of the positions of power in the Senate and House of Representatives,” Sagay said. On the expectation of Nigerians ahead of the inauguration, he said, “I believe that Nigerians should be calm. I believe Asiwaju is a fair-minded person. He is a good administrator and knows he has to keep everything on an even plane.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Appointments mustn’t be lopsided in what is being done. The whole country has to be taken along and you can only do that if everybody gets his own fair share of appointments and resources and so on. I believe that he is that kind of person from the way he ran Lagos State for eight years. POLL “I believe that he will bring that experience and approach to his governance of Nigeria. It is going to be fair and make everybody feel included as part of this country,” Sagay added.