Masterpiece Resource Development Centre (MRDC), a faith-based organization that is committed to developing African youth in business and entrepreneurship, on Thursday held a seminar tagged “Repositioning your business for growth in 2023. According to the Executive Director of the centre, Uche Nwosu, the purpose of the seminar was to give entrepreneurs and business people a heads-up on the shift in the political and economic climate and prepare them on how to reposition their businesses in view of the impact of the planned fuel subsidy removal. Speakers at the event were Mr Chidi Okoro, Managing Partner at West Africa Alta Semper Capital UP Nigeria; Mr Wale Oyerinde, Director-General, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association; and Angela Ajala, National Coordinator, Association of Women Business Network. He said that the expected audience would be entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs. Speaking on what the attendees will take away from the seminar, he said that they will gain strategies to adopt, statistics to work with, links to leverage on, access to coaches and knowledge to boost their businesses. The Executive Director of the centre advised business people and entrepreneurs to be more efficient with cost administration and more expansive in income diversification. Nigerian Business Environment: the environment is evolving, and has become more dynamic with the use of artificial intelligence and other Internet of Things. However, he called on the government to be objective in the regulation of the national economy. He stressed the need for the government to be sincere in its administration of TSA in order to mop up funds for business support and expansion of the economy. POLL On what should be done to increase the success rate of SMEs in the country, he said the government should be transparent in use of funds and cut down on unnecessary spending. He argued that the government should engage in realistic economic policies, adding that this will ignite good foreign direct investment in the economy. Nwosu, called on the government to fight insecurity and build road infrastructure to support the agricultural sector and its full supply chain. He advocated the closure of knowledge gaps in the economy for effective business growth through support of institutions and non-governmental organizations like MRDC that have their cores in helping businesses to grow and thrive. He called on the government to stop multiple-taxation on micro businesses so that they will have more funds to invest in their operations. The Executive Director of the centre advised young entrepreneurs to keep a high positive mental attitude, keep learning helpful skills, be moderate in spending, seek help, and stay humble.