The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), has called on all groups that are pursuing violent campaigns against the Nigerian state to drop their weapons and toe the path of peaceful negotiation. The Islamic human rights group said this while condemning the killing of US embassy staff in Ogbaru, Anambra, on Tuesday . MURIC ‘s  Executive Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola described the gruesome killings as a breach of diplomatic etiquette adding that “It is not in the African character, least of all Nigerian, to engage in hostile acts against our benefactors. That is why this attack must be condemned by all right-thinking Nigerians, and it stands so strongly condemned.” It expressed concern that the deceased who were on a mission for a U.S-funded flood response project in Anambra could be killed in the most cruel manner. “We are deeply pained by news of an attack on a convoy of the United States Embassy. The killing of some of its staff is cowardly, inhuman and insensitive. This criminal act breaches diplomatic etiquette and violates all norms of human relations. It is callous and unacceptable. We strongly condemn it. “The United States is a friendly nation and its citizens and government have done a lot to assist Nigeria and its citizens. No nation in the world offers humanitarian services, educational and job opportunities to outsiders like the US. American citizens and staff of its embassy do not deserve any act of aggression from Nigerians. This is why this killing of US staff stands logic on its head. “MURIC condoles the American ambassador to Nigeria, all staff of the US embassy, the US government and the good people of America over this unfortunate incident. We are deeply saddened. Our hearts are with you at this moment. We grief with the families of the fallen and we pray that Almighty Allah will give them the fortitude to bear the loss.                                                                                           “In like manner, we commiserate with the Inspector General of Police for the loss of two policemen in the gruesome killing. Policemen are human beings like all others. We mourn their death. “As an Islamic human rights organization whose motto is ‘Dialogue, No Violence’, MURIC remains committed to a pacific prosecution of all issues without resorting to violence. We therefore call on all groups that are pursuing violent campaigns against the Nigerian state to drop their weapons and toe the path of peaceful negotiation.” the statement said