i Prof. Itse Sagay, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and chairman Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU speaks about the 2023 general elections, why Nigerians should be hopeful about Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s government, among other issues. Excerpts: I want to know your thoughts about the 2023 general elections? It is the election which mostly interpreted the true wishes of Nigerians, in my recollection. The most accurate expression of the wishes of Nigerians. Some people may want to disagree with you, they believe it is the most controversial election in the history of Nigeria…… No, I still believe that it is the best election we have had so far. Now that the president-elect is back in the country in readiness for his inauguration on May 29, what do you think should be his immediate action plan as regards the challenges in the country? I think that insecurity is the first issue he should tackle. The country is very unsafe now as we all know. You cannot travel by road and it has reached a stage where you cannot travel by rail. Large part of the country is out of the reach of the ordinary Nigerian. It is as if we are banned from going through them and of course it affects farming because farmers cannot farm anymore. So many factors are affected. It is affecting the economy. It is affecting food security in the country, and also the psychological feeling of insecurity. So, that is the first major issue he should tackle. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Some people are of the view that the last election has greatly divided Nigeria across ethnic and religious lines, and also looking at the inauguration committee of the president-elect, a region of the country is excluded in that list. The idea according to some people should have been to assure Nigerians that he wouldn’t be the president of only those that elected him but president of all Nigerians. Can you react to that? POLL I haven’t seen that committee list, I must confess, but I would have expected that it should be representative of the country. I don’t know why any group should be excluded? The President asked Nigerians for forgiveness, some people are of the view that his sins are unforgivable because of his actions and inactions. They say that lives were lost, some people were maimed while others have been emotionally tortured. Can you react to that? I think that Nigerians tend to be emotional on every issue. The whole idea of forgive me, should not be taken in a grievous position as if someone has done something wrong to you and he wants you to forgive him, that is not the spirit. The spirit is, “I might have taken decisions which displeased you, even though I believed it was the best, but do not take it personally, take it as that of a person who is in a position of authority and had to take a decision one way or the other, and this was what I thought was the best, don’t feel offended. It was not personal, and that is the way I see it. But the whole thing has turned into a sinner and righteous position and I think that was emotionally received and at times we should not turn everything into politics or try to hit back at somebody. We are too quick to do that. The president said that the opposition lost the election because it was over confident, and the APC even though it was confident was cautious, but the opposition in its reaction said that what really happened was that INEC compromised and worked in favour of the APC, what are your thoughts? I don’t agree with that response. INEC didn’t work in favour of the APC. As many analysts have shown when you have a situation where you have four main parties running in an election and three of those parties were from the same source, Kwankwaso, Atiku, Obi were all from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). They split themselves into three, and they expect everything to remain the same. The outcome would have been obvious. If you look at the election, it is amazing. The fact that Tinubu was defeated in Lagos State, that alone should have convinced anyone that the election was genuine. It also showed that the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) did its work very correctly. Peter Obi was a new person in terms of appearing at that level. The Labour Party had never made any impact, but suddenly like a hurricane, winning so many votes everywhere, Nasarawa, Lagos, even where it didn’t win, it had votes until it started crippling in the North, the impact of his hurricane movement started diminishing. It looks so natural in this last election, everything about it was natural. I have no doubt in my mind that was the true reflection of what Nigerians wanted at that point in time. There is also this concern as to whether Tinubu will be magnanimous with victory and if it won’t be a case of 95 percent of the people who voted for me are the ones that I will take care of, like the case of President Muhammadu Buhari, and that takes us to the issue of the Senate Presidency, there is this speculation that it might be zoned to the North. Some people are saying that for the sake of equity the South should have it, what are your thoughts? I agree with that, and in this kind of situation one should not punish any group. Again it is a very complex situation and I will say that the South East particularly has a bad habit of putting all its eggs in one basket, in politics. Before, it was the PDP, everything was in the PDP. This time it was the Labour Party. They have that bad habit and so when they lose, the loss is total. They should reconsider that situation and restructure the way they use their votes, but that apart, you cannot ignore one part of the country because they didn’t vote for you. It must receive part of the power structure, which comes out of an election. What I say about the South-East particularly is that even though this happens in this question of 100 percent group voting for one candidate, it actually happened in the presidential election. In the governorship, Senate and House of Representatives elections, there was more of an equitable distribution of seats, so that should qualify the South East to be entitled to some of the positions of power in the Senate and House of Representatives. Some people disagreed with Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture for accusing Peter Obi of treasonable offence because he did not caution his running mate, Datti Baba Ahmed, over comment that swearing in the president-elect will destroy Nigeria democracy, some people disagreed with him on the grounds that Datti Baba-Ahmed is an adult and should be responsible for his action, what is your view? Peter Obi was not the one who made the statement and you cannot punish him for what someone else has said. The law is very clear on that, the man who made the statement should be responsible for the consequences and not Peter Obi. It was a political statement and not a legal statement at all. What do you think is the implication of the invitation given to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu by the Ukrainian President, Volodymyi Zelenskyy to come to Ukraine on a state visit after his inauguration? For me it implies that the government of Ukraine wants to have as many friends as possible. That is the right direction to go because Russia is a Pariah because it just woke up one morning and committed the highest level of crime in international law, the crime of aggression for which people were hanged after Hitler’s war. I support our association with Ukraine, to show solidarity with Ukraine and to show that we believe in the rule of law and the correct obedience to international law. So, I would want Asiwaju to accept that invitation. As Nigerians look forward to the inauguration of a new government on May 29, what is your advice to them, because there are concerns about whether Tinubu will continue with the style of Buhari where everything was taken to one section of the country? I believe that Nigerians should be calm. I believe Asiwaju is a fair minded person. He is a good administrator and he knows how to keep everything on an even plane. It must not be lopsided in what is being done. The whole country has to be taken along and you can only do that if everybody gets his own fair share of appointments and resources and so on. I believe that he is that kind of person from the way he ran Lagos State for eight years. I believe that he will bring that experience and approach to his governance of Nigeria. It is going to be fair and make everybody feel included as part of this country. So, nobody should be apprehensive. I think we have happy days ahead.