ABUJA – The Sokoto Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Tuesday, launched Zero Tolerance and Integrity Clubs at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University and the Usmanu Danfodiyo Memorial Secondary School, both in Sokoto. Wilson Uwujaren, the Commission’s Spokesperson in a statement on Wednesday disclosed that the Zero Tolerance Club was launched at the University while the Integrity Club was launched at the Secondary School. Speaking at the event, Executive Chairman of the EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa who was represented by the Sokoto Commander of the EFCC, an Assistant Commander of EFCC, ACE I Aliyu Yunusa, stressed the need for students to join and actively run the Clubs to curtail corrupt practices in their environments. According to Bawa, “The anti-corruption fight cannot be won by the EFCC alone hence the need for rigorous engagement between the EFCC and its publics, especially children and youths at various educational levels. He explained that youths have the keener perception to notice and report cases of corruption in schools, hospitals and other institutions.” He charged the youth to “own the fight, use your voices positively and be anti-corruption vanguards, shunning examination malpractices, cybercrime, seeing something and saying something to the Commission while desisting from all economic and financial crimes”. Also speaking at the event, Head Enlightenment and Reorientation of the EFCC, Assistant Commander of EFCC, ACE II Aisha Mohammed encouraged students to stand for integrity at all times. She stressed that the EFCC, knowing the importance of students and youths in society, has made it a duty to mobilise them in its crusade against graft. POLL‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ She reminded the students that Nigeria is their only country and all hands must be on deck to salvage it. “Outsiders cannot build our nation for us. We must stand up and stand out for accountable attitudes at all times”, she said. Earlier in his welcome address, Dean Student Affairs, Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Prof. Aliyu Umar who stood in for the Vice Chancellor of the University admonished all undergraduates to eschew the get-rich-quick syndrome bedeviling youths of the country. “Wealth does not equate integrity and status in the society, as no human is buried with what he or she has acquired”, he said. In her own welcome address, the Principal of Usmanu Danfodiyo Memorial Secondary School, Mrs. Fatima Abubakar welcomed the idea by the EFCC to establish Integrity Clubs at primary and secondary school levels ” as this provides a rare opportunity of engaging the young ones at their most formative years”