LAGOS  – Stakeholders in science education have advocated constructive efforts to make Science, Technology, Engineering Arts and Mathematics (STEAM) education a wholistic, interdisciplinary approach to the progress of society and mankind. This was the consensus reached during the 11th Biennial Conference organised by the School of Science Education, Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, held at the college’s Christopher Popoola Hall. The keynote speaker, Professor Abiodun Ogunkanmi, Head of Cell Biology and Genetics, University of Lagos (UNILAG), in a paper titled: “STEAM Education for Sustainable Economic, Technological and Environmental Advancement” said the absence of the Arts in STEM education connoted the absence of creativity because what it brings to the programme was felt in industries as others; Science, Technology, Engineering and Technology cannot exist in a vacuum for desired development. According to him, STEAM gives teachers the tools to employ project-based learning that would encourage students and children to form collaborative methods and understandings of the five fields of learning. He said the absence of creativity that the Arts bring to the programme was felt in industries, saying that as essential as STEM subjects are, they cannot exist in a vacuum as they affected other fields of human endeavour. Speaking on the benefits of STEAM education, Prof. Ogunkanmi said it can help prepare students for careers in fields that are critical to the development of a sustainable economy, such as renewable energy, green building and sustainable agriculture. “STEAM education can help create a pipeline of skilled workers who can contribute to the development of a sustainable economy. It can help foster an entrepreneurial mindset, which is essential for developing new, sustainable businesses and technologies. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Using STEAM uses both sides of the brain and rather than forming a barrier between the two as was done in traditional education, it aims to bring out the artist within the engineer, the mathematician inside the musician, and the scientist within the designer. POLL “In terms of economic growth, STEAM education for sustainability prepares learners to be innovators and entrepreneurs who can create sustainable business products. They learn to leverage technology to address social and environmental issues to the development of new marketing opportunities,” he added. Provost of the College, Dr. Wahab Azeez, charged researchers within the college to proffer solutions to the issue of waste disposal facing the institution and save it from the rising cost of waste management. Earlier, the Dean of the School of Science Education, Dr. Daniel Akintunde, acknowledged the pace of STEAM education as a vital part of any growing economy, saying it has improved the educational system and effectively curbs unemployment among graduates.