Comrade Ayoyinka Oni, is the African Action Congress (AAC) Chairman in Lagos State. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the state of his party since after the general elections and what it is doing to keep the flag flying, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: As an AAC was it a surprise to you that the party did not win the election at any level? 2023 is the second time the African Action Congress (AAC) is participating in the general elections. The first time was in 2019. 2023 could have been the year we would have won some positions, especially in states like Rivers, Lagos, Benue, and some other Northern states. But the ruling elites intentionally made the elections a religious and tribal war, together with the massive rigging and vote buying, which AAC would not get involved in. So, definitely, no surprises on the results from a fiasco called elections. When Nigeria finally have a proper elections, we will surely win. The February and March elections were more like a war against the citizens by political jobbers, security agencies, thugs, INEC and the ruling class. It was not an election. The AAC is supposed to be a mass-oriented party with revolutionary flavour. Would you say that its message and agenda did not sink down on the masses or that they did not just like a revolutionary change of the nation or was it a case of rejecting the message and the messenger? Nigerians are not ready for revolution, not because they do not understand the need for it, but because few are ready to do the hard work of getting a revolution through the polls or through the barricade. And the reason they are not ready is because of the oppressing ruling class. They continue to make the people poor and hungry. Imagine, we are in a country of 133 million people in extreme poverty. How can they choose the right leaders? They see deaths, insecurity, police brutality, poor healthcare, failed infrastructure development and others around them. So, telling them they need to do more than believe in the revolutionary messages, but also work to achieve it, sounds like an impossible task. So, they will rather turn to religion, culture, tribe and their oppressors for peanuts. It is a wrong survival instinct, it is that of a fish going for the food on the bait, he will catch the food, but will finally be caught and consumed. So, our messages were not rejected, neither were we rejected on the street and in all the places we went to campaign. They all agree we have the best message and best attitude. But, the period between their homes and the polling units on the day of elections, they still make the terrible decisions which are further enforced by threats, vote buying, violence, religious and tribal politics. This goes down to the fact that Nigerians need to rise up and take over the system by pulling this particular one down, because there is no way they will be able to vote for revolutionary changes without first fighting to get a revolutionary process at the polls. The Labour Party (LP), with all positive opinion polls that placed it and its flagbearer, Peter Obi, on top, was placed third in the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC’s) calculation. Would you say that the results of the opinion polls and the massive followership of the Obi-Datti Movement precipitated a political gang up against that presidential ticket by the ruling party and the ruling class? There is nothing truly special about online opinion polls. They are well packaged and paid for. I will not join in comparing the actions of the Labour Party and the All Progressives Congress (APC). The candidates of the two political parties were both cooked and prepared by the oppressing ruling elites and surely, one of them would win. The richest and the best election manipulator won. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ How do you see the current hullabaloo over purported calls for an Interim Government? Do you see such alleged calls as real or meant to whip up sentiments for the announced winner of the presidential election? POLL Interim Government is not needed in any way. Nigeria can run without a president. As we know, the president does not carry out all the duties needed to run a country. He mostly gives direction, signs some documents and few other duties. The people that do the real work are employed by the government and they do not all leave when a president tenure is over. So, because we had terrible elections and Nigerians are saying ‘no’, does not mean we should rush swearing in for the fear of the Interim Government. The oppressive ruling elites are the one singing the song of Interim Government to scare Nigerians so they can give a go for the swearing in. They also already have oppressors they are ready to install as interim leaders, if they want to. So, they can continue their oppression. Nigerians have a terrible experience of Ernest Shonekan who Abacha took over from. So, the Interim Government is what Nigerians dread because they believe it may usher in the military. Nigerians should build their own struggle and stop allowing the oppressive ruling class state the next phase the country would follow. Going by antecedents, could you attempt to predict the way the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal and the Supreme Court may go in their decisions on the 2023 presidential election? Judges are not popular. So, most Nigerians do not know their antecedents. I also did not bother to research these Judges. But, our judicial system is currently a mess, if not, many of the people that contested elections from presidential to the House of Assembly level would not even be on the ballot in the first place. No Nigeria politician has been properly punished by the judicial system for all their massive corruption. So, it would be the wrong advice to hope on the tribunal. No presidential election has been determined by the court since 1999. So, l would not predict who would win. But, if the tribunal wants to help us, they should disqualify all candidates that rigged elections by vote buying, adding figures, buying INEC officials and security operatives, snatching ballot boxes. Whoever is left out of the 18 contestants that have the highest number of votes and were not involved in any of those vices can be declared the winner. But, giving us either Peter Obi, Atiku or Tinubu, is just telling us that we must choose one of our oppressors. There is no victory for the people, from such tribunal. What is your view on the way the governorship election in Lagos was conducted and the sentiments that were whipped up against certain ethnic group? Lagos governorship election was not an election, but a tribal war. Igbos and anyone that looks like them were prevented from voting. People were beaten, robbed and attacked at their polling units. The police failed, the government failed, IPAC failed and INEC failed. The INEC Commissioner in Lagos, Mr. Segun Agbaje, should be ashamed of himself. Going by what transpired during the elections, do you think that in a free and fair contest, Lagos can experience a true change of baton to another party? Lagos is already ripe for the taking. The greatest challenge is the thugs used by the ruling class. Once we have a revolution that overcomes that, even thugs would hide their faces. The thugs and cult boys used by the ruling class know they would be protected when they are caught. That is why they are so bold to carry out the ballot snatching, attacks and voters’ suppression. But, the revolution is coming soonest and it would hit everyone, and no one would dare try such when we conduct an election after the revolution. The ruling class has no true power, they just use the people, but once the people realise they have the true power, the sky is the starting point. Lagos would be free from the 23 years of slavery by the ruling class What is your message to the truly masses oriented and revolutionary parties and politicians in the country such as AAC and Omoyele Sowore? The message is simple. Revolutionaries should join forces and work more together to liberate Nigeria. We all need each other. How do you see the horse trading going on over the leadership of the National Assembly? It is a joke. Nothing good is going to come from this 10th National Assembly. Corrupt men are parading themselves to be the Senate President. Nigerians should get ready for another few years of drama and confusion. I have no comment about those that found themselves in the Senate. No character or anybody with real vision there to be discussed about. Do Lawan, Sabi, Kalu, Akpabio, Barau and all the others that are eyeing the senate presidency look like people that have any unique vision for a better Nigeria? All these men are just political jobbers. Without politics they cannot survive. Many of them have corruption cases, the title of ‘Senator’ and the corrupt system we have is what is saving them from prison. No Nigeria should expect anything special from the 10th Senate. What manner of cabinet do you think the president-elect will have? It is not going to be too different from Buhari’s cabinet. This time more people from the South would be in control. Same capitalist, neo liberal, IMF-controlled ministers, nothing special. Just like the one he had in Lagos when he was governor. Nigerians should prepare to resist every anti-people’s politics.