The former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Olabode George, has explained the condition that would make him congratulate the President-elect, Bola Tinubu. A report published by Vanguard said George, a longstanding political adversary of Tinubu, spoke at a peace meeting organised by some senior Lagos State indigenes to broker peace between the two men. The elders appealed for his support and collaboration with the former Lagos State governor as he assumes office on May 29. Recall that George had overtime being a critic of the President-elect and in fact, threatened exile should Tinubu win the election and is sworn in as president of the country. Speaking at the meeting, George said, “They made a request which we are all looking at. They requested that someday we should also congratulate Asiwaju and we said yes, but that I belong to a political party. They are all in the courts now. “Let us finish the court cases. Whichever way that goes, the issue of congratulating him or not will come to fruition. I have nothing personal and nothing happens without the almighty God. As a believer, that is my school of thought. He stressed, “Let me say there are no political differences between Tinubu and I. Justice Olorunnimbe is like a father, we respect our fathers in Lagos. “When I got an invitation from Papa Olusi that he wanted to come and see me the first time, I told my friend who delivered the message that I should go and visit him and not the other way round. But Papa Olusi said he had to come and see and that it had to do with the situation in Lagos. POLL “This is the second time Papa Olusi is visiting. We had detailed discussions that bothered the unity of Lagos. I must say we re-established the fact that the culture of Lagos is to accept and accommodate other tribes.” Reacting on working together with Tinubu, George said a divided house will be a defeated house, I have explained to Baba Olusi that there is no problem with working together. “The kind of platform we are trying to have is for a unity of purpose in Lagos State, irrespective of party affiliations. “On the bottom line, you are a Lagosian though we can have different political affiliations. George cleared that he had had no battle with Tinubu, adding, “We have no battle, nothing personal between him and I.” “What had happened has gone, vengeance is not mine but the almighty God. We will have differences, we will disagree but we must not be disagreeable. “This union and discussion we have had is a positive step towards a new Lagos,” he maintained. The meeting which continued till Saturday was graced by the leader of the Governance Advisory Council, GAC, the apex leadership of the party in Lagos State, Prince Tajudeen Olusi; the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire; former Deputy Governors of Lagos State, Senator Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele and Prince Abiodun Ogunleye. Others present are former acting Secretary of the PDP, Chief Remi Akitoye; former Minister of Communications, Major General Tajudeen Olarenwaju (retd); Chief Gbadebo Dallas and Mrs Onikepo Oshodi.