CFAO Motors, a distributor of mobility products and services in Nigeria, has been appointed as the official distributor of Toyota vehicles in Nigeria with immediate effect. This appointment positions CFAO Motors as the second official distributor of Toyota vehicles in the country, and reinforces the company’s commitment to providing high-quality mobility solutions to its customers, a statement from the automobile company said. Toyota is a globally recognised brand, known for its durable, reliable, and high-performance vehicles. With CFAO Motors now officially appointed as a distributor of Toyota vehicles in Nigeria, the automobile company said customers can expect to have access to a wide range of Toyota cars, pick-up, and Sports Utility Vehicles (SUVs) that would cater for their transportation needs and after-sales service. The appointment of CFAO Motors as an official Toyota distributor in Nigeria, the company said is a testament to its long-standing reputation for excellence and commitment to customer satisfaction. The statement expressed the delight of the company over the new deal, stresses its readiness to provide Nigerians with access to Toyota vehicles that meet their expectations in terms of quality, durability, and affordability. Boye Ajayi, the Business Head of Toyota by CFAO Nigeria said: “We are proud to be appointed as an official distributor of Toyota vehicles in Nigeria. This partnership with Toyota is a testament to our commitment to providing Nigerians with world-class mobility solutions that meet their needs and expectations.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The CFAO Group boasts the largest automotive distribution network on the continent and is a key distributor of Toyota in 37 countries. POLL As a subsidiary of Toyota Tsusho Corporation, CFAO is the corporation’s African division and platform for business development on the continent. Together, CFAO and TTC leverage their synergistic culture and long-term outlook to tackle new challenges in Africa. After 120 years of operation in Nigeria, CFAO Nigeria is thrilled to introduce Toyota by CFAO. This new appointment is sure to bring excitement and opportunities for growth to the automobile industry in Nigeria. For more information on CFAO Nigeria and Toyota’s range of vehicles and services, please visit www.toyotabycfao.ng