From November 18, 2018, I wrote a series of over four articles on the Idea of the University – with close attention to the Western Delta University, Oghara. I espoused the origin of the Academic Gown or regalia or toge (toga) in French, with the hood plus its distinctive square cap or bonnet, the difference between a university and acollege, and what the university evolved to achieve. I interrogated the university’s place in society and whether it is meeting its agreed prospects in Nigeria. I pried open the dusty blankets of time to find the earliest universities, trace the growth of this crest of learning, etc, always us­ing the Western Delta University, Ogha­ra, as a reference point. I traced WDU’s history; how it got registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission in 2005 by the Urhobo Advancement Foundation (UAF) and obtained the National Universities Commission’s nod to site it at Oghara. It is the first private university in Urho­bo land dreamed up by some Urhobo academics and nationalists just as the Urhobo Progressive Union had started the Urhobo College, Effurun, near Warri, in 1946 when that year the government relocated Warri College to Ughelli to become Government College. From day one – and up till today, former Delta state governor, His Excellency, Chief James Onanefe Ibori, has remained its driving force, its facilitator. Talking about healthy rivalry, a few Itsekiri people also founded the Hussey College, Warri, in 1947, a year after Urho­bo College was birthed, naming it after Eric Robert James Hussey, the first Brit­ish Director of Education in Nigeria who actually competed in the 1908 Olympics Games. Now, you know where the Hus­sey of the Hussey Shield (for boys) and the Lady Manuwa Cup (for girls) compe­tition for secondary schools in Nigeria in the 1970s came from. The Edo people had before then utilized their timber money to start Edo College in 1937 and nearby ethnic groups felt challenged. Thus, a “universitas magistrorum et scholarium”, i.e., community of teach­ers and scholars, berthed at Oghara. The Latin phrase was coined by the Italian University of Bologna, which claims to be the first university in the world (founded 1088 AD). Although, many medieval universities originated from the Christian cathedral schools or mo­nastic schools, which appeared as ear­ly as the 6th century and were run for hundreds of years as such before their formal establishment as universities in the high medieval period, Africa hosted the world’s first university according to the UNESCO and Guinness Book of Records; UNIVERSITY OF AL-QARAWIY­YIN, which incepted in 859 AD. Located in Fes, Morocco. It is the oldest existing, continually operating and the first de­gree awarding educational institution in the world. Though universities are set up in pur­suit of knowledge, they tend to seek to define their raison d’être through their mottos. For instance, Bologna claims: “Petrus ubique pater legum Bononia mater”, Latin for “St. Peter is every­where the father of the law, Bologna is its mother.” For the first university in the UK, Ox­ford (1096 AD), it’s Dominus illuminatio mea, Latin for “The Lord is my Light” – the opening words of Psalm 27. UK’s second university, Cambridge (1209); Hinc lucem et pocula sacra, Latin for “From here, light and sacred draughts”. In what in academia is called “the other Cambridge”, in Massachusetts, USA, the first US University, Harvard (1636), it is just one word,‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ POLL “Veritas”, Latin for “Truth”. St. Andrew’s (Scotland) “Ever to Excel”, Friendship University, Russia; “Let Us be United by Knowledge” – Soviet Union founded the University 1960 during the Cold War with the stated objective to help developing nations and advance the cause of Socialism. The controversy concerning the first university in the world rages on just like the case in the US and even Ni­geria. The University of Ibadan (motto: “Recte Sapere Fons” (To think straight is the fount of knowledge) and University of Nigeria, Nsukka (motto: To Restore The Dignity of Man) claim the position. UI came when Yaba College was in 1948 transferred to Ibadan to become a Uni­versity College of Ibadan, under London University and became independent in 1962. UNN opened shop on October 7th 1960 basking under the euphoria of Nigeria’s political independence as a non-colonial university. With UNN, Lat­in mottos ceased to exist: “For Learning and Culture” – Ife (established 1961), “In Deed and In Truth”- University of La­gos. Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, perhaps Africa’s largest, and founded on October 4th, 1962; motto: “The first duty of every university is the search for and the spread of knowledge and the establishment of the nation”. It must rank among the most verbose globally. WDU’s motto: “Knowledge for Human Advancement.” Every great uni­versity has something unique. Harvard offers its library of 18 million volumes the highest. Oxford’s 12 million volumes look puny beside Harvard’s but it claims to be more digitalised. UNN in the ear­ly 1980s aimed at having the biggest library in Africa and Prof Frank Ndili embarked on the ten-storey building project that was only completed a few years ago. WDU’s unique offering is that it has started a Niger Delta Studies pro­gramme. If that is diligently pursued, it will one day become the global leader in matters concerning the Niger Delta; the largest in Africa, covering 19, 135 square kilometres. The initial driving force behind WDU were UAF members such as His eminence, Late Godfrey Mene Otubu of Oghara, whose vision is now being pursued by Mr. Dere Otubu, an Indus­trialist who has agreed to serve as the promoter. Prof. David T. Okpako of the University of Ibadan and a fellow of the Academy of Science began preparing the Academic Briefs to be submitted to the NUC, in May, 2004. Chief James Erhuero, JP, an engineer and former secretary of the Delta State government headed the Physical Projects and Allied Matters Committee. Now WDU’s main supporter is Chief James Onanefe Ibori. He is the WDU Visitor, and his colleague (1999 to 2007), Akwa-Ibom State governor, Obong Victor Attah, was installed as the Chancellor in 2018. It could mean that when Ibori said that he would spend the rest of his life giving back to humanity, and lifting up the African world, helping WDU grow, could be one of the ways he had in mind. And in the series of articles I wrote in 2018, I focused on endowment of funds to universities as the only way to keep them alive. So, may we please revisit what took place at the Western Delta University (WDU), Oghara, on this year’s 29th of April. It was more than just an or­dinary 15th Founders’ Day celebration. Obviously, that day a deep infusion of fresh air went into WDU’s lungs. But if we fail to learn the survival lessons that event held for other Nigerian universi­ties – both private and public- then the Nigerian university system will never recover from the chasm it has already fallen into. As Founders’ Days usually go, emi­nent personalities who have contributed to WDU’s growth received awards. Those personalities included Their Excellences Dr. Olukayode Fayemi, former two-time Governor of Ekiti State who also served as Minister of Solid Mineral Resources and Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan, for­mer governor of Delta State, Peter Obi, former Anambra state Governor, three giants of Nigerian academia, Emeritus Professor Andrew Onokeroraye, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Be­nin and the pioneer Pro-Chancellor of WDU; the pioneer Vice Chancellor of the WDU, Prof. Peter Hugbo; Prof. G. G Darah, former Chief of Staff to Chief James Onanefe Ibori, the fire-eating activist from the University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University, Chief Dere Otubu, Chief Dr. Williams Makinde, former Managing Di­rector of Delta State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (DESOPA­DEC ); Deacon Moses Ogbe, former INEC Resident Commissioner to Lagos State; and Engr. Chief Greg Ighere of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). One of the real lessons of that day was in the glittering constellation of persons which the WDU’s moving spirit, Ibori, was able to attract to WDU. Their differing backgrounds (consider Peter Obi, the Labour Party presiden­tial candidate, Fayemi the All Progres­sives Congress chieftain) of those who answered a call from Ibori, a Peoples Democratic Party pillar since 1998, is a reminder that the university is not just apolitical but a place of study. Added gleam came from Publisher of This Day Newspapers and Promoter of Arise Television, Prince Nduka Obaigbena, Publisher of Ovation Magazine, Chief Dele Momodu, the General Overseer of Mercy Land Church, Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin, traditional rulers and other no­table personalities. Now, we have to get into the kernel of a university’s survival; endowment. The ordinary tuition fees from students is hardly enough for any university to survive on, if a university has to attract the best Professors from the ends of the earth and engage in research as academ­ic activities of a university goes beyond mere teaching and grading the students’ examination scripts. That is where the personalities who graced the 15th WDU Founders’ Day cer­emony made a difference. Never to be forgotten is that immense endowment, a real benefaction, from Prince Nduka Obaigbena of a grant of all of One Bil­lion Naira to Western Delta University, “to encourage the institution in its quest to build a first rate institution committed to the pursuit of excellence in all areas of academic learning, technological de­velopment and social service”. Obaigbe­na, described Ibori as a long-time friend and a people-oriented leader who is ever ready to sacrifice for the development of his people. The Arise Television pro­moter who gave Chief Ibori an all-round eulogy also commended him for his large heart and great vision for establishing the university, remarking that running a university is money-intensive and the promoters do it virtually for develop­ment purpose and not really for profit. He said he is at the 15th father’s day celebration of the Western Delta Univer­sity, to rejoice and encourage a friend who is giving back to society what it needed to grow. Ibori had introduced Peter Obi as his younger brother, who was invited to impact his knowledge to WDU students in view of his abundant talent and crave for human resources de­velopment. In a brief remark, Obi, whose presence threw the university into a fren­zy of loud ovation and a momentarily uncontrolled, even rowdy, movement guests but mostly the students as peo­ple milled around him, trying to touch him, acknowledged Ibori’s reference to him as a junior brother and promised to contribute to the overall development of the Western Delta University. He and Dr. Kayode Fayemi accept­ed Ibori’s invitation to become visiting lecturers at WDU. While Dr. Fayemi will lecture on Governance and Policy Implementation, Obi will impact his ex­cellent knowledge of entrepreneurship into the students. Others who donated to the Western Delta University are: Senator Chief Ig­hoyota Amori, N250,000, Prophet Jeremi­ah Fufeyin, N5m, Chief Greg Ighere, an unspecified amount, Chief Williams Ma­kinde, unspecified amount, His Excel­lency Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan and his family, an unspecified amount, amongst others. Yes, there is this unspec­ified amount, too; Dr. Kayode Fayemi who delivered the day’s lecture; Sub-Na­tional Governance; The Ekiti Example, announced he would build a School of Policy Implementation at WDU. Endowments built the great univer­sities of the world. With the endowed funds, Nigerian universities should begin to invest in profitable ventures. Harvard has the largest university en­dowment in the world, valued at about $50.9 billion as of 2022 – thanks to the endowments but more thanks to the shrewd investments made by the Har­vard Corporation.