The Lagos State Taskforce has made do its promise to maintain and sustain a serene, habitable environment, free from security incidents and occurrences through the demolition of shanties along Lekki Coastal Road and its environs, mapped out by the State Government to serve as an alternate route to motorists along that axis when completed. The demolition exercise led by the Chairman of the Agency, CSP Shola Jejeloye took place after an eviction notice was served to the illegal occupants who had constructed makeshift buildings, some under the high tension cables running through the area. CSP Jejeloye pointed out that the shanties not only constitute health and safety risks to residents in the area but serves as a haven for criminals who make use of such locations as hideouts. “This is the third major enforcement we are carrying out in this very location as we were here two years ago and even last year. Some of the kiosks are built under the high tension cable which is very dangerous” The Chairman also disclosed that the shanties which were built with wood caught fire some weeks ago, leading to the partial burning of a building across the fence where the shanties are located. “It would have been a more serious incident if not for the quick intervention of the Lagos State Fire Service that put out the fire which started off from the shanties. Gross disregard for safety precautions would always give room unsafe conditions, that is why we have come to put an end to it today”. Jejeloye said. The Chairman assured Lagosians and residents of Lekki Coastal axis to be rest assured that the shanties will not be allowed to spring up again, promising that he would station men from the Agency to monitor the axis forthwith.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ CSP Jejeloye further appealed to residents and CDAs of the area to collaborate with each other and come up with sustainable plans like employing private security men to monitor the axis in order to prevent any umscrupulous individuals erecting such makeshift structures. POLL He promised that the Agency will not rest on its oars till criminality is stamped out and the Environment is free from activities that could lead to the loss of lives and property.