LAGOS – Folahan Omotileolawa is the Chief Executive Officer of Verified Creative House, a marketing and branding company that has been in the forefront of promoting entrepreneurship and business in the Agege area of Lagos State. He is also the organiser of Agege Trade Fair, an annual event that brings entrepreneurs, businesses, traders, artisans and others to showcase their services and products and potential. He told Daily Independent that business activities have been difficult for entrepreneurs and others in the first five months of the year because of the hostile environment in which they operate. He emphasised that the business environment has been tough and harsh, adding that the recent elections in the country created an atmosphere of uncertainty and fear, leading many businesses to scale down their operations and activities. Omotileolawa posited that, “The new naira policy and the cash that followed it affected business owners and event organizers like us and we are still reeling from the effects from the aftermath of the policy.” He disclosed that many business owners suffered because they could not access cash to carry operations. “It was so bad that we were unable to find N1000 to do simple things like buying everyday needs like transport fares and others. We even found it difficult to find money to feed,” he stated. He added, “What I am trying to say is that the election process started like in January, a whole lot of big companies stopped sponsoring events and many people were hoarding their cash because you don’t know what was going to happen next in the Nigerian economy.” POLL Speaking on the strategy he used to survive the volatile election period and cash crunch, Omotileolawa said: “I had to make sure before I spent any money on anything, I had to calculate and made sure that it was necessary and essential; I had to cut down my expenses and I did not just go out any how except when I have appointments that had to do with the business. I even had to cut down my daily meals. I had to plan all expenses and stopped impromptu buying.” The Chief Executive Officer of Verified Creative House advised business owners in the country to learn to manage their resources, cut down on their cost pending the time the economy will get better. He also advised young people to use the difficult time “to discover who they are and study the environment and go into research to know the real needs in their environment. “That way they would be able to make money for themselves; right now, there are no jobs, so they should look for that thing they can leverage on in their environment, find a solution to it and money will come out of it.” Speaking on this year’s edition of Agege Trade Fair, he said: “This year’s edition is our fourth edition and that means for the past four years we have gone through ups and downs and we have studied the industry and we are back to make it better. It is a seven-day event, which will see different programmes every day to ensure vendors sell out. We will also bring in programmes that can empower the vendors. The event will take place at the Agege Stadium from June 19 to June 25 later in the year. The entrepreneur stated that the objective is to provide a platform for business owners to promote their products and services and meet prospective new clients, adding that residents and visitors to the fair will be able to purchase goods and services at discounted rates. He posited that the overall objective of the fair was to bring businesses in Agege together in the bid to drive development in the area.