The International Press Centre (IPC) Nigeria has disclosed that no fewer than 66 journalists from various media organisations across Nigeria suffered different ranges of attacks in the year 2022. It further disclosed that these attacks ranged from unlawful arrests, detention to physical assaults, threats to life and abduction. Others include invasion, threats of sanction, media shutdown, robbery, hacking of social media accounts, threats to disclose sources, denial of access to information and murder. These disclosures were made by the IPC Programme Officer, Melody Akinjiyan, while presenting a 2022 report on the safety of journalists and dimensions of press freedom violation during a stakeholders’ forum organized by the International Press Centre (IPC) in collaboration with Open Society Foundations (OSF) in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital to mark 2023 World Press Freedom Day (WPFD) with the theme: She disclosed that the attacks were recorded between January and December last year at the forum which was attended by seasoned journalists, editors, media managers, and teachers from both the print, electronic and online media as well as educational institutions across the country. Akinjiyan stressed that the figure was higher than what was recorded in the previous years. According to her, “In this regard, the Safety of Journalists Alert Desk of the International Press Centre (IPC), Lagos, Nigeria documented nothing less than sixty-six (66) incidents of attacks affecting journalists and other media professionals”.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Also speaking, the IPC Executive Director, Lanre Arogundade, earlier in his welcome address, explained that the overarching framework for the establishment of the Centre for Safety and Protection of Journalists (I-CSPJ), is the strategic objective of expanding the frontiers of press freedom in Nigeria and Africa of which the safety of journalists is an integral part. POLL He added that the forum was part of the activities to commemorate this year’s World Press Freedom Day. In his own submission, Mr Bolaji Adebiyi, who was one of the lead discussants explained that a lot of issues needed to be tackled to address the plights of journalists across the country. Also speaking, the Chairman of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Council, Chief Ademola Babalola said that the topic of the forum, “Protecting Freedom of Expression in the Age of Misinformation and Disinformation” was apt to discuss, agree and come up with a roadmap on the way forward for press freedom in the country. He insisted that freedom of expression is the inalienable right of every Nigerian. Babalola maintained that if freedom of expression must be protected, then, all efforts must be emplaced to eliminate or reduce to the barest minimum the high rate of misinformation and disinformation, which is also known as fake news.