LAGOS – Former Lagos State chairman of the Labour Party, Comrade Olukayode Salako has formally exited the party, unveiling a new political association, Passion Alliance Forum (PANFO), even as he hints of the plan to transform the association into a political party. The association which has representation across the 20 Local Government Areas (LGAs) and the 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) in Lagos State, noted that all the members of the group are drawn from the Labour Party, and that more members have indicated readiness to join the association very soon. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Salako who is the founder and chairman of the association was also a special adviser to the national chairman of the Labour Party, Julius Abure, and stressed that he contributed so much to the success of the Labour Party in the just concluded general elections even though his efforts were not appreciated. Salako in his address stated that he voluntarily resigned as a member of the Labour Party and that he had to leave the party because of persecution and attacks from some members of the party, prominent among them, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, the gubernatorial candidate of the party in Lagos State, who according to Salako alleged that he was a mole in the party. “They said that my wife, Daramola Kayode Sakako was a committed member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and they also claimed that I was a mole of the APC and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The attack was too much, I had to leave voluntarily,” he said. He noted that the association is a 35 man state executive committee (Exco), and stressed that the ethics and culture of Labour Party are worse than those of their contemporaries, like APC, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) etcetera, and that the association will be run as a party driven by passion. PANFO leader noted that the objective of calling the conference, which by divine agenda is the newest organic political organisation in Lagos State, pointed out that the association’s core values are capacity, character, competence and social charisma which the members have gathered to actualise.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ He hinted that they will run the political association differently and won’t run the mini political party like they have seen in other political parties that they left. POLL “Having led the Labour Party to win Lagos State in the 2023 presidential election, as the chairman of the Labour Party, a feat that has never been achieved by any political party in 24 years, we are ready to deliver an association driven by passion,” Salako said. He said, “In the course of time, PANFO may evolve into a registered political party with the Independent National Electoral Commission in Nigeria (INEC) and run with the normal organogram of an ideal political party, or remain on its own, as expediency demands. “However, for the records, it is also worthy of note that PANFO, a two months old baby, with the pedigree and success antecedents of its visional leadership has been receiving entreaties to run as a group inside some existing registered political parties. “Accordingly, we are still engaging as much as we have resolved to strongly consider the option of moving into a political party, as a uniquely identifiable Forum therein, and the name/identity of the political party decided, would be unveiled very soon, at a glamorous official “Declaration Event,” he said.