BAUCHI – The North East Elders and Youths Peoples Forum, NEYPF, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari, President-Elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his Vice, Senator Kashim Shettima, to renew the tenure of the Managing Director Chief Executive of the North East Development Commission to enable him to consolidate on his achievements and complete all the laudable projects he has started in the State. The National Chairman of the Forum, Alhaji Salihu Magaji, Stated this on Monday while addressing a Press Conference at the Hazibal International Conference Hall in Bauchi. He said that the NEDC was established by President Buhari in response to the yearnings of the people of that region particularly those that suffered destruction from Boko Haram insurgents who destroyed many houses, schools, markets, mosques, churches, motor parks, police stations, military offices as well as government properties in the zone. Salihu said that the series of attacks within the past 13 years rendered many citizens homeless and jobless, adding that many citizens especially children dropped out of schools after being displaced from their towns. “As one of the legacy projects of President Buhari and APC led Administration in its effort to fulfill campaign promises and resuscitate the region, the federal government created the commission with the mandate of rebuilding it and bringing succour to the victims of insurgency. “With Goni Ibrahim Alkali, the NEDC since its creation few years ago, discharged it’s responsibility of empowering victims of the Boko Haram crisis and other people of the northeastern states. When one examines the developmental and humanitarian projects carried out by the commission in the Six North Eastern States, the NEDC intervened in various aspects of human endeavors, particularly in the areas of health care, agriculture, education, infrastructural development and human empowerment. “NEDC under the leadership of Alkali carried out various interventions with zeal, passion and commitment in order to bring succour to the people. He was able to solve the above riddle by coordinating, harmonizing, and overseeing the success of many interventions and initiated programmes for the Northeastern States through his effective, top, and outstanding managerial skills.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We can boldly say that his achievements are projected everywhere apart from human and agricultural interventions, there are physical projects for all to see, Some of the projects are the provision of 1,000 housing units in Borno State, provision of several centres and food to the people of Borno State are highly commendable. POLL “Recall that sometime in 2019, the president in all his wisdom declared a 10,000 housing programme in order to resettle families who have been displaced due to terrorism. The provision of the 1,000 housing units by the NEDC in Borno State is in line with this declaration made by the president. The housing units according to Dr Mohammed Alkali, consists of four blocks of well-furnished 2-bedroom detachable flats with verandas and a courtyard in a cluster arrangement. “Alkali is building five hundred Houses in Yobe, Adamawa, Taraba < Gombe, and Bauchi apart from the 1,000 houses he built in Borno State. In addition to the housing units, other essential amenities such as solar-powered street lights and boreholes, a police station and a motor park were provided in the area in addition to provision for schooling was also made available. “The beneficiaries received food and other relief items. The commission also empowered many farmers by providing them with agricultural machinery and equipment, seeds, fertilizers, agrochemicals and extension services logistics vehicles annually under a programme tagged; “Integrated Agriculture Programme” (IAP). It covers the whole 112 LGAs in the Northeast. The NEDC is also into skill acquisition training and the provision of starter packs to Information Communication Technology (ICT), trainees.”