EJIKEME OMENAZU; OLUSEGUN KOIKI; IN­NOCENT OWEH LAGOS / ABUJA  – Bishop Funso Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the Na­tional Conscience Party (NCP) and Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, has called for the review of the Electoral Act to address the lingering dispute over when to inaugurate the winner of a disputed election. He said those who want both the Electoral Act and the Constitution to be amended are justified, given the cur­rent controversy over plans to inaugurate president-elect, Bola Tinubu, whose victory has been challenged in court. Bishop Awe stated: “The law can be amended to suit that purpose. But, you have to factor it in right from the time the time table for the election is fixed, the primaries, the campaigns till the election. “If possible, if there is a re-run, INEC should factor it in. I think we should put to rest the practice of swearing in peo­ple and removing them later through court judgments. “This should be stopped even at state and local gov­ernment levels. It is not like a football match where, in the past, the VAR is shown after the match to correct any error. “Now, it is even used to cor­rect such errors as the match is going on. If it is possible, the election should be held around October.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It makes no sense for somebody to be removed af­ter occupying a seat for sev­eral months. Justice delayed is justice denied. POLL “Such a person will only settle down for governance when the court says so. For in­stance, it is now that his elec­tion is settled that Ademola Adeleke, the Osun State gov­ernor can really settle down for real governance. This is wrong. This law should be amended.” On his part, a youth ac­tivist, Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh, National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF), in his reaction, stated: “When we talk about a New Nigeria that works for all irrespective of class, it must include our electoral process through which we elect the drivers. “It is unfortunate we wil­fully submitted our sovereign­ty to politicians and they take over every facet of our lives and decide who gets and be­comes what in our society. “The biggest crime you can commit is by violating the constitution. The charac­ter displayed by politicians al­ways to create confusion that will satisfy their ego must be cut to size through complete compliance to the rules. “If there is no escape route for politicians to carry out electoral fraud, there won’t be a-do-or-die politics during electioneering. “Imagine a politician saying he only wants to be declared winner at the polls, then his opponents can go to court to begin legal battle while he cruises about with taxpayers money pending the determination of the court. “No elected person whose election is been challenged in court should be sworn in as it can put the tribunal judges under pressure to act against their wish. “If installation of a tra­ditional ruler, who is the custodian of our revered culture and tradition, can be stopped by the order of a court because the process that brought him is with ir­regularities, why can’t same be applied to politicians who fraudulently subverted the will of the people at the poll in connivance with the Inde­pendent National Electoral Commission (INEC) official? “Those whose mandates were stolen should approach the court to seek order of re­straint. Besides, judges are not Father Christmas who gives children things freely. However, Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, a human rights pro­moter, maintained that the le­gal and constitutional matters surrounding elected public of­ficers that are still subject of contestations after elections are issues of concern that should be addressed. Dr. Saltlove, the President/ Executive Director, Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative (CRE­MA Initiative), stated: “The need to dispose of election related matters before inau­guration of an elected public officer is of national interest and should be brought to the front burner. “This is to avoid the wrong person being sworn in; to help in resolving issues so that lit­igation process does not con­stitute distraction to service when in office; to avoid waste of public funds should litiga­tion continue after inaugura­tion or being sworn in. “To ensure this is resolved, it should be legislated through the amendment of the Con­stitution and Electoral Act that all election related mat­ters shall be resolved within 45 day or not later than two weeks before swearing in or inauguration. “The need for election liti­gations to be resolved before swearing in has been stressed by Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) and recently the Archbishop John Onaiyekan, who stated that swearing in Tinubu when election petitions are still in court, does not make sense. “Thus, I will appeal to not only the INEC but also mem­bers of the National Assem­bly (NASS) that everything that will ensure the amend­ment of the Constitution and the Electoral Act in respect of this contentious area be topmost priority in the 10th Assembly.” Pursuing the matter fur­ther, the National Democrat­ic Coalition (NADECO) called on President Joe Biden of the United States (US) not to rec­ognise the government of Asi­waju Bola Tinubu until the end of the ongoing litigation challenging his victory. NADECO also accused the Independent National Elec­toral Commission (INEC) of brazenly violating the Elec­toral Act of 2022 by failing to transmit the election results from the polling units to the servers in real-time as prom­ised. These were contained in a communique issued on Saturday by NADECO at its Extraordinary Summit held in Washington, DC in the US. The communiqué, which was signed by Lloyd Ukwu, NADECO’s Executive Direc­tor, urged the US to withhold any recognition of an incom­ing Nigerian government until the Supreme Court had thoroughly and transparent­ly examined the 2023 election process as the US did with the 2022 elections in Kenya. The group also advised the US government to impose Magnitsky Act sanctions im­mediately on all those found to have impeded or subverted the 2023 election process exer­cising all available sanctions on such individuals. It further enjoined the US to utilise the late Gen. Sani Abacha’s loot currently in asset forfeiture proceedings in US District Court to com­pensate victims of election violence in Nigeria. “Disclose and release all available records pertaining to the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) presidential can­didate, which are now at issue in the election petitions, to the courts for adjudication,” it added. Besides, NADECO alleged that INEC violated the Elec­toral Act of 2022, its own guidelines, and lied to the Ni­gerian people when it prom­ised that it would transmit the election results from the polling units to the servers in real-time, lamenting that it failed to do so. The group further called on President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of ur­gency, remove Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman of INEC and further called on his ar­rest and prosecution. It also added that all other INEC officials found wanting in electoral fraud be prosecut­ed by competent court of law. Part of the communique read: “To achieve these ob­jectives our legal panel recom­mended further that: Parties in the petition request and the court grant a writ of manda­mus order requiring INEC to review all parties’ objections and reevaluate the election results within seven days as authorized by law which INEC failed to do. “That the tribunal’s pro­ceedings be broadcast live giv­en the global interest, import, and importance of the elec­tions. In that light, we com­mend the commencement of tribunal hearings where all parties have pledged to ex­pedite the process. That the Nigerian Supreme Court, the Nigerian Government, and all of its security agencies including the Department of State Service (DSS), refrain from hastily swearing-in or facilitating the swearing-in of any of the 2023 Presiden­tial Candidates until their exhaustion of all available remedies. “Alternatively, given the widespread discontent and rejection of electoral process by Nigerians at home and abroad, the Nigeria Supreme Court is urged to rely on the ‘political question doctrine’ to restrain itself from the polarising nature of its deci­sion regarding the 2023 pres­idential elections, and order INEC to conduct a fresh elec­tion, which complies with the requirement of the Nigerian Constitution, the 2022 Elec­toral Act as amended, and INEC’s own guidelines.” Meanwhile, the presiden­tial candidate of the Dem­ocratic Alternative (DA), Victor Okechukwu Vishnay, has called on President Mu­hammadu Buhari to cancel the recent general elections and conduct fresh ones. Okechukwu hinged his calls for the cancellation on institutional failure, espe­cially on the part of the Inde­pendent National Electoral Commission (INEC) which, he said, conducted an election that was marred by irregular­ities as acknowledged by the international community. He slammed President Buhari for describing the recent general elections as transparent and fair enough, saying he (Buhari) couldn’t be speaking from an informed perspective. According to him, the recent statement attributed to the President of Nigeria calling on Nigerians to for­give him where he may have erred, was enough justifica­tion for the polls to be can­celled outrightly. The Democratic Alterna­tive Presidential candidate, while addressing a press conference on Saturday, in Abuja, equally noted that the President could not be asking for forgiveness when he sin­glehandedly influenced the outcome of the elections by revealing his ballot papers while casting his vote in the recent presidential polls. He said: “I want Nigerians to join me in calling on Presi­dent Muhammadu Buhari to cancel the 2023 general elec­tions because it failed integ­rity test, hence INEC and the judiciary are not trust worthy. “Beyond this, institution­al failure led to the exclusion of our party the DA in the conduct of the elections. The President cannot be asking for forgiveness because on that day he casted his vote, he singlehandedly influenced the outcome of the elections when he revealed his ballot papers.” The Chairman of the par­ty, Prince Frank Ukonga, has revealed that the party was mulling court action against INEC. He accused INEC of play­ing double standard by en­listing the Youth Party in the polls and ignoring 74 others earlier deregistered by the electoral umpire for no rea­son. Ukonga argued that multi­party system was the best for Nigeria as all party structures had one or two contributions to make to the polity. He called on INEC to obey the Supreme Court Judge­ment of INEC vs Youth Par­ty to relist DA and the other illegally deregistered political parties and allow multi-party democracy to flourish in Ni­geria. Contributing to the ongo­ing discourse, legal luminary and ex-Senate Leader, Distin­guished Senator Victor Ndo­ma-Egba, said the inaugura­tion of Tinubu as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on May 29, 2023, re­mains sacrosanct and there­fore could not be changed. pens? It means that you are go­ing to have a country without a president and that is a recipe for chaos and disaster. “So, the constitution is very clear. The cases will be dispensed with. It is not the first time. In 1999, President Obasanjo took over while the cases were in court. In 2007, President Yar’Adua took over power while the cases were in court. So we are not reinvent­ing the wheel. I don’t see any­thing stopping the swearing-in of Bola Ahmed Tinubu on the 29th of May 2023. “And those who are making calls to the contrary are making calls that have no constitutional basis. They are calls that cannot be justified by any provision of our Constitution. They are asking for extra-constitutional arrangement which is akin to asking for a coup. “Any arrangement that you ask for that is outside the consti­tutional provision is extra-con­stitutional and it is the equiv­alent of a coup. Come May 29, 2023, we must come to terms with the fact that we have a new president because nothing can stop Tinubu’s inauguration.”