The Chairman/CEO of Green Energy International Limited, Professor Anthony Adegbulugbe, has said that the company had not recorded any downtime, since its inception in 2016. Adegbulugbe said this at the company’s exhibition stand at the Offshore Technology Conference in Houston, Texas, United States of America. According to him, the company has rather recorded 5 million man-hours cumulatively, without encountering restiveness in its operating environments. He explained that being able to ensure harmony with its host communities makes Green Energy a credible entity to any financial institution. Equally, Adegbulugbe stated that the company “operates the Otakikpo marginal field in Oil Mining Lease(OML) 11, with a mandate to develop Small Scale Gas Utilization Projects (SSGUP) “ in our local host communities, Nigeria and Africa at large. In fulfilling the mandate for the award of the marginal field by the Federal Government of Nigeria in 2015, Adegbulugbe said that Green Energy would be “commissioning a 12 mmscfd LPG extraction plant and a 6 MW gas-fired power plant in May 2023. In addition, the company is constructing an Onshore Oil Export Terminal as well as planning an Industrial Park.” The company’s present production is about 10,000 barrels of oil per day (bod) at its Otakikpo field.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In the same vein, the Chief Executive of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), Mr. Gbenga Komolafe said the agency would continue to support indigenous oil and gas companies. POLL Komolafe stated that Green Energy’s ability to secure funding for its various projects shows it is on the right track and worthy of getting the agency’s support to grow. ‘‘If you look at what the company has done. You will discover that they have tried to leverage in-country capability and that is in alignment with what NUPRC is doing. We have come here as a commission to give them encouragement and to assure the company that the NUPRC will give them all the backing as a business enabler,” Komolafe said. 