ISEGHE AJAYI Since meeting the basic needs of life has continued to become a herculean task to many, especially the commonfolk due to the unfavorable state of the economy, there is a need to think of alternative means of making ends meet. Depending on or relying on a single source of income in these dire hard times cannot give you that life you have been craving for yourself and your family, hence the need to think outside the box for survival. The economic situation is so scary and has seen several individuals despite having a good source of livelihood making frantic efforts to relocate abroad for a better future due to the persistent rise in inflation coupled with the depreciating value of Naira. But, for those who do not have the means to ‘JAPA’ that is to travel out for greener pastures, why not think outside the box, especially in the area of enhancing your financial life so as to surmount inflation, a killer of resources? And that is why if you are still struggling to get that desired dream job or your monthly take-home can barely sustain you, there is a need to think of alternative means of livelihood so that you can make headway in your financial life. Do you really wish to overcome the financial bondage which the current economy offers? If your answer is yes, then you need to find a way to wriggle out of the unpleasant situation regardless of your earnings. It is quite true that there is no one on the planet Earth that does not crave a better life through financial freedom but accomplishing that vision is tasking because the road to success can be very thorny. POLL It is only those that are determined and can deal with their fears not minding the risks involved can dabble into what they are passionate about and make a success out of it. With so many graduates doing jobs that do not befit them just to stay afloat in a harsh economy like ours, owing to the high rate of employment, it will be more beneficial to enroll in an empowerment or acquisition skills if the opportunity arises. Do you know that venturing into entrepreneurship despite being a paid employee can enhance your financial well-being? Besides, whether you believe it or not, several individuals after retirement delve into entrepreneurship for survival. So, the earlier you venture into it as an alternative source of income particularly if your monthly earnings are meager and irregular, the better for you. There is a need to attain additional skills after a higher education so as to earn a living instead of wallowing in poverty and depending on people for survival. Besides, entrepreneurship on its own is a fantastic way to achieve financial freedom but the pathway is not an easy journey. That is why most entrepreneurs put in more effort to ensure that their businesses thrive to meet their set goals. However, the following tips will assist you to reach a financial breakthrough as you purpose to enhance your financial life: Discover Your Purpose Having a purpose in mind begins with a plan. What is it that you want from life? Why do you want to be financially free? Starting with the basic answers to these questions can assist you to discover what it is you really want to accomplish with your financial freedom. It is important you write down your goals. If you do not write them down, how would you adhere to your plan in becoming financially free? Exploit Your Profits Many entrepreneurs make the error of believing that their business income reveals their personal wealth. Regrettably, your income is far from being your wealth. A high-income business helps you attain financial independence faster, but the key is still in spending less than you earn. So, you need to try as much as possible to understand your finances. Besides, business income is a way to generate revenue and there are always expenses to incur. There is the overhead and operating costs as well as other expenses related to business operations to cover. When you compute assets and liabilities, you will finally reach your capital gains or profits and if you restrain yourself from spending your profits right away, you will be able to save enough to make essential investments and utilize your profits. Manage Your Finances When running a business, it is not easy to avoid debts especially when you lack wherewithal. Agreed that your personal debt reflects the financial status of your business but it is better to avoid debts if you really desire financial peace of mind. For instance, if you must collect a loan, go for the one with more suitable payoff periods and conditions to clear your outstanding debts. Managing finances and avoiding debts is critical to running a successful business as well as reaching financial independence. Separate Personal Finances From Business It is vital to keep your finances in order by separating your personal finances from business for proper accountability. If you want your business to be successful and you want to grow your income, you must do the needful because not separating the two can lead to a serious mistake that would be hard to rectify. And to grow your income, you need to cut back. Set Realistic Goals It is important to set financial goals that are achievable. You need to set a target to achieve that goal and make it a realistic one to accomplish. Whatever the goal is set small realistic goals to achieve small wins. These small wins will offer you the determination to keep going to achieve your long-term, bigger goal. Save For Emergencies It is imperative to create an emergency fund because unforeseen unpleasant occurrences can occur at any time hence the need for an emergency fund. It is important to commence now if you have not. And the best way to go about it is to set aside a certain amount of money at the end of every month for a dedicated account for emergencies. Mind you the money can be used for anything that you consider an emergency. Be Vision/Focus Minded You must be in the right frame of mind to experience financial independence. You must be vision and focus-minded to go into entrepreneurship. You need to have the self-discipline to see the bigger picture. In the long run, what are your goals? What are your desires? Why are you doing this? It is important to know that financial goals are obtained through having the right mindset in place to achieve what you desire. Invest Wisely You may get enticed to spend your income instead of saving them for future opportunities. You should make an effort to desist from doing so. Instead, think of a way to exploit your profits wisely. Profits made can lead to even more profits or money especially if you are intelligent! To achieve financial freedom, you must ensure that your business has positive cash flow at all times. ISEGHE AJAYI Since meeting the basic needs of life has continued to become a herculean task to many, especially the commonfolk due to the unfavorable state of the economy, there is a need to think of alternative means of making ends meet. Depending on or relying on a single source of income in these dire hard times cannot give you that life you have been craving for yourself and your family, hence the need to think outside the box for survival. The economic situation is so scary and has seen several individuals despite having a good source of livelihood making frantic efforts to relocate abroad for a better future due to the persistent rise in inflation coupled with the depreciating value of Naira. But, for those who do not have the means to ‘JAPA’ that is to travel out for greener pastures, why not think outside the box, especially in the area of enhancing your financial life so as to surmount inflation, a killer of resources? And that is why if you are still struggling to get that desired dream job or your monthly take-home can barely sustain you, there is a need to think of alternative means of livelihood so that you can make headway in your financial life. Do you really wish to overcome the financial bondage which the current economy offers? If your answer is yes, then you need to find a way to wriggle out of the unpleasant situation regardless of your earnings. It is quite true that there is no one on the planet Earth that does not crave a better life through financial freedom but accomplishing that vision is tasking because the road to success can be very thorny. It is only those that are determined and can deal with their fears not minding the risks involved can dabble into what they are passionate about and make a success out of it. With so many graduates doing jobs that do not befit them just to stay afloat in a harsh economy like ours, owing to the high rate of employment, it will be more beneficial to enroll in an empowerment or acquisition skills if the opportunity arises. Do you know that venturing into entrepreneurship despite being a paid employee can enhance your financial well-being? Besides, whether you believe it or not, several individuals after retirement delve into entrepreneurship for survival. So, the earlier you venture into it as an alternative source of income particularly if your monthly earnings are meager and irregular, the better for you. There is a need to attain additional skills after a higher education so as to earn a living instead of wallowing in poverty and depending on people for survival. Besides, entrepreneurship on its own is a fantastic way to achieve financial freedom but the pathway is not an easy journey. That is why most entrepreneurs put in more effort to ensure that their businesses thrive to meet their set goals. However, the following tips will assist you to reach a financial breakthrough as you purpose to enhance your financial life: Discover Your Purpose Having a purpose in mind begins with a plan. What is it that you want from life? Why do you want to be financially free? Starting with the basic answers to these questions can assist you to discover what it is you really want to accomplish with your financial freedom. It is important you write down your goals. If you do not write them down, how would you adhere to your plan in becoming financially free? Exploit Your Profits Many entrepreneurs make the error of believing that their business income reveals their personal wealth. Regrettably, your income is far from being your wealth. A high-income business helps you attain financial independence faster, but the key is still in spending less than you earn. So, you need to try as much as possible to understand your finances. Besides, business income is a way to generate revenue and there are always expenses to incur. There is the overhead and operating costs as well as other expenses related to business operations to cover. When you compute assets and liabilities, you will finally reach your capital gains or profits and if you restrain yourself from spending your profits right away, you will be able to save enough to make essential investments and utilize your profits. Manage Your Finances When running a business, it is not easy to avoid debts especially when you lack wherewithal. Agreed that your personal debt reflects the financial status of your business but it is better to avoid debts if you really desire financial peace of mind. For instance, if you must collect a loan, go for the one with more suitable payoff periods and conditions to clear your outstanding debts. Managing finances and avoiding debts is critical to running a successful business as well as reaching financial independence. Separate Personal Finances From Business It is vital to keep your finances in order by separating your personal finances from business for proper accountability. If you want your business to be successful and you want to grow your income, you must do the needful because not separating the two can lead to a serious mistake that would be hard to rectify. And to grow your income, you need to cut back. Set Realistic Goals It is important to set financial goals that are achievable. You need to set a target to achieve that goal and make it a realistic one to accomplish. Whatever the goal is set small realistic goals to achieve small wins. These small wins will offer you the determination to keep going to achieve your long-term, bigger goal. Save For Emergencies It is imperative to create an emergency fund because unforeseen unpleasant occurrences can occur at any time hence the need for an emergency fund. It is important to commence now if you have not. And the best way to go about it is to set aside a certain amount of money at the end of every month for a dedicated account for emergencies. Mind you the money can be used for anything that you consider an emergency. Be Vision/Focus Minded You must be in the right frame of mind to experience financial independence. You must be vision and focus-minded to go into entrepreneurship. You need to have the self-discipline to see the bigger picture. In the long run, what are your goals? What are your desires? Why are you doing this? It is important to know that financial goals are obtained through having the right mindset in place to achieve what you desire. Invest Wisely You may get enticed to spend your income instead of saving them for future opportunities. You should make an effort to desist from doing so. Instead, think of a way to exploit your profits wisely. Profits made can lead to even more profits or money especially if you are intelligent! To achieve financial freedom, you must ensure that your business has positive cash flow at all times.