ABUJA – The President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu on Tuesday in Lagos met with APC’s anointed candidates for Speaker, Deputy Speaker of the 10th House of Representatives, Honourables Tajudeen Abbas and Benjamin Kalu. Recall that the National Working Committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC), on Monday zoned the positions of the Senate President of the 10th National Assembly to the South-south, Deputy Senate President NorthWest, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, North-West and Deputy Speaker South East. The ruling party also agreed on a consensus that the former Governor of Akwa Ibom state, Senator Godswill Akpabio has been anointed as the next Senate President, Deputy Senate President, Jubrin Barau, while Hon. Tajudeen Abass from Kaduna State and Hon. Benjamin Kalu from Abia State were anointed as the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House respectively. According to a statement issued by Tajudeen Ben Kalu’s Movement for National Stability, Fairness and Inclusive Parliament, Abbas, the House of Representative Speaker-designate, met with Tinubu in Lagos alongside other House of Reps members-elect. The statement reads: “At the meeting the President-elect promised to work harmoniously with the duo if elected, to ensure he achieves the objective of his “RENEWED HOPE AGENDA”. “Also, former President Olusegun Obasanjo met with Speaker, Deputy Speaker-designate Abass and Kalu. “Obasanjo described both leaders as promising with a noteworthy track record to man the affairs of the House.” The Deputy Speaker-designate, Benjamin Kalu had taken to his official Twitter handle to announce the meetings with both leaders. POLL The lawmaker on his official account, @officialbenkalu wrote, “Today I joined other candidates nominated by our party APC for the leadership of the 10th House of Representatives in a meeting with the President-elect, @officialasiwajubat”. In another tweet, Kalu wrote, “A moment of respect and shared vision as the former President and commander in chief of the armed forces, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo warmly received the Nominated candidates for the leadership of 10th House of Representatives.” Both consensus candidates have since returned to Abuja to continue their campaign and consultation.