SYLVESTER ENOGHASE The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), has called for the adoption of the Nigeria Liquified Natural Gas (NLNG) model for running the nation’s four refineries to boost adequate product supply in the country. The NLNG is an incorporated joint venture owned 49 percent by the Nigerian government represented by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC); 2.6 percent by Shell Gas B.V; 15 percent by TotalEnegies Gaz & Electricité, and 4.10 percent by Eni International N.A. N.V. S. àr. The ownership structure allows for an independent board and effective management of the NLNG devoid of bureaucracy. This has made it one of the most profitably run companies in the gas sub-sector of the Nigerian petroleum industry. Engineer Festus Osifo, who was re-elected President of PENGASSAN, at the 7th triennial delegates conference in Abuja, said with the NLNG model and an enabling environment for the establishment of more modular refineries, Nigeria can rise above its challenge of inadequate product supply. He noted that the adoption of the NLNG model for Africa’s largest economy and one of the world’s top producers of crude oil, will put an end to her current continues struggle to rely on imported petroleum products to run its struggling economy.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Osifo recalled that in the last two decades, the nation’s four refineries located in Port Harcourt, Warri, and Kaduna have refined little or nothing, and neither added value to the nation’s economy. POLL “This has spurred calls from many quarters, including members of the organised private sector on the government to sell them off. “But, we are of the strong view that the four refineries can be made to work and produce to their installed capacity if the NLNG model were to be adopted, with the government holding 49 percent equity and 51 percent owned by private investors, who will run the affairs of the refineries. “We commend the current NNPC management led by Mallam Mele Kyari for the bold steps towards a workable approach to bringing back on stream the ailing refineries and effort being put in place for the operations and maintenance strategy that may eventually bring about the desired change in the operations of the refineries. “But, we will continue to advocate for the adoption of the NLNG model in the running of the nation’s refineries when fully revamped, and an enabling environment for the establishment of modular refineries. “With the Dangote refinery coming on board, there will be a significant impact on the fuel supply dynamics, including easing pressure on the economy, especially when combined with the ongoing revamping of the three refineries (those in Port Harcourt and Warri) in the country,” he said. Osifo also warned that the implementation of the PIA must not be made to pass through arm-twisting and tactical bureaucratic monsters that bedeviled the PIB. Speaking on the theme, “Equity and Social Justice: Advocacy for Equal Opportunities for All Workers”, he presented 12-point expectations for the incoming administration to includes; constitution of development and trust fund for the host community and efforts to address issues of multiple exchange rates in the economy. “PENGASSAN also expect the new government to declare state of emergency in the food and agriculture sector to address prediction of over 25 million Nigerians projected to face hunger and malnutrition this year and development of new approach to address the rising country’s debt crisis. “The incoming government must do all within its reach to see to the conclusion of the current rehabilitation effort and an initiative that is currently in place so that our nation’s refinery will come up in no time. “We expect that the new federal government should immediately review the current security strategy, rejig the entire security architecture, provide more funding and shift from reactionary approach to focusing on intelligence gathering that will proactively help to nip such planned attacks in the bud”. “Other expectations from the new government includes; empowering of mortgage institutions to provide houses for masses, appointing head of anti-corrupt institutions devoid of political consideration, criminalising foreign medical treatment with public funds and improved power supply”, he said. The re-elected PENGASSAN President, also raised concern about the general insecurity in the country, said it was one of the reasons why the rehabilitation of the Kaduna refinery was yet to start. He, therefore, called on the incoming Federal Government to be led by Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the president-elect to, upon resumption of office, immediately review and rejig the nation’s security architecture, provide more funding and shift away from a reactionary approach to focusing on intelligence gathering to halt bloodletting and rebuild the confidence of Nigerians in their country. Osifo, said the incoming must also address the issue of multiple exchange rate to reduce pressure on businesses and prioritise agriculture so as to create jobs for Nigerians. On debt, he raised concerns about Nigeria’s N77 trillion public debt, citing that Nigeria’s rising debt profile is a cause for concern. He highlighted the Federal Government’s poor implementation of fiscal and monetary policies and policy inconsistencies, which he says works against the economic growth and development of Nigeria. “According to the Debt Management Office, Nigeria’s total public debt profile, representing domestic and external debt stocks of the 36 state governments and the FCT, currently stand at N77 trillion. “This is quite alarming, mostly when you compare the cost of servicing this debt to the revenue generated by the government per annum”, he said. The PENGASSAN President warned that about Nigeria’s debt service, which he describes as the Federal Government using most of its revenues to service, stating it as a “ calamity of high proportions”, he said: “In the 2023 budget, for instance, we will be using virtually all the monies generated as a country in servicing our debt. “This is a calamity of the highest proportion unless we do all we can to increase the revenue base. “While we do not condemn borrowing, we insist that borrowed funds should not be used for consumption, but channelled into productive ventures and infrastructural development.” He urged the incoming government to seek other approaches to revenue generation, citing that the current state of the economy needs a steady growth in GDP; and increased access to employment and diversification of the economy. He noted that Nigeria’s economy faces many challenges including structural imbalance, corruption, weak human capital development, inequality, security challenges and excessive dependence on oil revenue. “We have talked a lot about diversification of the economy and this is the time for implementation as a matter of urgency. “The truth is that revenue from the oil and gas sector can no longer sustain us as a nation and this is the most auspicious time to walk our talk. “We commend the ongoing efforts of government in the agriculture sector and expect the tempo to be sustained in the entire value chain. “The efforts should be replicated in areas like solid minerals, tourism, and technology, among others. “Efforts must be made by the incoming administration to address the issues of multiple exchange rates as the arbitrage created is negatively affecting the economy.”