Ambassador Uyero Erarawewho Jnr, The State Coordinator, Core Delta Youth, has congratulated Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori as the new Executive Governor of Delta State as he assures Deltans of Oborevwori’s competence, and ability to deliver on campaign promises and sustain Governor Okowa’s Legacy. The leadership of Core Delta Youth in a Statement by the leadership of the group today on Monday, May 29, 2023 which was made available to Journalists in Asaba, Delta State capital as former Governor Okowa attests to Oborevwori’s competence. Uyero while Congratulating the Executive Governor of Delta State, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori stated that, Governor Sheriff’s ability to deliver on campaign promises and sustain Governor Okowa’s Legacy on human capital and infrastructural development. The world-class and seasoned Youth leader added that Oborevwori is well prepared to advance his M.O.R.E agenda for all Deltans which he said is multifaceted, anchored on people-centered policies, human capital development and infrastructural development. He commended Deltans for their immense support to Oborevwori and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State as he urged them not to relent in supporting the new administration led by Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori as the new Delta State Governor. He also urged Governor Sheriff Oborevwori to ensure that he runs an all-inclusive Government that will give Youths a hundred percent sense of belonging in his new administration in the next four years. The statement by Ambassador Uyero Erarawewho Jnr reads in parts: ” First and foremost, we Congratulate you on your Successful Swearing-in todayas new Delta State Governor. Core Delta Youth is confidence on your capacity, ability to deliver von your campaign promises”. ” We believe your capacity to sustain Governor Okowa’s Legacy on human capital and infrastructural development. Oborevwori will sustain the entrepreneurship development programmes, expand to encourage the creation of Small-Scale businesses; create jobs to reduce unemployment, reduce crime and other societal vices caused by unemployment”. POLL “Oborevwori will attract investors, improve agricultural sector value chain, improve food security, promote employment opportunities, jobs and wealth creation as well as complete all on-going projects; roads, bridges, drainages, school and other physical infrastructures constructions in entire Delta State”.