Alexis Mac Allister is set to join his new club in the “next few days” after bidding farewell to Brighton in their final game of the Premier League season. The Argentine was reduced to tears following the Seagulls’ 2-1 defeat to Aston Villa and Liverpool have emerged as the most likely candidates to seal his signature Jurgen Klopp’s outfit are staring at a midfield overhaul despite turning their season around to claim a fifth-placed finish. They are said to be in advanced talks with Mac Allister’s entourage and personal terms are reportedly nearly completed. And now Fabrizio Romano has claimed that the 24-year-old will leave Brighton “in the next few days”. His visibly emotional reaction at full-time certainly suggested that he has played his final game for Brighton, as Liverpool look to conclude some early business and get Mac Allister through the door sooner rather than later. The player’s father has jetted into the country which also suggests that a deal is imminent, though it is unclear whether a fee has been agreed with Brighton. The Seagulls are known to be tough negotiators while there have been conflicting reports over whether Mac Allister has a release clause in his contract that becomes active this summer. In any case, Brighton are set to make a sizable profit on what they paid Argentinos Juniors in 2019. Roberto De Zerbi appeared resigned to losing both Mac Allister and Moises Caicedo, who has admirers at Arsenal, Chelsea and Manchester United, despite securing Europa League football. The Italian admitted that the duo deserved to play “in a higher level” in a further indication that Liverpool could soon get their man. “I think it can be the last game of Alexis and Moises Caicedo,” De Zerbi said after having his arm around Mac Allister at Villa Park. “I am really sorry because they are two great people and two great players. But the policy of Brighton is like this and we have to accept it. I think it’s right they can leave, they can change team and they can play in a level higher. “Sincerely I don’t know but it can be and we are ready, I think. We have to find other big players to play without Alexis and Moises. POLL “If you ask me about Caicedo and Mac Allister, I love them and they are two big, big players and can be in a big, big European team. They can play in every competition and are ready to compete for a big team and I hope for them they can play in the best team in the world.”