The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has confirmed the death of its operative, Inspector Abel Dickson, after a scuffle with his colleagues over the custody of items belonging to the suspect in detention. The spokesman of the EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, confirmed the death during a news confer­ence on Tuesday in Abuja. Uwujaren said the deceased and two other colleagues, As­sistant Superintendent Apata Odunayo and Inspector Ogbuji Tochukwu, were attached to the Sokoto State Command of the commission. The spokesman said the two suspects had been arrested and handed over to the police for proper investigation and pros­ecution. Uwujaren said the incident happened on May 5, 2023, while the victim died on May 7 at Usmanu Danfodio University Teaching Hospital in Sokoto, where he was receiving treat­ment. “There was nothing like a shootout among the officers; it was just a scuffle among the three officers who disagreed over discrepancies in the items deposited in the suspects’ locker and the items include medica­tion and some cash,” he said. He said that the incident was the first of its kind and the commission would ensure that the erring officers are brought to justice.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “They had disagreed over procedures for the custody of items belonging to a suspect in detention, leading to a fight, a conduct which the commission frowns at. POLL “The two officers with whom he had a disagreement have been suspended by the commission and handed over to the Nigeria Police for further investigation and possible pros­ecution. “The latest information is that a two-count holding charge bordering on criminal conspir­acy and culpable homicide had been filed against them at a Chief Magistrate Court, Gwiwa in Sokoto.” According to him, the of­fences are punishable under Sections 60 and 191 of the Sokoto State Penal Code Law, 2019. “Without prejudice to the Police investigation, they will, in addition, face further disci­plinary measures in line with the commission’s staff regula­tion,” he said. Uwujaren said the Executive Chairman of EFCC, Abdulra­sheed Bawa, was saddened by the incident and had extended his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family.