LAGOS – Analysts have advised the incoming government to embark on bold decisive fiscal and tight monetary measures to ensure macroeconomic stability in the country. They said that local and foreign investors will need some convincing actions as regards flexibility and clarity in the foreign exchange framework going forward. The suggestion came on the heels of Nigeria’s rising fiscal risk, as oil and gas revenue contribution to the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) purse remain below pre-pandemic level despite oil price at the north of $80.00/bbl. Besides, they cautioned that failure of the fiscal and monetary authorities to boost the output capacity of real sector players in the last five years of implementing capital control measures have exacerbated exchange rate pressure, due to growing import bills. They said that , monetary policy instruments alone appear quite insufficient to guarantee the desired results of low, stable, and predictable prices in the face of shocks to food and energy prices on the global scene and pass-through from exchange rate devaluation to domestic prices. They told Daily Independent that the recent World Bank projection revealed that it would take more than 50 years for Nigeria’s GDP per capita to reach 2019 level of $5,000 at the current pace, given the average population growth rate of 2.7% p.a, adding that current inflation diminishes purchasing power leading to inventory stockpiles, undermines growth, and creates economic uncertainties. They said: “Taming current inflation, however, should not be at the expense of the growth and survival of the most vulnerable sectors”. They warned that the escalation of production and operating costs for businesses, leading to erosion of profit margins, drop in sales, decline in turnover and weak manufacturing capacity utilisation can have significant economic consequences in both short and long run this year. POLL The latest data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), indicates that Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 2.31% year-on-year in real terms in the first quarter of 2023. This compares to a 3.52% real GDP growth rate recorded in the previous quarter and 0.8% lower compared to the 3.11% recorded in the corresponding period of 2022. The agency blamed the slowdown in GDP growth rate on the naira scarcity which occurred in the first quarter of the year as the central bank refused to back down on its naira swap policy. Besides, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria has increased its benchmark interest rate (MPR) for the third time this year by 50 basis points to 18.5% in its recently concluded MPC meeting. The decision of the CBN came on the back of the rising inflation rate in the Nigerian economy. Headline inflation rose to 22.22% in April 2023 from 22.04% recorded in the previous month, representing its highest level since September 2005. Dr Chinyere Almona, Director General of the Lagos Chamber Of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), told Daily Independent that the incoming governments need to embark on bold decisive fiscal and tight monetary measures to ensure macroeconomic stability of the nation’s economy. She said, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the CBN, in its May 2023 Meeting, again hiked the benchmark interest rate by 50 basis points to 18.5% from 18.0%. It, however, retained the asymmetric corridor at +100 and -700 basis points around the policy rate. Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Liquidity Ratio (LR) remain at 32.5% and 30%, accordingly. This increase is the seventh consecutive rate hike since April 2022 and the highest level since November 2002. “This consistent hawkish stance in the last 12 months, the benchmark rate has increased from 11.5% to 18.5%. Yet, the latest figure of 22.22% showed that inflation has remained highly reby the monetary authority shows that sistant. “Inflation has grown from 16.82% in April 2022, up by 5.4 percentage points despite a 7.0 percentage point increase in the monetary policy rate, underscoring the widely acclaimed futility of rate hikes in curbing cost pushed inflation. “We anticipate that borrowing costs will continue to rise. Additionally, given the drop in the first quarter GDP, high-interest rates may increase the risk to the growth of the economy. “We specifically voiced our worries about how manufacturers and other businesses will endure the recently approved additional and increased excise taxes on a variety of commodities as well as the high borrowing rates. “While the CBN has the overarching mandate of ensuring price stability, we suggest it should do this in a manner that supports growth, especially in the face of high unemployment and rising incidence of poverty. “Furthermore, monetary policy instruments alone appear quite insufficient to guarantee the desired results of low, stable, and predictable prices in the face of shocks to food and energy prices on the global scene and pass-through from exchange rate devaluation to domestic prices. “Inflation diminishes purchasing power leading to inventory stockpiles, undermines growth, and creates economic uncertainties. “Taming it, however, should not be at the expense of the growth and survival of the most vulnerable sectors”. Dr Muda Yusuf, Economist/CEO, Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE) in an exclusive interview with Daily Independent, implored the incoming government to enact initiatives to support employment and income, including expanding safety nets with a food component to mitigate current rising fiscal deficit Yusuf also tasked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to play a key role in pursuing unconventional monetary policies that will establish various channels to inject liquidity in the economy by expanding the options for lending to the private sector and to the government “Part of the private sector support can be offered through rediscount credit lines to banks so that they, in turn, may maintain soft lines of credit for the working capital of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), including small and family farmers. Those soft rediscount lines (or even outright grants, using a non-bank channel) should require businesses to keep employees on the payroll. “In particular, these lines of credit could be crucial to support operators in food systems (especially family farmers), the health sector, and other crucial activities”, he said. According to Dr. Yusuf , the key drivers of inflation are: exchange rate depreciation, foreign exchange market illiquidity, insecurity, high energy cost, especially diesel cost, climate change and the massive injection of liquidity into the economy through the controversial ways and means financing. “Most of these factors are not within the purview of the CBN. “On the exchange of old currency notes for new ones, it is evident that CBN has serious production and logistics limitations with regards to the new currency notes. The most realistic option is extend the deadline. I am in agreement with the national assembly on the call for an extension of the deadline. “Otherwise, there will be very serious business disruptions, especially within the SMEs space, the informal sector and the rural economy. Many innocent Nigerians will lost their hard earned money”. Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir,Director -General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, suggested that the crisis-management office of the Federal Government should establish committees with the private sector and operators in key areas to monitor daily the flow of crucial goods and services, and the health of workers and critical personnel. He added that the bottlenecks, as well as hoarding and unfair trade practices, must be monitored and energetically addressed. He said: “With radical transparency, Nigeria can tap into new sources of finance, such as carbon offsets and there is room to encourage more private investment in social and physical infrastructure” Cordros Researchers in theirs Weekly Economic and Market Report (26-May-2023), stated that the recently released data by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), domestic economic activities sustained a positive growth momentum, albeit moderately in Q1- 23. Specifically, real GDP grew slowly by 2.31% y/y in Q1-23 (Q4-22: 3.52% y/y), primarily due to the impact of (1) the cash scarcity which accompanied CBN’s naira redesign drive, (2) election uncertainties, and (3) lingering increase in production costs in the review period. While the decline in the oil sector (-4.21% y/y vs Q4-22: -13.38% y/y) moderated for the second consecutive quarter, we highlight that the non-oil sector’s growth eased to 2.77% y/y (Q4- 22: +4.44% y/y). We expect the non-oil sector to grow higher by 3.18% y/y in Q2-23, in the absence of significant shocks to the economy. In addition, we expect crude oil production to average 1.46mb/d in Q2-23, translating to a 1.34% y/y oil sector growth estimate. All told, we forecast overall growth to settle at 3.11% y/y in Q2-23 and revise our 2023FY growth estimate to 2.92% y/y (Previously: 2.77% y/y). “In line with our expectations, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) voted to further increase the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by 50bps to 18.5% – the seventh consecutive rate hike and the highest rate since November 2002 (18.5%). “The Committee argued in favour of further smaller rate hikes to (1) consolidate the gains made so far, (2) support the efforts towards moderating demand-pull inflation, (3) narrow the negative real interest rate gap, and (4) boost the MPC’s credibility following the earlier forward guidance to continue to tighten when confronted with unabating price pressures. “We do not rule out the Committee increasing the MPR further at its next meeting in July, after which a ‘HOLD’ consideration is likely over subsequent meetings. “Accordingly, we expect the Committee to increase the MPR by 25bps – 50bps in the near term, and also, we do not rule out the possibility of an increase in monetary interventions in growth-enhancing sectors”. Despite the partial reversal of the policy stance in 2021, food inflation rate continued to surge as the slack in domestic supply capacity remains huge. Also, our analysis of the drivers of exchange rate volatility over the last seven years of the current CBN management suggests that volatility is always more prominent when FX inflows from crude oil sales declined sharply, leading to CBN’s inability to inject adequate FX into the various market segments.