Summon Transport Minister, NIMASA DG For Explanations, Direct Probe Of CVFF The House of Representatives on Tuesday directed the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) to immediately stop the planned disbursement of $700 million to Nigerian citizens and companies and to lay before it an audited statement of account showing all monies that have accrued to the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund within the next 7 days. The House also invited the Minister of for Transportation and the DirectorGeneral, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency to report to the House Committee on local content on the state of the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund and how the funds have been applied over the past 20 years. The resolutions also mandated the House Committee on Local Content to immediately commenceinvestigations into the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund to determine all moniesthat have accrued to the Fund since its establishment in the year 2003, andreport to the House within 14 days. These followed the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance brought by Hon. Henry Nwawuba from Imo, titled: ‘Urgent Need to Stop the Plan Disbursement of $700m Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund, and Investigate the Total Accrual of the Fund.’ The lawmaker in his presentation noted that the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund was established by the Coastal andInland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003 to promote the development of indigenousship acquisition capacity by providing financial assistance to Nigerian operators in domestic coastal shipping. “In addition to monies allocated to the fund by an Act of the National Assembly, the fund draws from two percent (2%) of all contract sum performed by any vessel engaged in the coastal trade, and all monies generated pursuant to the Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage)Act, 2003.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Since the establishment of the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund, there have been no reliable data as to the total amount that has so far accrued to the Fund and thus, there is no certainty as to the actual worth of the fund at the moment. POLL “Since the establishment of the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund in the year 2003, there is no record of any Nigeria citizen or company that has officially benefited from the fund as stated in the Act. “In 2018, the then-director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA); Dr. Dakuku Peterside said the agency had concluded necessary documentation was needed for the disbursement of the CVFF. He gave the accruals from the fund at that time to be in excess of US$100 million however, there are no records of such disbursement; “Mr.Rotimi Amaechi (the then Minister of Transportation) said in December 2019 that Cabotage Vessel FinanceFunddisbursement would commence in January 2020; however, the funds were not disposed of as promised. “Dr. Bashir Jamoh, Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, on April 4, 2023, during the Institute of Maritime Studies’ first annual lecture at the University of Lagos in Akoka, said that the government will disburse the sum of $700m to ship owners before the end of the current administration. “The matrix, procedure, and condition of the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund are obscure and not transparent and not wholly in accordance with the Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003. “More than 20 years after the enactment of the Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage)Act, 2003, the Ministry of Transportation in collaboration with the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has misappropriated the funds designated to promote the development of indigenousship acquisition capacity and the Act has not achieved its objectives. “Much Ado About the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund (shippingposition.com.ng)2 Maritime Operators To Receive $700m For Vesse Acquisition –FG,” the motion read. It cautioned further that “if this House does not leave up to its oversight responsibility, there will be a continues violation of the provision of the Coastal and Inland Shipping(Cabotage) Act, 2023relating to the purpose of the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund.” The House as a result directed the Committee on Local Content to engage an external auditor to audit all contracts that have been entered into in the cabotage regime and report same to the House within 14 days.