The decision of the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the leadership of all Progressives Congress (APC) on zoning of leadership positions at National Assembly ahead of its inauguration has been commended by one of Tinubu’s support groups, Tinubu Hope Of Nigeria Vanguard. The convener and leader of the group, Olurotimi Daudu Esq. stated this on Sunday while reacting to fierce criticism of the zoning arrangement, especially by the opposition. He explained that if the leadership positions at the National Assembly were not shared across all the geopolitical zones, it could lead to marginalization of some geopolitical zones which according to him, would not be in the interest of anyone. Daudu noted that the sharing of the leadership positions as proposed by the President-Elect and the APC aligns with the principles of justice, fairness, inclusivity and national cohesion. The whole arrangement seeks to foster stronger unity among the various sections of the country. “It’s imperative for us a support group to lend our voice in support of the zoning arrangement as agreed to by the President-Elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “We have an abiding trust in the capacity of Asiwaju as the President to reduce inter-ethnic tensions and depen national unity. I therefore advise all those who are opposed to the zoning formula to sheath their sword and cooperate with the President-Elect. “It is needless to start any form of distraction at a time when the need to renew the hope of Nigerians has become compelling.”‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The group also declared its support for Senator Godswill Akpabio to be chosen as the President of the 10th Senate. POLL According to the statement, “By the same token, Tinubu Hope of Nigeria Vanguard strongly backs HE Senator Akpabio to emerge as the Senate President in the 10th NASS. Senator Akpabio will provide the much needed robust and stimulating leadership. He has the pedigree, track record and experience to lead the NASS.” Mr. Daudu further observed that, “people forget so easily that Senator Akpabio, as a seasoned statesman, has made profound and critical sacrifices for the unity, stability and progress of our country. He was the first aspirant to step down for the President-Elect at the presidential primaries of the APC. “He was very forthright and statesmanlike on the night. He was a former Governor, Senator and most recently, Minister. He is well equipped and positioned to work with Asiwaju to turn around paradigm of leadership for the benefit of Nigerians. “Our advice to the President-elect, as a group, is that he should remain focused and ignore unhealthy tantrums emanating from the opposition. Nigerians are solidly behind him and trust in his ability to provide some kind of inspirational leadership we crave for.” Mr. Daudu further advised federal lawmakers elected on the platform of the APC and other political parties to cooperate and synergies with President-elect in the greater interest of the country. He, therefore, vowed that members of Tinubu Hope of Nigeria Vangaurd would continue to give strong backing to the incoming government by offering constructive and useful policy options. The group has within its fold, seasoned professionals from all walks of life including businesses.