As Air Peace Expends N60bn On Aircraft Maintenance In 2022 LAGOS – Nigerian airlines are in dire straits over the high-interest rates paid on loans obtained from financial institutions and insurance premiums. This is as Air Peace said it spent at least N60 billion in the maintenance of its fleet of aircraft in 2022 alone. Speaking at the fourth day of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria’s (FAAN) National Aviation Conference (FNAC) with the theme: ‘Sustainabiility of The Aviation Industry In Nigeria,’ Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) in its presentation, said that the interest rates were killing local operators and inhibiting their competition level. Mr. Allen Onyema, the Vice Chairman, AON, said Nigerian airlines pay at least 26 percent as interest rates on loans obtained, while their counterparts get the same loans at single-digit interest rates of 2 percent. With this, Onyema argued that there was no way the indigenous airlines could compete with their counterparts in Europe and America, warning that it could also lead to their deaths. Besides, Onyema explained that the insurance premiums paid by Nigerian airlines is triple when compared to their counterparts in Europe and America.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ For instance, he emphasized that airlines from Nigeria pay much higher premiums on their aircraft, which is affecting their operations. POLL He said: “Nigerian operators borrow money in our banks at double digits interest rates of 26 percent while the foreign airlines that we are competing with get their own at just 2 percent. Also, the equipment leasing company is another major chall we are facing in this industry. We need to pity, not just the airlines in this industry, but everybody in this industry. “The premiums Nigeria airlines pay to insure one Boeing 737 aircraft, is enough to cater for three of the same equipment in any of the legacy airlines. We still have a long way to go in this industry.” Oneyma further lamented the lack of adequate Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities for local airlines, saying that Air Peace for instance expended about N60 billion maintaining its fleet in 2022. He insisted that none of the legacy carriers could survive in the same environment as Nigeria. Also, Engr. David Balami, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of 7Star Hangar, decried that at least Nigerian airlines, including non-scheduled operators and Nigeria Air Force spend about $1 billion annually on maintenance of aircraft outside the country. He explained that with the enabling environment, Nigerian engineers could perform better than their foreign counterparts and sought for more financial supports from the government for but expansion.