ABUJA – The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) on Saturday disclosed that it has put in place stringent measures to prevent those elected on its platform from defecting to other political parties. It also revealed that only those who have been with it for long won tickets into elective offices, as it ensured that no politician who decamped from another party into the NNPP won its ticket into office. Spokesman of the party, Agbo Major, told journalists on Saturday in Abuja that the opposition party’s strategy to retain those elected on its platform is to “operate transparently, to ensure accountability, and to ensure that the sense of belonging is there for all of them, thru are part of us, they’re comfortable where they are, and our programme guides them in what they’re doing. And that the downtrodden have access to them”. He also pointed out that the chance of anybody leaving after winning an election on the NNPP platform is reduced to zero. He also defended alleged hop-hopping between the leader of the party, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, and leaders of other political parties, as he allayed fears that the former Kano State governor has plans of dumping the party soon. Agbo while reading a statement further charged governments at all levels to give priority to the security and welfare of Nigerians. He said this is so because there will be no development without adequate security of life and property. The opposition political party also urged “security agents to be alive to their constitutional duties and crush terrorism, insurgency, militancy, banditry, armed robbery and kidnapping in the country”. POLL The statement added that this is in tandem with Section 14 (2) b of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, adding that the section provides that the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government. The party explained that “Thousands of fellow compatriots have been killed, wounded and abducted, and millions displaced from their homes in recent times. It is a sad commentary on our frail democracy. The people want dividends of democracy not carnage. It starts with progressive, purposeful and visionary leadership as the people of Kano State will witness in the NNPP government of Engr. Abba Kabir Yusuf “. NNPP further underscored that the people of Kano State “are the first citizens to usher in a new Nigeria we all desire and deserve” following what it described as the historic, epochal, remarkable and memorable” victory recorded by its candidate in the last gubernatorial election in the state. “It is a new dawn, a new beginning and the start of a progressive, people-oriented, purposeful and visionary governance that will transform the lives of the people in line with the manifesto, mission, vision and ideology of our great party, NNPP, to make Nigeria a land of justice, freedom and equal opportunities where all citizens are at liberty to aspire to achieve their lifetime goals and ambitions; a land to live in peace, prosperity and happiness. Kano citizens will henceforth experience democracy at its finest and values that define NNPP which include trust, effective leadership, responsibility, equity, competence, commitment, transparency, equality, patriotism, justice, and the sanctity and dignity of life, as summed up in the motto of the party – Peace, Equity and Progress”, it explained. In stressing that the country was at the threshold of new federal and state governments, particularly in Kano State where it will assume office on Monday, May 29, 2023, the NNPP Spokesman called on the governor-elect, Abba Yusuf, to re-enact the Engr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso’s era in the State. He urged Yusuf to imitate Kwankwaso’s “massive reforms, development and provision of infrastructure, agriculture, education, transportation, health, housing, security, sports, wealth creation and social amenities”. Even as it enjoined the people of the state to support the new administration in the hope that it will as a grassroots politician and leader, run an open government with the interest of the people at heart According to the statement, the “NNPP also congratulates the incoming Kano State House of Assembly members and urges them to cooperate with the Executive to guarantee speedy delivery of dividends of democracy to the people. “The need for synergy between all elected members of the party, the Governor, Deputy Governor, Senators, House of Representatives and State House of Assembly members cannot be overemphasized. “The team spirit in meeting the needs and expectations of the people is the hallmark of responsive and responsible governance. “The success of the party in Kano State will expand its frontiers across the nation in the people’s quest for a new, better and prosperous Nigeria. “All eyes are on NNPP’s government in Kano State to point the way forward to the nation as the foremost party in Nigeria. We must justify the confidence the people reposed in our great party anchored on good governance. “To herald this momentous occasion, the leaders of various organs of the party, the National Leader, His Excellency, Engr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, Ph.D (FNSE), Chairman Board of Trustees, Dr. Boniface Aniebunam and the National Working Committee-led by acting National Chairman, Alhaji Abba Kawu-Ali are expected to participate fully in the inauguration ceremony in Kano. “Accordingly, all elected members of the National Assembly and State House of Assembly from Kano and other States on the platform of NNPP are to proceed to Kano for this epoch-making event. “Together, we will build a strong, prosperous, equitable and just democratic nation, which starts with the NNPP government in Kano State. “Periodic election is the bedrock of sustainable democracy. The party demands free, fair, credible, transparent, inclusive and peaceful governorship elections in Kogi, Imo and Bayelsa States. INEC should sit up and take its statutory duties seriously. The commission should put its act together and conduct elections without hitches and BVAS glitches that characterized the contentious 2023 general election. A New Nigeria is possible with the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP). Join us to make Nigeria great again”.