After years of working in a corporate system that was neither created by her nor for her, Juliet Hall steeled herself for her final exit from a company that didn’t value her gifts and contributions. The glassy corporate tower had become a prison cell, but in one remarkable moment of clarity, a window opened in her soul, and she saw a path to freedom. In her candid new book, Own Your Opportunities, Hall shares her empowering true story as an example for others (particularly women) who feel disillusioned and overwhelmed in corporate America. The story begins with Hall’s career-defining decision to leave the company after being told her desired career path would not happen. She then recounts her job experiences spanning 20 years — building a narrative to show how she evolved, discovered her gifts and succeeded in a career amid a backdrop of corporate trauma before making the pivot to realize her dream. “We might have a tendency to normalize workplace trauma, and that’s not a good thing,” Hall said in a recent interview. “But we need the good and the bad experiences to cultivate who we are and to challenge our assumptions of the world and the people we relate to. We also need those challenging experiences to develop us and to help us discover who we really are.” In her book, Hall lays bare her own journey of self-discovery and the lessons she learned along the way. “No matter the opposition — whether it’s family and tradition, systemic bias and marginalization, or difficult leadership — there is always a path forward,” Hall said. In this book, readers will learn how she: Identified her value and gifts; Refused to be put in a box and allow others to define success for her; Took responsibility for her own growth and development. Vividly written, Own Your Opportunities is a champion for self-belief and dream fulfillment in women. Readers will benefit from Hall’s wisdom and personal experiences of how she developed her human capital, identified her value, took risks and positioned herself to achieve her dream. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “I believe that living out your intended creation and becoming the best version of your human existence is the gift that we not only give to the world, but in my opinion, living in that excellence of being who you are is ultimately how we glorify our creator,” Hall added.