Chi Tola Roberts, a serial entrepreneur, mentor, author and artist is the Chief Executive Officer of Chitola Farms. In this interview with SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, she speaks about her passion for agriculture, and what she is doing in the area of mushroom business among others salient issues. Excerpts: Can you tell us what you do in ChiTola Farms? I am the CEO of Chitola Farms. We grow mushrooms and add value. We are about the first farm to successfully grow pink oyster mushroom in commercial quantities. We have a lot of mushroom fortified products that are healthy and affordable. That range from seasonings to loaves. Chitola Farms have two lines Food and Cosmetics actually, we have a Mushroom based soap that is being sold in Paris. Mushrooms are about 40 to 60 percent of our ingredients and we have enough to cater for not eating it fresh in food products and nourishment in cosmetics. What led you to what you do and how has it been since you started? Passion for Agriculture led me into Agribusiness, Whilst in School in Ghana, we were thoughts a lot on value addition in everything, I actually studied Marketing and Journalism at two separate institutions in Ghana, but after working with multinational firms like Insight Grey Ghana, Infocus PR Ghana, DDB Media 1, Metro TV, KAMA Health Services, Pharma Info Consult and coming home to work a little with DTN as Chief Commercial Officer, I decided in 2015 it was time to finally move up one more step. Although, both parents after retirement went into commercial agriculture and horticulture which also inspired me, permit me to say that it’s been daunting. I must confess that. Especially in a country like ours where you live alone, motivate yourself or die with your dreams. POLL Sadly, we are more appreciated and see better opportunities and support from outside of our country. Reason so many of us are having second thoughts. See what an Agege bread idea is doing in Canada? See the support. We have mushroom fortified fufu and bread amongst other products. We have mushroom soap that’s currently selling in Paris. Tell me, aren’t we better out there? You do mushroom soap, seasoning, bread, fufu fortified with mushrooms, how did you come about this? Product development, value addition to provide mushroom in different forms to cater for different or let’s say diverse needs, and the values in the added products is as good and the same as having the produce fresh from farm to your kitchen. I have a passion for seeking out ways of improving livelihoods. So I am constantly searching for better ways of serving one meal. People are constantly looking for better recipes and we try to develop healthy recipes for alternative lifestyles. How is mushroom farming/ business fairing in Nigeria? Honestly, mushroom is a good business. We have the inputs and the necessary population and opportunities to make it happen from Nigeria to the whole world if possible. Nigeria has what it takes to be genuinely bigger than China but sadly, we have the wrong people at the hem of affairs. And I can tell you from a grassroots perspective that hunger and food shortage is looming. The rich with all the money may not be able to buy food. See what’s happening in the US now? They are rationing items. Imagine the opportunities that are there for SMEs from Africa and specially Nigeria. What does it take to start this business and what advice will you give to anyone who wants to go into this business? It’s takes as low as N50,000 to start a small mushroom farm at home. But my advice is, get trained. Mushroom is not like other farming activities, where you can just venture into it without knowing much about it, Mushroom cultivation requires some cardinal basic skills and knowledge, only a certified trainer can give. Sadly, a lot of our farmers like other businesses prefer to cut corners than get it right and maintain it. Only a few honest ones can stay straight and strict when it comes to quality. Nigeria has all it takes to actually be the giant in whatever we do. What have been the challenges in the business? The Challenges are enormous. From setting up, expanding, getting skilled workers, Funding, getting approvals, sourcing raw materials and finally managing post-harvest losses. Because it is a kind of farming that requires skilled workers, initially we had the challenge of getting farm hands, so we resorted to hiring people and training them and you know, you can’t stop or halt progress, when its time it will come through. Then we now started battling labour turnover. Because we pick them, we train them and they leave to go set up because they found the work lucrative. We also had the challenge of releasing some of our skilled farm hands to people who developed interest and wanted to set up, so we set up their farms and also provide someone who will train those to work there, the chain kept going on. Then of course, we have funding challenge, it’s also difficult and quite a hectic process getting approvals for certain products or production activity and even sales. All these are the issue MSMEs face and that’s why you find a very good idea, dead on arrival. What are the potential opportunities in this business? The potentials are numerous, both with direct marketing and the value chain. Where my direct marketing in this sense simple refers to one just cultivating and selling at farm gate price to fresh lovers or for those who either cultivates to add values like us or buy and add value,. Do you think female entrepreneurs deserve special treatment? Yes. We have emphasised and still hammering the emphasis but not much has been done to attain a remarkable experience or evidence of something being done. Female entrepreneurs are mostly the hardest hit when it comes to norms and factors if you know what I mean in context. So, it will be in the government’s own interest to revisit ease of doing business for especially women and also ensure targeted supports and interventions. What do you think the government should do to support female entrepreneurs in the country? Start by giving the right women entrepreneur adequate training, funding and or grants, export and monitoring/evaluation support. Set up policies that are gender friendly and accommodating and enforce same. You are also into arts, tell us a little bit about this? My Love for arts led me into Epoxy Resin Arts which also birthed ChiTi Resin Arts. Let me talk about my work of Arts a little bit, I believe a lot of persons don’t know about Epoxy Resin. It is an avenue to earn income for creative youths. The opportunities are vast and rewarding. You can use Epoxy for floors, walls, surfaces that are receptive to it and arts for decoration and beautification. It’s something I started off as a hobby to while away time and suddenly, JustRite Superstores ordered something to be made which I haven’t tried to make in such quantity before, I failed at first but tried it again and the result was fantastic. I started believing and looking up more ideas and ways of doing it, and you won’t believe it, orders started coming in and gradually I started building followership on IG of people who have bought from me or have been gifted. You can use Epoxy Resin for even Jewelleries. Self-motivation and passion is what’s been keeping me going in this business. I love to find new ways of doing things and making life easier. The fact that I get at least two calls a day from people who wants to know how to solve a problem connected to what I do that they are doing gives me pleasure too. The love to cater for persons who want and appreciate my products as well, but truly, that’s becoming rather secondary now because the state of the country is not encouraging us to do more.