ABUJA – President-elect, Bola Tinubu, has been urged to be wary of the propaganda and falsehood being peddled against the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, following the approval of his study leave by President Muhammadu Buhari. A civil society organization, under the aegis of the Central Coordinating Council, has called on Tinubu to beware of the antics of the outgoing Gov. Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State, whom the group said he’s presenting himself as noble and patriotic. The group, in a statement by its national coordinator, Barr. Obed Agu, said he was amazed that the Zamfara Governor relied on fake news which had been officially debunked by the Presidency to issue a statement against the CBN Governor. The group insisted that the Governor deliberately wanted to use the Fake news to salvage his image before the President-elect, noting that the people of Zamfara State voted him out of office as the only Governor out of the ten Governors seeking reelection, who could not win. The group added that the Naira redesign policy of the Central Bank sent the bandits out of business, adding that this development gave the people the opportunity to cast their votes and sent the Zamfara State Governor packing. The group further said that the feat Emefiele achieved is why they want to destroy him at all costs. Listing why Matawalle was voted out of office, the group said, “The people of Zamfara State accused him of complicity in the insecurity and activities of bandits that ravaged Zamfara State and the greater part of neighbouring Katsina and parts of Sokoto.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “The people also accused him of mismanagement of the financial and mineral resources of the state as well as gross incompetence in handling of state affairs of the State. These were the reasons the people of Zamfara State passed their democratic verdict on him and voted him out of office so that he can go and face the law. POLL “Having lost out, Mr. Matawalle now thinks that he can erase the consequences of his financial malfeasance by calling himself a patriotic Nigerian and attempting to hoodwink the President-elect that he loves Nigeria. It is for this purpose that he has targeted Mr. Emefiele as his scapegoat in his failed project to present himself as a good citizen.” The Civil Society apex body therefore called on Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to be cautious of the activities of some persons around him. The group warned that it may not sit well with the sensibilities of Zamfara people that Tinubu would appoint Mr. Matawalle into his cabinet to represent the same Zamfara people, who have roundly rejected him. The group further warned the governor of Zamfara and Mr. Bayo Onanuga that they are working on the very erroneous notion that picking on Emefiele would draw them closer to the President-elect. Central Coordinating Council eulogized the CBN Governor for his policies and actions as the head of the bank, adding, “Those with accurate information will attest that if not for the dexterity, expertise, finesse, dedication and commitment to service of Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the economy of Nigeria would have been a lot worse than it is today. “His multibillion Naira interventions in critical sectors of our economy including agriculture, small and medium scale business, were a booster to the economy in spite of the prevailing circumstances in the country and around the world. “The peddlers of falsehood should, for now, leave Emefiele alone to concentrate on how to ensure that the incoming administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu takes off seamlessly for the benefit of all Nigerians.”