Mrs. Busayo Adegoke is a venture partner at Squidi La Global Renewable Energy, a company that offers unique services and products to Nigerians. She is also the president of Junior Chamber International, Lagos Metropolitan. In this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, she said that small businesses should migrate to solar energy because it is cheaper in the long run, easier to use, efficient and neat. Excerpts: How did you get into the solar energy industry? We got into this industry by first ensuring that the knowledge required to disrupt the power space with renewable energy solutions was acquired. It took a lot of time and dedication but, it was worth it, after which we proceeded to client acquisition phase What service do you provide? We deliver solar power projects, inverter systems, street lights, solar water pump, solar powered irrigation system, lithium and deep cycle batteries. What is your assessment of the solar energy industry in Nigeria? The solar energy industry started up as a disruptive and innovative energy solution, and like any other new solution, there was so much skepticism around its acceptance especially as it concerns the financial implications required for set up. As of today, a lot of Nigerians have seen that other alternatives are somewhat penny wise and pound foolish initiatives hence there is a better understanding of the value embedded in solar energy solutions which is now being embraced by most people rather than HNIs alone POLL How long have you been in the industry? We started in the year 2010, so it is safe to say that we have been in the industry for thirteen years and we have delivered on projects and served customers. How cost effective is solar energy for small businesses in the country? The truth is that it only costs you so much to set up but once it is done, there is little or minimal cost incurred on maintenance as there is no need to fuel or service as the case may be. Also bearing in mind that fuel subsidy removal is imminent, I can categorically say that subsequently it will cost less to adopt solar energy for business operations Will you advise a small business to use solar energy? I will absolutely do so. It is best to consider it as a long-term investment that counts as an asset to the business. What policies do you want to see to make the environment better for entrepreneurs? No major policies to point out, but to state that we hope to see the day that Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria is much more experiential than theoretical. It is at this point that new and existing policies will favour entrepreneurs Does your gender affect you as an entrepreneur? At Squidi Global, we consider equity and gender balance in our management team and workforce, hence there is no gender disparity for the public to analyse or critic What is your advice to young entrepreneurs? I will tell them that consistency is an integral component to build, drive and sustain any business. But first, acquiring knowledge to know the craft and business of the business is key; so, learn about the business and be consistent.