Manchester United have reportedly set to rival Arsenal and Paris Saint-Germain for Bayer Leverkusen winger Moussa Diaby.The Frenchman has been in sublime form for Leverkusen this term, scoring 14 goals and providing 11 assists in 47 competitive appearances. As a result, Diaby is Leverkusen’s top scorer this term, and he has also registered more assists than any of his teammates, helping the club climb up to sixth place in the Bundesliga table and reach the Europa League semi-finals. Although Leverkusen lost out in the final four to Roma, they can secure their place in the top six this weekend when they face Bochum in their final fixture of the 2022-23 campaign. There is a possibility that could prove to be Diaby’s final game in a Leverkusen shirt, with a number of clubs considering whether to make a summer move. Arsenal will return to the Champions League next season, and they have identified Diaby as a player who could strengthen their squad ahead of the 2023-24 campaign. A recent report also suggested that French giants PSG are looking to re-sign Diaby, after selling him to Leverkusen for £13m in 2019. With Lionel Messi and Neymar heading towards the exit door, PSG are set to adopt a new transfer strategy of signing young French talents and at the age of 23, Diaby would certainly fit the bill. According to journalist Florian Plettenberg, Man United are also showing interest as they monitor the player’s situation. POLL The report suggests that Man United will only decide whether to pursue a summer move when their ownership situation is resolved. Sir Jim Ratcliffe and Sheikh Jassim bin Hamad Al Thani are currently vying to complete a takeover of the 20-time English champions and there is a belief that a preferred bidder could be named in the next week. Diaby, meanwhile, is under contract until the summer of 2025, and Leverkusen will only sanction a sale this summer if they receive a bid in the region of €70m (£60.9m) and €80m (£69.6m). Newcastle United have also been linked with the France international, but they have reportedly cooled their interest. During his four years as a Leverkusen player, Diaby has scored 49 goals and contributed 48 assists in 171 appearances across all competitions. Man United, who currently occupy fourth place, will be able to offer Champions League football to Diaby if they can pick up one point from their final two games against Chelsea and Fulham.