Nigeria, like many other parts of the world, is experiencing a rapid increase in motorization without having adequate road traffic signs and safety mechanisms in place to control the growing number of crashes and injuries. In many communities, road signs are too few or not conspicuously placed. It is obviously clear that the number of vehicles on Nigerian, especially motorcycles and Tricycles had increased in recent years due to technological and economic development with a recent data from NBS, indicating we have a total 20m registered motorcycles and about 12m registered Tricycles in the country, increasing the number of potential crashes. However, traffic control devices such as traffic signs, pavement markings and traffic signals are vital parts of highway system used to convey safety messages. They are used to provide crucial information in brief to support safe driving. However, the success of these information depends on their comprehensibility by the drivers and riders. Traffic signs use colours, shapes, and words to convey information. Traffic control devices aim to regulate and control traffic by providing information about the road and its environment to road users. However, traffic control devices cannot serve their intended purposes effectively if the information concerning safe driving that is encoded in the devices are not properly understood by the drivers and other road users. There is hardly a day that goes by without a record of road crashes in Nigeria, despite the availability of Road signs, markings, and signals, amongst others, meant to guide road users and ensure their safety. A recent study carried out in Akure, Ondo state by Road Markers League, indicated that the average percentage of riders understanding of traffic signs (warning and regulatory/prohibiting signs) was 67%, understanding of mandatory signs was 58%. While only 28.5% of motorcyclists understood traffic signs and symbols and adhere to traffic regulations. POLL A study on the knowledge of and attitude towards road traffic codes among commercial motorcycle riders in Eastern Nigeria showed that about two-third of the respondents had poor knowledge of road codes and safety. From the point of view of different authors and researchers, Nigerian drivers and especially riders of motorcycles and tricycles lack safety knowledge and poor understanding of traffic signs which may be one of the contributors of road traffic accident in Nigeria. There is a general public perception which is also supported by research findings that commercial riders in Nigeria do not have a satisfactory level of comprehensibility of traffic signs and symbols and often this is thought to be a major contribution to road accidents. On the aspect of education, it is only 11(2.3%) of the respondents to the research that had only primary education and below, while the rest had senior school certificate and above. Therefore, riders in the study areas are educated enough to read and understand traffic signs and symbols. This little number of uneducated can cause a serious traffic calamity if not well educated on the safety signs since they find it difficult to read and easily interpret safety signs on the roads. On the familiarity of riders to road signs among the respondents; 24.8% claimed to be very familiar 52.1% said to be familiar, 20.8% had fairly familiar; while2.3% were not familiar with road signs, signals and markings. However among the riders from the Northern region of the country, who constitute about 67% of the total number of commercial motorcycle riders in the South West, it is found that about 98% of them are uneducated, cannot read or interpret written or symbolic road signs and a staggering 58% of them said they are not familiar with road signs, markings and symbols. Riders Training The first point of departure from having the needed understanding of road safety signs and symbols is the lack of basic riders training needed to fully equip them in safe driving and strict requirement of compliance to safety rules and regulations, which many of them did not go through. Research on having basic riders training shows that 3.8% learnt how to drive through driving school, 34.9% through family members, 24.6% through private lesson, 34.2% through a friend, while others were only 2.5%. Duration of training received by the drivers before embarking on driving indicates that 219(46.0%) respondents trained for one week, 233(48.9%) respondents trained for less than one month, 19(4.0%) respondents received training for six months, 5(1.1%) trained for one year. From the findings only 3.8% learnt how to drive through driving school recognized by FRSC leaving the remaining 96.2% through other means. While 1.1% only received training for one year; 452(94.9%) had formal training between one week and one month. Meanwhile it is expected that riders should pass through recognized driving school where they could learn the basic tenets of road safety during the duration of training, if sanity should be maintained on our highways. On the area of re-driving programme and sensitisation, the result shows that infinitesimal number 3(0.6%) had re-driving programmes while the remaining 473(99.4%) did not attend despite the years of riding experience, which indicates that most riders are yet to embrace the culture of re-training. This simply means that the riders are ignorant of new codes and road guides for safety which can lead to severity of road traffic injuries. This shows why many of the riders on our roads are ignorant of safety rules after many years of riding. Thus, the questions therefore is, are riders on our roads licensed, how are they getting the license without full understanding of road safety signs and symbols? What is the prescription of the federal road safety before issuing riders license? The small percentage of drivers who are not familiar and are fairly familiar can cause a great havoc on the road due to their ignorance. Gauging the riders understanding of pavement markings and meaning by the respondents, it was discovered 32.8% had knowledge of zebra crossing, 31.9% have the knowledge of two solid line, 31.7% only have knowledge of centre broken line, while 30.7% have the knowledge of double continuous lines and 31.9% knew the meanibg of single solid white line. The average percentage for knowledge of pavement markings is 31.8% which is very poor. It is obvious that the pavement markings are not well understood and are mere formalities to most riders. Some of these markings were newly introduced without proper education and campaign to most of the commercial riders, without any form of training, advocacy and campaign to keep them abreast of the meanings.