According to a report by Spanish outlet Defensa Central, Dominik Livakovic is the subject of interest from Real Madrid. The Merengues view Croatia’s World Cup hero as a replacement for Andriy Lunin. And they are ready to shell out €5 million to secure his services in the summer transfer window. Dominik Livakovic has spent most of his career out of the spotlight, spending his entire playing days in his homeland. The 28-year-old passed through the NK Zarda Academy before rising to prominence after joining Dinamo Zagreb. And he has also risen in stature on the international stage. The 28-year-old was recently in the spotlight as he helped Croatia clinch a third-place finish at the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Meanwhile, Livakovic has kept 13 clean sheets in 48 appearances this season. And the shot-stopper’s progress has not gone unnoticed, with Real Madrid among his prospective suitors. Real Madrid might have to invest in a goalkeeper in the summer transfer window. That is because Andriy Lunin faces an uncertain future at the Santiago Bernabeu. And the Ukrainian international wants to leave Real Madrid to resurrect his career by securing regular game time in the 2023/24 season. Los Blancos might sanction Lunin’s sale in the summer transfer window. But Real Madrid will only part ways with the disgruntled goalkeeper once they secure a replacement. And Livakovic has emerged as a viable target for the Spanish outfit. And they are ready to offer €5 million to secure his services. The Merengues are confident that €5 million will be enough to land Croatia’s 2022 World Cup hero. But it is unclear if Dinamo Zagreb will accept such a bid once they receive the offer from Real Madrid. Meanwhile, the Spanish giants have several other goalkeepers on their radar, including Gabriel Slonina. It will be interesting to see if Real Madrid can secure Livakovic’s services in the summer transfer window with a bid worth €5 million. For now, a cut-price offer is in the works, with Los Blancos keen on signing Croatia’s World Cup hero this year.