The Peoples Democrat­ic Party (PDP), Enu­gu State, has faulted comments by the Di­rector-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig Gen Yusha’u Dogara Ahmed, that he told the Gov­ernor-elect of Enugu State, Dr. Peter Mbah, that his discharge certificate was not issued by the NYSC. The party, however, said his claim was in sync with the agen­cy’s conspiracy, deceit, and wil­ful misrepresentation of facts, which necessitated Mbah’s N20 Billion lawsuit against it. It equally described as an irony, a situation where the DG said he would not want to com­ment on the matter since it was in court, only to go ahead to not only deny knowledge of the law­suit and consequent court order, but also to act in clear contempt of the court. The Director of Communi­cations and Spokesperson of the Enugu State PDP Campaign Council for the 2023 general elec­tions, Barr. Nana Ogbodo, stated these at a press conference on Friday where he reacted to an interview by the NYSC DG on Arise News earlier in the day. “We should have viewed with surprise the false claim by the NYSC DG, Brigadier-Gen­eral Yushau’u Dogara Ahmed, on national television this morning. But he has not said anything new, as his state­ments were in sync with the continued conspiracy, deceit, and wilful misrepresentation of facts by the agency and its Director of Corps Certifica­tion, Mr. Ibrahim Muhammad, which necessitated Mbah’s N20 Billion lawsuit against the agency and Mr. Muhammad in the first place. “The DG lied when he claimed that he told Mbah during a meeting in his office that the NYSC did not issue his certificate. The truth is that he told Mbah that the Director in question neither briefed nor cleared with him before issu­ing the letter dated February 1, 2023, disclaiming Dr. Mbah’s discharge certificate. “He equally expressed sur­prise when Mbah showed him the letter by the NYSC national headquarters dated 7th May 2003 (reference number NYSC/ DHQ/CM/27/20) to the State Director, Lagos, NYSC, re-mo­bilising him for the remaining part of his service year after a break, by the express and writ­ten permission of the agency, to complete Bar Part II (Bar Final). “Excerpt from the re-mo­bilisation letter states: ‘I am directed to refer to your letter of 24th April, Reference No. LA/01/1532/T on the above sub­ject matter and to request you to reinstate the corps member to continue his service year from where he stopped, with effect from May 2003’. POLL “It is noteworthy that the Directors and staff present at the meeting did not deny that the NYSC authored the letter re-mobilising Mbah, while his place of primary assignment, Udeh & Associates, Lagos, has not denied that it authored the letter reabsorbing him to com­plete the remaining months of his service year as well as the final clearance letter to enable him receive his NYSC discharge certificate at the end of his ser­vice. “The DG actually told Dr. Mbah that he was barely three months in office at the time, but would resolve the matter with dispatch. But it is striking that the NYSC is yet to formally re­spond to Mbah’s petition since February 2, 2023. Instead, the NYSC, through its Director of Corps Certification, has contin­ued to issue letters of disclaimer to various political interests in Enugu State, in clear contempt of a subsisting court judgment upholding the authenticity of his certificate and in relentless disparagement of his reputa­tion”, the PDP stated. The party wondered why Mbah would go through all the rigorous process to serve his fatherland only to end up forg­ing a certificate, saying it was irrational to contemplate. It underlined the fact that the final verdict on the genuineness or otherwise of Mbah’s NYSC certificate did not rest with the agency, and urged it to face the N20 Billion lawsuit in a court of law where the agency also has the right to subpoena other rele­vant agencies in the production and authentication of NYSC certificates to give evidence. “NYSC discharge certif­icates are printed by the Ni­gerian Security Printing and Minting Company PLC. They have security features such as watermarks and serial num­bers denoting the batches. We, therefore, challenge the NYSC to produce any other certificate in the series of Mbah’s certifi­cate that has the same serial number as his.”