AKURE – Senior Pastor Awaiting The Second Coming of Christ Ministry, Adewale Giwa has charged Nigerians to hand over President Muhammadu Buhari to God on his appeal for forgiveness. The cleric noted that it’s only God that can decide whether to forgive the outgoing president for his several sins against Nigerians. President Buhari had asked Nigerians to forgive him whatever sins and mistakes he had committed. In a statement made available to newsmen in Akure, the Ondo State capital on Tuesday, Pastor Giwa said: “It’s only God Almighty can decide on the types of punishment President Muhammadu Buhari deserves in the last eight years of his incompetence and maladministration. “Asking Nigerians to forgive him at the tale end of his government is like asking him (Buhari) to return all his entitlements for eight years to the families of the victims affected by his awful policies. “God alone has the power to forgive the wicked if He chooses. However, the Scripture warns in Hebrews 10:26 against ‘willful sinning’. I am sure President Buhari can also find it in Quran as well. Also, Ecclesiastes 5:5 says It is better not to promise anything than to promise something and not do it. “Prior to 2015 elections, President Buhari promised Nigerians light(power supply) buy he ended up giving them darkness. Where is the man who trekked from Lagos to Abuja to celebrate Buhari’s victory because he saw the Messiah who was coming to wipe the tears of Nigerians? How will the man feel to see failure at the end of what he did? “I knew President Buhari was coming to fulfill a mission to destroy Nigeria when it took him over two years to blame his predecessors. POLL “All they still do is rig themselves into power and forget about their electoral promises. Nigerians want the best for themselves, and I don’t think the nation can produce a good leader if she still parades corrupt leaders. “Nigeria cannot have the best functional state when the old ones are not ready to allow the new ones to take over the mantle of leadership. If Nigerians forgive President Buhari, will God forgive him for sinning intentionally or for making promises he never fulfilled? Only God can decide Buhari’s case. “From 2015 to date, I have been the most consistent religious leader criticizing the administration of President Buhari. The world can see clearly how Nigeria has collapsed under Buhari and the APC. “Similarly, Nigerians must pray and do everything possible not to have a president like Buhari again. It’s sad that it took the outgoing president eight years to realize the evil that his administration has caused to Nigerians. “Can God forgive Buhari for his bad policies that have killed thousands of Nigerians over the years? Many have lost their souls due to hunger, economic hardship, killer herdsmen, Boko Haram etc. It is only God that can decide on the types of punishment President Buhari deserves, no one else.”