The Attorney General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami, has denied allegations of his involvement in an alleged $2.4 billion in revenue loss, over an unauthorised sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil. Malami stated this, on Thursday when he appeared before the House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee investigating the alleged sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil amounting to over $2.4 billion and crude oil export from the country from 2014 to date. The Attorney General of the Federation argued that the hearing was unnecessary since it did not concern his office or his involvement and firmly stated that the whistleblower’s claims, which implicated him in a $2.4b in revenue loss, lacked genuine substance and credibility. The committee’s chairman, Hon. Mark Gbillah, stated that the Minister was invited to put more light on pertinent issues regarding his alleged role in authorising and overseeing payments related to the subject matter. Gbillah emphasized the need for transparency and accountability regarding the authorization, payment, and general handling of revenue from crude oil exports He also expressed concerns about the Asset Recovery Account, a fund where recovered funds are temporarily held before being transferred to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. He again questioned the legality of this account and suggested its abolition in favour of directly depositing all government revenue into the Consolidated Revenue Fund as stipulated by the Constitution. Further, the investigation into the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue gained traction in December 2022 following the adoption of a motion in the House of Representatives, presented by Isiaka Ibrahim, who highlighted the claims made by a whistleblower in July 2020. POLL Recall that in April, the whistleblower alleged that a committee, composed of high-ranking officials from the current administration and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), had discovered the existence of 48 million barrels of Nigeria’s Bonny Light crude oil stored in various ports in China. The whistleblower further alleged that there were plans to sell this cargo, initiated through unofficial channels, without remitting the proceeds to the country’s coffers as required. The Chairman of the committee Hon. Gbilla faulted the Asset Recovery Account, into which recovered funds are kept before it is evacuated into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. According to him, “The Assets Recovery Account should be scraped as the constitution was explicit in directing that all revenue accruing to government must be paid directly into the Consolidated Revenue Fund CRF. Gbillah added that the House would seek further legal interpretation on the matter.