AWKA  – By micro-zoning the position of Deputy Speaker to the South East, the All Progressives Con­gress (APC) has demonstrated its hatred for the Igbo people and that position must be rejected. It is even more insulting if the office of the Deputy Speaker is considered the 7th in the power play in Nigerian politics and must be rejected. This is the view of the Coali­tion of South East Youth Leaders, (COSEYL), in a press statement the apex socio-political youth group in the South East geopolit­ical zone issued on Sunday in re­sponse to the horse-trading going on about the National Assembly leadership. In the statement signed by the President-General and Publicity Secretary of the group, Hon. Good­luck Ibem and Comrade Okey Nwaoru respectively, the group also wondered how the position is canvassed for Benjamin Kalu, whose election was controversial. Describing the APC power play as a charade and insult to the political sensibility of Ndigbo, the group said it “Rejects it in its en­tirety, no matter those behind it, and will continue to reject it. It added, “While the political goal and aspiration of Ndigbo is beyond the post of the Senate President, it cannot identify with a character like Benjamin Kalu, not to talk of endorsing him to represent the political interest of the entire South East as a federal parliamentarian holding the post of the Deputy Speaker”. It added: “For emphasis, the Igbo are a major ethnic group in Nigeria, also one of the tripodal arrangements upon which the nation itself stands – going by the “WaZoBia” scheme.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “We cannot be reduced to the background by the APC-led Fed­eral government, no matter the scheming or agenda. The Igbo race, more than many other geo­political zones in the nation, strad­dles one region (South East) and spans other regions too (South- South and North Central) with sons and daughters scattered all over the 36 states within the fed­eration. Other regions, barring the South West, have complex ethnic makeups and minorities. In the North, whether east, west, or cen­tral, there are the Fulani, the Hau­sa and usually other minorities all claiming each of the entire three zones as home. The South South it­self is made up of the Ijaws, Ibibio, Anangs, Ogonis, and Itshekiri, just to mention but a few (of its constit­uent ethnic nationalities).