ABUJA – Members-elect of the Minority parties in the incoming 10th House of Representatives under the umbrella of ‘Greater Majority’, have denied endorsing any candidate or aspirant vying for the Speakership posting in the 10th Assembly. Recall that the caucuses reportedly made a pledge to build consensus at stakeholders meeting with the outgoing House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila on Thursday in Abuja. As a result, some reports suggested that the pledge of a consensus was indicative of the fact that the Caucuses may have settled for a candidate, particularly the one anointed by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Tajudeen Abbas. But in a rebuttal issued by the group and signed by the Secretary, Hon. Ali Isa JC on Saturday, it cautioned the Media on the need to shun propagating fake news capable of misleading the public. The statement reads: “Our attention has been drawn to a fictitious report circulating in both conventional and unconventional media circles that the minority caucuses have endorsed a candidate for the Office of Speaker House of Representatives. “We hereby use this opportunity to categorically state that at no time did the minority caucuses endorse anyone, and we wish to add that as part of our ongoing consultations with all relevant stakeholders, which also includes receiving presentations from all the aspirants for Speakership, the group merely met with Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, the outgoing Speaker of the House of Reps, and Hon. Tajudeen Abbas who also engaged our Committee and made his own presentation to solicit the support of members of our caucuses to work with him just like the other aspirants did. “At no time did we make any announcement endorsing anyone for any office, and neither did we promise such endorsement to any aspirant or their proxies. POLL “Consequently, we hereby call on our members and the general public to disregard the rumours circulating around that we have made a choice. It is fake news. Our caucuses will only make our choices known after we have concluded all necessary consultations and our choice will ultimately be based on what will be acceptable to the generality of Nigerians. “We also want to inform members of our caucuses that the retreat in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State has been postponed to 31st May – 3rd June 2023. Members are expected to indicate interest and forward their names to the secretariat before Wednesday, May 24th, 2023.