Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has promised to redouble his efforts to complement his past achievements, particularly in the area of the provision of qualitative education by returning over 50,000 out-of-school children to classrooms through targeted interventions in the next four years. As the governor returned the Chairman of the inauguration committee, Segun Ogunwuyi as the Chief of Staff and Business Editor of Tribune title, Sulaimon Olanrewaju as the Chief Press Secretary. Governor Makinde said The decision to return 50,000 out of school children was hinged on the blueprint for Oyo state Roadmap for Sustainable Development 2023 – 2027, which refocused on four pillars: the Economy, Education, Healthcare and Security. Makinde made the disclosure in his inaugural address at the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium on Monday shortly after he was sworn together with his Deputy, Barrister Bayo Lawal by the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Iyabo Yerima . Made the appointment at the Governor’s office immediately the chairman of transition committee, Ogunwuyi handed over the transition report to him. According to him, ”Another policy that will remain in place is the 15-20% budgetary allocation to education. We must urgently continue to reduce the infrastructure deficit in our public primary and secondary schools. So, we shall focus on building classrooms and other needed facilities in underserved areas in the State”. The Governor said during his first term in office under Omituntun 1.0, over 50,000 children were returned to the classrooms, through targeted interventions, such as maintaining the no-fees in public schools policy, adding that he planned to return another 50,000 to the classroom in the next four years. While expressing appreciation to the people of the state for their overwhelming votes recorded during the last election, Makinde noted that the votes were far greater than what he got in 2019 election. POLL ”Four years ago, I took an oath before God and you, the good people of Oyo State. I pledged to put aside my self-interest to serve you to the best of my ability. Today, I stand before you to renew that pledge and reaffirm these solemn words, I will always put your interests first. ”And as we usher in Omituntun 2.0 on this day, I see another opportunity to reflect on our first term in office, recall our promises made and promises kept, and renew those promises you have given us another opportunity to keep. “We have worked hard to stimulate and accelerate economic and social development in Oyo State. As promised, we have extracted value from once-moribund facilities and abandoned projects in Oyo State. “In 2019, just a few months after we came into office, we set our sights on reviving the Pacesetter Quarry and Asphalt Plant, Ijaiye. We have since handed it over to private investors in keeping with our mantra that the only business government should have in business is to create an enabling environment for the private sector to thrive. ”We rehabilitated the main bowl of the Lekan Salami Sports Complex, Adamasingba. And what a proud moment it was when our State hosted an international match at that stadium for the first time in about thirty years. ”We also rehabilitated the once-moribund Oyo State Agricultural Development Programme Headquarters, Saki, the Rural Community Development Centre, Aawe, and we are on the verge of making history as we convert the Fasola Farm Settlement into a modern agribusiness industrial hub”.