In the past one year or thereabouts , l have been trying to recover from the shock of the jaw dropping gift that l had received from Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr,who is one of Africa’s foremost entrepreneurs and one of Nigeria’s most illustrious sons, that for lack of a better nomenclature,l would like to also refer to as the ‘Philanthropist -General’ of our time. As he clocked seventy (70) years on Saturday, 29 April,2023,ceaseless tributes to the man of the people and of all times have been flowing in tor­rents from all over the world and from all strata of society. They include those from very consequential leaders of strategic countries of the world,rang­ing from the president of our country,Nigeria as well as current and past presidents of neighbor­ing countries such as republic of Ghana and Be­nin to the current prime minister of the second richest country in Europe,France as well as nu­merous employees of his business conglomerate spread across the African continent and beyond. It is remarkable that all the soul stirring trib­utes extolling the enthralling virtues of the most effable and humane man that l have ever come across are from both the high and mighty as well as the plebeians in Nigeria,African society and the world at large. Let us also keep in mind that there are legions of indigent folks who are not privileged to have access to mass media platforms to share their own stories that would melt the heart of even Lucifer himself,about how Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr’s uncommon philanthropic gestures have redefined their lives. That indicates that the GLOBACOM found­er and chairman for whom the entire world is clinking glasses in celebration of his moving to the seventh (7th) floor of life (70th birth­day),has a knack for touching lives from the top of the echelons of society to the bottom of the rung. So,in light of the above reality,it would be un­wise or remiss of me to go on a rehash of the Glo­bacom founder’s tough, instructive and inspiring journey to wealth which has been the subject of a handfulof case studies in entrepreneurship conducted in a variety of institutions of higher learning across the world.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ All that needs to be said about how Chief Adenuga Jnr did not ‘bury his talent’ a meta­phor lifted from the holy Bible that Mr Segun Adeniyi,Thisday newspaper Editorial Board chairman leveraged to illustrate the entrepre­neurial prowess of the man that many refer to as the ‘Spirit of Africa’, did justice to the tycoon’s accomplishments as a quintessential business and jobs creator . POLL For those who may not be familiar with the bible narrative about the Talent,it is about how a wealthy man gave his servants Talents (funds) when he was going on a long journey. While some of the servants invested their Talents and earned profit which they handed to their master upon his return,a particular one buried the talent allo­cated to him instead of generating more income with it. Disappointed in the servant that buried the Talent entrusted in his care,in anger the master took the Talent off him and gave it to the servants that multiplied their Talents through enterprise. Clearly,the analogy above is very apt because Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr has not only by dint of hard work multiplied the Talents allocated to him,a feat which has already been put on display in the effusive outpouring of encomiums on the man that personifies the concept of honest hard work and reward,he has also been a very gener­ous giver to his compatriots in all spheres of life and all strata of society. Perhaps,his attitude of being a very cheerful giver is in fulfillment of the doctrine or mytholo­gy in Christendom and underscored in the Bible chapter of 1 John 3 : 17 that wealthy people are custodians of God given wealth which they are supposed to use to lift the less privileged. How many affluent people in the world have such a noble mindset ? In my reckoning,Chief Mike Adenuga is the type of man who, if he had the moon,can give it out in philanthropy to any man/woman who needs and deserves it, irrespective of tribe,tongue or creed. Hence in my tribute to the shy and at the same time ferociously bold like a bull wealth creator, who prefers not to be talked about-Chief Mike Ad­enuga Jnr ,l am concentrating on his somewhat understated acts of kindness and generosity to society as a whole and to individuals- both the affluent and indigent- in measures that appear to dwarf his financial wealth,even though he is stupendously rich. Ordinarily,what the wealthy are used to or are required to give out in philanthropy is a fraction of their riches. But the myriads of testimonies about his large heartedness,the quantum of what Chief Adenuga gives and the burgeoning number of his benefactors appear to be so gargantuan,that it is difficult for some close followers of his phil­anthropic gestures not to assume that he gives his all. One unique thing about his giving is that it is not just to his family members or people with similar business interests who have potential val­ues that he would harness in the future,but as l found out,his humanitarianism is multifaceted and multidimensional because his mission/goal is to affect humanity positively without frills. That reality is underscored by the fact that if life serves a compatriot or even a fellow human being lemon and Chief Adenuga is in a position to help,he would facilitate the process of the vic­tim turning the lemon into lemonade. And there are multiplicity of instances that he played such roles especially in the lives of our compatriots in the sports and creative as well as performing arts worlds which are too numerous to be listed in this piece. As my good friend Bashorun Dele mo­modu,Thisday newspaper columnist and Ova­tion magazine publisher noted in his tribute to the business colossus and humble owner of GLO telecommunications and Conoil Producing,who also has significant stakes in major banking,real estate and construction concerns ,Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr, in just a space of one year; he was gifted two premium cars – Audi A8L and Range Rover worth eighty five (N85m) million naira amongst other goodies. Who does that for someone who is not his fa­ther or mother,siblings or business facilitators/collaborators? But as Mr Momodu pointed out in his well crafted exposé ,the generous gifts to him were sudden and surprising from the man whose birthday has got very significant tongues waxing lyrical in attestation to his Midas touch in busi­ness and also his being imbued with the spirit of kindness to give freely to fellow humans without strings attached. Although,l am convinced that the man known as The Bull by his friends and associates would be uncomfortable with the disclosure that l am about to make, because he is an ‘apostle’ of one hand giving without the other knowing; but l can not resist sharing with his millions of well wishers across the world that l have also been a ‘victim’ of his out of this world ‘drop dead’ gifting. Imagine receiving a bank cheque with not just single,but multi digits figures on it amounting to a huge sum of money that would keep the mouth of many readers agape with incredulity! Add the fact that it was unsolicited,but an instinctive decision of my benefactor who has become legendary in his love for being his broth­er’s keeper,as his favor literally came out of the blues,then you can begin to have an idea of the reason that l confessed in the opening paragraph of this essay that l am still trying to recover from the positive effect of the pleasant surprise. And I was stunned by his fabulous gift be­cause l am not a product of his loins,neither a sibling,nor a business associate or even an em­ployee of the man that without equivocation,l would like to refer to as the most illustrious son and selfless giver that has ever come out of ijebu­land,Nigeria,Africa and indeed the world. So,what manner of man is Chief Mike Adenu­ga Jnr, the consummate business Titan who can gift a man something as priceless as the moon? That is the optics with which most people that he has touched their lives through fabulous gifts view the favors that he has doled out to them. In my modest understanding of life,only God gives freely without strings attached. The assertion above is underscored by the fact that it is only God that freely gives every living being,particularly humans air-the most critical element for the sustenance of life . It is also only God that makes the sun to shine upon and rain fall freely on Mother Earth to sus­tain those who believe in Him and those that do not,without discrimination. Indeed,it is a rare and unique display of hu­manity that Chief Mike Adenuga embodies such qualities associated with only human beings blessed with higher minds and not mere mortals. Strikingly,such godly values of freely giving and intentionally hiding his large heartedness from public glare is in adherence to and conso­nance with God’s injunction in the holy Bible in Mathew 6:3: “But when you give to the poor and do acts of kindness,do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing [give in complete secrecy] It is unsurprising that some benefactors have justifiably gushed about Chief Mike Adenuga Jnr’s fantastic acts of kindness and have there­fore conceptualized him in the image of Angel Gabriel. Well,it is worth pointing out that angels often announce the gifts being conveyed from God to their benefactors,except on few occasions when there was a caveat for silence. Take for instance,the immaculate conception of Mary mother of Jesus Christ and wife of Jo­seph the carpenter whose tongues were tied until Jesus was birthed. But given that Chief Adenuga detests publi­cizing what l would like to characterize as his ‘do goodness’ through his intentional efforts at keeping his wondrous generosities outside the klieg lights,it may seem uncharitable that l am breaking the code of the left hand not knowing what the right hand is doing,while engaging in charity as enunciated in the holy Bible. While not being unmindful that l am in contravention of the philanthropist’s core val­ue,ethos and guiding principle of giving in secre­cy,l have taken solace in the fact that even when Jesus Christ,the son of God had instructed the ten (10) lepers that He had pronounced healing upon to go and show themselves to the priests,it was disappointing that only one returned to show gratitude to Jesus Christ,as narrated in the Bible book of Luke 17:11-19.