…As Akpomudje Becomes Otota  The people of ancient Olomu Kingdom in Ughelli South Local Government Area of Delta State on Saturday(yesterday) crowned the Otota of Olomu Kingdom, Olorogun Macaulay Popo Ovbagbedia as the 13th Ohworode of the ancient Olomu Kingdom following completion of the rites of passage of the late Ohworode. The late Ohworode, HRM, Dr. R.L. Ogbon was the 12th Ohworode of Olomu after being crowned in 1988. The new Ohworode, a retired Assistant Commissioner of Police was crowned at the Adjafia Hall by Olorogun Godwin Okrokene, most Senior Otota of Uhurhie Ruling House as HRM Macaulay Ovbagbedia, Uhurhie-Sadjere II. Ancient Olomu Kingdom operates a rotational monarchy amongst the three Ruling Houses of Eyanvwien, Uhurhie and Oghoro. The Ohworode position is followed by the Otota and Akpile/Akpohor positions respectively. Whenever the Ohworode joined the ancestors, the Otota becomes Ohworode while the Akpile graduates to Otota while the ruling house of the late Ohworode will proceed to produce an Akpile. POLL With the installation of Ovbagbedia as Ohworode, Olorogun Albert Akpomudje SAN, current Akpile/Akpohor has become the new Otota of Olomu Kingdom. The Ohworode of Olomu, HRM Macaulay Ovbagbedia Uhurhie-Osadjere II who was so excited said, “I feel like I am dreaming, Today is a day joy.” He said said that his grand father, Osadjere was Ohworode of Olomu Kingdom, who ruled as Osadjere I ruled the Kingdom and died 1949 before others and the departed monarch, HRM. Richard Layeguen Ogbon Ogoni-Oghoro I JP took over the mantle of leadership as Ohworode of Olomu Kingdom. While expressing his appreciation to the people of Olomu Kingdom, HRM. Uhurhie-Osadjere II promised to reconcile and unite the people of Olomu Kingdom during his reign as the Ohworode of Olomu Kingdom. Earlier, the new Otota (Unu) of Olomu Kingdom, Olorogun Albert Akpomudje SAN in a brief remark said kingship in Olomu is not contestable as it’s properly arranged between the three Ruling Houses. The Otota (Unu) said the newly crowned monarch had served the kingdom side by side with the departed Ohworode,HRM. Richard Layeguen Ogbon Ogoni-Oghoro I JP as the Otota(Spokesman) of Olomu Kingdom. Olorogun Akpomudje (SAN) stressed that the monarch has been very patient as spokesman. Present at the brief event were the Chief of Staff to the Delta State Governor, Chief Ovie Agas, Olorogun Oskar & Olorogun Mrs. Miranda Ibru, Olorogun Jacob Diedjomahor, Prof. Emmanuel Ogujor, Sen. Emmanuel Aguariavwodo, Olorogun John Oguma, Olorogun Talib Tebite and many others.