Former presidential candidate under the Social Democratic Party SDP in the just concluded February 2023 general election, Prince Adewole Ebenezer Adebayo has commended the Federal Government for its rescuing efforts of Nigerians in the war ravaged Sudan even as he advised Nigerians to forget the last elections, move on, monitor and participate in governance so that the government of president elect does not fail. Armed conflict between rival factions of the military government of Sudan broke out last month in April in western Sudan, in the capital city of Khartoum, and in the Darfur region. As of the end of April, at least 559 people have been killed, and more than 4,000 others had been injured. Other foreign nationals have been and are still evacuating by their different governments. Adebayo said the efforts of the government have been quite reasonable given the complexity of the situation there. He noted that rescuing Nigerians through the land borders, instead of air, as being advised, was the best because ‘ its a lot easier and less cumbersome’. ” Rescuing them by air would have been good because it is faster, but the problem you are going to face in the process is better imagined. You will need air clearance. Send details of the aircraft. Check if the aircraft is well insured;  ask the insurers if they can make the trip to the said location. I think a lot of criticisms of the action of the government  in Sudan arose from ignorance.”he said. Adebayo spoke early in the week when he addressed hundreds of people during the rights advocate, Segun Awosanya’s organised open space on Twitter. He said governance should start immediately after the winner of an election is announced. He expressed reservations, though, just like other Nigerians about the conduct of the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC organsed election but added that such should not stop governance from going on.  According to him, “politics is a leadership selection process for you to have good governance. I lost the elections. I have complaints about the election, and I have ventilated it. As of 6.05, my votes in Adamawa on the day of the election was 157000, which is more than total votes nationwide INEC announced for me. I mentioned that in my initial reaction. I can not say it was APC that denied me. There are three things I don’t do. I dont do contradiction. That  the election isn’t good where I didn’t win but good where I won. I dont go to court if i dont have enough reason to. For those who have cases, you go to court, which you can not be denied. When you are in court, should I join you so that the winner should not be sworn in? Should I join you to continue to attack  the supoosed winner with all the campaign stuff (he was born a wrong day; he has 2 left eyes; his legs are bad even as he is being sworn in and you are writing everyone in the world that dont touch him, he is a criminal)I don’t agree with that. You are only insulting yourself as a country. “‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ For Nigeria to be counted among the greats, Adebayo said the country, particularly the leadership, must do away with playing ethnic and religious politics. ” We have had ethnicity mixed with religion for so long. If you look at the candidates, some would not have supported except they had come from their ethnic region and religion. And they are even investing in it. I dont play such politics. If you have muslim muslim presidency, the country will survive if the two of them are good people. If you have christain muslim, the country will collapse if the two of them are useless people . If you get christain christain christain, the country will do well if the two of them are good people. If you have christain christain and the two of them are hooligans, the country won’t do well. It’s not about religion but about the person, and the best way to know if your country is making progress is when you continue to deemphasis the issue of ethnicity and religion, “he stated. POLL Adebayo said Nigerians should, immediately a new government sets in, engage it for the development and general well-being of everyone as such action is the only way the country can make progress. Said he: As far as back as 2011, I knew Buhari had little chance of being successful, politically. But once he became president, I became supoortive because I didnt want him to fail but anytime he comes for election, I opposed him but once they say he wins, I support becaue my government must work. If Tinubu goes to IMF to borrow $10m, his signature is valid. I will want to engage him so that he doesn’t go and do it. If Tinubu decided to send 20000 soldiers to Sudan costing $20b, you can not stop him because he has a case in court. We must support whoever is in government to succeed irrespective of party or religious affiliation. “