ABUJA – The Federal Government has rehabilitated and commissioned Nasarawa Water Supply Scheme with a total design capacity of three million gallons per day. Engr. Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources, who commissioned the water scheme, said the provision of potable water supply and sanitation is the responsibility of the three tiers of Government, hence, the intervention of the Federal Government through his Ministry in providing the water supply scheme. To guarantee the sustainability of the water scheme, Adamu disclosed that the contractor had been mandated to train operational staff of the Board on various aspects of operating and maintaining the scheme. He noted that the water scheme would serve over 200,000 residents of Nasarawa town and its environs. While expressing gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for approving special funding towards the speedy execution of the Emergency Rehabilitation of the Nasarawa Water Supply Project, the minister noted that, the contract for the scheme was satisfactorily carried out within the stipulated completion period of 24 months, stressing that the contract was awarded in May, 2021. He further stated that, major elements of the work duly executed included the “Restoration of the riverbank embarkment through filing compaction, stone pitching, sloping and stabilization with gabion retaining wall. “Installation of 2Nos, raw water pumps complete with all associated equipment . “Rehabilitation of the rapid gravity filter and necessary electro- mechanical equipment. POLL “Rehabilitation of clear water tank and electro-mechanical equipment；Installation of 3No high lift pumps ,2 Nos Air blowers and backwash pumps complete with all associated equipment, Supply and installation of 500 KVA Transformer and Generating set each including all necessary equipments. “Training Of Water Board Staff in the operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated treatment plant which is done to ensure sustainability of the facilities for the State.” The minister said the Federal Government’s intervention is not limited to Nasarawa Water Supply, but that projects like, Farin Ruwa Water Supply, Completion of Farin Ruwa Dam and Accessories, in addition to numerous Water Supply Schemes constructed by Lower Benue River Basin Development Authority in form of Constituency projects sited in rural areas abound. He, therefore, urged the State to provide an enabling environment for the Water Board to perform optimally. Earlier,the Governor of Nasarawa State, Engr. Abdullahi Sule,who was represented by his Deputy, Dr Emmanuel Akabe, said the project was initially conceived in 1985 as a result of flood disaster that affected Nasarawa Water Scheme and eventually led to the stalemate of water production in Nasarawa town. According to him, the project would provide the needed enabling environment to improve living standards of the people and enhance agricultural practices all through the irrigation season.