★Contends Aspirant Has No Backing Of Members-Elect From South East The legislative watch unit of Civil Society Central Coordinating Council has advised Hon. Miriam Odinaka Onuoha, representing Okigwe North/ Onuimo/Isiala Mbano federal constituency of Imo State to throw her weight behind the All Progressives Congress (APC) preferred Speaker and Deputy Speakership candidates, Rt. Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, and Benjamin Kalu respectively, in the 10th House of Representatives. The group, in a press conference in Abuja, also noted that Onuoha contesting for the presiding officer positions is against the House rules which clearly states that members without requisite legislative experience are not allowed to contest for principal office positions. The group which however did not cite any relevant section or provision of the House rule to substantiate its position, argued that Hon. Onuoha is “not eligible to contest for speaker or deputy speaker of the 10th assembly haven joined the House not up to 3yrs ago and recently underwent her first induction as a lawmaker few weeks ago with the first timers.” Speaking through its lawyer, Barr. Anderson Achilike, the CSO pointed out that Onuoha just had her first induction with the 10th Assembly members-elect, as she was not inducted in 2019 due to issues surrounding her election. According to Achilike who did not cite or quote any relevant provision of the House Rules, Hon. Onuoha does not have the support of Imo or South East lawmakers who are voting for the All Progressive Congress consensus Candidate Hon. Benjamin Kalu. He urged Onuoha to in the spirit of brotherhood and respect for party supremacy, jettison her ambition and support her brother Kalu. The CSO said: “Miriam Odinaka Onuohawon re-election into the federal House of Representatives in 2020. Obinna Onwubuariri of the PDP was declared winner for the 2019 election, but the National Assembly election petition tribunal in Owerri in September 2019, sacked Onwubuariri, and ordered a fresh election for January 2020. She won the tribunal ordered election POLL “She has barely spent almost three years in the House of Representatives and she’s aspiring for a principal officer position which is against the House rules. She has not completed a full term and can’t run for any principal position in the House. In terms of experience and competence she can’t be compared to Hon. Benjamin Kalu, as the APC consensus Candidate has the perfect qualification and experience to preside over the affairs of the House as a deputy speaker with legal background. “She shouldn’t allow the other members of the aggrieved G-7 aspirants to deceive her. Rather she should in the spirit of brotherhood support her Igbo brother, Benjamin Kalu. The Igbos need to be united now more than ever.”