LAGOS  – A Prosecution witness, Inspector Friday Shuaibu, has told an Ikeja Special Offences Court why pay­ment of $4.666 million to Hercu­les Offshore Nigeria Limited was withheld. The witness, Insp. Shuaibu, made the disclosure while giving evidence before Justice Olubun­mi Abike-Fadipe during the trial of a couple and their companies. The 1st to 4th defendants are Amaechi Ndili, his wife, Njide, Lionstone Offshore Services Limited and Lionstone Compa­ny Limited. Led in evidence by the pros­ecution, ACP Simon Lough (SAN), Insp. Shuaibu informed the court that the first defendant withheld the money because the complainant failed to make him a local content partner in his com­pany, Hercules Offshore Services Limited, as promised. Shuaibu told the court that on February 28, 2018, the 1st defendant reported to the Com­missioner of Police, CP Ibrahim Lamonde, at their office, Kam­salem House, with their counsel to complain that his company accounts had been placed on lien by the Police. He said the CP called him and instructed him to investigate the case. He said he took the first defen­dant to his office, cautioned him, and that he wrote his statement voluntarily before being granted administrative bail and released to his friends, one Emmanuel, same day. He said the 1st defendant wrote that he withheld the mon­ey “because Hercules refused to make him a local content partner in Nigeria.” POLL The witness said in the second statement made by the 1st defen­dant, he disclosed that a sum of $2 million, out of the $4.666 million owed Hercules was with First City Monument Bank (FCMB). Shuaibu informed the court that the police quickly raised a letter to FCMB and the bank dis­patched its Head of Energy, Seun Oseni, to their office. Oseni wrote in his statement that the money paid by the 1st de­fendant into the FCMB account was for the 3rd defendant and had nothing to do with payments and remittances to Hercules Offshore Nigeria Limited. “We invited the 1st defendant on the third occasion to meet with a representative of Hercules Off­shore. The 1st defendant gave an undertaking that he was ready to sit with Hercules to discuss and that in three months he would pay $600,000 but did not pay the money. “The file was sent to our Legal Department. We wrote the Cor­porate Affairs Commission and we found out that the 1st defen­dant is not the only director of the account and also not the only signatory. He is the President of Lionstone Offshore Nigeria Lim­ited and 2nd defendant is Vice President.