ABUJA  – Member-elect, Hon. Chief Billy Osawaru, representing Orhion­mwon/Uhumwode Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, has vowed to end insecurity and prioritize education. The member-elect, who promised to sponsor bills that will end insecurity and achieve his desired education for his people, added that other areas of focus would be infrastructure development. Speaking with journalists in Abuja, Osawaru who thanked the people of Orhionmwon/ Uhumwode Federal Constitu­ency for believing in him and sending him to the National Assembly to represent them, said, “The issue of insecurity, you see, nothing else is going to work if we don’t take care of the insecurity that we are having in the rural areas of the country. That is going to be my first task. “Yes I know we have laws pertaining to insecurity already, but I need to see why they are not working. We have been having a lot of kidnapping issues and herdsmen crisis. As I speak to you there are a lot of farmers that have been attacked and molested by herdsmen. Even some have been killed. “My first assignment is to make sure I sponsor bills that will protect the people of my constituency and Nigerians in general.” Speaking on education, the member-elect said, “right now we are experiencing a drift. Our kids are moving to the city to get a quality education. What hap­pens? The implications of that is that when they start moving out of their places, who’s now going to come to the place? “We are having that big is­sue now when it comes to the education of our children. That is another area I want to look into. How do we bring quality education to our constituencies so that we can prepare and raise young leaders that we take over from us. “I have done some research, and I have found out why the Yoruba are very industrious. I took a look at when Obafemi Awolowo was the Premier of the Western Region. The free educa­tion he gave to his people actual­ly took care of the poverty that would have been transferred from one generation to the other. POLL “I’m sure some of us can take a cue from that and begin to give our people quality education be­cause if we want to change Nige­ria, we must first of all give our people good and quality educa­tion for them to know what is right and wrong, good and bad. “Everyone cannot send their kids to private schools. What do we do now? We have to go back and make sure the schools we have in our Federal Constitu­encies can compete with the private schools.”