ABUJA – The acting National Chairman of the Labour Party, Alhaji Basiru Lamidi Apapa, on Wednesday, denied the allegation in some quarters that he was given the sum of N500million by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to foment trouble in the party, aimed at scuttling the party’s petition at the Presidential Election Petition Court. Apapa insisted that he did not collect any money from anybody in APC or group, stressing the leadership crisis in the party is occasioned by the removal of the former National Chairman of Labour Party, Julius Abure, over allegations of perjury, fraud etc. “I dare anybody that is alleging or insinuating that I received the the sum of N500m from a certain politician in APC to come out with proof,” Abure said. Abure made the rebuttal while addressing newsmen against the backdrop of his attack at the Presidential Election Petition Court sitting at the Court of Appeal Abuja, on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Apapa, who said he escaped being lynched by whiskers at the court premises by irate thugs loyal to the embattled factional Chairman of Labour Party, Julius Abure, called the Presidential candidate of the party, Peter Obi a “liar” for denying knowing him and the offices he had at different times occupied in the Labour Party. “How could Our Principal say he did not know me but we campaigned for the party together in Asaba?” Apapa queried. At the media briefing attended by the Deputy National Chairman of the party in the north Mike Ayuba Auta, National Publicity Secretary Olufemi Abayomi Arabambi and one of the women leaders Rukayat Salihu Umar, Apapa said that what happened at the Presidential Petition Tribunal Court in which fracas broke out in the presence of Peter Obi, was “disgraceful and a test” of Obi’s leadership quality.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Apapa said that the leadership tussle that has engulfed the party would have been settled if the presidential candidate had respected the order of High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, which had ordered Julius Abure and three others from parading themselves as national officers of the party over their indictment for forgery and perjury. POLL Apapa traced the genesis of the crisis to the time the order of the court was served on the party, and he was unanimously selected in acting capacity as the National Chairman of the party. He said that it was wrong of Obi to accord respect to Abure despite the order of the court. He pointed out that it would be wrong for Obi to be supporting Abure to violate an order of a court and at the same seeking justice from the PEPC. Apapa demanded that Obi must be unbiased in order to get the disputed chairmanship tussle resolved.He appealed to Obi to be “open minded, neutral, and objective” so as to be able to stop the crisis. Also speaking at the briefing, the deputy National Chairman of the Party in the North, Mike Ayuba Auta denied that the All Progressives Congress was behind the crisis adding that the allegation was baseless and unfounded. Auta apologized to Nigerians who he said gave Labour Party over 6million votes during the last presidential election, adding that they should not be discouraged by the current leadership crisis and assured that the dispute will soon be resolved.