Given the sudden recovery of my mandate in October 2010 and the unplanned exit of my predecessor from office, a quick review of state finances revealed a state in severe financial crisis with many on-going infrastructure projects unpaid for and contractors turning up with backlog of certificates. Meanwhile we had arrived, armed with our own am­bitious programme contained in our own Roadmap to Ekiti Recovery, with emphasis on several social investment programmes like free education up to senior secondary school, free health programme for the vul­nerable segments of the population, social security for the elderly, expanded infrastruc­tural development and modernisation of the agricultural sector. We therefore needed a serious financial engineering to rescue the state. There are three major ways you make money in government: You make, beg or borrow. What you make from your IGR and investment holdings is what you make. Your receipts from Federation Account and what you may get as grants from interna­tional development agencies are unearned incomes, which I classify as begging. Then the loans you are able to obtain are your borrowings. In all categories, Ekiti at the time I took over was in dire straits. This was the time that oil price had dipped in the in­ternational market leading to a significant reduction in oil revenue to the Federation account. I must also add that, in any case, Ekiti is at the bottom of the States’ federa­tion receipts ladder even in the best of time. Moreso, the internally generated revenue in Ekiti was nothing to write home about at an average of N109m per month. And to make matters worse, it was also a period of agitation for increased minimum wage by the trade unions and there was little or no support from bi-lateral and multi-lateral development agencies to Ekiti State. Indeed, the situation was so desperate as we usually had nothing left after we had paid out work­ers’ monthly wages and operational costs. Given this rather parlous context, we had to think outside the box. We started by intensifying our engagements with de­velopment partners and approached the financial market for a bond. Having been instrumental to securing the support of the UKAiD Governance programme for Ekiti State under Governor Adebayo as well as my own extensive involvement with the development sector in Nigeria, we start­ed to re-engage many of the development partners who responded positively to the agenda we shared with them. The fact that we had a plan in place was a critical success factor in those missions. We got the World Bank to support our Education and Health programmes, including the support of our rural teachers allowance and our core sub­ject allowance which were packaged as in­centives to teachers willing to serve in hard to reach places and those teaching core sub­jects. We also successfully secured support from the World Bank and the European Union for a comprehensive urban water rehabilitationprogrammewhichupgraded our major water dams in the State and at the same time reconstructed water pipelines across the state. We also secured a N25billion infrastruc­ture bond that was spent on a comprehen­sive road rehabilitation programme, the Ikogosi Tourist Centre, the resuscitation of the Ire Clay factory, construction of the Government House, Obafemi Awolowo Civic Centre, the Ekiti Pavilion, the Mar­kets and the Liaison Office in Lagos. Also, by 2014, we had successfully increased the IGR to N600m from the paltry N109m when we came into office in 2010. By the end of my second tenure in office in 2022, our IGR had hit an average of N1 billion per month. The point here is that your plans are only as good as the resources you are able to mobilise to fund them. It is good to be am­bitious, but it is also sensible to be realistic. No government can have all the money that is required to work. However, with a little bit of creativity, driveandcarefulmanagement, itispossibletomobiliseenoughresourcesto fund your agenda within a clearly defined scope. It is also worth pointing out that even with the best of plans, things may not turn out the way one had hoped. As a state in a federation that relies on allocation from the centre, the state’s economy would always be tied to the vagaries of Federation revenue which in turn is subject to the volatility of the international oil market. This is why the most financially sustainable of our states would be those whose development agenda is not entirely dependent on the allocation from the Federation Account. Like a business, the state also has to con­tinue to find new ways of reducing the cost of governance and also of plugging leak­ages. We refrained from sacking workers because of the obvious political and social cost. Instead, we left exits to natural attri­tion. By introducing a biometric integrated payroll system, we successfully eliminated the scourge of ghost workers and reduced waste in payroll management. This way we were even able to increase workers mini­mum wage three times in the course of my time in office – from N7, 500 per month in 2010 to N13,500 per month in 2012 to N18, 000 per month in 2014 to N30,000 per month in 2019. By the time I returned to office in 2018, we had established a credible record with ourdevelopmentpartnerswhichhelpedthe state to mobilise more resources and many partners who left the state during my prede­cessor’s tenure returned with their support. Some of these included support for our technical education programme – IDEA, the Adolescent Girls programme – AGILE, the Rural Access to Agricultural Markets Programme – RAAMP for our rural roads, the NEWMAP – Erosion Watershed Man­agement Programme, NG-CARES pro­gramme – all from the World Bank and the Ekiti Knowledge Zone and Agricultural Processing Zone initiatives supported by the Africa Development Bank. The chal­lenge of donor funding and development partnerships is the often inexplicable de­lays in project implementation. There were projects for which we secured support at the beginning of my second tenure in office which did not commence effectively till my departure from office. This is one reason why continuity of people with institutional memory of projects is key. With regards to public private partner­ships, we approached the Legislature im­mediately we came into office with a PPP law and set up a PPP office. We subscribed fully to factors critical to ease of doing business which culminated in the estab­lishment of the Ekiti State Development and Investment Promotion Agency (EK­DIPA). We were bullish in selling the state capacity and unique points to the market. We presented ourselves at the Nigeria Stock Exchange and attended several investment roadshows and declared Ekiti as ready for business. In no time, we began to attract in­terests in the state from the private sector and signed partnership agreements with Promasidor Industries to revive our mor­ibund Ikun Dairy Farm with a $5million investmentincluding theimportationof 500 jersey cows and the production of 100,000 litres of milk on a monthly basis in Ekiti. Others like JMK Farms built a rice mill and Promise Point and Arog built cassava mills. Agbayewa Farms established presence by investing $10m in the Agriculture sector and recruited over 200 workers in the state. In the 2022 Ease of Doing Business ranking, the State had climbed up the ladder to the 14th place nationally and as the most attrac­tive investment destination in the South West in terms of investment climate and enabling environment. POLL Equally, Ekiti gained the confidence of the financial market. Having paid off our first infrastructure bond of N25b tak­en during my first tenure, we were able to secure another infrastructure bond of N25billion which was exclusively utilized to fund the Agro-Cargo Airport project, the Independent Power Project, the Land GiS programme, the first phase of the Ado- Iyin-Aramoko-Itawure Dual carriage way and the Agriculture Land Management Programme. Although the fiscal headroom for bor­rowing was significantly reduced by the time I left office, it would have been most difficult, if not outrightly impossible to have accomplished all that we did in Ekiti if we had not adopted this complex mix of finan­cial strategies to fund capital projects that were most needed for the growth and devel­opment of the State. Contrary to the views held by ideological purists or genuinely ig­norant observers, the choice for us was not between markets and government but the effectivecombinationof thetwo. Otherwise, all we would have accomplished in office would have been just payment of salaries to workers that are not up to 10 percent of our state population without any infrastructur­aldevelopmenttoshowfortheentiretenure. In spite of our best efforts, there were still funding gaps as a result of the fluctu­ations to Federation account finances and reduced prospects of internally generated revenue in the CoviD Pandemic period. Indeed, in my last year in office, the oil company – NNPC – contributed zero to the Federation Account thus further compli­cating the financial vulnerability of most states, which led many states to inevitably pile up debts as a result of the pandemic. One of the steps put in place to address this challenge at the level of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum was the World Bank supported States’ Financial Transparen­cy, Accountability Stabilization (SFTAS) Programme, which incentivised states for ensuring transparency and accountability in their finances. In addition, the Governors Forum was also able to negotiate the netting off of states debts to the Federal Govern­ment against outstanding receipts from the FG to states owed over the years. With this, states were able to gain more fiscal head­room to stabilize state finances and put in­coming administrations on a much firmer footing. In this context, we also worked with the Debt Management Office to determine common ceiling for States so as to avert the difficulty of borrowing beyond the state’s capacity to pay. One major area of concern for most states which requires a concerted effort by all states is in the management of pension obligations and gratuity payments which is constituting a significant cog in the finances of states. It is my hope that the Governors Forum will continue to pursue the devel­opment of a comprehensive package that will represent a one-off settlement of these obligations whilst also encouraging states that are yet to subscribe to Contributory Pension Scheme to do so with this one-off assistance. This could come in the form of promissory bonds. From the political and social development point of view, it is im­portant that states are able to find sustain­able solutions to the problems of pensions so that they are able to wipe the tears off the faces of people who have served selflessly who are now caught in poverty as a result of this pension problem. In the end, one can argue that we didn’t completely eradicate poverty in the State, and no one could in the period of two terms in office; independently verifiable evidence however points to a state that has significantly reduced multidimensional poverty. By the time we were leaving, Ekiti ranked fifth out of 36 least affected states by multi-dimensional poverty in the NBS study on multidimensional poverty. Our strides in the field of education has been acknowledged as the state with the highest enrolment and lowest out-of-school children by UNICEF and UNDP. Not to mention the health indicators which continue to reflect effective and focused management of re­sources in the health sector. To consolidate on these strides and sta­bilize plans for funding under subsequent administrations, we also embarked on producing a fully costed 30-year Ekiti State Development Plan (2021 – 2050). This gives all interested development partners a clear sense of the State’s priorities and where each partner – public or private – could come in to assist. This will assist the new Government with the latitude to phase its development efforts and the predictability to give confidence to a variety of private and public sector financing as well as develop­ment partners’ support. From my experience, it is obvious that some Governors will more or less lay a new foundation for their State’s finances. Some would be fortunate to inherit something that had already started working well. Whatever the case, the yardstick for a com­petent governor will be measured not only by the ability to spend money sensibly, but also by the ability to make money for the state. States now have to think like a busi­ness. If we are able to develop a compelling and comprehensive plan that will prove attractive to development partners, private sector investors and intergovernmental entities, we don’t have to surrender to the limitations and dictatorship of the FAAC allocation. The Power of Leadership as Service and Sacrifice I have emphasised the need to have a plan. But even this can only be derived from a commitment or at least, a desire to make the difference and leave the state bet­ter than we met it. It is worth pointing out that best intentions are never enough. It is so easy to get caught up in the appearances, attending meetings, social events, playing politics and even pushing files. In the end, there would be little or nothing to show for it. It is however, difficult to imagine a gov­ernor with a clearly articulated plan of his own getting into office and surrendering to frivolities. As you would find, leadership is mostly a thankless job. But we asked for it. The sacrifice that one is required to make is so huge that it is only with a clear ethical perspective and a sense of duty to something bigger than yourself that you can wake up every single day willing and able to continue to push. To be continued …Being text of the Founders’ Day Lec­ture delivered by Dr. Fayemi, former Governor, Ekiti State and Visiting Professor, Africa Leadership Centre, King’s College, University of London, at the Western Delta University, Ogha­ra, Delta State on 29 April, 2023