LAGOS  – Players in the Nigerian aviation industry have con­demned the compulsory contribution of aviation agencies 40 percent revenue generation to the federation account. This is as Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Di­rector of the Federal Air­ports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), said that the agen­cy contributed about N44 billion of its revenue to the federation account in 2022. Speaking at the second edition of the FAAN Na­tional Aviation Conference (FNAC) with the theme, ‘Sustainability of the Avi­ation Industry in Nigeria: The Operators View Point,’ Yadudu said that the force­ful contribution was hav­ing a dire strait effect on the performance of the agency. He also said that this con­travened the new FAAN Act 2022, which stipulates that all revenue generated by the agency must be ploughed back into the sector for the purpose of infrastructure development. According to him, FAAN in 2022 contributed about N44 billion to the Feder­al Government’s purse through the policy. The Federal Govern­ment had in October 2022, increased the compulsory contribution to federation account by its revenue gen­erating agencies to 40 per­cent from 25 percent. With this, 40 percent of the internally generated rev­enues (IGRs) by government agencies, which is sent to the Treasury Single Account (TSA), is now meant for the Federal Government to exe­cute projects.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ There are six agencies in the Ministry of Aviation out of which four are affected by the new policy of the Federal Government. POLL The affected agencies are FAAN, Nigerian Air­space Management Agency (NAMA), Nigerian Civil Avi­ation Authority (NCAA) and the Nigerian College of Avi­ation Technology (NCAT), Zaria. He, however, appealed to the Federal Government to suspend it from the con­tribution to the federation account in order to address infrastructure gaps. According to him, such exemption was in line with international standards and recommended practices. He explained further that cost of its commodities are increasing daily and men­tioned recent hike in the price of diesel. He lamented that the price of diesel per litre had increased from N400 to N1,150 in the last one year, yet 40 percent of the agency’s revenue is still deducted at source. He said: “Talking about government policy, right now, we have 40 percent of our revenue being deducted at source. Finance is about 99 percent of the challenges we are facing in the indus­try. Last year, about N44 bil­lion of our revenue went to the federation account. The price of diesel has increased to N1,150 per litre from N400 we were buying it about a year ago. “Now, we have our own Act. With this, FAAN should not be sending any percent­age of its revenues to the federation account.” Also, Capt. Sheu Iyal, the Managing Director of Af­ri-Air International Limited, a fixed based operating com­pany, said that the compulso­ry contribution of 40 percent revenues of aviation agen­cies to the federation coffers would have a negative effect on their performance. Iyal explained that the survival rate of the agencies was minimal and appealed to the Federal Government to reverse the policy for the growth of the agencies. Iyal explained that avia­tion is not for profit making, rather for national security, stating that such deduction may distract them on the long run. He said: “If FAAN uses 40 percent of its revenue and the government takes it, how do they want them to be able to run it? So, there is a need to talk to the government. There is a need for the gov­ernment to realise that avi­ation is more than business, aviation is a component of national security. “So, there is no reason our airports and airlines should have the kind of problems we are having today because aviation is a component of national security. So for whatever reason, we must find a way of helping them to survive. Then, we talk about sustainability. This is in two stages, but if we want to car­ry the two of them together, fine. We must realise that there is a need for survival.” Also, Capt. Roland Iyayi, the Managing Director of TopBrass Aviation, said the contribution was against the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) stan­dards and recommended practices. Iyayi also appealed to the Federal Government to reverse the decision for the good of the country. He said: “The Acts setting up these agencies didn’t say they are revenue generat­ing organisations. They are to provide services. So, the government should remove them from this policy.”