ABUJA  – In a bid to finish strong, President Muhammadu Buhari will today commission the second Niger Bridge and six other projects tagged as his landmark projects. According to a statement from the presidency, on Monday eve­ning, the decision to construct the second Niger Bridge was concep­tualised in 2005. Other projects in the lineup of commissioning by President Bu­hari, barely few days to bowing out of office, include three major bridges, three federal secretariats and a road project. Buhari’s media aide, Femi Adesina, said in 2014, there was an attempt to begin the project through public private partner­ship (PPP) but it was not suc­cessful. The construction began in 2016 with the Presidential In­frastructure Development Fund (PIDF). They were eventually com­pleted by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing across the country. Others also billed for com­missioning are the Loko-Oweto Bridge across River Benue to link Benue to Nasarawa State and the Ikom Bridge in Cross River State while the road project is the completed section of the over 200 kilometres of Kano-Kaduna dual carriage expressway and three new federal secretariats. The first of the federal sec­retariats at Awka is located at Executive Business District Lay­out, Awka South Local Govern­ment Area, Anambra State, and is situated on a 5.106 hectares of land. The project was first awarded on December 9, 2011, but was practically completed and taken over by the Ministry of Works and Housing on July 14, 2022. The secretariat has a total of 498 office spaces, a conference hall, four committee rooms, an exhibition hall, a banking hall, a post office and befitting recep­tion. POLL In addition, the secretariat has lift facilities, well laid out parking spaces and drainages, staff can­teen, fire hydrant and other vital facilities. The second, Federal Secre­tariat Gusau, Zamfara State is located at Unguwan Dan Lawan, off Sokoto By-Pass Road, Gusau, Zamfara State. The project is situ­ated on a 7.5 hectares of land and was awarded also on 9th but was practically completed and taken over by the Ministry on Novem­ber 30, 2022. The third to be commissioned is the Federal Secretariat Yena­goa, which is located at Alamieye­seigha Road in Bayelsa State. It is situated on a 7.5 hectares of land and was awarded on December 9, 2011, but was practically complet­ed and taken over by the Ministry on November 30, 2022. It would be recalled that Pres­ident Buhari commissioned a fourth one, the Federal Secretar­iat Lafia, located at Bukar Sidi along Jos Road, Lafia, Nasarawa State in February this year.