A global online University, eSkillGrow Virtual University, India has appointed UNESCO Laureate, Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu as the global Online University’s International Chairman. This is contained in a release made available to journalists in Asaba, Delta State capital by UNESCO Laureate’s Executive Assistant On Media, Publicity and Communication Matters, Comrade Sir Bieni Victor Emenike as University’s Founder tasks him on repositioning the institution and mentoring next generation of global leaders. Dr. Prof Shaik Mohammad Rafi is The Founder, Chancellor of eSkillGrow Virtual University, India and other Constituents Campuses In Japan, Germany, USA & Poland. He is an Advocate and Director, Online Education & Board of Trustees Member, Crown University International Chartered Inc., USA with its teaching hospital located at Santa Cruz Province Argentina, Brazil, South America, Spain and other partners Constituents Campuses In government regulated Universities Worldwide and Online operation. The statement as issued by eSkillGrow Virtual University Founder which contains the letter of appointment to UNESCO Laureate reads in parts: “I, Dr.(Prof).Shaik. Mohammad Rafi Advocate Dr (Prof).Shaik.Mahammad Rafi Advocate3rdDirector-Online Education & Board of Trustees Member, CownUniversity Int’l,USA.Founder Chancellor-(eSkillGrow Virtual University): RMoC,V.TaskForce Member-AIM, NITI AAYOG,MoCI,JURY-MHRD IC – India use this medium to Honor UNESCO Laureate, H.R.H. Duke, Prof Sir Bashiru Aremu as International Chairman for “eSkillGrow Virtual University. I am hapy and proud to announce that UNESCO Laureate H.R.H. Duke Prof.Sir .Bashiru Aremu, a World Accalimed Distinguished universites professor and Vice Chancellor of CROWN University Int’l Charyered Inc. USA (CUICI), has been bestowed with yet another remarkable honor. He has been honoured as the International Chairman for eSkillGrow Virtual University by Founder & President Advocate”. “eSkillGrow Virtual University is a prestigious institution with global operations based in India. Moreover, eSkillGrow Virtual University serves as a Center of Excellence in Japan, Germany, the United States, and Poland, with esteemed professors from each country contributing their expertise. UNESCO Laureate H.R.H. Duke Prof.Sir .Bashiru Aremu honoured as International Chairman is a testament to his outstanding contributions to academia and his unwavering commitment to advancing education on a global scale. Throughout his illustrious career, he has earned international acclaim for his remarkable achievements, including being recognized as a UNESCO Laureate”. “With his extensive knowledge and vast experience in higher education, UNESCO Laureate H.R.H. Duke Prof.Sir .Bashiru Aremu is perfectly positioned to guide eSkillGrow Virtual University towards new horizons of excellence. His visionary leadership and profound understanding of the evolving educational landscape will undoubtedly contribute to the university’s growth and success. eSkillGrow Virtual University, under the esteemed leadership of UNESCO Laureate H.R.H. Duke Prof.Sir .Bashiru Aremu, is set to redefine the boundaries of online education. By leveraging cutting-edge technology and harnessing the expertise of renowned professors from around the world, this institution is poised to deliver high-quality education and empower learners globally”. “As we celebrate this remarkable achievement, let us recognize the significant impact that H.R.H. Duke Prof.Sir .Bashiru Aremu has had on the academic community. His relentless pursuit of excellence, passion for knowledge dissemination, and commitment to nurturing the next generation of leaders have left an indelible mark on the world of education. Please join me in congratulating UNESCO Laureate H.R.H. Duke Prof.Sir .Bashiru Aremu as International Chairman for eSkillGrow Virtual University”.