Chief Bode George, former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has told loyalists of the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who visited him over the weekend, soliciting his support for the former Lagos State Governor, that he won’t congratulate him (Tinubu) now, when his party is still in court, contesting the just concluded presidential election. According to the key loyalists who visited the Atona Oodua of Yorubaland, to broker peace between him (George) and Tinubu, the move became necessary because the relationship between the duo hasn’t been cordial. Among the peace delegation led by, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, who is also the chairman of the Governance Advisory Council (GAC), the highest decision-making body of the Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC), were two former deputy governors, Mrs. Adejoke Orelope Adefulire, the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Chief Abiodun Ogunleye. Others were, Rtd. Justice Ishola Olorunimbe, Chief Layi Ogunbambi and Alhaji Satari Arileshere, a retired civil servant. Olorunimbe in his address noted that the meeting was non-partisan and that the group was composed of elders of Lagos community who had come together to seek the progress of Lagos State, even as he charged them to support the president-elect. While briefing journalists at the end of the closed door meeting, which lasted for over four hours, Prince Olusi, disclosed that it was the second in the move to initiate peace between both leaders, and described the mission as cordial and largely successful. He said, “This is indeed my second meeting with Chief Bode George and the purpose of this meeting is to give praises to the Almighty. Today, the president-elect of our country Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu is from Lagos State. He happens to be a former Senator from Lagos, and also a former governor of Lagos State and we are indeed happy but we know as a matter of fact, that the relationship between the president-elect and Chief Bode George is not very cordial.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It is important that we as leaders of the community should take steps to improve the relationship,” Olusi said. POLL Olusi disclosed that based on the successful outcome of the parley, demand was made on Chief George by the delegation to congratulate Asiwaju Tinubu on his election as the president- elect, saying that the PDP chieftain could choose to do this before May 29, 2023 or thereafter. In his response, George expressed happiness for the visit by the delegation, even as he insisted that he had nothing personal against Tinubu. The PDP leader, who had in his company the former Lagos State Deputy Governor Kofoworola Akerele-Bucknor, General Tajudeen Olanrewaju, Dr. Remi Akitoye, among others, noted that the meeting bothered on the unity of Lagos State as well as her culture of accommodating all, which, according to him, makes the state the commercial nerve centre of the country. The PDP leader said there was nothing wrong working together, and maintained that he had no personal grudge with Tinubu, irrespective of the political differences. “On the issue of working together because a divided house cannot stand, there is nothing wrong with that. I have no problem with that. We can have political differences. I have said I have no personal grudge with Tinubu,” George said. George, however, said that in view of his position and membership of an opposition party, he wouldn’t be able to congratulate Tinubu until litigation related to the election is concluded. He thanked the delegation for the move, and prayed that the Almighty God continues to guide the elders in mentoring the generation behind them. He specially thanked the delegation for the humility expressed especially by the two elders, Justice Olorunimbe, and Olusi who he referred to as “Baba’ He said that the meeting was a sign of a new Lagos and urged the people to keep praying for Nigeria especially now that all eyes are on the country.