…It Will Reshape Nation’s Economic Potentials -Olanipekun Minister of Trade and Industry, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, Minister of State (Transport), Prince Ademola Adegoroye, and Chief Woke Olanipekun on Tuesday performed the groundbreaking of the proposed Aerotropolis City at Akure airport. Adebayo described the project as world-class which would impact the revenue generation of the nation’s industry. He commended the management of the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) for fixing the deal with the private firm, Ala Resort which he noted would turn around the host community and adjourning communities around the airport. Chief Olanipekun, SAN, described the planned transformation of Akure Airport to Aerotropolis City as a project that would reshape the economy of Ondo State. He explained that the project would trigger economic activities in Ekiti and Osun states due to the proximity of the location of the project. Describing the project as of global significance, attraction, and patronage, the learning silk, who is the chairman of the board of Ala Resort, said: “It will serve as its primary. Its growth and evolution will rest on carefully planned world-class infrastructure that will enable it to develop rapidly. “Another significant spin-off of this project is the positive impact its presence will have on the economic growth of contiguous states, especially Ekiti and Osun, by bringing the attention of the world to the enormous but relatively unutilized economic potentials domiciled within them.” POLL In his address, Captain Rabiu Yadudu, Managing Director, FAAN, represented by Sadiku Rafindadi, Director of Commercial and Banking Development, FAAN, stated that the project would improve revenue generation of the state and aviation industry. He said it would reduce the unemployment rate in the state and the nation at large as no fewer than 14,000 skilled workers would be employed by the firm. According to Yadudu, “The project would foster economic growth and the airport will graduate to an international airport.All stakeholders should be committed to the success of the project.” Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who was represented by his deputy, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, explained that the Aerotropolis City would take care of travelers and create an adventure for the people. He assured the project would be implemented without hitch, saying the state was safe. Akeredolu declared after the project is completed, visitors to the Aerotropolis City should not entertain any fear as all the security agencies including the state security, Amotekun Corps would provide adequate security for the people. The Chief Executive Officer of Ala Resort, Niran Omoyosola disclosed that the project would be completed within a period of seven to 10 years. He stated that the project would adhere to local content in terms of engaging residents of the host community when the construction starts off. Omoyosola explained that the firm didn’t take with levity the architectural designs of all the structures within the Aerotropolis City. He revealed that the firm would provide utilities needed at the Aerotropolis City including power and gas supply.