LAGOS – Barrister Alaowei Ebikonbo­wei Cleric, Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Cor­ruption Crusade (CHURAC), has accused the Federal Gov­ernment of not doing enough to save jailed Senator Ekwer­emadu. Cleric, a Special Assistant (Political) to the Delta State governor, who spoke to Sun­day Independent, said: “I think the Nigerian govern­ment has not done enough to save the man. “The Federal Government could have done better to pre­vail on the UK Government to give him soft landing. Well, the government of Nigeria can still initiate some dip­lomatic steps to get the duo pardoned.” Reacting, Barrister Eme­ka Iheonu, a member of the African Bar Association (ABA), stated: “Despite the al­legations against him and his wife, I feel that the sentences are a bit harsh considering how long they, especially the Senator, had been in custody and the fact that their daugh­ter’s ill-health will likely worsen with the sentencing. “I do not think the govern­ment did enough to assist the Senator and his wife. “The Federal Government and the National Assembly made little or no efforts, per­haps because of Ekwerema­du’s region of origin. “I do not think another politician from another re­gion in a similar situation would have been left alone to face the music.” Contributing, Amb. Dr. Kalu Ofon Emmanuel, the Lagos State Chairman, In­ternational Human Rights Protection Service, stated: “Well it is absolutely unfor­tunate that ike Ekweremadu is jailed for nine years and eight months and his wife, Beatrice, sentenced four years and six months, also Dr Obeta, the middleman, who received 10 years in prison term. POLL “If only Ekweremadu had established a world-class hos­pital in Nigeria with the type of money he had amassed for himself and/or passed a bill in the Senate for such, so that Nigerians could stop over­seas treatments and medi­cations, such embarrassing problems he found himself in would have been averted. “It will be a big lesson for others in power to learn if they want. People are dying on daily basis in Nigeria as a result of lack of internation­al standard hospitals to take care of health challenges and emergencies. “I consider this a robbery of fundamental human rights of Nigerians who do not have access to overseas surgery and treatment. “I wouldn’t say the Nigeri­an government did enough to save him from being jailed or get a softer sentencing bearing in mind his record of service to the nation. Rea­son for such is best known to them.” On Friday, Ekweremadu bagged a jail sentence of nine years and eight months and his wife got four years and six months in a UK court having been found guilty of organ harvesting offences. The UK Metropolitan Po­lice Specialist team reported­ly arrested Ekweremadu, his wife, and the doctor following a thorough investigation which found them culpable.