The Anwar-Ul-Islam Movement of Nigeria, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, the Leader of the Yoruba Social-Cultural group, Afenifere and other dignitaries have showered encomiums on late Alhaji Jimoh Gbadamosi, a Lagos School Principal. Others who showered encomium on the late Principal include; Maj-Gen. Tajudeen Olanrewaju (rtd), former Minister of Communication, Prof. Adele Jinadu, a Professor of Political Science, University of Lagos and Mr Aderemi Makanjuola, Chairman, Board of Caverton Offshore Support Group among others. They eulogised the sterling impact of the educationist at the eight-day fida’u prayers organised in his honour by the Islamic movement at Eko Club, Surulere. Speaking at the Fida’u, Alhaji Mubashir Ojelade, the President, the Anwar-Ul-Islam Movement of Nigeria, described Gbadamosi, a one-time general secretary of the movement, as clean in character and conduct throughout his lifetime. Ojelade, an old student of Ahmadiyya College, Agege, now Anwar-Islam College, said the late educationist was his principal and one of the leaders of the movement, who had served in several capacities. Ojelabi, who was a former Vice President, National Secretary and legal adviser of the movement, also described Gbadamosi as a thorough-bred educationist whose contributions to education would forever be remembered. Also, Adebanjo, who applauded Gbadamosi’s numerous impacts in education, said that his passion and commitment would forever be remembered by all. “When you talk about the educational advancement of Muslims particularly in Nigeria, Gbadamosi is number one and will never be forgotten. He was a selfless educationist and a great patriot and a man who was very humble, energetic and religious,” Adebanjo said. POLL Also speaking, Olanrewaju, a former General Officer Commanding, Nigerian Army, noted that the late educationist was his in-law for over 60 years, his principal and teacher at Ahmadiyya College, Agege, between 1961 and 1965. He said that Gbadamosi remained a father figure to every student that passed through him. “He was a principal emeritus; apart from being a teacher, he was a study in leadership. He showed examples, a man who lived by simplicity and self-discipline. “He never disconnected from the family where he married from, from his own family and the religion he believed in. He was a very devout Muslim who believed in the doctrines and practices of Islam. “His legacy is very clear. Oga as we used to call him led us well and showed us the way and made the school competitive with the best in Lagos in those days. Professor Jinadu, in his remarks, described the late school principal as a kind man who was strong in character and full of empathy. “He was a very kind man who had a way of attracting people to himself, family, former students and friends. He was in public life and he distinguished himself and people kept coming back to him. He was a man who had a kind of a magnet that endeared people to him,” he said. Makanjuola, described late Gbadamosi as a disciplinarian who cared for all the students that passed through him. “He is my mentor, my father and my friend, I will really miss him. He did a lot in my life and I will always cherish him. He was a disciplinarian, a human being that cares for all his students and everybody cares about him,” he said. Also, Otunba Alex Onabanjo, a business mogul and in-law to the deceased, said that he was one of the most honest men he had ever come across and an educationist par excellence. “He was a man that did not just take care of his biological children but has taken care of a lot of children. He went out of his way to treat them the same way he treated his own. He was a man of God because we see God in everything he did. We don’t have many educators like Gbadamosi today,” he said. The guest lecturer, Alhaji Sakirudeen Abdul-Gafar, who noted the deceased was a good man to identify with, said that every man would embark on a journey to eternity and the day was mnus one today. “A time will come when we are going to transit from this world and people will not remember us. It is not how far but how well. Death is not the end of our existence but a means to another existence. In another lecture, Alhaji Dhul-Nureni Onimosa, Chief Imam, Mushin Mission, said that only God is immortal. Onimosa, who noted that the late Gbadamosi though was not the first principal to die, but Gbadamosi’s life and times were impactful on humanity, hence the huge crowd at his 8-day Fida’u Prayers. Speaking, Alhaji Lawal Pedro, the National President, Anwar-Ul Islam College, Agege, Old Students Association (ACAOSA), called for the inauguration of Jimoh Adisa Annual Symposium to continue to immortalise his contribution in education. Biodun Gbadamosi, the second son of the deceased, said his passing on has taught a lot of lessons to be selfless, contented and humane.