Gombe State Government has approved the sum of Two Billion, Eight Hundred and Thirty Seven Million (#2,837, 037,000.00), Five Hundred Thousand Naira for the procurement of Five thousand metric tonnes of fertilizer for the 2023 farming season. Addressing Journalists shortly after the State Executive Council meeting which was presided over by the State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, the State Commissioner for Information, Mr Meshach Audu Lauco said Government is working on flagging off the sales of the fertilizer to farmers at a subsidized price very soon. However, giving more details, the Commissioner for Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, Mohammed Magaji Gettado said the brand of the fertilizer is NPK 20-10-10 which is a higher version of the NPK 15-15 distributed last year. He explained that the fertilizer has already been supplied to the State awaiting blending by TAK Agro, the company managi1ng the state owned fertilizer blending plant. On the issue of subsidy, the commissioner said the Governor will make it known during the flag off of the fertilizer distribution expected to begin between the 1st and 29th of June this year. Also approved during the SEC meeting, was the sum of One Billion, Eight Hundred and Five Million, Fifty Two Thousand, Four Hundred and Seventy Five Naira, Fifty Kobo (#1,805,052,075.52k) for the payment of compensation to property owners affected by road construction in Kaltungo, Bajoga, Gombe, Tumfure and Ashaka Townships. The State Commissioner for Lands and Surrey, Usman Jafun Biri said the compensation will cover not only private properties buy also public properties such as, light, water and other utilities. The commissioner advised land owners to always seek the approval of constituted authorities before putting up structures, saying the money earmarked for compensation can be use for the construction of more roads to serve the interest of the people. POLL Also speaking on approvals under the purview of his Ministry, the Commissioner of Health, Dr Habu Dahiru, explained that the Executive Council approved the upward review of the contract sum for the construction of the School of Nursing and Midwifery to the tune of Five Hundred and Twenty Three Million, Three Hundred and Eighteen Thousand, Five Hundred and Sixty Six Naira. He said the review of the initial contract sum of One Billion, Fifty Million Naira becomes necessary due to the astronomical rise in the prices of construction materials at both the local and international markets. While giving an overview of activities in his Ministry, the Commissioner of Works, Engr Abubakar Bappah said the administration of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya has, in the last four years, awarded many road projects spread across the State. He revealed that the immediate past administration in the state left behind 19 yet-to-be-started road projects for which Governor Inuwa Yahaya has completed 11 while 5 are ongoing. On the network one hundred kilometers of roads in each of the 11 Local Government Areas of the State, the works commissioner explained that at least a total of 60 kilometers have been covered in each of the local government areas. Engr. Abubakar Bappah added that the present administration in the State is equally proactive on repairs and maintenance of wash aways and construction of bridges to link hard-to-reach communities across the State.