ABUJA – The Federal Government has floated a N5bn credit facility for livestock farmers across the country through the Bank of Agriculture(BoA). Dr Mohammad Abubakar, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, revealed this at a media briefing in Abuja. Abubakar explained that the loan would enable livestock farmers to have access to funding at reasonable interest rates to expand their businesses and attract potential investors into the livestock value chain. Abubakar said the present administration was irrevocably committed to reforming the livestock sector with notable programmes such as the National Livestock Transformation Plan, (NLTP) and Livestock Productivity Resilience and Support Plan(LPRESP), among others. The Minister pointed out that ‘’crop sub-sector has always got more attention because it comes with food security but nutrition security is the other nutrient that would complement the grains otherwise you will have a different kind of growth’’. Abubakar revealed that ‘’the N5 billion in the Bank of Agriculture was part of recapitalisation that would be given out to livestock herders, adding that the bank is being recapitalised and so more money will be coming to the bank.” He noted that the scheme would bring more stability in the development of the livestock sector, improve security as well as enhance harmonious co-existence between farmers and herders. POLL In his remarks, the Managing Director of the Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Ali Hassan, explained that the bank has been recapitalised to the tune of N65bn, adding that the bank would receive about N250bn in the long run for its recapitalisation. He noted that one of the mandates of the bank is financing the agric value chain completely’’. According to him, “The modality in giving out the loan is going to be exactly as enshrined in loan conditions. “We have set rules for giving out loans which is governed by the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN)regulations and also regulated by the bank and other financial institutions.” He added that: “For the interest rate, depends on which value chain you are taking. Our rates start from nine percent up to 15 percent depending on which value chain you are taking. “That means it depends on the risk factor of the business you are going into’’. On whether individual farmers, who are not registered members of associations could apply for the loan, the Managing Director answered in the affirmative, stating that“In fact, we do not intend to give loans to the association, we are giving their members. All that the association has to do is to introduce their members’’ Reacting to this development, the National President, of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association(MACBAN), Baba Usman Ngelzarma, lauded Federal Government for the loan facility as an important intervention for the livestock value chain.