ABUJA – A Civil Society Organization (CSO) under the auspices of the Coalition for Good Governance and Economic Justice in Africa, has urged media professionals to use self-regulation in carrying out their civic responsibilities. This statement was made in Abuja on Monday during a workshop held by the organization titled “Balancing Ethics and Patriotism: Journalists’ Obligations to their Country. “ According to the Organization’s Country Director, John Mayaki, certain people were exploiting social media platforms to foment havoc in the country through hate speech, fake news, and misinformation. Mayaki stated that the harmful consequences of fake news are having an impact on both government and social activities. According to him: ” We have put together a team of professionals and experienced individuals to deliver the latest offerings in a line of cutting-edge knowledge resources. Our goal is to respond to the emerging global problem of disinformation that confronts us as a country, particularly in the field of journalism”. “After playing around in the shadows for far too long, fake news has now made itself manifest in all its destructive ignominy. As a people also, our attention has been drawn to its untoward capabilities and we must now formulate a response to the concept of fake news. In today’s world, the term ‘fake news’ has a commonly understood meaning, and this is because ‘news’ means verifiable information in the public interest. ” Information that does not meet these standards does not deserve the label of news. However, with increasing technology and social media platforms, and news outlets without gatekeepers, anyone with an enhanced camera phone can become a journalist, blogger or social media influencer. This has led to the disruption or democratization of the media” he said.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In his remarks, the Minister of state for Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba who was represented by the Statistician General of the Federation, Adeyemi Adeniran ascertained that role of press is indispensable in a democratic state, urging journalists to fact-check while sourcing for information before bringing it to public space. POLL Also speaking the representative of Minister Of State For Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, stressed the need for government to bring up policies that could prevent fake news and false informations.