First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced a partnered discount offering on its issued debit and credit card which allows users of its debit cards have access to exclusive discounted offers. With the offer, card users can enjoy up to over 40 per cent discount. According to the bank, the discount also extends to subscriptions for premium service via the BusinessDay website. The bank in a statement said payment for the premium service with FirstBank cards attracts a 30 per cent discount as ardent readers of news and breathtaking analysis of pressing issues on the global and national economy can stay informed with lots of money saved. It noted that the discount benefits are available to users of FirstBank-issued cards: Visa Infinite, Visa Gold, Visa Debit Multi-currency, and Visa Prepaid card. Other cards are Naira Master Card, Naira Credit Card, MasterCard Platinum, Verve and Verve Prepaid Card. Group executive E-Business & Retail Products of the bank, Chuma Ezirim, whilst commenting explained that “holders of FirstBank issued cards have access to unique banking solutions that meet their lifestyles and aspirations. Our cards are designed to provide a wide range of exclusive benefits to our valued customers putting them at an advantage of being able to manage their finances.” “Our state-of-the-art electronically driven banking products and service offerings remain essential to bridging the digital divide.’’ We will continue to spearhead the adoption of electronic banking services by our customers, irrespective of where they are the world over, whilst staying true to our name of providing the gold standard of banking service” he said He further added that FirstBank-issued cards are very secure as they enable cardholders to conveniently meet their daily financial needs, including payment for goods and services, airtime recharge, bill payments, funds transfer, etc. All ATMs, POS, Web and Mobile Platforms in Nigeria accept the variety of cards issued by the bank.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ In 2017, FirstBank emerged as the first financial institution in Nigeria and West Africa to issue 10 million cards to customers in Nigeria and across the subregion. FirstBank also became the second bank in Africa to reach such a milestone.