LAGOS – The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Sujimoto Construction Limited, Dr Sijibomi Ogundele has adduced the reason why buildings are collapsing to defects in design and foundation material compromises among others. Sijibomi, while speaking to Tribune Online on Friday, explained that there is a wide gamut of factors that determine the lifespan of a property; Hence, the reason the company traveled all over the world to study the best of ancient engineering. The CEO noted that there is a fundamental difference between erecting a skyscraper and building a terrace or a 2-floor apartment. Sijibomi stated that the structural integrity of any building above five floors can’t be compromised: the quality of the concrete mix, the strength of the steel, and the foundation on which it sits must meet the international standard for structural integrity. “Buildings don’t just collapse all of a sudden; buildings are bound to crumble because of the underlying factors that pose major concerns: defects in design, compromises in the quality of the foundation, or compromises in the quality of materials used to erect such structures. “The persistent story of collapsed buildings isn’t a new phenomenon in the universe. There are a handful of buildings collapsing in Miami, Cape Town, and even Lagos Island. This happens because such structures weren’t built to last for more than 20 years, while in the same vein, some structures like the Burj Khalifa, Empire State Building, Kuala Lumpur Twin Tower, and even the over 500-year-old Vatican City are clear samples of architectural marvels designed to stand the test of time. “Selica is clearly not a Ferrari; there is a fundamental difference between erecting a skyscraper and building a Terrace or 2-floor apartment. Be it a 1004 type of finishing or a Sujimoto type of finishing, a developer can compromise standards in fixing tiles, windows, or doors, but you can’t compromise the structural integrity of any building above five floors: the quality of the concrete mix, the strength of the steel, and the foundation on which it sits must meet the international standard for structural integrity.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “There is always much more to a building than meets the eye. A wide gamut of factors determines the lifespan of a property. That is why we traveled all over the world to study the best of ancient engineering. We have critically studied how the most majestic structures in the world have lived to stand the test of time, from the (2570 BC) great Pyramid of Giza to the architectural prowess of the Kuala Lumpur Twin Tower, which has stood for almost half a century. We realized that beyond the beauty and architectural masterpieces of these structures, they were meticulously and intentionally built to stand the test of time. POLL “Because we love building high rises, our current audacious project, LucreziaBySujimoto, prompted us to research global best practices for what it takes to create a building that will outlive us. In this quest, we studied historical landmarks built as a result of incredible artistry and breathtaking engineering. We sourced the best hands from across the globe while training local architects and engineers through a collaborative approach According to him, his company’s building projects have a guarantee of 200 years. He explained that the principles that govern the structural integrity of any building are universal, “whether you are building in Japan or Ijebu Ode, the structural principles used in both distant regions would present the same result when matched,” he said. Citing ancient buildings that have stood for centuries, Ogundele said that the Vatican City and the great Pyramid of Egypt which have stood for over 500 years are good precedent for what has become the foundation of modern-day engineering, giving us the blueprint for constructing some of the most incredible landmarks ever created on earth.