Annang socio-cultural group, Ati Annang, Lagos State Chapter, has thrown its weight behind the aspiration of Sen. Godswill Akpabio to lead the 10th Senate as its president. The group, in a joint statement by Felix Ekarika and Anyiekpon Udo, its Lagos Chapter Chairman and Secretary, respectively, said Akpabio was the best man for the job. The group also described Akpabio as a detribalised, patriotic, focused, resourceful, progressive-minded and visionary leader who would bring robust legislation to the 10th assembly. The group also said that Akpabio’s records in public service make him the perfect candidate for the position. This is as it expressed confidence that his experience as a lawyer, state governor, senate minority leader and Minister of Niger Delta Affairs had effectively equipped him for the job of the number three citizen of the country. The statement read in part: “He has the capability, capacity, panache and wisdom to lead his colleagues, make impactful laws and provide the enabling environment for the next government to deliver on its mandate. We are confident that Senator Godswill Akpabio will come into office with untainted legislative experience that would bring people-oriented legislation and policies in addition to his long years of experience as a tested and proven freedom fighter, democrat, lover of peace and development. “Nigeria is in for a new deal with him on the saddle of Senate leadership after May 29, 2023. Our position is informed by his pedigree, antecedents, history and experiences in all forms of human endeavour even as a life member of Ati Annang Foundation – Lagos chapter. We have no doubt that the excellent performances and records in public service, law and social engineering he brought to bear during his tenure as the Governor of Akwa Ibom State would be replicated for the benefit of all Nigerians.” The group insisted that the yearnings and aspirations of many Nigerians, over the years, would finally be met and the economic boom that had eluded the country would return through quality legislations with the emergence of Akpabio as the President in the 10th Senate. POLL The group further described Akpabio as their son and grand patron, saying it has aligned with the position of many Nigerians who have made him their candidate of choice. It also commended the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President-elect, Bola Tinubu and all men of goodwill for rooting for Akpabio to become the next Senate President of the Red Chambers, assuring that Akapbio would not let them down.