The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is set to commission three housing projects located at Gbagada, Odo-Onosa Ayandelu, and Agbowa, as part of his administration’s effort to reduce the housing deficits in the state. Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, the Lagos State Commissioner for Housing, made the disclosure at a press briefing to select journalists in Alausa Akinderu-Fatai said the Gbagada Estate, which comprises 72 home units with 48 two-bedroom and 24 three-bedroom apartments, is one of the choice housing schemes completed by the present administration. He explained that the housing project was initiated to provide more decent homes for Lagosians in the metropolis. Akinderu-Fatai said: “The Gated-Estate is made up of six blocks of residences on 9.41 Hectares of Land sited at Gbagada in Kosofe Local Government Area. It is a beautifully landscaped estate that has several infrastructures including well-connected roads with drains, car park areas, two 100 KVA Generators for sewage and water services, external electrification made up of three (two 500 KVA and one 100 KVA) transformers, water tanks, sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 69m3 per day, a Mini Mart and community hall.’’ Speaking further, he said that the Governor would also unveil LagosHoms Odo Onosa/Odo-Ayandelu covering a land area of 8.22 Hectares and located along Agbowa-Sagamu Road, Agbowa in Ikosi-Ejirin Local Council Development Area. The Scheme, he added, comprised 660 homes in 70 Blocks of four dwelling types in the following categories: Eight Blocks of One-Bedroom Flats (192 Units); 21 Blocks of Two-Bedroom Flats (252 Units); 26 Blocks of Three-Bedroom Flats (156 Units) and 15 Blocks of Three-Bedroom Flats (60 Units). He stated, “The scheme also has other infrastructures which include Roads and Drainage network, car parks, external electrification, water reticulation and sewage treatment plant among others.’’ POLL The Commissioner said the Resettlement Scheme in Agbowa, which is on the same axis as Odo-Onosa-Ayandelu, has 144 Units for displaced people, four Blocks of Two-Bedroom (48 Units) and four Blocks of One-Bedroom (96 Units) on 8.8 square metres. Its other complementary infrastructure includes water reticulation, gatehouses, electricity transformers, car parks, access roads, and external drains.