The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors have emphasised the need for unity, cooperation and love among members in particular, as well as the party and the nation in general. The Governors under the aegis of PDP Governors Forum noted that unity and cooperation is the surest way to deliver dividends of democracy to the people who elected them into office. The Chairman of the PDP-GF and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, who gave the advice at a special program of the Forum held in Abuja, also noted that through unity and cooperation, the governors will wax stronger and achieve their mission and vision. Tambuwal enjoined the governors to always strive to put their interests behind that of the PDP, the people and the nation. Four of PDP-GF’s former Chairmen- ex-Governors Olusegun Mimiko (Ondo State), Ayodele Fayose (Ekiti State), Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe State) and Henry Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa State) were honoured at the colorful event that attracted the who-is-who in the PDP, including the party’s presidential candidate in the last election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. The four former Chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ Forum (PDP-GF) were honoured in appreciation of their selfless and invaluable roles. While Dankwabo and Dickson personally received their awards, presented by the acting National Chairman of the PDP, Ambassador Umar Ilya Damagum, Fayose’s award was received on his behalf by Hajia Aisha Ibrahim, while that of Mimiko was received on his behalf by a former Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Hon. Agboola Ajayi.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Tambuwal lauded those honoured for piloting the forum’s transformation agenda which “we all enjoy at various levels in various states today.” POLL Eulogizing the past chairmen, Tambuwal said, “Gathered here today are past Governors who served meritoriously as Chairmen of the PDP Governors’ Forum. These men at different times piloted the transformation agenda which we all enjoy at various levels in various states today. “For my colleagues, out-going Governors of our Forum, I commend all of you for your solidarity and comradeship. As a first among equals, I can vouch for the warm support and friendship of all the Governors of our Party. “Sometimes, it was tough agreeing in all things, but we never forgot to put our interests behind that of our party, people and nation. “The moments we have shared under this Forum have been moments of joy, learning, comradeship support for one another and a desire for the best of our Party, States and country. To you all, I express my gratitude.” While welcoming the newly elected Governors of the PDP, on behalf of his colleagues in the Forum, the Sokoto State Governor said, “You are the shinning armours of the party going forward. We are happy to bequeath to you, a Forum that is strong, cohesive and vocal in the defence of democracy and good governance in the country. “With the calibre of the Governors-elect I see here today, I can say confidently that our Forum is going to be in good hands.” The Governors-Elect of the PDP, who were received into the Forum and given awards were; Pastor Umo Bassey Eno (Akwa Ibom), Peter Ndubusi Mbah (Enugu State), Agbu Kefas (Taraba State), Ameopusenibo Siminalayi Fubara (Rivers State), Sheriff Oborevwori (Delta State), Dauda Lawal (Zamfara State) and Caleb Mutfwang (Plateau State). Also welcomed were three re-elected Governors, namely, Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, and Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa State. Similarly, all outgoing PDP Governors: Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State (Chairman); Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State (Vice Chairman); Gov. Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State; Gov. Samuel Ortom of Benue State; Gov. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State; Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State; Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers State; and Gov. Darius Dickson Ishaku of Taraba were also honoured during the ceremony for all their services to the Forum.