Former President, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan has said that Nigeria needs people of integrity to be at the helm of affairs to help address the challenge of trust existing between those in positions of lead­ership and the citizens. He stated this in his re­marks at the 40th Anniver­sary Gala Night of the In­stitute of Directors (IoD), in Lagos. He said, “A culture of in­tegrity is what is needed to address many of the challeng­es confronting governance in our country. When integrity is entrenched as a culture and a corporate lifestyle in many organizations, the problems associated with corruption, dishonesty, poor governance, and even election irregular­ities will be significantly ad­dressed”. Speaking on Africa, he stated the need to also de­velop a sustainable political culture that treats elections as a contestation of ideas, where whoever wins will be disposed to run the country with other broadminded pa­triots for the benefit of the citizens. Jonathan commended the Institute for its achievement over the years, that “It has transformed into an inde­pendent, strong, and reliable institution providing inno­vative solutions to different professionals in Nigeria”. Babajide Olusola San­wo-Olu, Lagos State Gover­nor, while also speaking at the event affirmed that his administration will contin­ue to sustain a friendly and collaborative relationship be­tween the public and private sectors in the State. Sanwo-Olu who was repre­sented by Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, his Deputy said this is to deepen the application of the principles of corporate governance in the system for effective and efficient service delivery to the people. “Effective application of the principles of corporate governance in the public sec­tor has also played a major role in our ability to connect effectively with the private sector and to firmly commit to implementing policies and strategies designed to promote ease of doing busi­ness and support the growth of private enterprises in dif­ferent sectors of the econo­my”. POLL He noted that his admin­istration since inception, has been promoting the principles of corporate governance in all aspects of government.