Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, chairman of the House of Representatives Commit­tee on Diaspora and the only female lawmaker in Oyo State, has declared her intention to vie for the role of Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives 10th Assembly should her party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), zone the position to the South-West Nigeria. Addressing her col­leagues, Akande-Sadipe ac­knowledged the challenges she faced during the elector­al process and expressed her gratitude for the opportuni­ty to serve the people. She further stated that she is ready to focus on the work at hand and to move forward as a united Assem­bly. “My Honourable col­leagues, like we all did, I battled for my ticket, went to the polls on the 25th of February. Unlike many, I was forced into a rerun on the 15th of April. That’s now done and dusted. My family and I have sent our cherished mother forth and now, it’s time to focus on the work at hand,” she said. She added: “Hence I come before you my esteemed col­leagues to ask for your sup­port as I vie for the role of Deputy Speaker of the 10th Assembly”. The chairman ex­pressed her confidence in her ability to carry out the responsibilities of the role of Deputy Speaker and promised to work tireless­ly towards achieving the goals and objectives of the Assembly. Akande-Sadipe said, “Should our party, APC, zone the position to the South-West. I am confident that I can deliver on the re­sponsibilities of the Deputy Speaker and serve our con­stituency with distinction. I pray you will assess me based on my vision, and my values (that is) accountabil­ity and professionalism and support me on this journey. Thank You.” Akande-Sadipe’s candi­dacy has already generated buzz among her supporters, who see her as a trailblazer for women in politics and a voice for accountability and professionalism in govern­ment. POLL The general feeling across the nation is that females at the National Assembly and State Assemblies are un­derrepresented across the country, hence there needs for gender-sensitivity by considering socio-cultural norms and discriminations in order to acknowledge the different rights, roles and responsibilities of women and men in the 10th Nation­al Assembly and State As­semblies. This call across the na­tion is not a call for undue advantage for females but a call for consideration of qualified females.