ABUJA – No fewer than 2253 textbooks made up of 12 titles, sponsored by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund TETFund have been distributed to public federal and state colleges of education in the country. The books were written by scholars of the Nigerian Academy of Education NAE. At the book distribution during the 25th Conference of the Nigerian Academy of Education in Abuja, Friday, the Executive Secretary of TETFund Sonny Echono said the TETFund would continue to support the production of vital textbooks for use in public tertiary institutions. Mr Echono said TETFund would sustain the partnership with the Nigerian Academy of Education and described the academy as the mother of all academics in the country whose members have been at the fore front of pursuing the dissemination and spread of knowledge and development of skills in children. According to Echono ‘’TETFund is proud to associate with the mother of all academics, the Nigerian Academy of education has been at the forefront of pursuing the dissemination, spread of knowledge, development of skill and the holding of it among our children, and for generations, they have been doing this’’. The TETFund boss noted that books are important asset for a country’s growth and catalyst for mental growth and social integration. ‘’Books are the bedrock of all learning whether in digital or hard format, books play a very important role as reference materials for scholars, students and all who seek knowledge’’ .‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Executive Secretary of the National Commission for Colleges of Education Prof. Paulinus Okwelle while appreciating TETFund for the books called for the inclusion of Private colleges of Education as beneficiaries to improve their libraries. POLL ‘’I want to appreciate TETFund for the much they are doing in both human and capacity building and infrastructure. I want to make a request if you don’t mind, next time let us include some of these private colleges of education, we are all producing the same NCE, in any way, we can to assist them by enriching their libraries so that they will not have issues when we go for accreditation’’ . The Chairman, Committee of Provost Colleges of Education Professor Farouk Haruna urged TETFund to sustain the efforts of supporting local production of Text books by Nigerians scholars.Professor said books are at the heart of colleges of education. The President of the Nigerian Academy of Education professor Kabiru Isyaku said group Serve as a forum for Nigerian educationists at the highest level, whose opinion on education commands professional authority and respect. He explained that the academy strive to improve the quality of education throughout the country by taking the initiative to express views on plans, programmes, policy and practice in education.