*Commissions Wife’s State Of The Art Pet Project Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has said following the outcome of the result of the 2023 election for the Benue North-West senatorial district in which he lost out, he and his family have decided to move on with their lives. He also advised other politicians that may have lost out during the elections to also put the loss behind them and find other ways of impacting their society, as they feel led of God. The Governor disclosed this while commissioning the Eunice Spring of Life Foundation (ESLF), Integrated Health Facility (IHF), a state of the art pet project belonging to his wife, Dr Eunice Ortom at Apir, Makurdi Local Government Area (LGA) of the state last weekend. The Governor also commissioned and named a 9.7 kilometer road that started from Agbadu and culminated at Apir, naming it after Late Major Gideon Gwaza Orkar as well as another 3.5 kilometer road, which he named after a former speaker of the Benue House of Assembly, Chief Ayua Num. Speaking of moving on with his life, Ortom said, “The Bible in the book of Ecclesiastes chapter 3 from verse 1, tells us that there is a time for everything; time to win elections; time to lose elections; time to be in power and time to be out of power. “So we must move on. The same Ecclesiastes, chapter 9:11 says, ‘I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all. “So it doesn’t matter, you may be qualified but if God does not permit it you, you cannot make it. POLL “But that does not stop you from moving to other areas, where you can contribute meaningfully to the development of your community, state or country. “God brought us for 8 years (as governor and first lady). Many people have desired to serve a second term but we’re not able to do it. Some had desired to serve just one term but were unable. “So we have chosen to move on. By 12 noon on May 29th, 2023, a new Governor would be sworn in and I will become a former governor. “So I need you to pray for me and pray for the new government that will be coming in. And in areas we were not able to cover in fulfillment of the wishes of our people, I hope that the incoming government will cash in on it and fill the gap.” Furthermore, he warned youths to desist from the culture of insulting their leaders but instead, they should always pray for their leaders. He said, “The culture of insults against leaders; I’ve taken in so much (during his time as governor), so I want to appeal that the youth will draw a line and start afresh. The Bible admonishes us to pray for our leaders” Ortom who described his wife as someone that is creative, innovative and has a passion for humanity and committed to excellence observed that “Government will continue to provide the enabling environment for the betterment of ventures like the IHF that are aimed at bettering the lives of people to strive. In her speech at the occasion, the Benue First Lady, Dr Eunice Ortom said ESLF has reached over 100,000 needy persons through poverty reduction, improved health and anti-cultural services in the state and beyond. She also said “ESLF under her health thematic programs has reached over 70,000 rural dwellers and also promoted self-reliance among women and youths. In her words of encouragement, wife of Tor Tiv, HRM Felicia Ayatse said what the governor has done during his tenure as Governor would come to light only after, he has left office, adding that all his legacies and that of his wife would stand the test of time. She further noted that the state has witnessed projects embarked upon by previous first ladies, but ‘what the first, Dr Eunice Ortom has done excellest them all’ according to Proverbs 31:29. HRM, Martha Elaigwu, wife of the Ochi’Idoma, described Eunice Ortom as a noble woman that has made Benue women proud and hoped that God will take her to higher heights, so she can touch more lives. In his remark, the Ter Makurdi,Justin Aule commended the governor for choosing Apir and indeed the state to site all his industries, even as implored other leaders to do some so as to bring development to the state. Also speaking at the event, Dr Gloria Shoda, President, Africa Regional Council of Women said the first lady’s project was one of the best in the country, adding that the project was not just a ceremonial pet project, but one that fulfils the needs of the people Shoda who is also the Board member, International council of women further lauded the first lady, noting that the project fulfills the protocols of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Chief Felix Akiga, a retired international basket-baller and MD/CEO, Royal Choice hotel admonished that “putting out another person’s light would not increase the light of your shining, so let us learn to encourage people to grow.” The facility is expected to provide wide range of medical services, among them pediatric, gynaecological, surgical, maternal and child health services among other essential health need. End.