Company has stated a new tread formulation for its ultra-high performance, all-season ElectricDrive GT tyre, tuned for electric vehicles, in size 235/40R19. The specialised tread compound that provides enhanced all-season traction would include monolith carbon black produced by methane pyrolysis. In doing so, monolith and Goodyear are taking the next step on a journey toward zero-emissions carbon black in tire manufacturing. This tyre, which would be manufactured with this specific carbon black, is the first tyre for sale in the industry to have this type of carbon black produced by monolith. Carbon black is a key ingredient in tyres, providing compounds in the tires with strength, improved tear resistance, and increased abrasion resistance. While traditional carbon black commonly comes from the combustion of fossil fuel oils, monolith’s plasma-based process takes advantage of renewable electricity to complete methane pyrolysis and results in the output of only carbon and hydrogen, with no combustion required. Methane pyrolysis allows for the splitting of the methane molecule into the constituent elements—carbon and hydrogen. “At Goodyear, we are continually looking at and working with our supply base to understand and discover new innovations and technologies to use in our products,” said Chris Helsel, Senior Vice President Global Operations. POLL “The use of carbon black produced by methane pyrolysis is an example of how we are collaborating with our suppliers, like monolith, to utilize sustainable materials in our consumer products, without compromising on performance and safety,” he added. Also, Rob Hanson, Cofounder, Monolith said working with innovative partners to incorporate sustainable ingredients was at the core of what the company does. He stated that Goodyear has been at the forefront of that mission, stressing that the company was delighted for the tyre made with monolith carbon black to launch and excited for the continued product research and development in this industry-leading partnership. The Goodyear ElectricDrive GT delivers long-lasting tread wear and a quiet ride for Electric Vehicle (EV) drivers and passengers. The ElectricDrive GT features Goodyear’s SoundComfort Technology, which acts as a built-in sound barrier that helps reduce road noise. The ElectricDrive GT 235/40R19 is available through Goodyear.com and is an ideal fit for vehicles such as the Tesla Model 3. Goodyear plans to explore expanding the use of Monolith carbon black produced via methane pyrolysis across additional product lines in the coming years. Goodyear entered into a collaboration agreement with Monolith, a world leader in clean hydrogen and materials production, in December 2021 for the development and potential use of carbon black produced from methane and/or biomethane for its tyres.