*Sets Up Committee To Investigate Gemade, Shija Others For Alleged Anti-Party Activities The Benue State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) may have defied the directive of its national secretariat ordering it to rescind the suspension of Senator Barnabas Gemade, Prof Terhemba Shija and three others. It could be recalled that the APC in Benue had suspended Gemade and Shija, who were both former governorship aspirants and three others over allegations of anti-party activities. But as part of efforts to quell an impending crisis that may arise from the suspension, the national secretariat of the APC ordered its state chapter to maintain status qua until it had met with the state officials of the party. Daily Independent reliably gathered that the APC national secretariat had further invited the state executive to a meeting to resolved the imbroglio. However, we learnt that even before the meeting, the state chapter of the APC went ahead and inaugurated the Fact-finding and disciplinary committee to investigate the suspended party members. Reacting on the issues, State Chairman of the APC, Comrade Austin Agada who spoke with newsmen shortly after the inauguration of the Committee to investigate the “offenders” said he was yet to be communicated on the directive to rescind the suspension slammed on the two former governorship aspirants. Inaugurating the Committee at the party secretariat in Makurdi last weekend, Agada said, “Recall that one of the reasons we didn’t make it (win election) in 2019 was as a result of anti-party activities. We thank God that in 2023, we were strong enough to resist any form of betrayal or sabotage and we are where we are today. POLL “The functions of this Committee is to unravel every form of anti-party activities in our party. We are totally committed to breaking every bounds to ensure the unity of this party stands and ensure its survival. “We are committed because the Benue people have given us their mandate and we need all members to be on one page, so as to ensure that the incoming government of Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia is sworn in on May 29th and deliver to the Benue people the long awaited dividends of democracy.” Answering questions from newsmen after the event, Agada who said he was yet to be issued the directive to withdraw the suspension meted on the duo among others, argued that the party does not operate in isolation. He particularly noted that in such an instance, the national body of the APC ought to have communicated the APC in the state, through him in writing, adding that it was possible that the state APC may be communicated between Monday and Tuesday. Agada who asked rhetorically, “You say some things (the statement issued by the national secretariat to rescind the suspension) are in the media?”, added “Well, I’ve not seen it; I’m not aware and our party does not communicate like that. The party communicates directly to the office of the chairmen. “The meeting that took place (and meted out the suspension) was the meeting of the Congress, made up of 278 ward chairmen, the 23 local government executive and of course the State Executive Committee (SEC); made up of working and non-working committee members. “And of course, in a Congress, not even me (Chairman) has the power to stop it. It is in their humble opinion that the decision be taken and that is why they were suspended to face the Fact-finding and disciplinary Committee. “But we will be fair and just to all; it’s not just about them (the suspended persons) there are numerous cases that were not mentioned. And you know this (issues of anti-party) keeps coming up; its not an issue of vendetta. “For me, we are on course and there is no course for alarm, the Committee is made up of a respected man as Chairman, someone that has also indicated interest to serve and contested for the exalted position in the state. “I feel that by Monday or Tuesday, that we will be communicated officially by the national secretariat of the party.” Agada who also inaugurated the Committee for the commissioning of the state model secretariat said, “So for me, we are not doing anything outside the Constitution of the party.” Responding on behalf of members of the Fact-finding and disciplinary committee, the committee Chairman, Chief Terlumun Akputu appreciated the party for the opportunity to serve in the capacity of chairman. He promised the party leadership and parties relevant to the assignment that they would be fair and observe the rule of law so as to strengthen the internal democracy of Benue. He also assured the party that he and other members of the committee would not fail the in the assignment before it. End.