ABUJA – The Federal Government of Nigeria has declared Monday 29th, 2023, work-free for all workers in the country, to commemorate the inauguration of the nation’s 16th democratically elected President. The declaration was made by the Hon. Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, in Abuja on Thursday on behalf of the Federal Government. In a statement signed by Dr. Shuaib Belgore, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Interior on Friday, noted that Aregbesola felicitates with all Nigerians on the momentous occasion, commending them for their faith in democracy as expressed in the nationwide election that produced the President and his Deputy being inaugurated and indeed in all elections across the nation. He enjoined Nigerians to continue to support and promote democracy through adherence to the rule of law and upholding all democratic institutions. ”Democracy anywhere is an unfinished business and the only way it can keep developing and serve its end of being the vehicle to good governance and the welfare of all the people is by adhering to its tenets of rule of law, support for democratic institutions, promotion of free and responsible press and advancement of the frontiers of freedom for all the people”, the Minister said. Ogbeni Aregbesola urges Nigerian also to continue to promote ideals of peaceful coexistence and love for our neighbours, noting that we can only practice democracy and enjoy its dividends in a peaceful environment. The Minister commends all Nigerians for their strident efforts at achieving an unbroken civilian rule and successful change of governments since 1999. He urges them to support and cooperate with the coming administration, arguing that the unbounded energy of the people is the nation’s greatest strength and will take the nation to its greatest height when it is positively deployed in its service. The Minister charged Nigerians to shun any form of violence and other untoward acts, assuring them that with all hands on deck, the future is very bright when the nation will attain greatness in all facets of human development.