The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs 4) which focus on education expect every country to “ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” Similarly, Goal 8 aims to “promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.” Building an education technology in line with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs 4) requires intentional efforts and collaboration across stakeholders and areas of work, according to experts. Indeed, there have been calls for youths to use various digital platforms for skilling and upskilling in order to address Nigeria’s youth unemployment. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the unemployment rate during the Q2, 2020 was 27.1 percent, up from the 23.1 percent recorded in Q3, 2018. The underemployment rate increased from 20.1 percent in Q3, 2018 to 28.6 percent. NBS further revealed that the unemployment rate in Nigeria increased to 33.30 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020 from 27.10 percent in the second quarter of 2020. Specifically, the NBS showed that the youth unemployment rate in Nigeria increased to 53.40 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020 from 40.80 percent in the second quarter of 2020. Sadly too, the global audit and tax advisory firm, KPMG, recently projected that Nigeria’s unemployment rate is expected to rise to 41 percent in 2023 as compared to 2022’s 37.7 percent. Thankfully, there are many digital platforms, including the Nigeria Learning Passport (NLP), Youth Agency Marketplace (YOMA), and U-report, all UNICEF’s initiatives, that youths and students could explore for empowerment, skilling and up-skilling targeted to address youths unemployment. Experts are therefore advocating for the use of YOMA, U-report and NLP digital learning platforms that supports learning and skills acquisition for children and youths as avenues to connect young people to opportunities for employment, entrepreneurship and social impact. POLL The importance of digital learning platforms was the focus of a recent two-day media dialogue. The event which was organised by UNICEF with NOA’s collaboration brought together young persons, and select journalists to boost their capacity and awareness of the learning opportunities youths could acquire from various digital platforms. Experts at the event while reeling out data which showed inequities in learning, skills acquisition and employment opportunities, demonstrated how digital learning platforms could bridge the gap. The latest Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS 6) showed that among Nigerian children and adolescents aged between seven and 14 years, only 27 percent have foundational reading skills and 25 percent have foundational skills. Analysts frown at the trend amid available opportunities for digital learning through YOMA, U-report and NLP platforms to improve digital literacy and reduce learning deficiency among Nigerian children. The solution remains to promote digital learning. In Nigeria, children’s learning and educational milestones should be planned, and provided for using various methods, including digital platforms, to improve learning in order to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 4, which aims to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote learning opportunities for all. Though the use of technology and digital learning is not completely new, the pandemic revealed the crucial need for learning platforms to navigate children’s learning space in any educational system today. One such platform is Nigeria Learning Passport (NLP) an online e-learning platform with mobile and offline capabilities that enables continuous access to quality education. It is highly flexible and adaptable, allowing states to easily and quickly adopt the platform as their learning management systems or use it to complement existing digital learning efforts. The platform has been developed with a unique suite of online and offline functions that cater for deployment in places with poor connectivity – often locations where children find themselves unable to access quality digital education, tools and content. Despite that Nigerian youth are resilient and innovative to do great exploits and achieve success in various fields of endeavours, many of them lack the necessary support, especially in terms of funding and capacity development to drive their ambitions and realise their dreams. Many youths who are either unaware or not looking in that direction could remain non-economically engaged for many years. Analysts have therefore underscored why Nigerian youths and students should be encouraged to explore various digital platforms such as the YOMA, U-Report and NLP for empowerment, skilling and up-skilling. The platforms provide employment opportunities as well as teaching and learning as the case may be, but many are not utilising them. YOMA for example is a digital market hub for youths globally to build and transform their futures by actively engaging in tasks that will improve their learning and earning opportunities. U-Report is a polling platform for youths’ engagement on issues of national importance and NLP is a platform to complement learners’ classroom studies Unarguably, Nigerian youths could learn on digital platforms and acquire knowledge and skills that would boost their competencies for the world of work and earn decent and legitimate incomes either as employees or employers of labour. Commenting, Joannes Yimbesalu, UNICEF Programme Specialist, said, there are many opportunities that youths including students not only in Nigeria but globally could explore in digital space to thrive in life and become responsible citizens. With the escalating unemployment rate, particularly among youths in Nigeria, there is a need for every stakeholder to boost their support for youths to explore learning opportunities in digital space to address the challenge.