Amid ongoing protest and agitation for a level playing field in the contest for the top job in the incoming 10th House of Representatives, members-elect from Cross River State, have called on aggrieved contestants for the positions to follow the party’s lead on the choice of presiding officers. The members-elect made their position known on Sunday in Abuja when they paid a visit to the APC’s preferred Speakership aspirant, Hon. Abbas Tajudeen, to express their support for him ahead of the June 13th inauguration. The members-elect, who were led by Hon. Mike Etaba predicted that the10th National Assembly is “unarguably the most anticipated Assembly yet in the history of Nigerian democracy.” “The very intimidating calibre of those angling for the positions is already public knowledge and their top notch political pedigree, experience and personal credentials will come into close focus. “…every Nigerian expects to see viable and robust representation exhibited by their representatives at all quarters and in effect, the performances of the representatives will definitely be called to question. “It has therefore become quite compelling and imperative for us the elected representatives from Cross River State, to take a practical decision amongst ourselves on the complicated process of choosing or supporting whoever for the exalted leadership positions of the incoming National Assembly. “Conversely, our decision must not only be ably guided by the desire to continuously put Cross River State in national reckoning but to also elect those who would in the long run, be supportive of federal government programmes and projects in the state.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “It was with this factors in mind that majority of the representatives from Cross River State irrespective of political party affiliations, have resolved that the party is supreme and we will continue to give our unalloyed loyalty and support to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).” POLL The State National Assembly members pledged to be at the centre of decision making and reiterated the fact that Cross River State stands as the only State in the entire South‐South region that is ruled by the All Progressives Congress and majority of the law makers are of the ruling party. “In doing this, we the returning and potential law makers from the State believe very strongly in the ability and leadership credentials as well as the possibility of a resounding victory of Rt. Hon. Abbas Tajudeen,” they said, describing him as “an astute and very experienced public service administrator cum suave political figure.” “…his leadership of the National Assembly will surely reposition the 10th National Assembly and take it to a new and better height of legislative glory.” Equally, the Cross River State legislators are of the opinion that the supremacy of the party must come to play and since Rt. Hon. Abbas Tajudeen is of the ruling party, he will, in conjunction with his colleagues and the bearings of his political sagacity, bring in new ethics and ably transform the national legislative body to a towering pedestal. The Cross River members-elect also reiterated their preparedness to put up a workable and beneficial A Game to enable them deliver on their mandates by making the good people of the State see the benefits of their contributions in the National Assembly. They reasoned that it was in the same National Assembly that some representatives from other States cooperated with each other regardless of party differences to draw many developmental projects to their States and that they are all first of all Cross Riverians before their respective political affiliations. They expressed appreciation for the “fatherly roles and the effective leadership which Prof Ben Ayade, Governor of Cross River State provided to enable them get elected, they all thanked His Excellency, thanking the Senator for providing them with the platform with which they are flourishing politically. They said: “With the grounds set for an epic legislative session that would produce the leadership of the two Chambers of the National Assembly, all hopes are hinged on the outlook, performance and results that will emerge from Cross River State representatives at the 10th National Assembly.”