The Executive Chairman, Ido/Osi Local Government Area of Èkìtì State, Honourable Sola Ogunshina has promised to accord priority to youth development,, job creation and massive infrastructural development in the Council area. The council boss gave this assurance while presenting the year 2023 Budget of N3.5 billion to the legislative arm. Tagged: ‘Budget of consolidation” during a plenary, presided over by the leader of the house, Mr Adebayo Ilori, the Council boss expressed optimism that the budget would facilitate rapid development for the residents of the local government Area. According to him, the budget was an offshoot of the six-point agenda of the Biodun Oyebanji’s administration in the state, adding that it would take care of the expectation of the entire citizens of Ido/Osi Local Government Area to improve the standard of their living and bring hope to them. The LG, according to him, intends to pump a total sum of 19 million to upgrade the information communication centre located within the council Secretariat to enhance the e-library and a standard learning hub which he said will make the local council a cynosure of every eye in the State. Ogunshina explained that his administration would commit about N35 million to the sector, adding that his government was striving hard to create a skill acquisition centre, where vocations like hairdressing, vulcanizing, computer literacy and application among others could be learnt at the grassroots. He hinted that his administration has earmarked over one billion naira of capital expenditure for human capital development to increase innovation, social well-being, increased productivity for economic growth. Reviewing the performance of the year 2022 budget was described as worrisome, as he said the local government largely depends on the statutory allocation from the Federal Government, stressing that the internally generated revenue was nothing to write home about, considering the fact that the residents are not responding to various payments. POLL He added that his administration has put all machinery in motion to ensure significant improvement on the IGR of the council, stressing that it’s a parameter by which the Federal Government used to allocate resources. The council boss posited that the year 2023 budget proposal was prepared with a sense of responsibility, with a high degree of hope and optimism, dwelt on the recurrent revenue estimates, while he explained the main five sources of revenue accruing to the local council, which he said include; the statutory allocation from the federation account, share from the state IGR, Internally Generated Revenue, value added tax and excess crude oil. “Your Royal Majesty, Community Leaders and Gentlemen here present, this “Budget of Consolidation” keyed into the six-point agenda of His Excellency, Mr Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji, Executive Governor of Ekiti State as his pathway to prosperous Ekiti land”. “This sector is to take care of the expectation of the entire citizenry of Ido/Osi Local Government, improve the standard of living and bring more dividends of democracy to my people. To achieve this, various projects that will directly improve the socio-economic lives of our people have been proposed in the year 2023 financial estimate”. “The youths are the future of tomorrow,” this implies that any investment in the youth is an investment for a better tomorrow. On this note, my administration will strive to create a skill acquisition centre where trades like Hairdressing, Vulcanizing, Computer literacy and application, Tailoring etc. could be learnt. I plan to spend a sum of Thirty-Four Million and Five Hundred thousand Naira 434, 500,000:00 on this”. On Agriculture and rural development, the Council boss explained his resolve to reduce unemployment through farming, by involving the youths and encouraging agro-allied products as he pointed out that such will make the local government Area, the food basket of the state. Part of the Budgetary provision the Council Chairman earmarked funds for include; Governance, infrastructure, industrialisation, art, culture and tourism which he said would be faced with a certain percentage of the budget. “My intention in this fiscal year is to put more effort in education through Bursary, School Debates; active sponsoring of Junior Engineering Technicians (JET); various Financial Assistances; Local Emergency Management (LEMA); office running, various empowerment programmes; to mention but a few. A sum of Six Hundred and Fifty-Two Million, Seven Hundred and Twenty-Six Thousand, Four Hundred and Ninety-One Naira, Sixty-Three kobo (N652, 726,491:63) only is earmarked for good governance and it makes 18.31% of the capital expenditure for the fiscal year 2023”. Ogunshina who expressed optimism that the budget would facilitate rapid development for the residents of the council, said no government can provide all the needs of its people, urged all the residents and citizens of the Local Government to complement the efforts of the council in the provision of social amenities across all towns and villages that make up the local government area. Traditional rulers, politicians, civil servants, youths, and market women among others were present at the presentation of the budget proposal.