LAGOS – As the nationwide Joint Health Workers Union (JOHESU) strike enters the sixth day, the union has insisted on the implementation of the approved consultancy cadre circular of pharmacists in all FHIs among other unfulfilled welfare obligations by the Federal Government. Further, JOHESU in a statement signed by Mathew Ajurotu, its acting national secretary, accused the Federal Government of violating agreements to fulfill its obligation to their welfare, demanding payment of special allowances to deserving health professionals. Independent Newspapers reports that the Joint Health Workers Union (JOHESU) and Assembly of Healthcare Professionals, (AHPA)had issued a 15-day strike ultimatum to the Federal Government effective from May 10. However, last Thursday, after a 15-day deadline had passed, the union announced a nationwide strike and accused the Federal Government of breaching its promise to meet the welfare needs of healthcare workers. The issues in dispute are as follows, Adjustment of Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CONHESS); Immediate and Unconditional Implementation of the Consultant Cadre Circular for Pharmacists in all Federal Health Institutions (FHIs). Others are, Payment of peculiar allowances to health workers under the aegis of JOHESU/AHPA; Payment of all withheld salaries of members in Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Owerri, Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) and Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). The rest are payments of outstanding April and May 2018 salaries of members in Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Azare, and Payment of health workers excluded in the payment of new Hazard Allowances. Consultancy Cadre Circular Of Pharmacists Specifically, JOHESU/AHPA while calling for the release of the Consultancy Cadre Circular of Pharmacists across the country’s FHIs demanded the appointment of at least fifteen pharmacists’ consultants in each teaching hospital and ten pharmacist consultants in Federal Medical Centre. POLL The unions allegedly claimed that health ministers in the recent past have attempted to suppress every attempt of non-physician health professionals by refusing to accord them recognition when they bag post-graduate degrees and fellowships. Meanwhile, Ajirotu bemoaned the different tactics employed to suppress attempts of non-physician health professionals to diversify and expand their knowledge base by refusing to accord them recognition when they bag post-graduate degrees and fellowships. The statement read in part, “In 2021, Dr. Osagie Ehanire gave directives to the UCH, Ibadan Board to terminate the Consultant status of all non-physician health professionals. Pharmacists went through the entire gamut of due process, having secured approvals from the National Council on Establishment as far back as 2011 for their consultant cadre. “In 2020 and 2021, official circulars were issued from the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF) who is also a physician, and the Federal Ministry of Health through its immediate past Permanent Secretary who was rated as one of the most seasoned bureaucrats of his generation to further boost the consultant cadre in pharmacy practice,” he stated. The statement further explained that the Niger State government introduced the consultant cadre in pharmaceutical practice as far back as 2013 and added that states like Edo and Osun have followed suit. The scribe who also reminded that two pharmacists were appointed as consultants at the Aso Rock Villa Clinic in May 2023, regretted, “Dr. Enahire confirmed with the precedents of the inglorious era of Prof. Christian Chukwu and Prof. Isaac Adewole to insist that only physicians can be consultants in Federal Health Institutions by issuing a ridiculous circular through the infamous Department of Hospital Services that ties the appointment of pharmacists consultants based on vacancies which must be created by the Federal Ministry of Health”. He informed that both the JOHESU and AHPA have critically appraised the development and decided that moving forward, “We demand, in tune with the official circulars for Consultants cadre in Pharmacy practice in the public sector, all the Federal Health Institutions must appoint at least 15 Pharmacist Consultants in each Teaching Hospital, while the Federal Medical Centre and its equivalents must have at least 10 Pharmacist Consultants,” it concluded. CONHESS Must Be Modified To Match CONMESS Further, JOHESU/AHPA condemned alleged attempts by the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) to undermine the adjustment of the Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CONHESS) in line with the Consolidated Medical Salary Structure (CONMESS). The union asserted that the FMoH has continuously threatened and obstructed the adjustment of CONHESS since 2009, during the 14 years that three different health ministers have presided over the FMoH. The statement reads, “ In 2009, the Federal Government committed itself to a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on relativity in the two salary structures that were introduced viz Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CONHESS) for all health workers except Physicians and Consolidated Medical Salary Structure (CONMESS) for Physicians. The express implication of the MoU was that any adjustment on any of the salary structures will transcend to the automatic tinkering of the other structure by a commensurate ratio. “On January 2, 2014, the Federal Government adjusted the CONMESS Scale holistically and further adjusted selectively for Physicians in 2017 without adjusting that of CONHESS for other health workers. During negotiations on this matter in 2018 with a team of Federal Government officials led by Dr. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment, and the then Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, who incidentally are Physicians, it was impossible to break the impasse which has lasted up till today. “At the peak of negotiations with the Federal Government team, it offered N6.5billion which was rejected because it was grossly below the N22.6 billion prepared by the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission (NSIWC) as agreed in the 2017 Terms of Settlement.” However, the union alleged, “An intervention was also brokered by the leadership of the National Assembly, who promised to accommodate Federal Government approvals for CONHESS through a supplementary budget. It is imperative to put on record that contrary to the information that it was President Muhammadu Buhari, who refused to approve the N22.6 billion from NSIWC, the estimate from NSIWC was never presented for President Approval.” It lamented, “At least, it was the High-Level Body (HLB) Command of the Federal Government that refused to okay the estimate of N22.6 billion to cater for the adjustment of CONHESS Scale as was done with CONMESS Scale. This particular development confirms that the rings of Physicians who preside over the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) are clever users of untruth. “They have been manipulating events and dropping the name of President Buhari to have their professional interest dominate proceeding in the Health Sector. “These moves were never scaled before events took us to the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Centre of the National Industrial Court (NICN), where to the chagrin of JOHESU leaders, the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) now claimed it could only offer N2 billion at a time N6.5 billion had been earlier rejected. At this stage, it was obvious the Federal Ministry of Health team to the Mediation which stretched proceedings to over three months on flimsy excuses of seeking the Finance Minister’s approval for a realistic vote was playing games to wear us out which was why the matter of CONHESS adjustment suffered a deadlock at the ADR Centre. Still bemoaning, the union lamented, “In 2021, JOHESU/AHPA picked the gauntlet again by demanding the implementation of the adjustment of CONHESS by declaring a trade dispute through the issuance of a strike action notice to the Federal Government. “Dr. Chris Ngige (Chief Conciliator of the Federation) Minister of Labour and Employment, apprehended the dispute and it was resolved at a conciliating meeting on 7th September 7, 2021, that directed the Federal Ministry of Health and Joint Health Sector Unions/Assembly of Health Professional Associations re-negotiate with a caveat to update him as necessary or refer the matter back to the Office of the Minister of Labour and Employment if the parties failed to agree on the modalities of implementation.” “For us in JOHESU, it is a matter of the beat goes on and we are determined to put a halt to this nauseating manipulation of Physicians in the FMoH. In tandem with the reality that when injustice becomes law, resistance becomes a duty we shall insist that justice be served to us as bonafide and free-born citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. There shall be no going back on the adjustment of CONHESS because it is now or never,” it claimed. COVID-19 Special Inducement Allowance JOHESU also demanded the payment of the shortfall arising from the implementation of the COVID-19 special inducement allowance. The statement reads, “JOHESU is forced to draw attention to the deliberate short-changing of our members in the payment of COVID-19 Inducement Allowances.” Similarly, the union thus called on the Federal Government to affect the payment of specialist allowances to deserving health professionals. Others are the payment of all withheld salaries of JOHESU/AHPA members in Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Owerri, the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH), the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and their withheld April and May 2018 salaries. The rest of the unfulfilled obligations by the Federal Government are the speedy adjustment of the Retirement Age from 60 to 65 years; the exclusion of some health workers in the payment of new hazard allowance and the payment of COVID-19 Allowance balance. JOHESU reiterated its commitment to continue to work with the Federal Government and all stakeholders in its bid to improve the ailing and over-stretched health system with necessary reforms in the public interest. However, insisting that there is no going back on the strike, it craved for the understanding of consumers of health pending when acceptable redress of the union’s demands will be met.