Restiveness is brewing in no fewer than four local government areas in Akwa Ibom State over alleged non-compliance with the Petroleum Industry Act by Savannah Energy. The conflict erupted follow­ing rumour that Savannah En­ergy, which is into large scale production and distribution of integrated gas in some West African countries, including Nigeria, has jettisoned a person nominated by the host commu­nity into the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Ukanafun axis of Savannah Energy Gas Pipeline Right of Way (SE-GPLRoW). In separate letters, some stakeholders in the affected communities, especially tra­ditional rulers and the youth forum, have alerted the compa­ny and relevant governmental authorities, including security agencies, of the looming trou­ble. According to the letters ob­tained by SUNDAY INDPEN­DENT, the Ukanafun axis of the SE-GPLRoW, which is made up of four local government areas of Abak, Ukanafun, Oruk Anam and EtimEkpo, is alleging that Savannah Energy is contraven­ing Section 242(2) of the Petro­leum Industry Act that requires consultation with host commu­nities in determining member­ship of BoT. Referring to a letter from the company in September 2022, the Paramount Ruler of Ukanafun local government area, His Royal Majesty (HRM) Amos Akpan had recently informed Savannah Energy through a let­ter to the Managing Director in charge of the company’s South East zone that shortly after the submission of nominees into the committee they “began to get unconfirmed reports about an authorized replacement of the BoT representative, Akaninyene Patrick.” Consequent upon not getting any response from Savannah Energy, the paramount ruler also informed the company that stakeholders in the community have resolved that the company “should write and clearly state reasons for the rejection of Akaninyene Patrick if indeed she has been rejected. “That if for any reason Akaninyene Patrick is rejected, the host communities in Ukana­fun have nominated EkongU­dom to replace her. “That Savannah Energy should reject anyone who is not nominated by the stakeholders of the community as stated in the Petroleum Industry Act. POLL In his earlier letter to the company on the same issue, the paramount ruler had aptly titled it “Restiveness in Ukanafun”. Prior to writing Savannah Energy, the paramount ruler had received a letter signed by 17 village heads of gas pipeline host communities in Ukanafun, who registered their protest over the purported replacement of Patrick with one J JEbong. Stating that youth leaders in the affected communities are protesting against the company for “ignoring and disregarding the unanimous agreement of the traditional rulers that select­ed Patrick”, the village heads are calling on the paramount ruler to impress on Savannah Energy to replace EkongUdom as the BoT representing Ukana­fun axis “to avoid crisis.” Similarly, 17 youth leaders under the aegis of the SE-GPLRoW had also intimated the paramount ruler of their grudge against Savannah En­ergy and called on the four paramount rulers in the axis “to promptly intervene and call the company to order to replace EkongUdom in the BoT if Pat­rick is not qualified. The letters were copied to the Department of State Secu­rity (DSS), the Nigerian Police Force, the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSC­DC), Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Regulatory Au­thority, Akwa Ibom State’s Min­istry of Power and Petroleum Development, among others.