Says He Brings Wealth of Experience To The Job ABUJA – The Imo State University Alumni Association (IMSUAA), has described as meritorious the appointment of Chinedu Obi as Director General of the Inter-Party Advisory Council of Nigeria (IPAC). It also said that Obi’s emergence as the advisory council’s DG is worthwhile as previous positions he held in the Alumni recorded achievements. A statement by Ikenna Onuoha, National Publicity Secretary of IMSUAA, expressed confidence that the new IPAC DG “will take drastic measures to reposition the Council into a viable organization to help in developing an enviable political culture for the country”. Onuoha, who said that the congratulatory message was extended on behalf of the University’s Alumni, added, “We are happy that one of us is leading all registered political parties in Nigeria in an advisory capacity to be able to redeem our country’s already depleted electoral image. As a leader with the requisite knowledge, we are sure that he will provide solutions to curb Nigeria’s current electoral apathy. The Alumni further charges the new IPAC helmsman to proffer the strong political culture required to rescue the failing electoral management body, political parties and governments at all levels, adding that such a solution should also be extended to the nation’s democracy from drifting into total anarchy.” The new IPAC top brass hails from Umueshi, in Ideato South L.G.A., of Imo State. The statement further explained that Obi “is a highly motivated and result-oriented professional Sociologist and Anthropologist, and an alumnus of Imo State University, Owerri, with more than 26 years of in-depth experience in Public Relations, Relationship Building and Management in the public and private sectors of the economy with great experience in Management Consulting, Project Management, Media Relations, Product Marketing and Human Resources Development. POLL “His achievements in these areas are driven by best practices and global standards. Prince Obi has held senior managerial positions with exceptional performance records both in the public and private sectors. Prince Obi is a strategic initiator and has pioneered several start-ups. “He is the Group Chief Operating Officer, Machine and Equipment Corporation Africa and Partner, Discovery Cycle Professionals. He was recently appointed as the Director-General of THE INITIATIVES, a body of a league of some cerebral serving and former members of the House of Representatives; a group he co-pioneered as Lead Consultant. “Prince Obi was the Pioneer Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Imo State University, Alumni Association and now Chairman, League of National Patrons of the Alumni Association. “He had served as National Welfare Officer and National Organizing Secretary of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC). He was the National Publicity Secretary and Spokesperson of the National Rescue Movement (NRM) and currently, its National Welfare Officer. “Prince Obi brings to his new assignment a wealth of experience, high integrity, capacity and competence”.