LAGOS – Dr. Ken Mordi, immediate past member of the Board of Trustee (BoT) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has commended the nomination of Senator Godswill Akpabio for the Senate President position by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, stressing that the former Governor of Akwa Ibom State was picked because of his commitment and loyalty to the party. He said, “At the presidential primary when he was stepping down for Tinubu he made a reasonable statement that one can hold on to in terms of party loyalty and at the presidential election in Akwa Ibom State he proved it by securing close to 20 per cent for us in Akwa Ibom. Speaking about the reason the South-East didn’t get it, he said, “Our brothers from the South-East didn’t bring anything to the table in the presidential election. “When you look at Orji Uzor Kalu who is a ranking Senator, the total result in Abia State was about 7,000 votes while he became a Senator with about 36,000 votes, so how do you reconcile it? “I believe that Akpabio was paid back for his submission during the primary, When people talk about equity, I wonder what is equity in politics. It is only in the South-East that somebody scores 97 per cent in a presidential election and no other party scored 10 or 5 per cent. You cannot benefit from where you didn’t sow. Look at what happened in North-West, the total number of votes that made Asiwaju win came from North-West. Akpabio has the experience to lead the Senate,” he said. Recall that the leadership of the party has earlier today zoned the leadership of the National Assembly. According to a press statement on Monday signed by Felix Morka, the National Publicity Secretary of the APC, the NWC of the party has taken a decision to zone the leadership of the National Assembly. The Senate President was zoned to the South-South, and Godswill Akpabio from Akwa Ibom was nominated, Deputy Senate President to North-West and Senator Barau Jibrin from Kano was nominated. POLL Others are the Speaker of the House of Representatives to North-West and Hon. Abass Tajudeen from Kaduna was nominated, while Deputy Speaker was zoned to the South-East and Benjamin Kalu from Abia State was nominated for that position. Morka noted that the announcement of the zoning arrangement followed a meeting on Monday by the NWC to consider the meetings held with President-elect Bola Tinubu and other stakeholders on the zoning arrangement for the 10th National Assembly.