MINNA – An elderly man allegedly lost his life at the Minna General Hospital, Niger State capital, after he was in­jected with an overdose of drug by a Nurse who mistakenly administered 24 hourly injections as prescribed by the doctor for that six hourly. The man was said to be in stable condition as he has been on treat­ment for an undisclosed ailment at the general hospital before the inci­dent. A source close to the facility said he has been responding to treatment before the nurse resumed duty on the ill-fated day. Resuming duty about six hours after the drugs were administered, the nurse it was gathered, hurriedly went through the files including that of the deceased, and subsequently went into the injection room time and later came out with some syringes containing drugs to be administered to the patients. After attending to some patients, the nurse Daily Independent gathered, headed to the elderly man’s bed at the popular ‘Amenity Ward’, and met him sleeping, but had to wake him up be­fore administering the injection that eventually claimed his life. The deceased, it was further learned, almost immediately started jerking and became restless, a devel­opment that attracted the attention of some patients and their relatives watching helplessly as ‘Baba’ as he was fondly referred to struggled and eventually gave up the ghost. Confused by what has happened, the Nurse it was learned, hurriedly set aside the man’s file apparently in a bid to cover up after a cursory look at the doctor’s prescriptions on the man’s file, and continued what they were doing. This singular mien of the nurse, it was further gathered, angered one of the women standing nearby watching how ‘Baba’ suddenly start­ed struggling for a few minutes before giving up the ghost after the injection, and subsequently raised the alarm. POLL The woman’s shouts that Baba has been killed by the nurse with an injection, our correspondent further learned, attracted more people to the scene as she narrated how the old man’s condition became worse and eventually led to his death. Meanwhile, a middle-aged wom­an said she is thanking God that her daughter did not die because of the carelessness of a nurse from the same health facility for mistakenly losing appendicitis stitches of her daughter without the doctor’s knowledge and approval.