ABUJA: Labour Party Presidential Candidate, Peter Obi, has appealed to lawmakers elected on the party’s platform not to undermine Nigerians by allowing themselves to be carried away by the brand of politics that undermine the delivery of truth, justice and fairness to the people. He also asked them to be united as they go about their Legislative tasks, urging them to represent their various Senatorial and Federal Constituencies in ways that bring about the changes Nigerians desire. Obi said this virtually while addressing the Good Governance Summit” organized by Diaspora Chapters of the party, for its elected members nationwide. The former Anambra State governor highlighted that the people desire a change, and that it was the duty of the elected officials to bring about that change through the National Assembly. “I appeal that we all work as a family in building this party and live up to the expectation of Nigerians who have decided that we have a future and that they will go down the road with us. “Ours is for the masses to do the interest of that new Nigeria and where you find yourself today is an ambassador for that new Nigeria. To be able to project these things, you can see the challenges needed to be changed in Nigeria, the level of poverty, insecurity and all the many problems the country is going through today which can easily consume all of us”. Earlier, the National Chairman of the Labour Party, Julius Abure, called on the Labour Party governors and legistures-elect to avoid the temptation and lures from the ruling party meant to get them to defect from the party. POLL He declared that the party has learnt its lessons from the February 25 presidential election, and that it will never again be found nabbing in future polls. Abure also disclosed that the party will stop at nothing to reclaim its mandate at the election petition tribunal. He said elected members should know that today the expectations from the Nigerian public, from the elected candidates of the Labour party are high. According to him, the LP elected candidates must stand on the side of the people who elected them into the 10th National Assembly. This is as he noted, “You have the responsibility to stand with her people and also the responsibility to work with your colleagues. “I will not rest on my oars until we are able to set Nigeria on the path of groups and be part of development”. Abure added, “given the special circumstances which gave rise to your election, which gave you this opportunity to be here and has given all of us this wonderful opportunity that we must constantly engage ourselves, we must constantly synergize to weed out the stuff together, reposition ourselves, reposition the party for future engagements. “I believe in the theory that it is not about winning the election that matters. It is not being in power that matters. What is most important is what you do with the power. Speaking at the event, the Senator who represented Kaduna Central in the Eighth Assembly, Shehu Sani, cautioned the Lawmakers-elect, warning them that the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, knows what button to activate to manipulate the National Assembly in his direction. He stressed that the former Lagos State governor “has been a Senator and has been in the trenches. Since 1999, he is the only president who has been on the opposition, in the trenches and around. He is versed”. The social critic emphasized that there was “no better time for the opposition to be organized to navigate the storms and turbulence and obstacles that lies ahead. Sani said Labour Party Candidates elect are the surest group of Nigerian Politicians who did not win on the sponsorship of godfathers, place-holder for serving governor but emerged from the anger of Nigerians who wanted a change. According to Sani: “You did not come to office due to godfather or someone paid for you. You came to power by the hurricane of angry Nigerians. Either you represent their anger or they will see you as a threat. That will be one of the challenges when you are there on the floor of the red or green chamber to speak for them”. You would need to stand on the side of the people on all issues. Those who have been brought to the twin chamber of the National Assembly by one or the other godfather, you will never hear about them or see them in matters of controversy “Again those who “Occupy the seat waiting for a serving governor to seat, are never seen on matters of controversy except after they have made calls to their sponsors. “But for you, the Nigerian people are standing with you and their anger is like a Machete on top of your head. They will be ready to use the machete on you, if you deviate from truth, justice equity etc. He advised the eight senators and 36 members of the House of Representatives of the Labour Party (LP) to ensure that they “Meet regularly with their colleagues to take collective stands. He warned that the President-Elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu has the capacity to manipulate the National Assembly in the direction he wanted because of his exposure in many fronts politically. Country Director, International Republican Institute (IRI) The Program Director, IRI, Santiago Stocker, in his speech told participants that, “Officials do not run away from the people but engage them in a meaningful way. “If you wish to build a meaningful party as the great US President, Dwight Eisenhower once said, ‘If a political party does not have its foundation in the determination to advance a cause, that is right, and that is moral, then it is not a political party. It is merely a conspiracy to seize power.’ “Nigeria is at a crossroad. Citizens are disillusioned over prolonged leadership failure in every aspect of social and political life. “Citizen trust in government is at its lowest at creating conditions that fuel conflict crime and migration. “What is needed now is the kind of leadership that provides an alternative paradigm to the usual business of governance. “The Labour Party through its elected representatives at all levels must demonstrate the desired competence and capacity to chart a new course for the development of Nigeria. “Remember that elected officials must serve as a vehicle to demonstrate how the party can govern and how its policies can be implemented. “It will be critical to demonstrate from the beginning when all eyes will be on your party, that your elected officials are pursuing an agenda which reflects the will and spirit of your supporters as an opposition party, even when you cannot control the legislative process. “Or the actions of the executive. You must be able to profile alternative policies and amplify the voices of your members and constituents. You must also be able to negotiate and build coalitions to achieve impact while not undermining your own interests, and vision”. According to him, the outcome of the February 25 presidential election in Nigeria spurred the IRI to focus on the need to advocate for the professionalization and policy development of political parties. “There is a unique opportunity to build on a new electoral landscape and the emergence of newly influential parties including and especially the Labour party, a party that won at least 12 states in the presidential election. “Eight seats in the Senate 35 seats in the House of Representatives, a governorship and many seats in state Assemblies. A party that excited millions of young people to vote, and successfully channeled social unrest and dissatisfaction into a legitimate political movement. “Now, following the 2023 elections, the Labour Party has new constituencies and new issues to consider how will you move forward in this new political environment and unpredictable electoral landscape? “What we are proposing for Labor Party and other major parties is to support your professionalization maintain a policy through the through party Institute’s such Institute would serve as a hub for developing party policy agendas and platforms for training officials on party administration and election management for recruiting and training party agents and for training of candidates and staff on campaign management, media and fundraising. “For the Labour Party, in particular, the establishment of a party Institute will be critical. How can you capitalize on the momentum that your party has built? You have momentum now, but momentum is fleeting. “Momentum is defined as the motion of a moving body measured by its mass and velocity. So I will ask what is your mass and what is your velocity? I would say it is your supporters and your message. And you cannot preserve this mass and velocity without institutionalization and professionalization. “The Labour Party in this election became a third force and in reality a movement and now you are facing the same problems that all movements face. People are asking What does Labour Party stand for? Who does Labour Party represent? What will the Labour Party become now? How can I work for the Labour Party? How can I run for office on the Labour Party ticket? “Without addressing these questions, you will lose momentum. Like so many movements that have become footnotes to history. We want to work with you to preserve that momentum because it is driven by real aspirations of real people that need a voice and a legitimate political avenue to pursue their interests, which after all is the entire point of electoral democracy. “With your support, we will take this idea back to our funders and make a strong case so that you can build on what has already been developed and so that together, we can elevate and improve the entire democratic process in Nigeria. He then urged the party leadership to work towards LP having all the “having all the characteristics of a new party, a viable third force to elevate the voices of Nigerians who have not been heard, but have a critical role to play in the country’s future”.