ONITSHA – Barely one week into the ongo­ing strike of the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU), the South East Coordinator of Ni­geria Union of Allied Health Professionals (NUAP), Com­rade Charles Nwoye has said that whether the strike would be protracted or called off soon would be dependent on govern­ment response to the issues that had led to the industrial action. Comrade Nwoye who ad­dressed journalists at the Nnam­di Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital (NAUTH), Nnewi at the weekend as the Chairman of NUAP at the health institution insisted that a responsible and responsive government would have proactively stopped the action by listening to the union. He said that the government was being funny with Nigerians which he noted had always been the case. “I categorically state that the Federal Government is respon­sible for the dwindling health condition of Nigerians and poor rating of the health sector. And over the years they have refused to take professional advice to make sure that the health sys­tem is running very well. “At present, the JOHESU is reviving a strike that the Fed­eral Government tried to bam­boozle the union to stop in 2018. Practically, one of the major reasons we embarked on strike in 2018 was the government’s in­ability to do the needful and they applied all obnoxious formulas to make sure the strike stopped. “Up till now, the same issues are still at stake. A responsible government would have swung into action to see that these issues are sorted out over five years now,” he said. Comrade Nwoye recalled that in 2017 JOHESU concluded a negotiation with the Federal Government on the implemen­tation of adjusted Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CON­HESS) meant for health workers and health professionals. “But unfortunately, the ad­justment did not happen be­cause the Ministry of Health has been illegally colonized by the dental and medical practi­tioners. The Ministers we have been having have been very bi­ased, very parochially minded in taking decisions that affect the health workers in the health sector. POLL “They always exhibit par­tiality in applying the welfare of the workers. They always take into cognizance those of the medical and dental practi­tioners who are their colleagues first and treat their matter above and beyond every other person, which is wrong,” he noted.