The Nigerian House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee on Monday began an investigative hearing on the inability of the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, to promote the spread of telecommunication services across Nigeria. It would be recalled that the latest move followed a motion of urgent public importance moved during plenary by Hon. Sergius Ose Ogun on the 6th of April 2023. Speaking while declaring the forum open, the speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabimila was represented by the deputy chief whip, Hon. Nkiruka Onyejiocha. The speaker had described the telecommunication sector in Nigeria as the largest sector calling on the Nigerian Communication Commission, NCC to always ensure proactiveness in order to provide services across all nooks and crannies of the country. The speaker further emphasized the need for available network services in the country urging the NCC to always ensure effective and efficient services at all times. In his welcome address, the Chairman of the Ad-hoc Committee, Hon. Bamidele Salam informed that the Investigative hearing was sequel to a motion of Urgent national important moved during the plenary by a fellow Lawmaker on the ‘need to innvestigate failure/inability of the Nigerian Communication Commission, NCC to promote widespread avialability and usage of Mobile Telecommunication network services to theunderserved and unserved areas of Nigeria by the Nigerian Communications Commission. He further disclosed that his committee had invited different major stakeholders for their impute that will help the committee in it’s reports and recommendations.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The Chairman had during his opening address noted that Section 3 of the Nigerian Communications Act, Cap. N97, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria,2004, established the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, with the responsibility of regulating the communications sector in Nigeria. POLL He equally promised his committee readiness to get probe beyond the surface so as to unravel all issues relating to network failure and unacssibility in the country. Hon. Salami had also in his speech described the Communication sector in Nigeria as critical as well as a major driver of Nigeria”s economy. In his comments during the hearing, the mover of the motion, Hon. Sergius Ose Ogun noted that by the provisions Section 4 of the Nigerian Communications Act, Cap. N97, Laws of theFederation of Nigeria, 2004, the Nigerian Communications Commission,NCC, is saddled with theresponsibility of facilitating investments in and entry into the Nigerian market for provision and supplyof communication services, equipment and facilities. The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communication Commission, NCC, Professor Umar Danbatta used the opportunity torestate its commitment tothe effective and efficient implementation of the mandates given to the commission by the federal government. He called on the government to declare a state of emergency on the communication sector describing as many challenges facing his commission.