★Summons Minister, Others Over Status Of Stranded Nigerians The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila has summoned the minister of foreign affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, and chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, and National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to appear before the House to give an account of the status of the evacuation of Nigerians stranded in Sudan. NIDCOM boss had on Monday said that Egypt has finally opened its border for Nigerian students to be evacuated from Sudan. Dabiri-Erewa said the border was opened after President Muhammadu Buhari spoke with Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, the Egyptian President. Gbajabiamila who issued the summon at the resumption of plenary on Tuesday, said the meeting will be held on Wednesday at his office. He cautioned political actors to learn lessons from the ongoing war in Sudan and its dangers, urging them to put aside political interests and ensure unity in the country. The speaker said while the priority of the House is to ensure the welfare and well-being of citizens caught in this war, they must further revisit the statutory and other frameworks that have left the nation seemingly unprepared to respond promptly and effectively.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ “Over the last few weeks, the Republic of Sudan has descended into war. Unfortunately, this rapid descent into the carnage of violent conflict has entrapped many Nigerians resident in that country.Efforts are underway to ensure that our citizens resident in the Republic of Sudan, such as students, business people, and other vocations, are evacuated quickly and safely. POLL The conflict in the Republic of Sudan reminds us once more of the fragility of nations. In pursuing our political objectives, we must never lose sight of the fundamental truth that in war, everybody loses; in peace, everybody can win. All our personal, partisan, and sectional interests must always succumb to the overarching and overriding interest of ensuring the unity and stability of Nigeria. If we fail in this regard, nothing else will matter, and none of us will be absolved in the judgment of history. “I have requested the Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs to invite the honorable minister of Foreign Affairs, Godfrey Onyeama, and officials from the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM) and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to appear before the House to give an account of the status of evacuation efforts. The House is aware of ongoing difficulties with the evacuation efforts and the federal government’s response to the developments in the Republic of Sudan. We are also mindful that some of these difficulties flow from interagency disagreements arising from overlapping mandates and the absence of established operational guidelines for such circumstances,” he said.