YENAGOA  – The governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, has urged the Nige­rian Army to be professional and neutral during the forthcoming governorship election in the state scheduled for November 11. Speaking in Government House, Yenagoa, when he hosted the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, Diri lauded the security agencies for being neutral during the 2023 general elections. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as saying that the army and other security agencies were crucial to the sustenance of democracy if they effectively played their role. The governor also applauded the army for the support to his ad­ministration, saying it should not relent in sustaining the peace and security in the state. He noted that security was a priority of his administration and assured them that the government would continue to collaborate with the security agencies to sustain the prevailing peace. On the request for accommoda­tion support, the state’s helmsman promised to assist to enable the sol­diers perform their duties. Diri also expressed apprecia­tion to the army for the support rendered during the burial of his father. He said, “Your commander has ensured good cooperation with our government. The moment the mil­itary does not get involved in poli­tics, they keep their integrity intact. POLL “Bayelsa is moving close to a very important election. In the last election, we had the army and others playing their roles effec­tively and we hope the same will play out during the forthcoming election. Just be apolitical and pro­fessional.” Earlier, the GOC 6 Division, Major-General Jamal Abdulsalam, said he came on the courtesy visit to the governor after his posting to the division. He said he had been briefed on how supportive the state govern­ment had been to the army and expressed appreciation to Diri for the gesture. Abdulsalam assured the gover­nor of the readiness of the division to support the government’s drive to maintain security in the state. He also appealed to the gover­nor to support the division, espe­cially in the area of accommoda­tion to enable officers discharge their duties effectively.