PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU As Enugu State people eagerly await the inauguration of the Governor-elect, Dr. Peter Mbah, on May 29, there is much expectation considering the challenges and tasks that lie ahead of his administration. Enugu State is known for its rich cultural heritage, agricultural potential, and significant infrastructure need, the governor-elect may face a myriad of challenges in ensuring the progress and development of the state in line with the campaign promises he made to Enugu people. Mbah, a lawyer and Chief Executive Officer of Pinnacle Oil and Gas Ltd, is already warming up to succeed Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, take charge come May 29, drive the desired change and deliver best governance to the people of Enug., Ahead of the May 29 take-off, Mbah has inaugurated a 64-man Transition Committee, charged them to produce an implementable action plan in line with his manifesto for the transformation of the state. The governor-elect who selected members of the Transition Committee from the private sector giants, technocrats, and professionals. The Committee includes internationally-recognised technocrats, good governance, transparency and accountability advocates, financial and management experts, entrepreneurs, as well as tech and innovation specialists. The committee is chaired by Ike Chioke, an engineer, renowned investment banker, and Group Managing Director of Afrinvest (West Africa) Ltd. He is also the President of the Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria, Chief Executive Officer of Triple-A Infrastructure Nigeria Ltd, and Chairman of Royal Exchange General Insurance Company. POLL Chioke has over 30 years’ experience in the banking industry, project and structured finance, debt and equity capital markets, media, telecommunications, financial services, and industrial reform. Recall that Mbah in his campaign promises, promised to overhaul the education with a plan to implement new policies that will ensure that every child in Enugu has access to quality education, regardless of their social or economic status. He also promised to make Enugu investment hub by growing its economy to $30bn and make the state become a private-sector driven economy, provide employment, empowerment infrastructural development and security and bring an end to water scarcity that has lingers in the state for decades He said, “If you look at the growth pattern, in the last 24 years, that growth has largely been incremental, it’s largely been marginal. So, we’re going to grow the economy from the $4.4 billion levels to $30 billion, within the next eight years. We also said that we are going to achieve a 0% rate in our poverty headcount index. That’s also unprecedented. You’re saying that by 2031, there will be zero poverty in Enugu State. There will be an eradication, not reduction, but eradication of poverty, meaning that you’re no longer going to have people living in that extreme poverty or abject poverty or living below the poverty line. He also said that his administration will unlock Enugu rural economy. He said, “We did something that was unique, in the past it wasn’t always done the way the campaign was done, essentially, would be for the governorship candidates to have a talk to the various local governments for a campaign rally. Well, we took a different view. We felt that we wanted to get granular. We wanted to reach out to the grassroots and beyond reaching out to the grassroots. “We also wanted to understand their pain points. So we went on a tour of the 68 development centers on a town hall meeting, where we engage with the grassroots and all the relevant community based organisations and also other professional organisations and bodies, the Civil Society Organisations (CSO), the Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), that are in the other various development centers that afforded us opportunity to sell our message to the people, that message of hope, the message of exponential growth, the message of disrupting the status quo and the sub optimization so we also began to unpack what we mean when we say to them, tomorrow is here. “We began to explain to them what that tomorrow holds for them. So, we engage them constructively, but beyond just engaging them constructively, it also afforded us the opportunity to listen to them, to hear them, have them talk to us about their pains, about their challenges and their difficulties. So it wasn’t a report through a third party. “It was me hearing it from them, the people who are actually going through those pains. And another opportunity it afforded us was we also documented the various potential in each local government because as you already know, from our manifesto were quite heavy. “We’re trying to unlock our rural economy. We’re trying to make sure that we have an integrated rural development. So it was an opportunity for us to identify the potential of the various local governments, particularly the development centres. “We took a bold view of what Enugu State can achieve in the next four to eight years, under our watch, and obviously that resonated with the people, With his promises and plan to put smile on the face of the people, Enugu residents have continued to keep hope alive for Mbah’s transformational agenda in which they believe will take the state to a greater height. Owelle Ejikeme Odumegwu, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi expressed optimism that the governor-elect will fulfill his promises when he resumes office He said “From all indication, people already know that Mbah is an economic buoyant leader. With his experience in the private sector, I believe he will transform Enugu and take us to next level “Mbah has served Enugu State government and he knows our problem so there is no doubt that he is coming to perform and meet expectations of Enugu people. “Enugu State lacks good roads, even within the urban area which is one of the reasons for traffic gridlock so he need to be re-plan Enugu State in order to make the roads wider and accessible “We also lack industries in this state and lack of industries is one of the things that caused unemployment, and unemployment encourages crime as we have thousands unemployed youth in the state so this must be tackled because if these youth are employed or engage in one vocational skills or the other, crime rate will be reduced and the economy of the state will be boosted as they will contribute their quota to the development of the state. “We also need special hospitals in Enugu, some of the hospitals are obsolete so they need to be remodeled in such a way that people can access quality health care services and I believe Mbah will solve all these problems and many more. Mbah from all indications is a man of his words and I believe he will perform because he is a man of integrity,” he said As Mbah prepares to assume office, the task before him is substantial and multifaceted. Addressing infrastructure deficits, turning around the state economy, empowering youth, investing in education and healthcare, and improving social welfare programs are just a few of the challenges he will face. By formulating comprehensive strategies, collaborating with stakeholders, and prioritising the needs of Enugu State’s residents, many believe that governor-elect Peter Mbah has the capacity to bring about positive change and propel the state toward sustainable development. Meanwhile, Enugu based lawyer and former governorship candidate of Action Alliance Chukwunonso Daniel Ogbe has charged the governor-elect to hit the ground running once he resume office in May 29. He said “There are more expectations from the people of Enugu state so Mbah must hit the ground running once he is sworn in as the governor of the state on May 29th because the people are full of expectations and he must not disappoint as he must meet the needs of the people. “As we all know, are many issues yearning for attention in the state like infrastructures, water scarcity, diversified economy, and insecurity etcetera. “So I expect Mbah to take charge of his government because part of the major problems we having in Enugu State is sycophants. So, I expect him to swing into action. I expect him to be an action governor, not just an action governor for the sake of being active, but action governor that will be passionate in addressing the multi-faceted challenges facing the state, some of which I just mentioned. “In doing that, I expect him to embrace radical measures in taking Enugu to the next level. The fact that there are numerous challenges facing the state, I don’t think it’s wise for Mbah to embark on political play, once he’s sworn into office. He should accord attention to governance and make sure he appoints competence hands. “In fact, I even expect h PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU As Enugu State people eagerly await the inauguration of the Governor-elect, Dr. Peter Mbah, on May 29, there is much expectation considering the challenges and tasks that lie ahead of his administration. Enugu State is known for its rich cultural heritage, agricultural potential, and significant infrastructure need, the governor-elect may face a myriad of challenges in ensuring the progress and development of the state in line with the campaign promises he made to Enugu people. Mbah, a lawyer and Chief Executive Officer of Pinnacle Oil and Gas Ltd, is already warming up to succeed Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, take charge come May 29, drive the desired change and deliver best governance to the people of Enug., Ahead of the May 29 take-off, Mbah has inaugurated a 64-man Transition Committee, charged them to produce an implementable action plan in line with his manifesto for the transformation of the state. The governor-elect who selected members of the Transition Committee from the private sector giants, technocrats, and professionals. The Committee includes internationally-recognised technocrats, good governance, transparency and accountability advocates, financial and management experts, entrepreneurs, as well as tech and innovation specialists. The committee is chaired by Ike Chioke, an engineer, renowned investment banker, and Group Managing Director of Afrinvest (West Africa) Ltd. He is also the President of the Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria, Chief Executive Officer of Triple-A Infrastructure Nigeria Ltd, and Chairman of Royal Exchange General Insurance Company. Chioke has over 30 years’ experience in the banking industry, project and structured finance, debt and equity capital markets, media, telecommunications, financial services, and industrial reform. Recall that Mbah in his campaign promises, promised to overhaul the education with a plan to implement new policies that will ensure that every child in Enugu has access to quality education, regardless of their social or economic status. He also promised to make Enugu investment hub by growing its economy to $30bn and make the state become a private-sector driven economy, provide employment, empowerment infrastructural development and security and bring an end to water scarcity that has lingers in the state for decades He said, “If you look at the growth pattern, in the last 24 years, that growth has largely been incremental, it’s largely been marginal. So, we’re going to grow the economy from the $4.4 billion levels to $30 billion, within the next eight years. We also said that we are going to achieve a 0% rate in our poverty headcount index. That’s also unprecedented. You’re saying that by 2031, there will be zero poverty in Enugu State. There will be an eradication, not reduction, but eradication of poverty, meaning that you’re no longer going to have people living in that extreme poverty or abject poverty or living below the poverty line. He also said that his administration will unlock Enugu rural economy. He said, “We did something that was unique, in the past it wasn’t always done the way the campaign was done, essentially, would be for the governorship candidates to have a talk to the various local governments for a campaign rally. Well, we took a different view. We felt that we wanted to get granular. We wanted to reach out to the grassroots and beyond reaching out to the grassroots. “We also wanted to understand their pain points. So we went on a tour of the 68 development centers on a town hall meeting, where we engage with the grassroots and all the relevant community based organisations and also other professional organisations and bodies, the Civil Society Organisations (CSO), the Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), that are in the other various development centers that afforded us opportunity to sell our message to the people, that message of hope, the message of exponential growth, the message of disrupting the status quo and the sub optimization so we also began to unpack what we mean when we say to them, tomorrow is here. “We began to explain to them what that tomorrow holds for them. So, we engage them constructively, but beyond just engaging them constructively, it also afforded us the opportunity to listen to them, to hear them, have them talk to us about their pains, about their challenges and their difficulties. So it wasn’t a report through a third party. “It was me hearing it from them, the people who are actually going through those pains. And another opportunity it afforded us was we also documented the various potential in each local government because as you already know, from our manifesto were quite heavy. “We’re trying to unlock our rural economy. We’re trying to make sure that we have an integrated rural development. So it was an opportunity for us to identify the potential of the various local governments, particularly the development centres. “We took a bold view of what Enugu State can achieve in the next four to eight years, under our watch, and obviously that resonated with the people, With his promises and plan to put smile on the face of the people, Enugu residents have continued to keep hope alive for Mbah’s transformational agenda in which they believe will take the state to a greater height. Owelle Ejikeme Odumegwu, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi expressed optimism that the governor-elect will fulfill his promises when he resumes office He said “From all indication, people already know that Mbah is an economic buoyant leader. With his experience in the private sector, I believe he will transform Enugu and take us to next level “Mbah has served Enugu State government and he knows our problem so there is no doubt that he is coming to perform and meet expectations of Enugu people. “Enugu State lacks good roads, even within the urban area which is one of the reasons for traffic gridlock so he need to be re-plan Enugu State in order to make the roads wider and accessible “We also lack industries in this state and lack of industries is one of the things that caused unemployment, and unemployment encourages crime as we have thousands unemployed youth in the state so this must be tackled because if these youth are employed or engage in one vocational skills or the other, crime rate will be reduced and the economy of the state will be boosted as they will contribute their quota to the development of the state. “We also need special hospitals in Enugu, some of the hospitals are obsolete so they need to be remodeled in such a way that people can access quality health care services and I believe Mbah will solve all these problems and many more. Mbah from all indications is a man of his words and I believe he will perform because he is a man of integrity,” he said As Mbah prepares to assume office, the task before him is substantial and multifaceted. Addressing infrastructure deficits, turning around the state economy, empowering youth, investing in education and healthcare, and improving social welfare programs are just a few of the challenges he will face. By formulating comprehensive strategies, collaborating with stakeholders, and prioritising the needs of Enugu State’s residents, many believe that governor-elect Peter Mbah has the capacity to bring about positive change and propel the state toward sustainable development. Meanwhile, Enugu based lawyer and former governorship candidate of Action Alliance Chukwunonso Daniel Ogbe has charged the governor-elect to hit the ground running once he resume office in May 29. He said “There are more expectations from the people of Enugu state so Mbah must hit the ground running once he is sworn in as the governor of the state on May 29th because the people are full of expectations and he must not disappoint as he must meet the needs of the people. “As we all know, are many issues yearning for attention in the state like infrastructures, water scarcity, diversified economy, and insecurity etcetera. “So I expect Mbah to take charge of his government because part of the major problems we having in Enugu State is sycophants. So, I expect him to swing into action. I expect him to be an action governor, not just an action governor for the sake of being active, but action governor that will be passionate in addressing the multi-faceted challenges facing the state, some of which I just mentioned. “In doing that, I expect him to embrace radical measures in taking Enugu to the next level. The fact that there are numerous challenges facing the state, I don’t think it’s wise for Mbah to embark on political play, once he’s sworn into office. He should accord attention to governance and make sure he appoints competence hands. “In fact, I even expect him by now to have made up his mind on who to work with, if he actually desires to work for Enugu State. So time is of the essence because the challenges facing the state are such that should attract immediate attention. “Most of our roads in the metropolis are in a very terrible state. So I expect Mbah to sponsor an executive bill to the House of Assembly so as to create room to fix these and other bad facilities and I expect him to do that as soon as possible,” he said. im by now to have made up his mind on who to work with, if he actually desires to work for Enugu State. So time is of the essence because the challenges facing the state are such that should attract immediate attention. “Most of our roads in the metropolis are in a very terrible state. So I expect Mbah to sponsor an executive bill to the House of Assembly so as to create room to fix these and other bad facilities and I expect him to do that as soon as possible,” he said.