A political activist and former Nation­al Publicity Secre­tary of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has commended the government of United States (U.S.) for an­nouncing Visa ban on those who undermined democra­cy during the 2023 general elections. The U.S. in a statement on the US State Department web­site, Secretary of State Ant­ony Binken, had said “The United States is committed to supporting and advancing democracy in Nigeria and around the world. “Today, I am announcing that we have taken steps to im­pose visa restrictions on spe­cific individuals in Nigeria for undermining the democratic process during Nigeria’s 2023 elections cycle.” Reacting to the develop­ment through a statement re­leased on Tuesday in Abuja, Frank called on the United Kingdom and the European Union to follow suit in pun­ishing fraudulent and com­promised individuals who participated in undermining the 2023 general elections in Nigeria. The political activist said the news came as a breather to ordinary Nigerians whose rights and fate are being de­termined by the criminal politicians. He said: “I would like to thank and appreciate the de­cision of the United States, through its Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, for its bold move in dealing decisively with all rogue politicians and individuals who participated actively in compromising the conduct and process of the 2023 general elections. “Indeed, this news comes as a breather to the ordinary Nigerian whose rights and fate are being determined by these criminal politicians. “The decision of the U.S. has once again given us hope that the era of brazenly un­dermining the process of a democratic exercise will have dire consequences. POLL “It is indeed a wake-up call for all other political actors who have mastered the art of sabotaging and scuttling democratic electioneering processes for personal gains. The U.S. has proven once again that it indeed has the interest of the Nigerian peo­ple in ensuring that democra­cy thrives unhindered to the benefit of the people.” Frank further urged the government of America to extend a similar ban to the families and cronies of the individuals currently in the U.S., to serve as a deterrent to all crooked politicians. “Furthermore, I’d like to re­iterate and plead with the U.S., to extend a similar ban to the families and cronies of these individuals currently in the U.S., to serve as a deterrent to all crooked politicians. “The U.S. must beam its searchlights on all collabo­rators and conspirators who participated actively in disen­franchising the people, espe­cially top officials of the DSS. These co-conspirators must also be held liable for the roles they played in undermining the conduct of the elections.”