LAGOS – Developers 0all over the country are smarting from a record-breaking run that led to some of the lowest mortgage rates of all time, combined with some of the highest home prices ever seen. The year 2023 a report suggests, may likely be a different ball game altogether. The Nigerian housing market in the last one year, has been 00on a steady decline, resulting in dropping house values and a dramatically rising interest rates. According to a report obtained by Daily Independent, this dynamic shift in the real estate market has been putting both developers and buyers in a quagmire The report says that this market condition change creates stress and confusion for people on both sides of the home buying experience. It stated “Buyers are having trouble getting over the fact that their interest rate for a loan has doubled in less than one year. “Developers on the other hand, are having a hard time with the idea that their houses are not getting the prices they were previously.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ The report further says buyers and sellers need to see that even in the current market, there is an opportunity to come out with a win. POLL The report offers some suggestions for buyers such as: “Remember that rates may be up, but prices are down. So, in the long run, the property probably isn’t costing you more than it would have at a lower interest rate. “The rate you get today is not necessarily the rate for the life of the loan. Rates will come down again at some point in the future, and you can refinance. “A property in a great location and excellent condition will always be desirable — regardless of interest rates. ”Beware of new homes in new neighborhood building projects. The builders will offer incentives, such as reduced commissions, paying for closing costs, and more. When you go to sell, those incentives won’t be there, and you may have a more challenging time unloading the property. “ If a house has been on the market for a while, you can afford to be more aggressive with your offer to test the water. When a home has been on the market for 3 or 4 months, the buyers may be more motivated to sell. “Try to narrow it down to 2 or 3 houses you would like, and then make an offer on the one that has been on the market the longest. However For Sellers it suggests: “Don’t price too high coming out of the gate and insist on a price based on what you could have gotten for your home 10 months ago. Instead, be realistic and set a value based on today’s market. “ If you have a good buyer with a reasonable offer, but they are hesitant, offer a rate buy-down. “Don’t test the market. Listen to your realtor when they tell you how to price the house to sell — and as quickly as possible. Pushing a price and then thinking you can always reduce it most often leads to getting less for the home than you would have if you had priced it correctly to begin with. “Remember, the first offer is often the best, especially in today’s market. If you have a buyer who has made a fair offer, take it. Don’t wait for something better to come along”. “Go local, not global. Use a real estate agent who is a specialist in your area. Realtors unfamiliar with your neighborhood often don’t know the unique in and outs that can make a difference in whether your house sells. “Looks really are everything. In this market, your property must have as much curb appeal as possible, be clean, well-cared for, and be in good shape. Most buyers today are unwilling to take on a “fix it” project. They don’t have money to do it. “Be proactive and get an inspection ahead of time. The buyer still has the option to pay for their own, but it can sweeten the pot on selling the house”.