ABUJA – The presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has said that the party, himself, and his running mate, Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, re­mains unwavering and com­mitted to pursuing their peti­tion at the election tribunal to its logical conclusion. He also said that the activ­ities of some persons who he described as hirelings, to derail them from pursuing justice, was the height of rascality. Obi, who said these in an Arise News television pro­gramme on Monday night in­sisted on building a new Nige­ria not on faulty grounds. On alleged moves to de-mar­ket and distract him from the election petition tribunal, the former Anambra State gover­nor said about the poll, “If you want to become His Excellency, you must come through an ex­cellent process”. He also commented on the allegation of treason by the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammad, as he described it as the height of rascality and a waste of scarce resources. “That is the height of ras­cality. It was even announced in Washington. I committed a treasonable offence and I’m in Onitsha, and my minister went to announce it in Washington. This is the waste in governance we are talking about and people don’t want to understand. “The amount it cost Nigeria for him to go and announce that in Washington can build a block of six classrooms in a primary school. I’m sure if you go to his village there are so many places where children don’t even have desks or class­rooms to go to school. “Instead of using that mon­ey for this purpose, he went to Washington to announce treason against someone in Onitsha. He doesn’t need to do that. From there he went to London, announcing the same thing when I’m in Nigeria. He should have come to see me or invited me and tell me my of­fence.” POLL Responding to the crisis in the Labour Party, the presiden­tial standard bearer said that there were no issues in the par­ty and that the reported crisis is just the “rascality” by paid agents bent on derailing the party to pursue justice. “In the Labour Party, we have no issue. Bar Julius Abu­re is our chairman and those things you’re seeing are just the handiwork of paid agents who are trying to create confusion”. On the report showing a picture of him visiting the President-elect, the former Anambra State governor said he never visited the Presi­dent-elect, Bola Tinubu, as speculated on social media. He explained that the ru­mours and accompanying photo shopped pictures being shared on social media plat­forms are part of moves by the opposition to derail his objec­tive. “I never visited him (Tinu­bu). I didn’t. These are some of the things I have been telling you. They have turned the whole thing upside down and into a joke. So, what they (the opposition) do now is think about what they are going to do to cause issues and what they are going to do to label him (Obi) this or that. “If it is not labeling him (Obi) tribal bigot, or religious bigot when he is not speak­ing, they will find his family and check whether he has a lovechild and all sorts of things, including misrepresented iden­tity among others, I didn’t visit anybody,” the former governor stressed. He maintained that despite all these he was committed to the course of justice and was ready to pursue the case be­fore the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal to a logical conclusion. The LP flag bearer also clari­fied that he doesn’t hold United Kingdom citizenship, explain­ing that even though he stayed in the country for some period, he returned his “unlimited res­idency permit” to the authori­ties when he was about to leave the country. On his recent so-called “ar­rest” in London, Obi explained that he was only stopped for a routine immigration check. “I was stopped for a routine immigration check and all these lasted for a maximum of 20 minutes. I was treated with all due respect. I was never ar­rested nor detained,” the for­mer governor insisted. He further underscored his clean crime record, saying, “I lived in the UK in the 90s from 1993 to 2005. From that time till now is 30 years and I have nev­er been questioned, arrested, or detained in any country in the world. “I have never been arrested or questioned in any manner. I have never committed any offence. So, what happened was a routine immigration check and that happened not more than 20 minutes and I was given all due respect by the authorities.” Speaking on the leaked vid­eo where it was reported that he told a presiding Bishop of the Living Faith Worldwide (Win­ners Chapel), David Oyedepo, during a telephone discussion that the election has become a religious war, Obi said, “What­ever anybody wants to make of it is fine with me, but all I can tell you is that I am not a reli­gious or a tribal bigot”. He said that he couldn’t have been a religious or tribal bigot and kept the closest person he had when he was governor, ADC, a Muslim from Kano, ditto his Police Commissioner. He also repeated the confes­sion of the Muslim commu­nity in Anambra State, who confirmed during last week’s Sallah festivities that he helped them to rebuild their damaged Mosque and remained the only non-Muslim governor who sent Muslims to hajj. Obi said that while he is not desperate to be president of Nigeria he is indeed desperate to see a better Nigeria that citi­zens will be proud of. On his mood ahead of the May 29 inauguration, the for­mer Anambra State governor said nothing changes in his mood as he and his supporters remain steadfast and focused on expectations of justice.