Police in Ogun have arrested three suspected robbers who invaded the Computer Village in Abeokuta, the capital of the state. The suspects, Ajayi Kayode, Habeeb Idowu, and Temitayo Oresanya, had reportedly invaded the computer village and killed one trader on April 12, 2023. They were later apprehended on Saturday, in the Abule Ake area of Kemta where they were hiding after the incident. Our correspondent reports that there was chaos on April 12, 2023, when a gang of armed robbers attacked the Computer Village in Abeokuta. It had also been reported that one trader was killed by an eight-man gang which fired gunshots, causing people to scamper for safety. The traders later gathered courage, pursued the robbers, and grabbed one of them. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, SP Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement on Sunday said the arrest of three members was made following a tip-off received by policemen attached to Kemta divisional headquarters.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Oyeyemi said the DPO Kemta division, CSP Adeniyi Adekunle, mobilised his men and moved to the scene where the three suspects were arrested. POLL According to Oyeyemi, two of the suspects have confessed their participation in the robbery incident, while the third, Oresanya, affirmed to be a member of the same cult group as them, and claimed that he didn’t participate in the robbery. He said, “The suspects, Ajayi Kayode, Habeeb Idowu, and Temitayo Oresanya were arrested, following information received by policemen attached to Kemta divisional headquarters that the suspects have been hibernating at Abule Ake area of Kemta for quite some time now to evade police arrest. “Upon the information, the DPO Kemta division, CSP Adeniyi Adekunle, mobilised his men and moved to the scene where the three suspects were apprehended. “Two of the suspects have confessed their participation in the robbery incident, while the third one Temitayo Oresanya, though affirmed to be a member of the same cult group with them, claimed that he didn’t participate in the robbery. “Oresanya stated further that Ajayi Kayode and Habeeb Idowu came to his house at Abule Ake to hide from the police after their robbery escapade.” The PPRO however said that the Commissioner of Police, Olanrewaju Oladimeji, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to State Criminal Investigation Departments for discreet investigation. “He also directed that the remaining members of the gang must be hunted for and brought to justice,” PPRO said.