ABUJA – Amid the anger that trailed the recent endorsement of some nominees for prin­cipal offices in the 10th National Assembly, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, has passionately pleaded for the understand­ing of those aspirants who were not consulted, promis­ing to right the wrongs. Adamu, who took full responsibility for the error when he received some ag­grieved senators in his of­fice, on Thursday, told the lawmakers that the party, going by the magnitude of the displeasure expressed, would have no choice than to go back to the drawing board to review what has been done in the interest of the party. He, therefore, urged the aspirants that included Ab­dulaziz Yari, former gover­nor of Zamfara State and Senator Orji Uzor Kalu to sheathe their sword and al­low the National Working Committee (NWC) do more consultation over the matter. “We have received with respect, the outcome of the meeting with party leaders, comprising leadership of the Senate, the House of Rep­resentatives and the party, the NWC. We will go back to the drawing board. We owe our party that duty to take a look whether what was done cannot be changed; what was done needs some changes or reviews. We will take a look at what necessary compelled us to do by the grace of God. “Hold the fire until the last word is heard from us. We are the custodians of the party as NWC but we are not acting alone. The voice of the President-elect is an essential voice. We must ac­commodate him, the best we can. I will not compromise on that. “So, he is right now out­side the country and by the grace of God when he comes back we will go back to the drawing board and put our heads together again and see what we will get. I cannot preempt that, I will wait un­til we hold that meeting with Mr. President-elect, the same team that we had the same meeting with. If we need to enlarge the committee we will do so, we will be better informed through contri­butions that will be made”, Senator Adamu said. Adamu, who has come under intense pressure from members of both chambers over the endorsement of Senator Godswill Akpabio and Tajudeen Abbas, re­spectively, for Senate Pres­ident and Reps Speaker, among other endorsements, assured the senators like he did on Wednesday when some Reps stormed the party headquarters that a mistake was made. “We will go through your memo, line by line and en­sure that we are able to cap­ture the spirit of your pre­sentation and see what will be the best way out of the situation we have. Whatev­er you heard is the art of hu­man endeavour and we are not perfect as human beings. We can make mistakes. POLL “So, if we find in the course of further consulta­tions the mistakes that need to be looked at, we will look at them. “The important thing is that the spirit of the party must be kept alive. We just came out of the election, the whole country is looking to­wards us. We are just count­ing down to inauguration on the 29th of this month. Our eyes must stay on the ball but in doing so we must make sure justice will be done. We will do the best as human be­ings to deliver justice to all and sundry”, he stated. The APC national chair­man had also come un­der usual attack from his North-Central political zone where stakeholders believe they have been taken for a ride. “On the issue of the North-Central, I remain tongue tied talking about North-Central. Your argu­ment is extremely plausible. I assure you, we will take a look at what has been given to the public”, he said. Earlier, while expressing his displeasure, Yari main­tained that the Senate Pres­ident has to be zoned, then it should be to the North, where he said the party won 63.4% of the votes. X-raying the poll re­sults, Yari maintained that the South gave the Presi­dent-elect only 36.6 percent of the vote for whatever rea­son, saying that the election was won by the North. He said: “We should not be blinded that the power of anyone is not absolute but only God is absolute. We should not look at this four years as 20 years and then we are going into an­other election. We are going back to the next election, we should underline that we are elected and we are going to be looking for another elec­tion. “Whatever decision you are going to take we are ex­pecting you as a friend that works with the president to tell him not to go there. We don’t need rocket science to explain why you can defend what you are trying to do.” Senator Orji Kalu on his part declared that micro-zon­ing of the Senate President by name was undemocratic and unconstitutional, prom­ising to oppose it on the floor of the Senate. He dismissed the attempt to attach the zoning of prin­cipal officers of the Senate to votes cast during the 2023 general election. According to him, the 2023 election was different from previous polls held in the country because across the country something hap­pened. He noted that a presiden­tial candidate ran election from the zone, hence the decision of majority of the people to vote in a particular direction. That notwithstanding, he pointed out that people who did not vote the party this time can turn around and vote the party in the future. Kalu said: “Vote is not a measurement. We had a hur­ricane in our zone. We need one another and not the lev­el of votes cast. Those who did not vote for the party today can vote for the party tomorrow if they are proper­ly aligned. After all we have made progress. “Before we used to be one or two senators but it is no longer so. This thing did not only happen in the South- East. Many people from ar­eas where the presidential candidates came from, voted along certain lines. I appeal to you people that you must cede something very reason­able to the South-East. “What happened is that there was a presidential can­didate from the South-East and the entire people of the area decided in a certain di­rection because if we look at the election, it was not only in the South-East that thing happened, that every part of the country had problem of voting”. Continuing, the former governor of Abia State said the party should retrace its steps or face a revolt during the election. “What you have done (zon­ing formula) does not look very nice. It is undemocratic, it is unconstitutional to put people’s names. We are going to challenge it. We are going to say no. I am a party man and we have never disobeyed this party but this is the first time that we are going to say no to the party on the floor of the Senate. The party should go back to the drawing board and rezone, not by name but by zones”, Kalu said.