Femi Adesina, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari in this interview on Arise TV speaks about President Muhammadu Buhari’s achievements as his administration winds down. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What in specific terms will you consider as footprints in the sands of time by President Muhammadu Buhari? Everything is contained in that document, the fact sheet. I remember that under President Buhari when there were issues between the Lagos State government and the federal government and the Supreme Court ruled on the issue of the Local Government and asked the Supreme Court to interpret the judgment and the Justice said that judgment was written in English and that is what I am going to say that this fact sheet is written in English, and anyone who can read English should pick what he wants. How much effort have you made to circulate these fact sheets to make it available to the generality of Nigerians, in different languages apart from English? The fact sheet was released on Sunday. As we speak go to all major blogs now, that fact sheet has been placed as a commercial item online on all major blogs. It is online newspapers, blogs, everywhere. It is there as a commercial item. There is rarely any reputable blog that you will click and you won’t find that fact sheet there. Has it been done in other languages? Not yet. Can it be done? Yes, it can be done but for now it is in English which is our national language. You mentioned that government doesn’t create jobs, but creates an enabling environment for creating jobs, in the fact sheet you mentioned a number of programmes that government has done, you talked about the Anchor Borrowers programme, expanding the social register, how well have these programmes and do you have facts as to how much jobs have been created, again the controversy around the defaulting of loans from the anchor borrowers programme, and the fact that the farmers didn’t quite get access to these loans in some instances? It’s on record that when the administration came in 2015 there were about five million farmers of rice in the country and when the Anchor Borrowers programme came on board, the original target was rice farming and within one or two years rice farmers had risen to 12 million from 5 million. You can calculate the number of jobs that have been created. In terms of the payment of loans it is the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which about four or six weeks ago gave a percent about repayment and that put a lie to the figure that was out there about repayment because skeptics began to circulate some false figures about repayment and the CBN came out and gave the figure. I don’t have it on my fingertips. Who do we believe, those circulating figures or the CBN which is at the centre of that project? ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Based on the agreement with Siemens we are supposed to churning out about 11,000 megawatts of electricity in 2023, where are we now in regards to the Siemens deal? POLL Specifically on the Siemens deal, I remember that the Minister of Power spoke about it about two months ago. There is nothing that I am going to add to what the Minister of Power has said because he is the one that is at the centre of it and he gave specific positions of where the country was before the Siemens deal, and that I think answers your question. For me to come out and say anything now and if it goes contrary to what the Minister has said, it will create another controversy, which is not our intention. Some wings which we celebrate as regards the infrastructure, but there are also some wings that are questionable. Yes, a lot of projects have some quick and good wings, the airport in Lagos, yes it wears a new look but there was a structure defect that everybody knew about, that couldn’t land wide body planes, now that structure was amended, some people would argue why do we have to go through that quality of project that is below par? Structural defect at the Lagos airport, I do not know about it because it is not my area. If you see the Minister of Aviation, he can respond to that. Anybody can talk about defects they may or may not know. The easiest is to criticize, but what we know is that in terms of the airports, great things have been done under this administration, Abuja, Kano, Port Harcourt, Enugu and Lagos, in that area. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation at the May Day event said that this government has promoted decent work but organised labour doesn’t seem to think so. The organised labour has been talking about removal of fuel subsidy and the difficulties that Nigerian workers face, can you tell in real terms what you think that Buhari’s administration has done for the Nigerian workers to change their fortunes between 2015 and today, with inflation at over 22 percent, with unemployment rate at over 33 percent? My first experience of May Day was in 1977, as a secondary school boy. Do you know that from that 1977 till now the message that comes from labour has always been the same? Go down history and see what labour has said every May Day. I think that the country cannot be stagnant. There will always be some redeeming angles but they will never talk about them. For example, in late 2015 or 2016, at the Federal Executive Council meeting one Minister raised the issue that with the way civil service particularly was at that time, that if the government cut the number of workers at 60 percent the civil servants will continue to function and if not function better. The President said that it lies in his power that not one person will lose his or her job. The average civil servant won’t remember that. All he will remember is that this was not done and that was not done. But the fact that retrenchment didn’t happen despite all the contrary winds that this administration had to contend with. This administration has done a lot. It increased salaries even at a time when it could barely afford it. The salary situation in the country is such that what the government was carrying they could barely carry. There were states that couldn’t pay what was ground when this administration came, a minimum of 27 states were owing salaries. It was the President who helped them to pay these salaries. It is typical of Nigerians and typical of labour. Go and check labour messages since 1977 when we began to observe it in this country, the rhetoric has been the same. You said that the rhetoric has been the same, they complain every year even though a lot has been done, the fact that it has been overshadowed by the things that haven’t been done and the plight of the ordinary man. I know that you can agree with me that the purchasing power of the Nigerian worker has reduced significantly since your principal came into office, if you talk about inflation and the worth of the naira to a dollar, you can see why they cannot see this good that you talk about, because a lot has overshadowed them. About one of the things that you listed in terms of the bills signed into law, the Petroleum Industry Act of 2021, one of the key elements of that Act is the removal of subsidy, which your government said there is no going back. They said they would do away with subsidy before May 29, the Minister of Finance Budget and Planning said that they will recommend to the president not to remove the subsidy, are we going to see the removal in this administration or not, and if he takes FECs recommendation, what will happen to the $800 million loan from the World Bank? The position is that the subsidy will not be removed in the life of this administration. The explanation as at last week after the FEC meeting is that it wanted to give the incoming administration the opportunity to further consult on the matter. Since 2015 President Buhari had always been very reluctant to do a wholesome removal of fuel subsidy. He would tell us that it makes economic sense but social nonsense. He said that when Nigeria was earning over $100 from petroleum what did the ordinary Nigerian benefit, why must he be the one to bear the brunt at the time when oil prices have collapsed, that is why he has been very reluctant to remove the fuel subsidy. His position at the beginning was that there was nothing called fuel subsidy. He said it was a fraud, and he was not alone. Later he became convinced seeing what the government was paying out, and said it has to stop, and be deployed to other productive areas of the economy. He said that Nigeria cannot continue to pay what it is paying on subsidy. All the major candidates of the different parties during the campaign promised that they will remove fuel subsidies, Obi of Labour Party, Atiku of PDP, Tinubu of APC. Multinational organisations have told Nigerians, International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, all agreed that fuel subsidy is no longer realistic. I don’t have information on the $800 million palliative I don’t have information on that, may be if you ask the Finance Minister she will tell you