Dr. Sam Amadi, renowned scholar and Director, Abuja School of Social and Political Thoughts, in this interview on AIT, charges the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to proceed to court and charge the embattled suspended Adamawa State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Hudu-Yunusa Ari, saying that the Commission has the power to prosecute him even without police investigation. The former chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and governorship aspirant in Imo State said, however, that there is the need for police to intensify probe on the REC to know those who might have conspired with him to usurp the power of the returning officer in announcing the results. CHIBUIKE CHUKWU brings the excerpt. After the arrest of the Adamawa REC, what next for INEC? INEC has the rights and powers to prosecute electoral offences and does not need a police report to do so. INEC needs police to arrest anyone it deems to have committed electoral crimes. INEC is both the regulator and a prosecutorial agency. Do you mean INEC has the power to prosecute the REC? In criminal jurisprudence, some agencies are clothed with power to prosecute on specific crimes committed within the laws establishing them. One of such is Customs; they have the powers to prosecute in offences relating to their activities. So INEC has the power to prosecute. For example, in Akwa Ibom, where INEC prosecuted a professor. Two persons were involved and one has been convicted for actions violating electoral act in terms of invalid and wrongful return of candidates, so INEC must not wait for police to investigate and that is the first error What then is the role of police in all these? In such a crime, what INEC will do is to request the police to arrest the named person for the purpose of trial and in this particular crime, the evidence does not require intensive investigation. It is almost like a street liability offence. You wrongfully declared a result which you are not authorised to do; the result which had not been validated and you usurped the power of the returning officer to announce the result. The evidence is very explicit on the face of it. So what INEC will do is to come to a decision that the Electoral Act has been violated and it has the powers to lay charge against the person involved, especially somebody that worked on its behalf. Police have the right to arrest the person and you know INEC does not have the facility to look out for anybody because they are not essentially a law enforcement agency like the police. They (police) have done their part and the next story we want to hear is that before the end of next week, INEC will be heading to the Federal High Court with a charge against that named REC and a trial starts and continues from there. This is important because there were about fourteen cases like that in the 2019 elections brought to the police. Out of those numbers, nothing was done on twelve of them, only Akwa Ibom case had seen some progress. Police do not always notoriously fully and diligently prosecute electoral cases, and this is very obvious, perhaps because electoral offences are usually committed by high-placed persons. ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Do you suspect conspiracy in the Adamawa case? POLL The police personnel and other high-placed DSS personnel were there as the illegal announcement of results was ongoing. So it is clearly a conspiracy at the highest level because this is not a case of a young man breaking into a store and stealing something or a case of a yahoo yahoo boy arrested by the security agents and dehumanized, tortured and his vehicles seized perhaps illegally. This is a case of high level conspiracy by perhaps the highest and most powerful political institutions and characters in this country. So what you should see is that INEC should press a charge which lies within its power. The Supreme Court has said it clearly; you don’t need a police report to establish a criminal offence. What you need is the appropriate authority and in this case INEC. If you say police investigate Adamawa REC, it is dead on arrival. However, what is paramount now is that police have arrested him. What INEC should do is to proceed to court and present those charges. The case is open and close because the question here is ‘did he or did he not announce the illegal result? The case is that this man announced a result which he had no authority to announce and which he knew he had no authority to announce which was a false result. You say INEC can prosecute the REC without investigation but don’t you think that investigation is necessary to know those behind him given that the REC has bragged that he had no regret whatsoever in what he did? Criminal offenders don’t always regret what they have done. Modern criminals and principled and philosophical criminals. You have to run into alleged criminals who commit crimes with philosophy and you don’t expect them to say they regret what they have done. So your job is to prosecute them according to law. It is the place of the court to determine whether they are guilty and sentence them even with all kinds of obstinacy like them saying ‘I will do it again, no regret…’, they are committing crimes in defiance of the law. So I am not expecting the REC to say ‘Now I know I have committed a crime.” What I want to see is that the law works. Back to the issue of police prosecution and investigation, nothing stops the police from arresting anybody over a crime because they have the power to do so. Nothing stops the police from investigating someone even without arrest; nothing stops the police from prosecuting someone they think has committed a crime because the police amended act 2020 has given them that power. They have that power to prosecute any person at any time they think a crime has been committed. What I am saying now is that because electoral offences are offences arising from the duties the law has assigned INEC responsibility on. They have the power to establish a case; INEC law is that even when police are deployed on Election Day, that deployment is within the supervision of INEC. So INEC is totally in charge of elections. Until Nigeria creates something like the Electoral Offences Commission, that power rests on INEC. So, police can investigate but from history, there is this cynicism when we say “Investigate”. But the offence committed by this REC is such that the president himself could have sent a letter to the National Assembly to have his job terminated because that is a presidential privilege that does not require an additional layer of investigation. So the President can come to conclusion that his act from the REC was inimical to electoral democracy in Nigeria ‘and so he doesn’t consider the REC he picked fit for the purpose and the same constitution that gave him the power to appoint him also gives him the power to remove him, only with a rider that he will get the two-third consent of the senate. That was what he would have done. In the same vein, the law says INEC has the right to prosecute those who commit electoral offences under the electoral act. In this case what is the police going to investigate? This person has not denied the act he commuted; this person took it upon himself to announce a result that was false and made a false declaration of someone. Yes police can investigate him for the purpose of knowing who and who conspired with him, who and who were behind him. The investigation may be to know and establish all the chains of conspiracy, who gave him what money. Through such investigation, other offences can be established like false declaration. He can be convicted for bribery and corruption if it is established that people paid him money. ICPC can be called in here. Nigerians will want quick dispensation of this case. INEC could prosecute the police commissioner who sat with him. This is another dimension to this case because the protection of evidently illegal action by the police is itself illegal. Using the state power in this regard could be established or misconstrued as aiding and abetting a crime by providing security to illegal action because these officers have conducted elections around the country and they know whose authority it is to summon, declare results and announce winners as the duties of returning officers, it is very clear. So if any government official takes steps to support a REC who has no such power under the law to show up and engage in fraudulent declaration of results, such official should be prosecuted for aiding and abetting crime. I am not against police investigation because it is their statutory power but from history, we have seen very poor results from police in terms of investigation and prosecution.