At this juncture, it is worth pointing out that there are striking resemblances between the general elections conducted in Nigeria in 1979, 2007 and 2023. In a manner that appears like déjà vu encore to me, the current circumstances thrown up by elections 2023 may compel President-elect Tinubu to elect to replicate what the late Umaru Yar’Adua did in 2007 when his emergence as president midwifed under OBJ’s watch was alleged to have been tainted as is currently the case with Asiwaju Tinubu’s mandate in 2023, which is some sixteen (16) years after. And upon being sworn into office Yar’Adua vowed to immediately embark on a reform of the process of recruiting political leaders. Asiwaju Tinubu in 2023, like Yar’Adua in 2007, who pledged to reform the electoral system is already pledging to end corruption in the judiciary through boosting their remuneration and providing a conducive working environment for them. The judiciary may be his litmus test or pilot case for combating graft in public service which has so far defied solution from previous administrations. That implies that there is a parallel between Yar’Adua’s action in 2007 that vowed to improve on the electoral process and Tinubu in 2023 committing to eliminating corruption in the judiciary. Commendably, Yar’Adua kept his promise by setting up the Justice Muhammed Lawal Uwais committee that laid the foundation for the electoral reforms that birthed previous reforms that culminated into Electoral Act 2022 currently in operation. Having made a similar commitment on May 4 in Port Harcourt which is about twenty five (25)) days to his inauguration into office as president and commander-in-chief of the armed forces of Nigeria, hopefully, president-in-waiting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu would fulfill his promise in the manner that Yar’Adua did. POLL A constitutional crisis similar to the instant one bordering on elections result also had arisen in 1979 when Chief Obafemi Awolowo of UPN disputed the victory awarded Alhaji Shehu Shagari of the NPN and the issue of what constitutes 25% of 19 states of the federation became a protracted matter requiring Supreme Court intervention in the manner that 2/3 majority votes in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, is currently a point of contention in election 2023. Given the anxiety that it generated, it was not expected that our lawmakers would not have learnt some useful lessons and as such ensured that such type of complexity is avoided forty-four (44) years after by allowing loose ends to be left for manipulation by the election umpire which has left the mandate vulnerable to being discredited as tainted. One common denominator between President-elect Tinubu, former Presidents Yar’Adua (2007 -2010), Goodluck Jonathan (2010-2015) and Shehu Shagari (1979-1983) is that they all had their elections challenged in court by their co-contestants and they introduced or tried to introduce reforms in the electoral system. They also tackled corruption in more scientific ways than through sheer brute force or naming and shaming methodology adopted by former dictators/ex-heads of state turned democrats-Generals Olusegun Obasanjo (1999-2007) and Muhammadu Buhari (2015-2023). Fortuitously, the President-elect Tinubu whose task would be to dig our beloved country out of the deep hole where it has currently sunken, all things being equal from 29 May, has set the agenda by making one of his priority initiatives the restoration of confidence of Nigerians in the judiciary. And he would have to do so by sanitizing the justice administration system which is the conscience of democracy and society if it is creditable, but can be instrumental to perpetuating bad governance or leadership, if it is corruptible. So, to birth a new Nigeria, first of all, the judiciary has to be cleaned up as it were. Right now, most Nigerians would argue that it is the judicial institution without integrity that is constituting a drag on our country and inhibiting it from becoming the true leader of Africa and a very consequential country in the world. That is perhaps why the third (3) branch of government is currently on ‘trial’. I am of the conviction that if the judiciary that is fundamental to the recruitment of our political leaders in Nigeria is fixed or put on even keel, after its ‘trial’, then our country would be on the path to a rebirth as she would be positioned to be the true leader of Africa and also one of the consequential leaders of the world. The critical role that Nigeria could play in the world order was recently acknowledged by the leader of the free world, USA President Joe Biden in his goodwill message to our country in the run up to the just concluded general elections. But to truly earn the global recognition and respect that President Biden and many other world leaders have identified and exhorted us to live up to, sanitizing the judiciary should be the task that must be accomplished by President-elect Tinubu after he gets sworn into office on May 29 as substantive president of Nigeria, all things being equal. If that becomes one of Mr. Tinubu’s main goals, as stated earlier, history may be repeating itself because reformation of the electoral system is exactly what Umaru Yar’Adua of blessed memory embarked upon after he was swept into office in a gale of disputed election result as is currently the case in 2023 whereby the President-elect Tinubu is about to be propelled into office as president and commander-in-chief of the armed forces of Nigeria, in similar circumstances. Without cleaning up the proverbial Augean stable which the judiciary seems to have become, whatever the incoming government does would be tantamount to building a house on a weak foundation. And the justification for the assertion above is derived from the reality that the aforementioned institution has been too malleable and susceptible to manipulation by political actors, hence our country has remained anchored on a shifty framework that has been hindering her from attaining her full potentials as the true leader of Africa in terms of being built on sound democratic principles and anchored on solid economic foundation. Universally, great countries (apart from communist China, Russia and North Korea and monarchies governed with religious dogma especially in the Arab world) emerge from having a robust judicial system with the rule of law embedded in its DNA. That is what would ensure the emergence of citizens that are driven by equity and justice that would ultimately produce leaders recruited through transparent, fair and free electioneering processes for egalitarian society. But the image of the judiciary has been worsted by a series of recent judgements that have befuddled Nigerians hence the third (3rd) branch of government has been in the eyes of the storm and on ‘trial’ as it were. Readers would agree that it is an understatement to say that some recent judgements appear preposterous to ordinary Nigerians as they have been unable to discern the rationale for the decisions without the judiciary giving explanations on how it arrived at the very complicated and confusing decisions. In order words, Nigerians are distressed and frustrated because the aforementioned agency governing a critical aspect of their existence is in their view not living up to expectations as their rather opaque decisions are not being explained to them in order to know why and how they made their seemingly odd and perplexing judgements. Hopefully, the final decision of the current election petition tribunals across the country in the process of resolving the disputes arising from the February 25 presidential and legislative elections and March 18 gubernatorial and state Houses of Assembly races would be very transparent. Based on the reality of lack of confidence besetting the judiciary in the court of public opinion, I urge our lordships in the temple of justice, particularly the tribunals hearing elections 2023 petitions, to intentionally enlighten Nigerian masses on the steps taken and why in arriving at their decisions. My point is that a more robust communication linkage between the judiciary and the electorate is critical at this point in time. As we all would agree, extraordinary situations demand extraordinary solutions. Therefore, the approach of painstakingly explaining the reasoning behind their decision which would perhaps not ordinarily be the normal drill is required when they arrive at the decisions on the matters in which they are currently adjudicating in order to carry all Nigerians along and reduce the possibilities of misunderstanding of the intents and purposes of our learned tribunal panelists that could result in further strain in the relationship between the judiciary and the good people of Nigeria. As the conventional wisdom goes, justice is not only supposed to be done, it also needs to be seen to have been done. Without a doubt, with the tribunal justices going out of their way to carry Nigerians along by educating the masses on the principles applied in arriving at their judgement, the purpose of erasing any and every reasonable doubts would be served. To most Nigerians, it was rather demoralizing and demotivating that the matter of who would become the political leaders of Nigeria is now at the behest of leaders in the temple of justice, not the masses as should have been the case. The resentment towards the judiciary by some Nigerians conveyed by the media which is the voice of the people elicited an incendiary media statement released recently by the spokesman of the Supreme Court, Dr. Festus Akande. He berated members of the fourth estate of the realm (media) for daring to put judicial officers and the judiciary under trial as it were. In his view: “No Court in any clime is a Father Christmas; so, no one can get what he or she didn’t ask for. “Similarly, all matters are thoroughly analysed and considered based on their merits and not the faces that appear in courts or sentiments that attempt to becloud the sense of reasoning. “So, for anyone in his or her right frame of mind to insinuate that the justices have been bought over by some unknown and unseen persons is, to say the least, a bizarre expression of ignorance, which definitely has no place in law. “We are not surprised with the surge of these well-orchestrated verbal assaults on judicial officers across the country at this period of elections”. As the apex court spokesman concluded: “It is a thing we are used to and are ever ready to absorb whatever comes our way; but there should be some level of decorum and dignity in what we say and do. “Politics should not be played without recourse to good conscience and acceptable moral conduct, as everything is evolving globally”. I would like to reiterate that a new Nigeria is possible if the judiciary after its current ‘trial’ becomes more open and welcoming to criticism by electing to drain the ‘swamp’ in which it is currently mired and a situation that going by pronouncements by its leaders in numerous workshops and seminars is acknowledged as a malaise afflicting the secure and which is also recognized by President-elect Tinubu, hence he pledged to scrub the judicial institution clean of corruption via improved remuneration and other perks that would make malfeasance unattractive to members of the bench. Although, I do not have empirical evidence as to how Nigerians perceive the judiciary, it may not be far from the abysmal level of skepticism with which the masses currently view the elections umpire, Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. And the likely low esteem of the judiciary in the eyes of Nigerian public stems from the recent and not too recent verdicts from our courts in landmark cases ranging from some recent highly controversial judgements concerning governors and lawmakers who most Nigerians in frustration assume are induced either with money or coercion power of state actors. And the perceived malfeasance has been swirling around in the mass media even as they are also the subject of gossips in drinking bars, hair dressing saloons and motor parks. It may be recalled that Mr. Rotimi Amaechi who reportedly did not participate in campaigns and governorship election processes in Rivers State in 2007, which was according to INEC won by Mr. Celestine Omehia, but whose victory got upturned by the judiciary with Mr. Amaechi crowned as governor in a manner that has left a lots of Nigerians still scratching their heads, even as it left bitter taste in the mouths of many others. A similar judgement to the one in Rivers State reoccurred in Imo State in 2019 when verdict was given in favor of incumbent governor, Mr. Hope Uzodimma, who was also adjudged to have come in the 4th position in the INEC declared result that got upturned by the courts when it stripped Mr. Emeka Ihiedioha of the victory and position after he had been declared winner by the electoral body and sworn into office as the state governor. There are more similarly stunning decisions emanating from the courts in recent times. These are in respect of the emergence of current Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, as candidate for the Senate even in the current election circle when he was also a contender for the presidency at the same time. And to some extent, the same applies to senator-elect, Mr. Godswill Akpabio, who is currently the front runner to become Senate President in the 10th Assembly beginning next month, June. The two (2) aforementioned very important personalities in the eyes of the ordinary Nigerians bought tickets and contested for the presidency in the same election season. In the simple logical thinking of the masses, the pair could not have also legally contested for Senate seats— a situation which they assume is basically contrary to the provisions of Electoral Act 2022. Perhaps explanations from Dr. Akande about what informed the decision by the Supreme Court justices to allow the duo be presidential and senate candidates for two elective posts in the same 2023 general elections circle could have cleared the fog. In the absence of the much needed clarity, those judgements riled up Nigerians to the extent that the reputation and credibility of the judiciary has further dipped hence the third (3rd) branch of government appear to be on trial in the court of public opinion. Although, I have a gut feeling that the courts may not be really culpable of malfeasance in giving some judgements that have turned out to be irksome to some Nigerians as highlighted above, the cynicism against the judiciary as stated earlier may have its origin in the fact that it is not explaining its decisions to the Nigerian public in ways that they can understand the logic or jurisprudence behind the verdicts that they have been giving lately and which are obviously strange to most of us.