LAGOS  – Sahara Energy International, Geneva, a member of the Sahara Group has restated its commitment to promoting diversity, inclusion, and global sustainable development through participation in the respected Generali Genève Marathon which is held annually in Geneva, Switzerland. At the 17th edition, Kola Motajo, Director, Sahara Group, said the privilege of running in the marathon that is dedicated to making a difference is treasured by the Sahara Family. He said: “This is an event we look forward to in Sahara each year. We have Saharians who participate in different categories of the Generali Genève Marathon, while others turn up to cheer and make the moment special for Sahara and the world. Every step our runners take reinforces Sahara Group’s dedication to bringing energy to life responsibly through our energy solutions and social impact” He noted that the camaraderie amongst all runners, the donations channeled to children with health challenges and diversity of participants make the marathon a spectacle that “showcases the importance of collaboration in the quest for achieving sustainable development across the globe.” Sahara Energy’s team was led by Didier Veron, a seasoned marathoner who finished the 10km race in 00:48:17. Other members of the Sahara contingent included Nicolas Fort, Thomas Khoury, Marc Barros, Ludivine Moisan, Gowtham Kesavan, Gugliemo Colombo, Alexander Mireskandari, Nathalie Musson Genon, Azzurra Tarroni and Jean-David Mencier. Veron, noted that marathons have over the decades stood out remarkably as platforms for promoting bonding, partnership, consideration for others, healthy competition, and laudable causes. “I must commend the Sahara Group team for another fantastic performance at the Generali Genève Marathon. “This is how we demonstrate our commitment to being ‘MAD’ that is, making a difference individually and collectively in the pursuit of innovation, excellence, and sustainability as Team Sahara” he added. “Perfect weather, great teammates, and a challenging experience in a challenging year. Exciting to be MAD,” said Jean-David Mencier who finished the 20km race in 1:50:56.” ‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒