JOY ANIGBOGU The President General, Okpe Union, Professor Igho Natufe, has decried the marginalisation of Okpe Kingdom, reiterating long-standing requests for the restoration of the Sapele, Warri, and Koko ports. He called on the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to pay urgent attention to this request for the development of the Niger Delta area. ‘’The value of these three ports to the Nigerian economy cannot be underestimated. We also request the incoming President and his cabinet to treat, as a matter of grave national urgency, the reconstruction of the Benin-Sapele-Warri expressway’’. He praised President Muhammadu Buhari for his recent decision on the teaching of indigenous languages in local government areas across Nigeria. ‘’This gives credence to our age-long agitation for the teaching of Okpe Language in all educational institutions situated in Okpe Kingdom as a critical component of Okpe Identity. We welcome this decision and shall collaborate with other organisations towards its realization in Okpe Nation. As a first step in this direction, I am pleased to announce that NEC has instructed the Education and Culture Committee of the Okpe Union to work out the modalities of awarding post-secondary scholarships/bursaries for deserving Okpe nationals to study Okpe Language and Literature to form the nucleus of future Okpe Language teachers in educational institutions in Okpe Nation’’. Professor Natufe spoke at the 93rd anniversary celebration of the founding of the Okpe Union in Lagos. ‘’ We are gathered here today, May 16, 2023, at the Headquarters of the Okpe Union to celebrate the 93rd Anniversary of the Founding of the Okpe Union, the oldest registered ethnic organisation in Nigeria. POLL Leaders of the Okpe Union from all the branches and regions in Nigeria have assembled here to honour the gallantry of the young Okpe nationals who had the foresight to establish the Okpe Union as the foremost socio-cultural and political organisation acting as the mouthpiece of the Okpe Nation. We consider ourselves privileged to carry on with the rich legacy of the autonomy of the Okpe Union bequeathed to us by our forefathers’’ He restated the union’s stand on Okpe distinct ethnic nationality. ‘’As we gather here today to celebrate the 93rd Anniversary of the Okpe Union, let us reflect on the great historical role we have been summoned to play in the growth and development of the Okpe Nation as well as in our nation, Nigeria. Since its inception 93 years ago, the Okpe Union has played and continues to play a pivotal role in defining the consciousness of Okpe nationals. A critical element of this consciousness is the recognition of Okpe as a distinct ethnic nationality in Nigeria. It is noteworthy to re-state this historical fact and dismiss unequivocally the fallacy of classifying Okpe as a “sub-group” or “clan” of any other ethnic nationality in Nigeria. A group of Okpe traditional and political leaders has been propagating a false thesis that “Okpe Kingdom is one of the twenty-four (24) Kingdoms of contemporary Federated Urhobo Nationality of Delta-Central Senatorial District. While some Okpe nationals have built on this falsehood and sold their conscience for a pot of rotten porridge by describing the Okpe Nation as “Okpe communities within the Urhobo nation” in their waffled understanding of Okpe Identity. We state boldly that both postulations are a distortion of Okpe History. These Okpe leaders simply demonstrate their conceptual deficiencies and poverty of Okpe ethnic consciousness in using Okpe identity and Urhobo ethnic nationality interchangeably. For them, “Okpe is Urhobo”, whereas we in the Okpe Union proudly proclaim that Okpe is Okpe. This is the dialectical difference between us in Okpe Union and those Okpe leaders that readily collaborate with non-Okpe to oppose the restoration of Okpe as a distinct ethnic nationality. The Okpe Union President General lamented that since the inception of the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC), Okpe has been denied its rightful slots of appointments and award of projects due to the falsity of placing it under the Urhobo appellation “Let me reassure all Okpe Nationals that the NEC of the Okpe Union shall not rest on its oars to intensify its sensitisation activities in Okpe Nation regarding the fact that Okpe is a distinct ethnic nationality, as well as the benefits this recognition bestows on the Okpe Nation. Since the inception of the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC), Okpe has been denied its rightful slots of appointments and award of projects due to the falsity of placing it under the Urhobo appellation while, for example, the Ijaw, Ika, Isoko, Itsekiri, and Ndokwa ethnic nationalities receive their respective slots, as recognised ethnic nationalities. Those internal and external forces that conspire to deny Okpe its rightful place in the comity of ethnic nationalities in Delta State are enemies of the Okpe Nation. Natufe also spoke on the efforts being made by the Okpe Union for the reinstatement and recognition of Okpe as a distinct ethnic nationality. ‘’As an ethnic nationality that exclusively owns at least two Local Government Areas in Delta State, the Okpe Nation shall immediately be recognised in DESOPADEC and therefore be entitled to an exclusive Commissioner and an Executive Director like our neighbouring oil producing ethnicities of Delta State. “The advantages of this include direct budget for the Okpe Nation, specific slots for different empowerment programmes and policies. Example, bursary awards for Okpe students which they now share with Urhobo students under a crass discrimination aided by the falsifiers of Okpe History acting as agents of those afraid of Okpe Identity. Because of this fallacy, the oil and gas wells in Okpe Nation are not captured as Okpe. My dear brothers and sisters, in order to rectify this injustice, we shall continue our liaison with the Government of Delta State and the Delta State House of Assembly for the reinstatement and recognition of Okpe as a distinct ethnic nationality. This is a sacred historical mission of the Okpe Union’’ The former University of Benin lecturer called on stakeholders of the Okpe Nation and all Okpe people the world over to focus on achieving synergy for the growth and development of the Okpe Nation and Kingdom. “The decision of the Federal High Court, Lagos, on the Okpe Union Autonomy Case on January 19, 2023, which has established that the current Okpe Union NEC led by yours truly is the only leadership of the Okpe Union, gives the Okpe Nation a unique opportunity for unity. We therefore call on all institutions, stakeholders of the Okpe Nation and all Okpe people the world over to focus on achieving synergy for the growth and development of the Okpe Nation and Kingdom, so that Okpe can once again attain its place of pride in the comity of ethnic nationalities in Delta State and in Nigeria’’. Natufe said that without responsible political leaders, the Okpe Nation would continue to lag behind in terms of development. “The general elections of February 25 and March 18, 2023, afforded Nigerians the opportunity to elect their leaders, to represent them for the next four years. It is universally recognised that a society gets the leaders it deserves. When the electorate casts its votes for national and state representatives, they do so with the expectation that the elected leaders will represent their constituency interests and not their respective or personal interests. Thus, they expect their leaders to demonstrate good leadership. In their view, they expect their leaders to be effective, ethical and transformative. An election is a social contract binding the electorate and the elected. Unfortunately, if we examine the performances of Okpe leaders (elected and appointed) since the advent of the 4th Republic in 1999, there is a depressing recognition that the Okpe Nation has not been blessed with effective, ethical and transformative leadership. While these leaders have enriched themselves by privatising public wealth, Okpe Nation is littered with abandoned projects. In citing examples, Orerokpe Stadium, Technical College, Orerokpe, readily come to mind. More so, the lack of accessible road networks in the rural areas, absence of post-secondary institutions, industries and banks, especially in Orerokpe, the headquarters of the Okpe Kingdom, symbolise the marginalisation of the Okpe Nation. There is a vast disparity when we compare, for example, Okpe Nation with the Isoko Nation where the leaders of the latter have used their power and influence to attract industries, banks, and post-secondary institutions to their ethnic nationality’’. He urged Okakuro Ede Dafinone, Barrister Benedict Etanabene, Okakuro James Augoye and Okakuro Perkins Umukoro to rise up to the occasion. “It is interesting to note that the outcome of the elections for the above positions replicated the strategic advice that the Okpe Union proffered to Okpe nationals. While other Okpe organisations declared their public support for all candidates of a particular political party across Delta State, we condemned this as a poor tactical move to place all Okpe eggs in one basket. Our wise counsel prevailed as evident in the victories for Okpe candidates on the platforms of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Labour Party (LP), and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). We warmly congratulate these five Okpe nationals that have been elected to their various positions to provide selfless services to the population. We wish them God’s guidance and blessings in the execution of their respective duties and responsibilities. As the direct representatives of the Okpe Nation, we expect Ekakuro Augoye and Umukoro to firmly articulate and promote Okpe interests anchored on Okpe Identity at the Delta State House of Assembly, to ensure that there is visible and sustained growth and development in Okpe Nation. We also expect both of them to champion the amendment of the DESOPADEC Law to recognise Okpe as a distinct ethnic nationality in the Delta State House of Assembly. They are urged to liaise with Okakuro Dafinone and Barrister Etanabene on the constitutional amendment regarding the two local government areas in Okpe Nation, and to table the same amendment at the Delta State House of Assembly’’.