An Uyo-based real estate firm, In-motions Business Limited has announced a donation of a plot of land to Hilda Baci, the new holder of the longest cooking marathon of 100 hours. A press release by the Managing Director of the company, Mr. Gideon Ekanem and made available to our Correspondent in Uyo on Tuesday hinted that the company is awarding a plot of land worth over 3. 5 Million naira, located at one of their properties in a choice area in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital. On the rationale behind the gift, the release has it that “In-Motion’s foundation rests upon the pillars of diligence and perseverance, as we consistently align ourselves with these virtues. “Hilda Baci embodies the very essence of resilience within our society today, and we wholeheartedly join the entire nation and our fellow Akwa Ibomites in exuberantly celebrating her extraordinary achievement. “In recognition of this remarkable feat, we are delighted to present Hilda with a free plot of land in Wana Court Estate, the first true Green and Smart Estate in Akwa Ibom State”. “May this well-deserved honor serve as a testament to your unwavering determination. “Wana Court Green Estate is a chain of green real estate currently selling plots in Uyo, Port Harcourt, and Lagos”. Recall that the Cook-a-thon (Cooking Marathon) was an attempt by Hilda, who had shown her culinary skills on various Television Cook shows and represented Nigeria at the Jollof Faceoff Competition in 2021, emerging as the winner, to break an existing world record. POLL The Nigerian foodpreneur who targeted to break the Guinness World record of 87 hours, 45 minutes, and 00 seconds set by Chef Lata Tondon in Rewa, India, in 2019, not just surpassed the said record, but exceeded her set 96 hours with an additional 4 hours, bringing it to a total 100 hours. The event which attracted support and admiration from Nigerians and others across the world, including Hilda’s State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, was held at Amore Gardens, Lekki, Lagos, and showcased Hilda’s culinary skills using various local and intercontinental recipes to put Nigeria on the global culinary map.