By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba) republished in July 2018 Intro: Last week, this column repub­lished “Haunting Echoes of a Sage (2)” The article emphasizes the need to revisit recommendations given by brilliant minds who are no longer with us. All republications can be found in the archives using the below link. (See www.betternaijanow.com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) Today’s republication rehashes a previous event that highlights the disparities between what govern­ment deems as a worthy cause of action for the betterment of the na­tion, and the reality on ground. Since the situation has not improved for local manufacturers and businesses in this current year, it is necessary to resound the cry for our government to bridge the gap between what they believe to be beneficial for the Nigeri­an economy and the present reality. Kindly read on. As you read through the below article taking note of previous events and rates, keep in mind its first repub­lication (2018), a clear indication that things remain stagnant even as we face the year 2023. The South Africa President, Cyril Ramaphosa, was in Abuja earlier, that month (July 2018), to participate in the 25th anniversary celebration and annual General meeting of the African Export Import Bank (Afrex­imbank). Ramaphosa, also used the opportunity to call on Nigeria, not to delay signing the agreement for the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). Notably, the AfCFTA seeks to cre­ate, unhindered access to markets in 54 African countries, with a com­bined population of about 1.2 billion people, and a gross domestic product, above $3.4 Trillion. Incidentally, 49 countries, including South Africa have now signed the AfCFTA; Nige­ria with a population of almost 200 million, and 4 other countries are yet to do so. POLL Nonetheless, in response to Ra­maphosa’s admonition, Nigeria’s Finance Minister, Kemi Adeosun, noted, that Nigeria was about con­cluding nationwide consultations with critical stakeholders, so that the final decision “must reflect views across the country.” Adeosun, how­ever cautioned that “we must never be in a hurry to get things wrong, we must get things right.” Similarly, days later, President Bu­hari also noted, in his speech, at the Afrexim event, that “there is a need to ensure our national interests, as well as our regional and international ob­ligations are balanced.” According to PMB, “Nigeria is a federation of 36 states, plus FCT Abuja, 774 local governments and millions of inter­ested stakeholders who must be con­sulted with and listened to, in order to ensure an optimum outcome.” PMB consequently, reportedly, directed “relevant Agencies to conduct inten­sive and exhaustive consultations na­tionwide on the AfCFTA;” the Presi­dent’s consultative Team has already met key stakeholders across the six geopolitical zones, and observed that the clear message that emerged, is that any trade agreement must be both “free and fair.” Nonetheless, President Buhari has assured that “this fairness is achievable”, and affirmed that “we will work towards it.” Regrettably however, PMB is yet to disclose the critical concessions or amendments that would make the AfCFTA agree­ment free and fair. Nonetheless, barely a week after Buhari’s observations, Vice Presi­dent, Yemi Osinbajo, while speak­ing at the 8th Presidential Quarterly Business Forum, also noted that, the need to protect local manufacturers, made the federal government to fa­vour further consultations, before Nigeria endorses the AfCFTA. Osin­bajo explained that “with respect to the AfCFTA, there are clearly huge ad­vantages for us”, as according to him “there is no question about it at all, the rest of Africa, see the enormous advantage of Nigeria’s participation; everybody is waiting for us naturally, because, they see a huge market; there are advantages of our being there.” Osinbajo, therefore, advised that “we must ensure we get the best pos­sible terms for Nigeria’s trade and commerce” and warned that “our experiences with ‘dumping’ and other injurious practices make it obvious to us, that our market could be a real tar­get, our local manufacturing indus­tries, could become unprofitable, and our agricultural advantage could be reversed.” Osinbajo, nevertheless, observed that although “the gener­al resolve favours engagement, but concern remains around improving the domestic environment for greater competitiveness, while there are also concerns of power supply and (poor) investment in infrastructure”. How­ever, Osinbajo assured Nigerians that “government would take account of all the issues that had been raised and would negotiate well”. Further­more, the Vice President decried, with serious concern, that “this was the first time Nigeria was negotiating on a treaty”, because, according to him “the country was only signing treaties in the past, without knowing those who negotiated them.” Heaven help us!!! Conversely, Okechukwu Enelamah, Minister for Industries, at the same Presidential Business Forum, noted that “the idea of not signing the agreement, actually disadvantages us, as it weakens our position”. The agreement, according to Enelamah, “is a ticket to play, and I mean, not buying the ticket to play is suicidal, in a market where the con­sequences will be there”. The minister therefore, suggested that “we accept to play and solve these problems and make sure the work goes on, and that we want to do so collectively in a part­nership”. Nonetheless, Enelamah promised to “have another meeting with the Manufacturers Association and other stakeholders who are in­terested in continuing with us soon.” Similarly, Minister for Power, Babatunde Fashola, reportedly, also supported the idea of signing the treaty. Fashola, apparently, wondered what Nigeria was still waiting for “when smaller countries with lesser potential had since signed the agree­ment.” In sharp contrast, however, Ni­geria’s Organized private sector, is obviously not on the same page with political office holders, whose stake in the Nigerian project is often tran­sient. Thankfully, the Manufactur­ers Association and other industry players have, clearly, remained un-bowed by the serious pressure from government officials to support the immediate endorsement of the Af­CFTA. According to M.A.N, such an agreement should only be consid­ered “when the federal government has done more studies on its impact”. Indeed, earlier in July, M.A.N Presi­dent, Dr. Frank Jacobs, told reporters in Lagos, that “when they open our borders for all manner of products to come into this country, most of our industries will be out of business”; Ja­cobs therefore, affirmed that “we will continue to oppose it until the right thing is done.” Similarly, Chief Nike Akande, Chairman NEPAD Business Group also noted that “Nigeria will not be ready for the agreement until the coun­try’s goods and services were competi­tive enough.” Akande, also, warned against turning the country into a dumping ground for foreign goods and advised that “good infrastruc­ture was key to promoting trade and investment.” Similarly, Muda Yusuf, Direc­tor-General LCCI noted that “the manufacturing sector in Nigeria is focused more on domestic market and once you take away this market, the sector will practically collapse, be­cause it cannot compete international­ly”. This according to Yusuf, “is be­cause of the operating environmental challenges in Nigeria”. Consequently, Yusuf warned, that although “there are attractions for a free trade zone, but for a country with a large market like Nigeria, we must be very careful in signing such agreements.” Furthermore, according to Dr. Chijioke Ekechukwu, former Di­rector-General, Abuja Chamber of Commerce, it will be sensible to bor­row a leaf, for example, from the Chi­nese, who strategically delayed their endorsement of the World Trade Agreement, until after year 2000, when their industries were ready to compete effectively with the rest of the world! Clearly, in retrospect, that decision has paid off very hand­somely for the Chinese economy. In our case, companies from Eu­rope, Asia and America will take ad­vantage of this agreement to bring their production lines to neighbour­ing African countries with steady power supply and dump their prod­ucts in Nigeria. The views of this columnist on the AfCFTA were earlier captured in the title “African Continental Free Trade Area: Matters Aris­ing”, published on 26 March 2018 (see www.betternaijanow.com). Clearly, Nigeria’s ambition to successfully grow and sustain a diversified economic base will be challenged by the CFTA. Howev­er, the prosperous outcome, glibly canvassed by CFTA advocates, is probably best amplified by the embarrassing, stark reality of the overwhelming preponderance of imported consumables and other products, particularly from South Africa, on shelves in increasing ShopRite and other supermarket outlets nationwide. Invariably, Ni­geria’s endorsement of AfCFTA would, clearly challenge the survival of local manufacturing industries, who will become even less competi­tive with the subsisting, oppressive interest rates they are compelled to pay to fund their operations. Regret­tably, for example, while South Afri­ca’s Monetary Policy Rate remains around 6 percent and promotes cheaper cost of funds, our own CBN and the MPC are clearly befuddled as to how to reduce MPR to single digit from the present counter-productive 14 percent! Furthermore, issues relating to security challenges and high cost of energy to power our industries will continue to adversely influence investors from directly pitching their facilities within Nigeria, while Naira’s multiple exchange rates and distortions from fuel subsidy will further muddy the waters for pro­spective investors. SAVE THE NAIRA, SAVE NI­GERIA!!