Special Adviser to the Governor on Technical and Vocational Education, Prof. Joseph Odemuyiwa has said the government’s concerted efforts on skills acquisition training were geared towards making youths self-independent. Odemuyiwa spoke during the opening of the Community Incubation Programme, tagged “Catfish Rearing Skills Acquisition Training” organised by the Technology Incubation Centre (TIC), in collaboration with the German International Cooperation (GIZ)/Skills Development for Youth Empowerment (SKYE) in Abeokuta. The governor’s aide while maintaining that the overall intention of the government was to make youths to be entrepreneurs in order to be financially independent, appreciated GIZ -SKYE for being a wonderful developing partner in the State, said vocational training was the heartbeat of the current administration. According to him, “You are trained to be able to be self-independent, not to be looking for a job that does not exist, you can stand alone with what you have learnt.” He advised the trainees to be determined, urging them to put to good use what they have learnt during the training. In his welcome address, Centre Manager (TIC), Mr. Ifelayo Adejoro, commended the state government for creating an enabling environment and platforms for youth engagement and empowerment for socio-economic development, adding that the 40 participants were mostly females and young adults, who would be crucial resources to Ogun and any nation. In her remark, Head of Planning, Research and Policy Analysis, TIC, Engr. (Mrs.) Dorcas Achobe, noted that fish played a major role in providing essential nutrients to any average Nigerian, appealing to the beneficiaries to explore the opportunity given to them.‒‒:‒‒/‒‒:‒‒ Highlights of the event were the presentation of start-up kits, alongside the issuance of certificates to the trainees. POLL Two of the beneficiaries, Oluwakemi Soyebi and Mojisola Afolabi, thanked the organisers of the programme for putting together such a profitable training, enjoining other participants to utilise what they have learnt.