A Special Offences Court in Ikeja, Lagos, has threatened to declare former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayo­de, wanted over his refusal to appear for trial. The trial judge, Justice Ol­ubumni Abike-Fadipe, also frowned at the prosecutor, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), accusing them of non-diligent prosecution, noting that they can withdraw the matter if the commission was not ready to prosecute. Fani-Kayode is standing trial on a 12-count charge bordering on the use of false documents, use of fabricated evidence, procuring the exe­cution of documents by false pretence, and fabricating ev­idence. The defendant was alleged to have forged medical re­port(s), which he tendered be­fore Justice Daniel Osiagor of a Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, where he is being prosecuted by the EFCC for an alleged N4.9 billion fraud. He was arraigned some­time in 2022. Following his arraignment and commencement of trial, he has refused to appear for trial for about three adjourn­ments, the development which the judge frowned at. At the last adjourned date, his counsel, Mr. Wale Balo­gun, had informed the court of the absence of the defen­dant due to health reasons and issues he had with the Department of State Services, DSS. Mr. Balogun had pleaded with the court to grant him adjournment with a promise to make him available at to­day’s proceeding. POLL However, when the matter was called on Wednesday, Mr Chinozo Eze who rep­resents him told the court that Fani-Kayode was not in court due to health issues. He informed the court that a medical report and a letter seeking the leave of the court to vacate the two dates is al­ready in the court file. EFCC Counsel, Zinat Ati­ku, confirmed the develop­ment and said the prosecu­tion’s hands were tied as to how to forge ahead. However, the judge frowned at the constant non-appear­ance of the defendant, noting that the last time he was in court was November 4, 2022. The judge sighted a series of excuses that had been ten­der by the defendant for his non-appearances. Justice Olubumni Abike- Fadipe adjourned the case till November 7, 2023, for the continuation of trial.