The Chairman, AW Network and Founder, RED | For Africa, Adebola Williams recently addressed a room full of Government officials including President Masisi of Botswana, Business Leaders, young entrepreneurs, investors, amongst others on driving growth and innovation in Africa through positive stories and proper representation at the Forbes Under30 Summit Africa held in Botswana. “Every one of us, every day, can make a conscious decision to tell one positive tale about our countries, one positive tale about the continent. The internet is already full of all the negative stories, you don’t need to add to them,” said Williams. According to the media entrepreneur, the narratives and perceptions we peddle about our continent serve as barriers or springboards for other people of African descent across the globe trying to break into major leagues in different industries. “We are moving billboards for our race, colour, and generation and as a result, we have the responsibility to be our best selves everywhere we go,” Williams stated. “We need to leave impressions that make it easy for the global community to have faith in Africans whenever they pitch ideas, seek funding or collaborations. We need to reorientate the world on who we are: a community of hardworking and interesting people.” Expatiating on this, Adebola Williams urged young people to harness content creation, the media, and intellectual property in shaping the African narrative and catalyzing growth and innovation for Africa. “Content creation, movies, fashion, intellectual property (IP) is the new gold of the continent and everywhere you turn, everyone wants a piece of Africa – an infusion of our country and our materials,” Williams remarked. “Begin to think of your business from an IP perspective” Ending on an instructive note, Williams pointed out that the world still operates through the lens of boxes, muddied by biases and stereotypes. He encouraged young people to pursue their dreams and refuse to be held back by stereotypes and biases. POLL Holding for the second consecutive year, the Forbes Under30 Summit Africa brings together some of the world’s most promising young entrepreneurs and game-changers to discuss entrepreneurial capitalism and the role of Africa in shaping the 21st century. Williams’ panel at the summit included Uche Pedro, Founder & CEO of BellaNaija; Denim Richards, Actor & Founder of Khumo Studios, and was moderated by Tania Habimana, Anchor of CNBC Africa.