YENAGOA – An indigenous oil services company, Kenyon International West Africa Limited, has attributed the growing technical capacity of Nigerian companies in the oil and gas sector to the strategic intervention of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB). The Chief Executive Officer of Kenyon, Victor Ekpenyong, stated this while speaking at the sidelines of the Nigerian Oil and Gas Opportunities Fair (NOGOF), 2023 organized by the NCDMB at its corporate headquarters in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Ekpenyong, who was represented by a field engineer at the event, Paul Ubong, said that indigenous firms had grown in leaps and bounds under the regulatory guide of NCDMB, noting that the policies of the agency had drastically reduced the influx of expatriates in the oil and gas industry. While applauding the board for creating jobs for Nigerian companies in the oil sector, he recalled that Kenyon stepped in to halt the leak at Aiteo’s Oil Mining Lease (OML) 29 when a US-based company engaged by the operator could not deploy personnel to the site. He maintained that NOGOF 2023 showcased available project opportunities for Nigerian service providers, and expressed satisfaction with the development roles of the NCDMB. The oil well control expert explained that Kenyon had developed a homegrown solution to oil theft and vandalism awaiting widespread deployment across oilfields in the Niger Delta region. Ekpenyong further explained that NCDMB’s policy guidelines to International Oil Companies (IOCs) to utilise services by Nigerian companies had set a benchmark for other agencies to learn from, adding that the board’s policies had checkmated the total dominance of the country’s oil and gas sector by IOCs. He stressed that the NCDMB establishment law had helped grow the technical capacity of indigenous companies and the oil and gas business and raised the Nigerian Content level from less than five percent in the past 13 years to the current level of 54 percent. POLL Ekpenyong said, “All the jobs that the indigenous people can handle since the NCDMB Act 2010 have been given to Nigerians, we now have indigenous companies doing the jobs that were given to foreigners with associated capital flight. “More training, more hands-on experience on the job, you can see now that Nigeria has competent hands, but what we needed is just development. That is just the gap that the Local Content Board has come to bridge, to create more opportunity and more development.” On the massive divestment of international operators from onshore assets, he said that Nigeria had the manpower and human resources to run the facilities. “We have people that have been trained in that area by international companies. We have a lot of good hands, many of our guys have even gone outside the country to work in search of greener pastures,” he said.